Sr.MuleSoft Developer Sr.MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.MuleSoft Developer - Vanguard Valley Forge, PA • Over 8+ years of Software Development experience in object-oriented programming, design and development of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Java, JEE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle and 4 years of experience in Integrations using Mule soft ESB.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB and configured MULE API manager and RAML.  • Customized the integration workflows using an ESB framework also with Mule Soft MMC and enterprise release.  • Utilized Mule soft features like Data weave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • Experienced in developing Mule ESB flows and integrations by using service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Runtimes.  • Experience in production support, troubleshooting and maintenance.  • RAML specifications/build experience with Mule soft.  • Extensively worked on Anypoint Studio and Mule Integration Platform and used it to interface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third party solutions.  • Hands on experience in MuleSoft Expression Language(MEL) to access payload data, properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.  • Experienced in writing application code &, development activities for large projects especially in a SOA environment and Reliability Patters with MuleSoft ESB.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object Oriented Design (OOD) using UML and SDLC of distributed applications. Hugely experienced in using MuleSoft Studio that integrates APIs, databases and SaaS applications and deployed MuleSoft applications to CloudHub and on-premise servers.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Have an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  • Utilized Mulesoft features like data weave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • DevelopedRestfuland SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with connectors, transformations, Routing, ActiveMQ, JMS and RabbitMQ.  • Widely experienced with Mule ESB in designing and implementing core platform components for API/Services Gateway as well as other technological cross-cutting capabilities and a contributor to Mule ESB open-source.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Oracle PL/SQL, JDBA and JPA along with good knowledge on NoSQL and MongoDB.  • Experience in ANT and Maven build tools for building and deploying the application in web/app servers and vast experience with java multithreaded programming.  • Good working knowledge of Ant/Maven for project build/test/deployment, Log4j for error logging and debugging, JUnit for unit and integration testing and XML Spy for XML validation.  • Worked closely with QA and other support teams in Test Driven Development (TDD) methodologies.  • Ability to adapt to new technologies, changing business requirements quickly and to correctly apply new tools to build applications Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.MuleSoft Developer Vanguard - Valley Forge, PA July 2007 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile - Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning.  Created flows/sub-flows using various scopes, transformers and routers such as splitter and aggregator in Any Point Studio.  • Developed Mule ESB flows and integrations by using service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Runtimes.  • Utilized Layer 7 connectors such as HTTPS, File, JDBC, WS-Consumer connector.  • Created Http inbound and outbound flows and tested its working functionality and used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Involved in Creating & consuming SOAP and REST based web services.  • Built JAX-RS services and exposed them using REST component.  • Designed and implemented logging, monitoring, and error debugging using Mulesoft.  • Involved in deploying applications into MuleSoft Cloud Hub.  • Extensively worked on Anypoint API manager to have single access of control on to SLA (Service Layer Agreement), monitored users, regulated the user's traffic, and kept the performance at peak.  • Used API Designer to design API, built APIs, test APIs, ran APIs, and manage these through Anypoint platform.  • Worked on API notebook to explore APIs and for testing and improving these. Furthermore, used API kit to integrate APIs with other services on premise and on cloud.  • Worked on the Mule API Gateway for the application of policies to API as well for managing the security. Also worked with the Proxy settings using the API Gateway for the API's.  • Used batch processing in Extracting, transforming and loading (ETL) information into a target system.  • Used ActiveMQ for messaging service in the applications.  • Used TDD (Test Driven Design) to develop the software. Therefore, Unit testing was done repeatedly on source code.  • Used XML, XSD, DTD and Parsing APIs SAX and DOM XML based documents for information exchange.  • Used Maven to build the applications using dependencies.  • Part of a team to work on implementing concepts in multi-threading, multitasking, synchronization, virtual memory, Batch processing, Activity Management and file management.  • Used GIT for branching& version controlling.    Environment: Any point Studio, Java, RAML, SFTP, JAX-RS, CloudHub, REST, MULE ESB 3.6.0, ActiveMQ, XML, Maven, Postman, GIT. Sr.MuleSoft Developer Vanguard - St. Louis, MO October 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Followed the guidelines of Agile methodologies or SDLC for project management.  • Worked on preparing the technical specification documents (TSD'S) for all the services that are to be implemented.  • Responsible in developing integration workflows using Mule ESB framework.  • Worked widely with Mule administration, configuration and tuning.  • Developed flows/orchestrations for integrating the components written on top of different internal platforms using Mule ESB.  • Worked on REST based Web services for Mule ESB flows.  • Designed a Mule server allows you to define singleton components through which messages flow.  • Utilized Java transformers in Mule ESB.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Developed Web reporting applications using Java, JSP, Java Beans, Struts and oracle as Data base.  • Succeeded in using transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through WSSR.  • Created http inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of MULE ESB application using OAuth.  • Deployed MUnit to validate mule flows where Mule ESB applications were implemented into MMC (Mule Management Console).  • Implemented MULE ESB to route various calls to do validation of service input and to handle exceptions.  • Wrote MySQL, PL/SQL stored procedures and functions to manage data, MySQL queries for necessary requirements, and MySQL triggers for data automation.e  • Utilized open-source tools including Eclipse and Apache Tomcat Server for application deployment.  • Used Git as a version and source controlling tool and deployed the application on premises as well as on Cloud Hub.    Environment:Mule ESB, Java1.6/1.7, JSP, Eclipse, Servlets, JSON, Linux, Apache Tomcat, Log4j, Ant, Web Sphere, Oracle, Windows, Scrum, JDBC, Web services, Java Script, CSS, and Unix. Mulesoft Developer Vanguard - Columbus, OH January 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the integration workflows using MuleESB framework. Tightly integrated with different application.  • Utilized various connectors such as Salesforce, SAP, AJAX, FTP, HTTP, SMTP, SFTP, Database, HL7 and web-service like Apache CXF.  • Mapped data from CSV to XML and vice-versa using Dataweave and Data Mapper and responsible for recovery of lost data.  • Worked on preparing the Technical Specification Documents(TSDs) for all the service that are to be implemented and worked with MMC (Mule Management Console) and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Configured push topics on Salesforce application and listening the push topics for events to occur at MuleESB flow.  • Implemented a Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers  • Used various transformers in MuleESB based on use case and had implemented custom transformations. Carried out creation and consumption of SOAP and REST services using CXF.  • Analyzed Mule administration, configuration and tuning and integrated the work flow rule engine for performing the validation process with MuleESB.  • Created http inbound and outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and security of MULE ESB application using OAuth.  • Involved in deploying applications into MuleSoftCloudHub and Mule Management Console. Created custom components and configured them in mule-cofig.xml.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and make service calls to the Middle Tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Gathered requirements and planning on integration of both SAS applications using Mule ESB and Integrated Mule ESB system while utilizing Rabbit MQ, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Used MUnit for mocking and unit testing mule flows and Implemented cluster based approach while deploying applications in QA and PROD environments.  • Involved in unit testing and writing the MUnit Test cases for the flows and made use of Git hub for version and source control.    Environment: Java 1.7, Mule soft ESB 3.7.1, Any point studio, Oracle, CXF, SOAP, REST, Sales force, Git Hub, Active MQ, RAML, Rally, MUnit, Spring, Hibernate 3.5, Anypoint Studio, Oracle-SQL, Unix, AJAX, XML, XSLT, CSS, WSDL, MUNIT, MAVEN. Mulesoft Developer Vanguard - San Diego, CA May 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created HTTP inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of MULE ESB application.  • Used various transformers in Mule ESB based on use case and had implemented the custom transformations.  • Creating and consuming of soap and REST services.  • Usage of java transformers in Mule ESB.  • Automated the build process using Maven build scripts.  • Coordinated with larger projects involving multiple groups.  • Experience with Mule administration, configuration and tuning.  • Implemented the all Mule Flows related to inbound/outbound modules.  • Experience with Mule Soft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Developed the integration workflows using an ESB framework.  • Done with messaging using Active MQ.  • Involved in unit testing and writing the MUnit Test cases for the flow flows.  • Utilized various connectors such as Salesforce, AJAX, FTP, HTTP, File, SMTP, SFTP, Servlet, Quartz, and Database.  • Have written batch jobs to run at schedule times.  • Recovery of lost or failure records.  • Follow the guidelines of agile methodologies of SDLC for project management.  • Designed and developed enterprise services using RAML and REST based APIs.  • Salesforce integration with different applications and databases  • Used Git hub for version and source control.    Environment:Mulesoft ESB 3.5, any point studio, CXF, SOAP, REST, Sales force, Git Hub, Active MQ, Java Developer Vanguard - Atlanta, GA July 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements analysis, design, and development and testing.  • Designed UI using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, CSS and JSP.  • Used JMS for Asynchronous messaging and developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Developing customized reports and Unit Testing using JUNIT.  • Involved in running PMD defects & Find bugs.  • Following Coding guide lines & maintain quality of code.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on the server.  • Supported the application in IST, QA and Production environments.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on the JBOSS application server.  • Dealt with business processes and Updated Project documents.  • Involved in validating the application for different browser compatibility & users load.  • Involved in fixing defects& tracked them using QC & Provided support and maintenance and customization.    Environment:Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Jboss, Eclipse, JMS, XML, HTML, HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, SVN, XML, QC. Java Developer Vanguard - McLean, VA February 2009 to June 2011 Java Develope    Responsibilities:  • Conversions of files from EBICDIC to ASCII Format using Java and to check the converted files are as per required format by communicating with different teams.  • Published Converted files to Amazon Web Services S3 Buckets.  • Creation of Instances in Amazon Web Services using Cloud Formation Template using JSON Template.  • Used AWS Lambdas to move files from S3 Bucket to EC2 Instance.  • Created Bash Script to run the java jar and to log the required Exceptions.  • Used Putty to Connect to Instances and made zipping of files in S3 Bucket whenever required for decreasing the size of file.  • Created the Python Script for Lambdas.  • Used Putty to Connect to Instances and made zipping of files in S3 Bucket whenever required for decreasing the size of file.  • Worked on pl/sql like writing stored procedures and Triggers.  • Worked on RestFUL Web Services for Turing the data.  • Performed Junit & Cucumber Testing.  • Worked on Github for creation of github repository for updating our program for Version Control.  Environment: Java 8, Core Java, Maven, AWS, Restful API, Github, PL/SQL(Oracle), Bash Script, Python, Chef, JUnit, Cucumber & Jenkins. Education Bachelor's Skills API (10+ years), HTTP (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JDBC (10+ years), SOAP (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical skills:    Mule ESB Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Platform, API Management, Cloud-HUB, Active MQ, SOAP, Restful web services, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAXP, JAXB  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, JavaScript and XML.  Web technologies AJAX, HTML, Java Script, Shell, DHTML, JRUN, XML/XSL/XSLT, Angular.JS, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, DHTML, XML, DTD, HTTP, HTTPS, JSON, AJAX.  JAVA/J2EE Technologies J2EE, Servlets, JSTL, JDBC, log4j, JUnit, DOM JSP, JSF, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, Sprig MVC, Web Services, JAX-RPC, RESTUFUL, CSS3, HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XSLT.  Web/application Servers Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Jboss  Data Bases Oracle, IBM DB2, MS-Access, MS SQL - SQL & PL/SQL,  IDE Tools Anypoint Studio, Eclipse, My Eclipse  Unit Testing MUnit, JUnit, Mockito  Operating Systems Windows 7/8/10 and UNIX, LINUX