Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer Sr. Ruby on Rails <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer Austin, TX ? Experience of 8 years in application development using Ruby, Ruby On Rails, Java/J2EE, HTML5, JavaScript,CSS,JQUERY, Object Oriented Programming, JSP, Servlet, Struts, Hibernate, Springs , SQL, MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, ApplicationServers (Web sphere, Web Logic).  ? Experience of around 3+ years in Ruby on Rails (Ruby 1.9.3, 2, 2.1, 2.2 and Rails 4) on developing user friendly and efficient web-based applications specific to client's unique needs.  ? Experience in design analysis, application development, debugging, testing and documentation of the various phases in a software development life cycle.  ? Outstanding ability to use the best practices in Ruby on Rails development.  ? Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications  ? Well-Versed in Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectureusing Rails, Struts, Spring framework and Hibernate.  ? Expertise in Agile software development a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.  ? Comprehensive experience in developing projects using Agile methodology and Scrum framework.  ? Experience on Core Java technology which includes multithreading, JDBC, RMI, network programming.  ? Developed well-tested, readable, reusable web based GUI'susing JSP, HTML5, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Full life cycle experience in highly secure, extremely large-scale deployments of very high volume of critical data with extensive security.  ? Hands-on experience using GitHub, Amazon EC2, Git and deployment using Heroku.  ? Experience in deploying of applications in WEBrick, Phusion passenger and functional usage with Apache Tomcat Server, JBoss Server and Weblogic Server.  ? Experience in deploying web-applications using Capistrano.  ? Extensive knowledge of Web development, from concept through implementation and optimization.  ? Worked on Integrated Development Environments like WSAD, Eclipse, Text Mate, Net Beans and RubyMine. Proficiency in multiple databases like MySQL, ORACLE 9i, MS SQL Server 2000,PostgreSQL.  ? Applied skills in software development, architecture, design, and support for new and existing products.  ? Good experience in writing test cases and testing applications using Rspec, Cucumber and Capybara.  ? Ability to quickly adjust priorities and take on projects with limited specifications.  ? Fast learner, can quickly incorporate and implement new procedures with efficiency and accuracy.  ? Exceptional ability to collaborate with team members for code and design reviews. Self-motivated worker with strong focus on business goals and end-user experience.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, inter-personal skills and self - learning attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer bachelor degree - San Francisco, CA October 2016 to Present Roles &Responsibilities:    ? Involved in developing an internal web-application that appraises the user's brain-health and give recommendations that are useful to them.  ? Developed the back-end of the application using Rails which communicates with PostgreSQL.  ? Involved in designing the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS and also used AJAX and JSON to make the web pages more dynamic.  ? Hosted the back-end of the application on Heroku and the front-end on AWS.  ? Created and deployed new features and amend existing features.  ? Created Omniauth authentication for the users so that they can automatically get logged-in if they are logged on to their social networking accounts or the company's main website.  ? Used Sidekiq server to run some background jobs like fetching the data from an external API and sending emails to the users.  ? Used ruby-saml and saml_idp gems to communicate with third party applications using the SAML protocol.  ? Involved in cleaning the database by removing the duplicate records and introduced the constraints through the migration file.  ? Resolved some critical bugs that have persisted for a long time through debugging.  ? Involved in fetching the data and performing analysis on it as per the business requests.  ? Used Livefyre gem to enable users to share the data across other platforms.  ? Also Used Redis to implement the caching to improve the performance of the application.  ? Managed the project on Heroku and analyzed the issues occurring time to time and also monitored the application's performance using the add-on's like Airbrake bug tracker and Papertrail.  ? Involved in configuration of application flow, controlling logic and navigation in the application.  ? Performed dynamic scan on the application using IBM app scanner and documented the issues reported and prepared the user stories to resolve them.  ? Used Rspec to write the unit tests on the backend.  ? Also used Active Model Serializers to control the data that's being sent to the front-end.  ? Followed the Agile software development methodology in developing the application.  ? Worked closely with the product and the testing teams to understand the requirements, make necessary improvements and resolving the bugs.    Environment: Ruby on Rails (Ruby 1.9.3, 2.2.2 and Rails 4.1.2, 4.2.5.1),HTML5, CSS, JavaScript Sr. Ruby Developer Accenture/Time Warner Cable - Herndon, VA August 2014 to September 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Actively involved in writing web services in Ruby and JRuby to fetch the data from a customized SQL database and serve the requests from the front-end accordingly.  ? Involved in consuming the requests from the API and the front-end and making calls to the HBase to retrieve the data that is used in building various SQL queries. These queries are in-turn used to hit the database and retrieve the required results.  ? Involved in optimizing the already existing services.  ? Increased the efficiency of the service by using the Redis caching mechanism.  ? Customized the existing gem bunny and developed a new gem called march_hare in JRuby to incorporate the RabbitMQ technique into the services.  ? Involved in consuming the requests from API/frontend through a particular queue and a routing key and serving the requests through the same queue and routing keys.  ? Involved in developing some customized gems like cache hash that are used for caching.  ? Involved in creating a connection pool for the database connections to avoid connection failures using the Sequel gem.  ? Also scheduled some jobs that needs to be run periodically using the Rufus Scheduler gem.  ? Also involved in writing web services in GO-Lang to fetch data from the HBase.  ? Involved in writing web services in GO-Lang to retrieve huge chunks of data in batches and keep them updated periodically.  ? Partially involved in developing the API in PHP.  ? Involved in validating the schemas (contracts) between front-end and back-end.  ? Implemented Rspec and MiniTest as the testing framework for the services.  ? Used AngularJS and jQuery mostly in developing the front-end side of the application.  ? Used D3.js for visualizing the data coming from the back-end by building graphs and maps.  ? Gather, interpret and analyze functional specifications and user requirements described in JIRA User Stories and Tickets. And also analyze/identify the additional issues/bugs related to User Stories fixed OR In progress.  ? Responsible for design, development & testing of an efficient, salable, generic and performance effective coding.  ? Responsible for Code-Review and enforce business standards and code standards are in place.  ? Guide and support the team, for Technical and logical issues during implementation.  ? Trouble Shoot the legacy and new system for maintaining the data hygiene and also assist in troubleshooting issues across Development, Test and Production environments.  ? Develop documentation and material in support of installation and setting up the environment, and also document and propose the design development and implementation plans.  ? Test concurrent requests in running instance of service.  ? Ensure multiple instances can run nicely together and Constant API Validation.  ? Used Stash/BitBucket for version control.  ? Used RubyMine for development and debugging.  ? Mainly used Linux flavors such as Ubuntu and CentOS for developing.  ? Followed the Agile Methodology throughout the development.  ? Attended the daily Stand-up meetings and also participated in the Sprint Planning and ending meetings as we followed Scrum framework throughout the planning, development and the deployment phase of the project.    Environment: Ruby (Ruby 1.9.3, 2, 2.1, 2.2, JRuby 9.0.0.0), GO-Lang,HTML5, CSS, JavaScript,AngularJS, JQUERY,Bootstrap, Rspec, MiniTest, RabbitMQ, Redis, Hbase, NetCool Object Server(similar to Sybase Central V6.0, SQL Server 2012), JIRA, Stash/Bit Bucket,JetBrainsRubyMine 8/8.1, JQUERY,AngularJS, Bootstrap, Rspec, GITHUB,Heroku, AWS,PostgreSQL. Ruby on Rails Developer eocent, LLC - Washington, DC February 2013 to July 2014 Roles &Responsibilities:    ? Built important Business guidelines which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  ? Involved in Preparing and analyzing the System Requirements Specifications (SRS) for a project and interacted with client during requirements specifications.  ? Created database schema for PostgreSQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  ? Modeled both low-level and High-level documentation for entire application which involved creating Use-case diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and Entity Diagrams.  ? Used Ruby on Rails in coding the application in End-to-End web application development.  ? Designed the front-end using CSS and HTML5 framework while back-end is developed using MVC framework.  ? Created Restful http services to give better interaction for the user to the UI.  ? Migrated database using Active Records also used Action Controller, Active Resources, Fixtures and Action View in Rails.  ? Used Active Records in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CURD).  ? Made required modifications and added new features using Rails finder methods, filters and model scopes in the application.  ? Worked closely with Product Management and User Experience experts to work on the product definition, schedule, scope and to take project-related decisions.  ? Designed a mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Ruby on Rails.  ? Created page functionality popup screens using JavaScript.  ? Exercised Test-Driven Development with Rspec tool and used Cucumber and Capybara for the Behavior-Driven development.  ? Used W3C XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 standards and Ruby, Rails, Git and Heroku for developing web applications.  ? Rendered the requested changes, trouble reports and requirement collection by being interactive with the client.    Environment: Ruby (1.9.3), Rails (4.0), Apache Passenger, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, MySQL Server, RESTful, Git. JAVA Developer System Soft Technologies December 2010 to January 2013 Roles &Responsibilities:    ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Worked in Agile environment by following Iterative and Incremental approaches.  ? Developed application using Core Java concepts and maintained concurrency with Multithreading.  ? Used Spring MVC as web framework to develop lightweight business components.  ? Used Hibernate and Java Persistence API as Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools for the backend data persistence.  ? Used SQL statements and PL/SQL stored procedures on MySQL database to store, update, delete and retrieve information.  ? Implemented SOAP Web Services using XML for information exchange over HTTP.  ? Made AJAX calls for Consuming Restful web services using JSON.  ? Implemented core business logic using Java/J2EE design patterns.  ? Implemented component based web interface and server side tasks using JSP and Servlets.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery for better and faster interactive web pages (UI).  ? Implemented logging framework using Log4J and analyzed logs.  ? Design & development of business functionality using J2EE Technologies in Agile Execution.  ? Performed Unit testing of modules using JUnit.  ? Worked extensively with Microsoft Visio for creating Use case diagrams, sequence diagrams and system flow.  ? Extensively used Net beans IDE for building, developing and integrating the application  ? Implemented build scripts for compiling and creating jar and war files using Ant.  ? Used JBOSS application server for developing and deploying the application.  ? Used CVS for version control throughout the application.    Environment: Java 6/J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, JSP, Servlets, MySQL, SQL, PL/SQL, WSDL, SOAP, AJAX, JSON, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Log4j, JUnit. Java Developer SunSoft LLC - Phoenix, AZ June 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding and Unit testing of the project.  ? Worked on Agile software development methodology for developing application.  ? Interaction and meetings with Business Managers and Subject Matter experts to articulate system requirements.  ? Frequent interaction with the Metric Stream team for understanding their core Business Functionalities and Coordination for better integration.  ? Developed application using various Object Oriented Programming features like Encapsulation, Inheritance and Polymorphism.  ? Used Struts 2 Framework for implementing MVC design pattern to develop the web portal.  ? Developed backend framework for the project using spring core, various web services etc. and also used various APIs and technologies like JSP and JSF for developing the User Interface screens (GUI) and Servlets to implement server side tasks.  ? Used HTML, CSS and jQuery for designing web pages.  ? Implemented logging framework using Log4J and analyzed logs.  ? Creating class and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Implemented Transaction Management using the Hibernate configurations.  ? Used JDBC API for connecting and interacting with Oracle 10g database.  ? Used SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures to retrieve data records from the database to make reports.  ? Used Singleton, Session Bean and Data Access Object Design Patterns for developing interactions between presentations, service and database components.  ? Used Spring MVC framework for implementing the Web tier of the application.  ? Developed test cases for all Java Classes using JUnit Framework.  ? Used HP Quality Center for tracking bugs in the application.  ? Used Apache Maven to generate jar and sent it to deployment team.  ? Built and tested application on Apache Tomcat web server 7.0.  ? Used SVN for version control throughout the application.    Environment: JAVA 7/ J2EE, Spring,Log4j, Apache Struts, Servlets, JSP, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle 10g, SQL, JDBC. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML5 (6 years), JavaScript (8 years), jQuery (7 years), Rspec (5 years), SQL (5 years), Linux, Sinatra, Json, MYSQL Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Ruby,Jruby, GO-Lang, Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE and Web Technologies JavaScript, JQuery, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB),Swing, XML,SOAP, Web Sphere MQ  Application &Web Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM http Server, JBOSS.  Web Design HTML, CSS3, JSP,HTML5 XHTML  Databases MySQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Redis  Frameworks Rails,Spring, Struts, Hibernate  Test Frameworks JUNIT ,Test Unit, Rspec, MiniTest, Cucumber  Protocols HTTP/HTTPS, TCP/IP, SOAP, SMTP,REST    Operating Systems Windows, UNIX,Mac iOS  Other Relevant Tools MS Office(MS-Excel, MS-PowerPoint, MS-Project 2013), Visual Studio 2013