Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Tetrus Corp Princeton, NJ • 8 years of experience in Analysis, development, Design and testing of Web-based applications.  • Experience in Agile (Scrum), SDLC, Waterfall, RAD and RUP software development process.  problem- solving knowledge using concepts like Multi-threading, Synchronization, Serialization, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, JDBC and Data Structures.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Programming using Core Java with strong understanding and   • Worked on modules such as AOP, Aspects, JDBC, ORM, Beans, Servlet, Struts of Spring framework.  • Experience in database access using Hibernate and Spring JDBC.  • Extensive experience in design and implementation of MVC frameworks using Spring, JSF and Struts.  • Proficient in designing development of web based application using HTML, CSS, DHTML, AngularJs, Node.js, Require.js, JavaScript, jQuery JSP, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, Python, JSON and Servlets.  • Experienced in Insurance, E-commerce, Banking and Financing domains.  • Expertise in design and development of multi-tier enterprise level web applications using J2EE, Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, JDBC, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Tag Libs, AJAX, JMS, Junit and EJB.  • Expertise in using SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), spring frame works and Event Driven Frameworks for web development of applications.  • Used Hibernate frameworks to develop persistence layer of Java Applications and used HQL to generate database independent queries.  • Developed Linux, perl and Shell Scripts for manual deployment of the code to various environment.  • Worked on developed methodologies using Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD).  • Used iBATIS to automate the mapping between SQL database and objects in Java.  • Experienced in building and deploying applications on servers using Ant, Maven.  • Experienced in working with Google Web Toolkit (GWT) to write and compile the code written in Java to JavaScript code.  • Experience in working with Web service design and development using SOAP, WSDL, RESTful, JAX-WS, JAX-RS and developed SOA design patterns.  • Possess strong working knowledge of Database Programming using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experienced in implementing and providing service, support and maintaining Oracle Database 11g.  • Strong Experience in writing SQLs queries, stored procedures and Triggers.  • Used Jenkins to build applications from version control system and deploy in dev, test and production environments.  • Worked on different Web Applications Servers like Web Sphere, BEA WebLogic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  • Hands on experience on bug tracking tools like JIRA, Bugzilla and HP ALM QC.  • Experience in automation testing tools i.e., Selenium, Junit, Test NG and Mockito.  • Used Karma as a unit testing tool and Jasmine as testing library for AngularJS applications.  • Monitored error logs and done quick debugging using Log4j and fixed the issues.  • Good exposure to version control software like SVN (Apache Sub Version), CVS, GIT, Serena.  • Proposed Branching strategies for implementing the Parallel development and suits the Agile methodology for different Version control systems.  • Extensively worked on different IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD, and NetBeans.  • Resourceful and skilled in analyzing and solving problems. Excellent interpersonal and communication skills with multitasking ability.  • Flexible and versatile to adapt to any unique environment and work on any project.  • Strong debugging and problem-solving skills with excellent understanding of system development methodologies, techniques and tools. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Tetrus Corp - Princeton, NJ February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and prototyping.  • Used AGILE software development methodology which helps to develop project plans.  • Designed entire framework to support Test Driven development (TDD) by making use of Dependency Injection through unity framework and developed a generic repository.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and React JS.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.JS and used various predefined components from npm (Node package Manager) and redux library.  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, keys, Events, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Developed Open stack API to integrate with Amazon EC2 cloud based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images.  • Build RESTful web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front- end jQuery and AJAX calls.  • Created RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed code using Design Patterns like DAO, Factory Pattern, Singleton and Value Objects.  • Implemented different Spring MVC controllers like Controller, Simple Form Controller and Multi Action Controller.  • Worked on Code builds and code changes are made in JavaScript, Python and Shell scripts.  • Created Views, Sequences in the oracle database and modified the existing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Used to write application in Google Web Toolkit (GWT) and do a cross-browser complaint.  • Used Subversion (SVN) and GitHub to maintain the versions of the source code of the project.  • Used CI/CD technologies such Git, Chef, Jenkins are used for developing and deploy web services.  • Using Chef, deployed and configured Elastic search for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.  • Expertise in using NoSQL database like MongoDB to support the storage of JSON objects and provides the storage for security related information.  • Worked on Load testing on JMeter to improve the performance of newly developed code.  • Designed and prepared Unit test cases using Junit and Log4j and removed the maximum bugs before passing onto the application to the QA team.  • Developed and directed software systems testing procedures and development strategy.  • Used Jenkins application to build and perform continuous deployments of JBOSS war files.  • Deployed web and enterprise applications on Jboss application server in a channel secure environment.  • Used UNIX shell scripting to automate software installation and testing. Wrote scripts to apply application patches and Oracle table updates.  • Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  • Involved in Unit testing of application using Karma and Jasmine library to make sure that the application is compatible in all browsers.  • Worked in close cooperation with project managers and other functional team members to form a team effort in development.    Environment: AGILE, TDD, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Amazon EC2, AWS, RESTful, jQuery, AJAX, React JS, Spring Boot, MVC controllers, DAO, Factory Pattern, Singleton, PL/SQL, GWT, SVN, GitHub, Chef, Jenkins, MongoDB, Lambda, JMeter, Junit, Log4j, JBoss, UNIX, Apache Camel, Karma, Jasmine. Full Stack Developer Experian January 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Mobile Pre-qualification and Digital display Pre-qualification projects simultaneously.  • Actively participated in Agile Software development scrums as per constantly changing requirements and tasks.  • Participated in Sprint Planning meetings and used to define sprint goals and backlogs.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery Responsive Web Design, Ajax, Bootstrap 3.x.  • Assisted with online banking issues such as error messages or technical troubleshooting.  • Assisting members with banking issues such as enrollment problems and activation codes for debit cards.  • Ability in writing Java Programs and scripting in Python to perform auditing of the XML's, which uses Spring JDBC and Spring AOP.  • Expertise in writing Maven scripts for project build/test/deployment and specifies which files needed to be executed.  • Worked in Android App development using Eclipse IDE and worked with common Android Frameworks API's.  • Worked and utilized standard python modules such as CSV for development.  • Developed shell scripts programs for automation of different tasks like weekly and hourly monitoring of the internet banking application.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created Java Server Pages JSP's and populated them from databases using Hibernate.  • Worked on core interfaces of Hibernate such as Configuration, Session Factory, Session, Query, Criteria and Transaction.  • Proficient in developing Hibernate mapping files and configured accordingly to the hibernate configuration file.  • Expertise in developing Java Programs to facilitate the comparison of data between the existing systems and the mainframes.  • Involved in writing python scripts to parse the data in XML, JSON formats and lead them into Database.  • Developed web applications using Spring Boot which provides configuration for Spring MVC framework.  • Worked on Restful Web Services files for transferring data between different applications and communicate over the network by Spring Boot.  • Involved in database migration from Oracle to MySQL and Written database migration scripts.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets 3.0 and JSP 2.2 components to be deployed on Apache Tomcat 7.0 application servers.  • Worked in cloud stack implementation using AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Build server deployment on Cloud (EC2) servers with help of Devops tools like Puppet.  • Conduct Weekly status meetings with testing and development teams. Prepared weekly status report and Project Metrics.  • Performed Batch Testing during new releases and most of the testing part is done using Selenium Suites i.e., RC and Web Driver.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.  • Debugged issues relating to business rules pertaining to order processing.  • Administered Version Control systems GIT, Subversion to create daily backups and checkpoint files.  • Worked on Jenkins in which files are converted into a Jar file and deployed that Jar file in Tomcat Server.  • Involved in Error Handling and provided detailed description for all the error messages.  • Used to analyze and validate the JSON files and authored automation test scripts which allows to take only the needed information from the JSON files.  • Used to author test scripts to change JSON files to XML files if client doesn't accept that.  • Worked on JIRA to log, track and report the defects. Used to create weekly reports  • Used IntelliJ as an IDE to modify the stored procedures and querying the database.    Environment: Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery Responsive Web Design, Ajax, Bootstrap 3.x, Python, Spring JDBC, AOP, Maven, Hibernate, Spring Boot, MVC framework, Restful, MySQL, Servlets Apache Tomcat, AWS, Selenium Web driver and RC, Log4j, GIT, Jenkins, JSON, JIRA, IntelliJ. Full Stack Developer Operative media Inc April 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on project Apps lot, used to develop software application with specifications and to make sure that the desired advertisement display in that slot.  • Hands on experience on Agile Spring with sprint planning of 2-3 weeks and used to maintain continuous Integration(CI).  • Actively participated in business meetings along with business analyst to record user requirements, and develop design artifacts.  • Involved in designing and development of single page application using AngularJS, Require.js, jQuery, Node.js and JavaScript Frameworks. EXT.JS used to call Controllers.  • Proficient in working on business, front end and persistence tiers using the Spring core and Spring Security.  • Frequently involved in designing and implementation of MVC design pattern using Spring framework for Web-tier.  • Developed web page layout using Spring core libraries, and performed Security validations.  • Proficient in developing use case diagrams, class diagrams, database tables, and able to provide mapping between relational database tables and object-oriented java objects using Hibernate.  • Using struts tag libraries like logic, html, bean, etc in JSP pages, efficient in developing presentation layer.  • Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  • Monitored and analyzed revenue generation from website traffic information.  • Developed and enforced compliance with company policy and procedures.  • Used HQL (Hibernate Query language) on MongoDB to avoid writing complex database queries.  • Proficiently used Hibernate concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty bit checking, optimistic locking, and transactions.  • Developed RESTful Web services using JAX-RS API and implemented spring controller for business logic.  • Worked on NoSQL database like MongoDB in which the data is documented by JSON and BSON.  • Developed multi-tier application on standard platform, Java2 and J2EE in JIT application Server.  • Used to build Windows applications using Lab windows/CVI and implement programs with a GUI in Lab Windows CVI.  • Used to work on Google Ad Server, an advert server that integrates with backend server to deploy the code.  • Used Active MQ as messaging center to communication with one application to other.  • Created automated security test cases using Cucumber and Mockito. Used Bugzilla to log and track defects.  • Debugged the application using Restful tool for web services.  • Worked on Jenkins to deploy the Jar files into the server and for continuous integration.  • Co-ordinated with QA lead for development of test plan, test scenarios and defect tracking and resolution of those defects.  • Used LDAP to store security information like password and sensitive information.  • Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the application.  • Used Eclipse Spring Tool Suit as Java IDE tool for developing code modules in the development environment.    Environment: Java1.6, Angular.js, Node.js, Spring core and Spring Security, JavaScript, MVC design pattern, JSP, Hibernate, HQL, RESTful, JAX-RS API, PL/SQL, MongoDB, JIT application Server, Cucumber, Mockito, Jenkins Bugzilla, LDAP, SVN, Eclipse Spring Tool Suit. Java/J2EE Developer North American Savings Bank - Kansas City, MO January 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Proficient in working with Waterfall methodology and prepared navigational scripts as per the business requirements.  • Expertise in developing user interfaces through JSP, Servlets, HTML and CSS. A better user database interaction is done by this and there is an easy reporting of the data driven applications.  • Worked on Spring Boot app with Spring Cloud.  • Worked on J2EE Design patterns like MVC, Singleton and DAO to application design.  • Successfully created the Java frontend validations configured the Spring MVC.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Created templates using HTML & CSS and developed components using AngularJS  • Developed a Message Driven Bean that uses JMS to manage backend transactions and approval for user loan applications.  • Prepare credit and financial information to streamline loans processing for mortgage, installment, and discount loan transactions.  • Participated in server-side programming with java using JDBC, Servlets and JSP.  • Modifying the existing ANT build script and created Java Documentation.  • Developed and Deployed Web services - RESTful for getting credit score information from third party.  • Efficient in using Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the Oracle9i database and JDBC for database-independent connectivity.  • Involved in coding, maintaining and administering of project deployed in JBoss Application Server.  • Worked on TestNG for unit testing of the source code and used TestNG with Selenium WebDriver to perform browse based test automation.  • Acted as a bridge between business users and development teams to come up with plans and procedures for Testing and Rollout.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  • Used CVS version control to track and maintain the different version of the application  • Used RAD as Java IDE tool for developing code modules in the development environment.    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, J2EE design, JDBC, DAO, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, RESTful Oracle9i, ANT, Hibernate ORM, JBoss Application Server, TestNG, Selenium WebDriver, Log4j, CVS, RAD. Java Developer AIG Insurance, Offshore, Hyd January 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Experience in working with different phases of Software Development Lifecycle.  • Contributed to servlet based application development. Assisted in maintaining and updating existing applications and modules.  • Helped design form validation programs using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created and maintained EJB components and worked on JMS to do messaging and have communication between applications.  • Proficient in developing user interface using JSP, Servlets and Struts.  • Used to work on complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  • Created build, deployment and configuration related scripts for Maven.  • Worked on multi-threading in back end java beans.  • Developed common database library to execute various database commands like select, insert, update and delete against Oracle database.  • Implemented application on development, test, break-fix and production application server BEA WebLogic.  • Responsible for all deployment descriptors and build scripts.  • Involved in Unit and Integration testing of application using Junit.  • Involved in using Log4j to create log files and debug the same.  • Used Eclipse for create and edit generic projects and share files in CVS controls.    Environment: Java 1.5, SDLC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, EJB, JMS, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Maven, Oracle 10g, BEA WebLogic, Eclipse, CVS. UI Developer BHEL - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the business requirement and functional specification document.  • Developed UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Worked in developing component's application using JAVA, JSP, Directives, Expressions, JavaScript and XHTML.  • Focused on spring components such as Dispatcher servlet, Controllers.  • Using SQL and writing queries performed backend testing of GUI application mainly to confirm correctness of data entered and data manipulation.  • Wrote service method and SQL queries to interact with Oracle DBMS.  • Used JIRA to log, track and report defects.  • Used IBM RAD for editing, debugging, compiling and formatting.    Environment: Java/J2EE, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, XHTML, Oracle, Selenium Web Driver, Jira, IBM RAD. Education Bachelor's in Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills J2EE (5 years), JavaScript (8 years), JSP (7 years), oracle (5 years), testing (7 years), AGILE, TDD, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Amazon EC2, AWS, RESTful, jQuery, AJAX, React JS, Spring Boot, MVC controllers, DAO, Factory Pattern, Singleton, PL/SQL, GWT, SVN, GitHub, Chef, Jenkins, MongoDB, Lambda, JMeter, Junit, Log4j, JBoss, UNIX, Apache Camel, Karma, Jasmine., Node, Java, React, Angular, PHP, Python, Angularjs, C#, NET, AWS Additional Information SKILLS    JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSP (7 years), TESTING (6 years), J2EE (5 years), ORACLE (5 years)    ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TECHNICAL SKILLS:  J2EE Technologies JDBC, JDK, JSP, Struts Web Technologies  Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSF, AngularJS, AJAX, EJB, JMS, Struts, Servlets, Tab Libs, Bootstrap, Node.js, React.js, Maven, ANT, Event Driven Frameworks    Languages C++, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML3/5, DHTML, XML, CSS3, JavaScript, GUI, jQuery, Python, JSON, BSON, EventAPI's, Perl  AWS Services EC2, Cloud Formation, EBS  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, RESTful, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, EBA  Databases Oracle 8i/9i, [ ] MySQL, PL/SQL, NoSQL, MongoDB, DB2 Build Tools Log4j, Jenkins, ANT, Maven, Chef  Cloud Technologies AWS, Open Stack  Web Application Servers Web Sphere, BEA Web logic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, JIT application Server. Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, HP ALM QC.  Testing Tools Selenium, Junit, Test NG, Mockito, Karma, Jasmine. Loggers and Debugging Log4j.  Version Controls SVN, CVS, Git, Serena. IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD and NetBeans