Sr. Programmer Analyst Sr. Programmer Analyst Sr. Programmer Analyst - ThermoFisher Scientific Carlsbad, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Programmer Analyst ThermoFisher Scientific - Carlsbad, CA March 2017 to Present Project-1 Summary: Consolidated Cart and Checkout brings different buy flows together and provides one single view of customer's cart and common checkout flow for consolidated cart. Common Checkout flow suite of independently deployable, small, micro services in which each service runs a unique process and communicates through a well-defined, lightweight mechanism to serve a business goal. All the checkout REST APIs are stateless, there is no session stickiness at checkout Karaf cluster.  Environment: Karaf 4.0.7 (OSGI Container), JAX-RS (CXF), JDK 1.8, Jackson Library for Data transformation, OAuth2  Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed B2B and B2C user Registration interface using OAuth2 API.  • Created REST web Service call to replace T-Guard implementation.  • Used JIRA as for agile software development and Task update.  • Involved in build and deployment using Jenkins for application.    Project-2 Summary: Any Agent Any Call is the ERP interface tool which provides order tracking info for the entire 31 customer center. Also provides Selling Entity information that will allow for easy call routing across the different divisions.  Environment: Java 1.8, Apache SOLR, GIT, Hibernate, Jenkins, Spring MVC, IntelliJ IDEA, Oracle 11g, Tomcat, MongoDB.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed Order lookup interface using SOLR API.  • Developed prototype search functionality for salesrep tool with the use of open source enterprise search platform Apache Solr.  • Collaborate with internal and business stakeholders to ensure successful delivery of solution.  • Used JIRA as for Agile software development and Task update.  • Involved in build and deployment using Jenkins for application. Sr. Java Developer Department of Justice - Sacramento, CA January 2015 to March 2017 Project Summary: CSAR is the database for the offenders that are convicted of the sex and arson crimes. The repository is of paramount importance to the Department of Justice, as all of law and enforcement systems of California, as well as from other states and federal agencies query the database to determine the criminal status of individuals. CSAR is a complex system, consisting of web servers, application servers, business intelligence servers, and databases running on VMware and Solaris. CSAR interacts with various other applications from California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR), Mental Health, Department of Motor Vehicle (DMV), NSOR (National Sex Offender Registry), CalPhoto and LiveScan. CSAR is also the repository for the Meghan's Law database.  Environment: Java 1.8, Jenkins, SVN, Spring MVC, IntelliJ IDEA, Oracle 10g, JBoss 6 eap.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed Search Registrant interface.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Involved in designing front-end screens using Java Script, JQuery.  • Used JIRA as for Agile software development and Task update.  • Involved in build and deployment using Jenkins for application. Sr. Java Developer Quest Diagnostics - San Clemente, CA September 2012 to December 2014 Project-1 Summary: (NIRL) Nichols Institute Reference Lab, Name of LIS. PRO (Patients, Results, Orders) is an advanced instrument interface architecture. Developed to allow for fast implementation of instrument interfaces and assay information. In this application we used to get interact with instrument to read the result of any sample and store in database in human readable format. NichPRO is a Lab resulting platform system which work as interface for multiple sites i.e. SJC, Valencia. NichPRO have some standardizes resulting platform capabilities which offers a stable system that is transparent to all users.  Environment: Java 1.6, Jenkins, StarTeam, Spring, IntelliJ IDEA, Drools, Oracle 10g, JBoss 5 eap, Flex, Restful API.  Responsibilities:  • Working as a Senior Developer and involved in analysis of requirements, design, development, Unit, System Integration Testing (SIT), and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Interact with Business Analyst and Subject Matter Experts (SME) to understand the requirements and for any clarifications required by the team, followed agile methodology and SCRUM meetings to track, optimize and tailor features to customer needs.  • Designed and Developed consumer, producer using Restful web services using JAX-RS for various backend services in NichPRO application.  • Designed, developed, tested, integrated, and deployed large numbers of complex rules in rule flows Drools.  • Involved in Onsite-Offshore coordination.    Project-2 Summary: POWER is a graphical reporting system that provides the capability to include patient demographic information, images and canned comments into a single report for distribution to the customer and archive in PDF format, and upload of final report results to LIS. POWER provides a user interface to view and edit the patient demographic information, select canned comments uniquely identified for the test code of the specific report chosen, and insert free text interpretation where appropriate. Users can view and print Preliminary reports, and save the reports in a Final status for upload to the LIS once the report options have been exercised and the laboratory scientist is satisfied that the results represented are correct.  Environment: Java 1.5, Jenkins, StarTeam, Spring MVC, Apache FOP (Formatting Objects Processor), IntelliJ IDEA, Oracle 10g, JBoss5.  Responsibilities:  • Design the application using UML modeling tools.  • Developed the Reconciliation application integrating the struts Framework with the spring and hibernate  frameworks.  • Worked in an Agile environment. Actively participated in scrum meetings and updating Rally regarding the tasks and time spent on each tasks.  • Developed FOP based on report which used graphical report as well in healthcare domain.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and user acceptance test. Java Developer e-Commerce store July 2009 to August 2012 Project Summary: Worked in Pearson e-Commerce store front that provides e-Commerce service to many of tied up Pearson web sites (e.g. Inform IT), enabling their customers to do online shopping.  Environment: Sterling Commerce 8.1, SVN, JDK1.5, JSP, Servlets, Spring Framework 3.0, Quark DDS.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Struts.  • Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and Foreseeing the Potential Issues, and escalating to the higher levels. Java Developer Fuse Technologies - Noida, Uttar Pradesh November 2006 to June 2009 Project Summary: Worked in InventorySource site to provide a range of services to help resellers create and manage successful drop ship business. This web portal can benefit all sellers, whether they are just getting started or if they have been selling successfully for years.  Two main services are:  • Ecommerce Website with Automated Drop-ship Product Monitoring  • Inventory Solutions for Established Websites & Advanced Users  Environment: MVC Framework, Hibernate 3.4, JSP, Oracle 9i, AJAX, Java Script HTML, Junit4.2.  Responsibilities:  The application was designed on Struts Frame work to make use of MVC pattern.  • Used Struts validator frame work to automatically validate user input.  • Created/mappings and implemented persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, MODEL, Service Locator, MVC and Business Delegate.  • Involved in migrating code from development to QA, QA to UAT and UAT to Production environments. Education Master in Computer Application UPTU University 2006 Bachelor's in Mathematics Kanpur University - Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 2004 Skills JAVA (10+ years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (10+ years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (10+ years), MVC (10+ years), ORACLE (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java, PL/SQL  Java Technologies JDK, Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, Tag Libraries  Web Servers Jboss EAP 6, Apache-Tomcat 5.x/6.x, Apache Karaf 4.0.7 (OSGI Container)  Markup & Scripting Lang Java Script, HTML  Framework Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Struts 2.x, JQuery, Hibernate  GUI and Proto type Tools HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript IDE Eclipse 3.x,  Databases and Tools Mysql, Oracle, SQL Workbench  NoSQl: MongoDB  ORM Tool Hibernate, iBatis  Web Service Technologies Web Services, SOAP, Restful, Soap UI  Testing / Bug Fix Tools JUNIT, Jmeter  Operating Systems Windows XP/NT/2000, Linux  Design Methodology/Tools UML, Object Oriented Analysis and Design, J2EE Design Patterns  Deployment & Build Tool Apache Ant, Apache Maven1.0  Source/Version Control GIT,Stash, SourceTree, SVN, VSS, CVS, Starteam  Documentation Tool Microsoft Word, Microsoft Visio, Open Office, Excel  Miscellaneous MS office 2003, EditPlus, TextPad, Log4j, WinSCP, Putty  Other skills HL7, Drools, Quark DDS, Interface Explorer, Beyond Compare