Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Thermo Fisher Scientific Carlsbad, CA • A Senior Java/ J2EE Professional with proficiency in Analysis, Design, Development, Architecture, Coding, Testing and implementation of Client/Server, Internet and Legacy Applications.  • Over 8+ years of experience in Java technologies, with hands of experience in J2EE.  • Experienced in implementing Struts, spring, AJAX frameworks.  • Expertise in J2EE Design Patterns (Singleton, Factory, Service Locator, DAO).  • Good working experience on various frameworks including MVC Framework (Struts) & SPRING MVC Framework.  • Good Working experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container module, Spring Application Context module, Spring MVC Framework module etc. in Spring Framework    • Strong scripting programming background(Unix shell script, Perl, etc.)  • Extensive experience in mission critical IT applications encompassing Java, J2EE, XML, Enterprise Java Beans, Java Server Pages (JSP1.2), Servlets2.0, XSD, XSL, OOAD.  • Developed applications using IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring tool suite (STS), Net Beans.  • Excellent conceptual base in Object-Oriented Design and Implementation Methodologies, Design Patterns, and Web based architectures using web technologies like JSP, Servlets, Struts and EJB.  • Strong experience in using message services through Java Based Interface JMS.  • Strong experience in Oracle (10g,11g,12c), MYSQL data base.  • Experience in PL/SQL, RDBMS to develop stored procedures and triggers in Oracle 11g.  • Experience in SOA and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL  • Extensive experience with Eclipse, XML Spy for developing, build, debug, test, and deploying applications.  • Extensive experience administering and deploying web applications on WebLogic 9.2, Jboss Server, WebSphere, ApacheTomcat.  • Application development experience using multithreading, Serialization, Externalization, Collection framework, Generics.  • Expert in Working in agile environment, Test Driven Development and Scrum. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Thermo Fisher Scientific - Carlsbad, CA January 2017 to Present Project: Sales Rep Lookup Tool  Sales Rep Lookup Tool will enable customers care personnel to look up sales reps in the area based on SKU and Zip code details.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed J2ee web application using HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, React.js, Bootstrap, Java, spring4, Hibernate, Oracle10.  • Developed Application to access JSON from Rest API web service from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.js  • Developed web contents using CSS3 and Bootstrap responsive layout design to fit different devices.  • Developed front-end web pages by using Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, taking advantage of the frameworks Angular.js.  • Integration of MetaTagger with TeamSite Server to enable content to be meta tagged for Search Engine Optimization.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.Js, React.Js.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Designed & developed Customer, Messaging, Appointment, Product microservices complete with Discovery registration code &YML configuration.  • Used Spring Data to implement JPA Repository classes and Spring REST to provide RESTful interfaces to resources.  • Prepared technical design documents, sequence diagrams, data model diagrams, class diagrams and flow charts for the application.  • Cross browser compliance (IE) and debugging. Worked on UI testing with selenium tool.  • Used Maven for building the application and used GIT for version control.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems Junit extensively for testing.  • Extensively used Hibernate 4.3 in data access layer to access and update information in the database. Implemented the Spring-ORM for Hibernate using the Hibernate Template class  • Used Spring 4.0 annotations (Controller) mechanism to create RESTFUL applications.  • Consumed Restful web services in the User Interface using JSON.  • Used Spring Dispatcher Servlet to Handle the Mapping of the application and invoked various Controllers associated with the request. And used Hibernate for performing database transactions.  • Implemented Web API with JWT (JSON Web Tokens) to secure the Web API Service Layer.  • Developed triggers, packages, functions sequences, views and stored procedures for data conversions and PL/SQL procedures to create database objects dynamically based on user inputs  • Wrote complex SQL queries to get data from the oracle Server.  • Implemented LDAP support in application, for user authentication using spring LDAP authentication login against an LDAP virtual directory server.  • Used Jenkins to automate builds and deployments.  • Used Atlassian tools like Confluence for documentation and Jira for project management to track the work items. Used Fisheyecrucible for reviewing the code and Stash for source code repository.  • Used scaled Agile framework for design and development and participated in scrum meetings.  • Provided technical expertise to infrastructure team to setup the infrastructure for the project.  • Assisted the deployment team to build the application and supported in deployment process.    Environment: Java, Spring 4.2, RESTful Web Services, Spring Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Hibernate 4.3, Xml, Log4j, Oracle10 Eclipse, TeamSite, Maven, JavaScript, Angular.js 1.3, React.js, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, LDAP, Agile. Full Stack Developer Nationstar Mortgage - Irving, TX January 2016 to December 2016 Project: CHIP- Reverse Mortgage  CHIP Champion HECM (Home Equity Conversion Mortgage) Information Portal is a web application designed for Reverse Mortgage, FHA, VA, Conventional and Multifamily loans. CHIP advanced servicing system that automates the entire HECM servicing processes with numerous automation tools. CHIP provides various features as Payment Processing, Escrow Administration, Property and Borrower Information Tracking, Order Vendor Services, Monitor loans on real-time basis, Communication Management, Delinquency Management, Month-end Processing, etc. Contains different applications such as Reverse Mortgage, Work Queue, Imaging, Net Query, CHIP Batch Services, Mortgage Online to support all mentioned above features.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented web tier using JSF, Rich Faces, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, Spring Boot.  • Modified existing applications to a suite of microservices and all microservices to facilitate deployment using Spring Boot and Junit and PowerMock frameworks for unit testing.  • Involved in developing and designing multithreaded programming, session tracking and exceptionhandling in microservicearchitecture based application.  • Implemented swagger for the Rest API. Dockerized the applications using docker. Deployed application into Docker container and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle and monitored on Git.  • Used Spring annotations to simplify the business logic for creating Spring MVCRestful web services.  • Developed and consumed Rest Services using HTTP methods such as GET, POST, PUT and DELETE for user and account micro services.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2 instances & Google Docker.  • Oracle 11g was used as the database for the application which was hosted in the cloud using Amazon RDS service.  • Used Hibernate as (Object Relational Mapping) ORM to map Java classes to data base tables.  Developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) which handles all database operations using HQL & Hibernate named queries.  • Developed PL/SQLstoredprocedures, triggers, cursors and sequences on Oracle and performed PL/SQL tuning for the performance of the database by making necessary changes in java as well as DB code.  • Responsible in designing and developing reports using jasper reports framework. Used iReport Designer for designing jasper Template Sendingreports to third parties with Java FTP/SFTP.  • Involved in Design to Deployment of Web Application with Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with agile philosophy using scrum framework.  • Involved in developing microservices integrated with VSTS for CI/CD by automating the build/release process using git as source control.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.8, Tomcat 7, Spring Boot, Rest Web Service, Hibernate, Jasper Reports, Microservices Architecture, Swagger, Docker, Log4j, Oracle 11g, Gradle, GIT, VSTS, Agile. Full Stack Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA July 2014 to December 2015 Project: Einstein 360  Einstein360 is a tool used commonly across Comcast by Production Support Managers, Call Center Technicians, as well as various resolver teams, and anybody who needs to investigate a customer's billing status and issues with their account and devices. Einstein gives an overview of a customer's account with Comcast, including which device they have, what they are entitled to, their billing information, purchase orders, rate codes, and more.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Migration of Legacy Web Application User Interfaces to Single-page application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular2, and Typescript.  • Modified code base and architecture on large legacy application into new Production Angular2 level product.  • Created/Modified Angular2 components.  • Implemented unit test cases using Karma and Jasmine for Angular2 on client side.  • Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot, Spring Data, and Spring Security,  • Designed new services using various J2EE design patterns like DAO, Singleton, Value Object and Service Locator.  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Spring Cloud Foundry Also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry.  • Created and managed microservices using SpringBoot. Microservices were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features.  • Experienced first-hand the best/worst practices for integrating microservices into an existing system architecture.  • Implemented Spring OAuth for authentication/authorization by using Ping Federate.  • Developed Soap and Rest web services using spring boot to rewrite existing application to micro web application.  • Coded Rest API controllers and web services client classes to interact with downstream systems.  • Developed application using Spring MVC to ease up the access to configuration information and feature flags. This Application also eases up the accessibility to pay load information to downstream systems.  • Developed Presentation layer used Spring MVC and facilitate user interface using JSP's, Tiles and Spring based tag libraries.  • Configured continuous deployment of applications with Comcast specific tool GOCD bridged to GIT to achieve continuous deployment in cloud based environment.  • Created several custom tags for JSP for maximum re-usability for user interface components.  • Used Commons Logging framework (log4j) utility to log error, info and debug messages  • Performed Unit Testing and interacted with QA for testing. Involved in implementing validations, exception handling.  • Implemented Junit test cases for all the modules developed to ensure complete code coverage.  • Used Gradle as build tool.  • Followed agile software development (Scrum) to deliver a potentially shippable set of functionality every iteration, provided the agility to respond to rapidly changing requirements.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular2, Typescript JDK1.8, Spring Boot, Cloud foundry, Couch base DB, Oracle DB, Spring 4.2, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, RESTfull Web Services, Apache, SOAP UI, Embedded Tomcat, Mockito, UML and Design Patterns, Gradle, Unix. Full Stack Developer Pearson - Phoenix, AZ August 2013 to June 2014 Project Summary: Pearson E-Commerce store front is a web based application that provides E-Commerce service to many of tied up Pearson web sites (e.g. Inform IT), enabling their customers to do online shopping. This application takes over when a customer adds chosen product to his shopping cart after going through product catalog in Pearson web sites. This application in turn delegates the order request to POOMS (Pearson Online Order Management System) for order fulfillment. The application has its own database to store all order and other promotional activity information maintained by the organization.    Responsibilities:  • Developed front end for the entire website using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Converted raw images and layouts from a graphic designer into CSS/HTML themes.  • Implemented client side validations in registration forms, login and logout forms using Java Script.  • Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and autocomplete form validations.  • Used jQuery for interaction between JavaScript and HTML.  • Used Web Developer, Firebug, and IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility.  • Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the website more versatile and Supportive.  • Worked on Responsive Designing for websites for Tablets and Mobiles for Expressionery site.  • Used J2EE patterns such as Controller, Singleton, factory, MVC architecture is used in this application  • Spring Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Integrated process into build system which auto-generates REST API documentation from source code improving API documentation quality and availability while reducing maintenance costs.  • Maintain high-quality of RESTful services guided by best practices.  • Spring ORM module is used along with Hibernate to deal with database operations  • Used Spring core, Spring Context, Spring MVC Framework etc. are used for the application configuration of different components, services in the application  • Used Hibernate 3.0 tool to deal with database. Used Hibernate extensively to have Database access mechanism with complex queries through Hibernate Query, Criteria interfaces.  • Used JMS ( Java Message Service) to send, receive and read messages in the application. Used different messaging models like Publish-Subscribe, Point-to-Point messaging along with EJBs.  • Used databases Oracle 10g. Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data related to User, Insurance products.  • Designed and implemented the MongoDB schema Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Used CVS repository for version control.  • Used WebLogic application server for deploying the application  • Created auto deployment scripts for WebLogic using UNIX Shell Scripts.  • Worked on Data migration analysis and improvement with C++, Perl, Shell Script.  • Used Web Services to have SFTP administration which are developed by using SOAP, WSDL.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Implemented the project using the agile methodologies.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JDK-1.5, J2EE Design Patterns, XML 2.0, CSS, Unix, WebLogic 9.2, Servlets 2.3, JSP 2.0, Junit, SPRING MVC, Spring Core, Perl, Spring Context, SPRING AOP Module, JMS, BEA WebLogic 9.1, Eclipse IDE 3.2, SOAP, WSDL, Mango DB, Hibernate 3.0, JSTL, JAX-WS, XML Spy, XSLT, CSS, Oracle 10g, TOAD, ANT, Log4j. Java/J2EE Developer United health Group - Dunellen, NJ May 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Develop and maintain host level applications running on Linux and Windows OS in XML, Java and C++.  • Contributed to the application design, developing Use Cases based on the requirements using Rational Rose/UML.  • Implemented Spring MVC for designing and implementing the UI Layer for the application.  • Developed web pages using JSP Tag Libraries, HTML, and JQuery.  • Wrote all client side validations using JavaScript.  • Developed server-side services using Java (multithreading, collections).  • Implemented Spring AOP for implementing the roles throughout the application.  • Used Hibernate for mapping java objects to the relational database in.hbm.xml file.  • Wrote queries for the modifications to existing database structure.  • Designed, developed and implemented document transformation applications using XML tool.  • Used DOM parsing methodology for serializing and parsing the XML request and response.  • Developed unit test cases and functional test cases using Junit  • Wrote Oracle queries and stored procedures necessary for the application.  • Used CVS as the source control system.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE 1.4, JSP, C++, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Servlets 2.5, Hibernate 3.5, Spring, WebSphere 6.0, RAD, Oracle 11g, Toad, CVS. Java Developer Standard Chartered - Pune, Maharashtra November 2010 to March 2012 This project aims at the description of the term loan details of the customer. This project includes the minute details of the customer from the day of presenting the application, till the day of recovery. It includes the details of the applicant, addresses of his Co-obligates, guarantor, sponsors, Date of Documentation, and Automatic calculation of quarterly interest, penal interest, and updating of general ledger.    • Developed the use cases and class diagrams using Rational Rose/UML.  • Performed end-to-end design and development of all layers of the application.  • Implemented Spring MVC for designing and implementing the UI Layer for the application.  • Used Spring IOC to inject the services and their dependencies.  • Used AJAX to retrieve data from server synchronously in the background without interfering with the display and existing page in an interactive way.  • Wrote JavaScript for dynamic manipulation of the elements on the screen and to validate the input.  • Wrote Spring Validator classes for validating the input data.  • Used JAXB to marshal/unmarshal java objects to communicate with the backend mainframe system.  • Wrote PL/SQL and SQL blocks for the application  • Wrote data conversion programs for handling the changes to the existing database schema.  • Used PVCS as the source control system.  • Worked on persistence layer using Hibernate with Oracle 10g Database.  • Used Log4j package for the debugging, info and error tracings.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, AJAX, JAXB, JavaScript, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, Toad, XML, Apache, Ant 1.7, Log4J, SQL, PL/SQL, RAD, WebSphere J2EE Analyst AXIS Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2009 to October 2010 Project: Cash Inflow Manager    This is a financial product which is a suite of enterprise software applications that seamlessly interface with your existing back-office financial systems, to proactively manage the internal and external financial flows of your business, and achieve extremely effective working capital management. Our solutions facilitate intra and inter-business connectively to accelerate positive cash flows and increase liquidity in digital market places.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed project requirements for the product. Involved in designing.  • Interacting with the system analysts & business users for design & requirement clarification.  • Used J2EE Design Patterns like Session Façade pattern.  • Used Struts Framework to deal with functionalities like credit issues, invoice details. Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components.  • Developed, and debugged the servlets and EJB with Jboss Application server  • Developed JSPs as per therequirements.  • Used Connection Pooling to get JDBC connection and access database procedures.  • Wrote complex SQL queries to retrieve invoice details and other financial elements etc.  • Used Log4j as a debugging tool.  • Developed UI modifications for uPortal using XSLT, DHTML, XML and JavaScript.  • Used CVS repository for version control.  • Extensively used Tomcat server and Jboss application server for developing, building and testing the application.  Environment:JDK 1.4, J2EE, STRUTS 1.1, MVC, Servlets 2.3, JSP 1.2, XML 2.0, CSS, CVS, Jboss Application Server, ECLIPSE, XML Spy, AJAX, SQL Server 2000, TOAD. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills J2EE (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), ORACLE (6 years), AJAX (6 years), XML (6 years), Java, Spring 4.2, RESTful Web Services,Spring Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Hibernate 4.3, Xml, Log4j, Oracle10 Eclipse,TeamSite, Maven, JavaScript, Angular.js 1.3, React.js, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, LDAP, Agile. Additional Information Skill Set:    J2EE/ JAVA Technologies: JDK (1.7/1.8), J2EE, JDBC, JSP(1.2/2.0), JSTL Servlets, JUNIT, JMS 1.1, RMI, JNDI, JAXP, JAXB, Java doc, DOJO,WSDL, Java Beans.  Frameworks: Struts 1.2/2.0, Hibernate 3.x, Spring 4.x, JUNIT.  Programming languages: C, C++, Java.  Client Scripting: JavaScript, JQuery.  Server Scripting: JSP, PHP.  Source Control: GIT, CVS, Subversion, P4V.  Build tools: Ant, Maven, and Gradle.  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, REST.  XML Technology: XML Query, XML Path.  XML Tools: XML spy.  Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Mean.js, React.js, Bootstrap, AJAX, DHTML, DHTML, CSS, XSL, XSLT.  Application/Web servers: WebSphere, WEBLOGIC, JBOSS, Tomcat, Apache Web Server, IIS.  IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ, STS, Net Beans,  Protocols: HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, SOAP, TELNET.  Databases: ORACLE (10g,11g,12c), MSSQL, DB2, Couchbase, Mongodb.  Platforms: Windows (2000, 2003, Server, XP, 2007) and DOS, UNIX, LINUX RedHat Enterprise Server (4.x, 5.x), Solaris (5.1).