Middleware Engineer Middleware Engineer Middleware Engineer - Tata Consultancy Services Professional Summary    ? 13 years of IT Experience in Middleware Engineering and Middleware Production support and Application development using Java/J2EE Technologies.  ? Proficient in CA API Gateway (Layer7), Oracle Access Manager (OAM10g/11g), WebLogic 10g, Tomcat 7/8, OHS10g, and Apache2.x Middleware Technologies.  ? Extensive working experience on Banking, Telecom, Portal and e-Commerce Domains.  ? Expertise in CA API Gateway upgrade from V8.0 to V9.3.  ? Expertise in configuring inbound and outbound REST and SOAP services using CA API Gateway (Layer7) policy manager.  ? Expertise in Policy creation, custom assertion, role based and .X509 cert authentication.  ? Expertise in Onboarding the applications in CA API Gateway (Layer7) with appropriate solution provisioning as per the requirement.  ? Expertise in using Access Control, Policy logic, Logging Policy Assertions.  ? Expertise in troubleshooting, problem solving and root cause analysis.  ? Expertise on project transition, design and implementation of Standard Operational Procedures.  ? Expertise in creating Authorization Rules, Authentication Expressions and Security Policies Using Oracle Access Manager (OAM10g/OAM11g).  ? Expertise in Configuration of Private keys, digital certificates, and trusted certificate.  ? Experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  ? Extensively worked on different Operating systems like Linux, Solaris and Windows NT/XP.  ? Good knowledge on Docker and AWS.  ? Experience in TFS, PVCS and GIT version control management.  ? Experience in handling the 24/7 support team across the regions.  ? Provided development and technical support for complex/ critical applications. Coordinated with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, Lead/Work within a team environment. Work Experience Middleware Engineer Tata Consultancy Services May 2012 to Present USA  Project: Enterprise Middleware Services  Role: Middleware Engineer    Description: Northern Trust Corporation is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking to corporations, institutions, affluent families and individuals.    Northern Trust has more than 300+ Applications including critical and noncritical Applications deployed in various Application Servers like Weblogic, SOA, WebSphere and Tomcat in two Data centers. Enterprise Middleware Services provides the Architecture security and Middleware Administration from System to Production environment.    Responsibilities:  ? Installing and configuring middleware servers including Application Servers, Web servers and Gateway servers.  ? Providing the solution to secure the web services to expose the outside the bank network as per the application requirement using API Gateway.  ? Handling the SWAT calls to troubleshoot the production issues and working with the other technical teams to investigate the root cause of the issue.  ? Implementing process flow for Application Infrastructure Request, Change Control Request and Incident Ticket Request.  ? Configuring inbound and outbound REST and SOAP services using CA API Gateway.  ? Creating custom assertions as per the application requirements.  ? Installing quarterly and security patches to make sure the Middleware servers are updated with latest patches.    ? Implementation of application migration requests and integrating with security and web server components.  ? Creating Work Managers, JNDI /JDBC / Data source configuration of Application Servers.  ? Deploying the EAR's and WAR's in WebLogic, SOA, WebSphere and Tomcat servers.  ? Configuration of Private keys, digital certificates, and trusted certificate.  ? Creating Authorization rules, Authentication Policies Using Oracle Access Manager.  ? Analyzing the server alerts from Sitescope and Intrascope monitoring tools, troubleshooting and Thread dump analysis.  ? Creation of MQ objects, MQ servers patch installation, user permissions, sanity check, monitoring and troubleshooting of the MQ issues as part of WebSphere MQ administration.  ? Involved in Updating Assets in MDM, importing signer certificates, enable/disable trace logs, LDAP configuration changes as part of WebSphere Server Administration.  ? Presenting monthly SLA reports with the client managers.  ? Conducting weekly and monthly team meetings.  ? Reviewing the open and pending requests and assigning with the team to achieve 100% SLA.  ? Planning shift roster based on the weekly activities.  ? Developed shell scripts to automate the server recycles and purging the files.    Environment: Weblogic 8 & 10g, Weblogic Portal 10g, Oracle SOA, Websphere8.5, Tomcat7&8, OHS 10g, AHS 2.2, OAM 10g, CA API Gateway 8.0/9.3, HP Sitescope, CA Intrascope, Remedy5, Service-Now, PVCS ,TFS. Senior Software Engineer Vodafone India Services - IN January 2011 to May 2012 India, Jan 2011 - May 2012  Client: Vodafone, Italy, Project: Vodafone Italy Online Application Support ( www.vodafone.it ),  Role: Senior Software Engineer.    Description: Vodafone Italy is one of the largest telephony companies in Italy. It has more than 26 million customers. Vodafone Online Application provides many features for the online registered users. Online users can avail self-care operations like online recharge, shopping, managing phonebook, statements, bill payments, call/Data usage analysis, promotional offers, etc.    As part of the Application Support, we will provide the 24/7 support to ensure the high availability of Vodafone Online Application. Application Support includes trouble shooting the end user issues, day to day data processing, weekly and monthly code migrations, monitoring application performance and servers health checkups.    Responsibilities:  ? Handling the Trouble Tickets, Service Requests, Incidents and Change requests effectively using Remedy.  ? Performing CANVASS and Bug-fix code migrations in UAT and Production environments.  ? Performing Daily health checks of all the application modules.  ? Content deployment using TeamSite application.  ? Analyzing the application issues, troubleshooting the issues.  ? Coordinating with other stakeholders like DB team, Network Team, etc. to indentify the root cause of the issue.  ? Involving in the change release plan meetings.  ? Involving in monthly SLA presentation meetings.  ? Creating the health check procedure documents.  ? Wrote and executed SQL queries to monitor the order process performance with actual data.  ? Involving in configuring several Configuration files for the production releases every month.    Environment: Remedy7, Oracle Weblogic 10g, Apache, Teamsite, Broadvision Enterprise 7.1, DCC (Dynamic Command Center), Sitescope, Windows XP, Solaris, Linux. Senior Java Developer TechTree IT Systems - IN May 2008 to January 2011 India, May 2008 - Jan 2011  Client: Malayala Manorama, India, Project: MM Online Portal (www.manoramaonline.com),  Role: Senior Java Developer.    Description: Malayala Manorama (MM) is the largest circulated news paper in Kerala State, India. MM has online and prints media. MM-Online is a web based portal application. It includes major modules like News Portal, E-MART, MM Classifieds, M4Marry, and MM Music Downloads. MM Online portal all modules having 3 basic page views, i.e. Home, Section and Article. Its display and contents will be dynamically changes as per the module. Each module contains respective Display template, Channels, Sub Channels and programs. All these setups will be managed using BroadVision Portal application. Registered users can avail the features like personalizing home page display, comment on articles, post classified ads, online shopping, subscribe for Manorama weekly and monthly magazines, etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the J2EE application based on the Struts Framework.  ? Worked with business analysts during requirement analysis phase and helped the team in breaking the requirements into implementation details.  ? Participated in Change Requirements, coding and debugging.  ? Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for client-side validations.  ? Developed Functional Requirement Document like Unit Test Case Doc, Analysis Doc, Technical Design Doc based on users' requirement for the business modules for future references and updates.  ? Involved in Project requirement study and documentation  ? Actively involved in code development, debugging and code review.  ? Involved in unit testing.  ? Involved in developing payment gateway for online payments.  ? Actively involved in code development, debugging and code review.  ? Creating Pagetypes, Channels, and programs and mapping them as per the requirement using Portal Admin.  ? Developed the presentation layer based on Struts and used JSP in the Presentation layer.  ? Used Apache Lucene search engine to develop search module.  ? Creating Content source files, loading categories and executing the scripts.  ? Created Database tables and wrote SQL queries.  ? Used AJAX for internal server calls.  ? Used Dojo and JQuery Javascript libraries in client side form validation, home page block sliding, building dynamic breadcrumb, showing the dynamic classifieds templates, etc.  ? Wrote Cascading Style sheets.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, BroadVision 7.1 Enterprise, BroadVision Portal 7.1, BroadVision 7.1 Commerce, DCC, Tomcat5, JMS, Web Services, Struts1x, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, CVS, Apache Lucene, Apache Axis, Windows NT/UNIX. Senior Java Developer TechTree IT Systems - IN December 2006 to May 2008 India, Dec 2006 - May 2008  Client: Malayala Manorama, India, Project: Online Properties ( www.helloaddress.com ),  Role: Senior Java Developer.    Description: Online Properties is Manorama's Real Estate Portal. Registered user can post their property details to Rent/Sell. User can also upload property photos, videos. User can search for the rent/sell properties. Paid properties only will list in search results. User can send mail to the property owner, forward property to friends; send SMS to the property owner. Admin module for manage Packages, Offline registration, Offline payments, manage the posted properties and manage uploaded photos, videos.    Responsibilities:  ? Requirement gathering and understanding the system requirements.  ? Developed Automated Actions, xFlows and xForms using Kukini framework.  ? Worked with business analysts during requirement analysis phase and helped the team in breaking the requirements into implementation details.  ? Developed property posting interface.  ? Developed property search module using BV8.1 Search Engine.  ? Developed various JavaScript functions used for client side validations.  ? Designed User Interface as per client needs using JSP, AJAX, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  ? Involved in unit testing.  ? Involved in Code review.  ? Addressing the postproduction issues.  ? Created Database tables and wrote SQL queries.  ? Was actively involved in developing high and low-level design documents.  ? Used AJAX for internal server calls.  ? Used Dojo and JQuery JavaScript libraries for client side form validation, dynamic block display, search result navigation etc.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, BroadVision 8.1 Enterprise, BroadVision Portal 8.1, Oracle 10g, Kukini Framework, Kukini Workbench, xForms, xFlows, CVS, Apache Lucene, Windows NT/UNIX. Java Developer TechTree IT Systems - IN May 2006 to December 2006 Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, BroadVision 7.1 Enterprise, BroadVision Portal 7.1, DCC, Struts1x, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Windows NT/UNIX.    Description: Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) is a subsidiary of the Indian Railways that handles the catering, tourism and online ticketing operations of the railways. IRCTC Online ticketing changed the face of railway ticketing in India. It pioneered internet-based rail ticket booking through its website. In addition to e-tickets, Indian Railways and Catering Tourism Corporation also offers I-tickets that are basically like regular tickets except that they are booked online and delivered by post. The tickets PNR status is also made available.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the system requirements.  ? Coded Java classes and Helper classes.  ? Involved in user registration module.  ? Used BroadVision DCC tool to create categories, dynamic Rule sets.  ? Designed User Interface as per client needs using JSP, AJAX, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  ? Developed various JavaScript functions used for client-side validations. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills DATABASE, JDBC, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, AJAX, BROADVISION, CSS, DHTML, SOA, WEBLOGIC, API, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, XML, LINUX, SOLARIS, ECLIPSE, J2EE