Tech Lead, OSS Tech Lead, OSS Tech Lead, OSS - AT&T Corp Nashville, TN • Around 10 years of experience in Development, Troubleshooting, Designing and Testing of web applications and Telecom/Network Products, OSS Implementation/ Integration/ Service Activation.  • Experience in implementation and Designing of OSS / BSS solutions for products supporting Provisioning, Service fulfillment and Inventory management.  • Proficient in Web applications development by using Java and J2EE, Struts, XML, Web services, Spring, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, and CVS technologies.  • Coordinate & define solution across diverse legacy & strategic applications while adhering to system architecture roadmap  • Deep knowledge and highly experienced in networks, devices, services modeling and automation in OSS systems  • Implements Orchestration, Order Management, Decomposition, Catalog, Service and Resource Inventory(SRI), Fulfillment Patterns, Workflows including static processes, Rules and tasks for Service Fulfillment (Comptel) and Service/Network Provisioning.  • Highly skilled and knowledgeable in OSS system architecture, designs, specifications, system testing and system user training and adoption in carrier services.  • Client interaction on daily basis to produce and agree upon shadow/ reverse shadow/ cutover plan, the managed services transition scope and status report of daily shadowing activities.  • Hands on experience with telecom (NMS/EMS) products (ANA, IPSA) for implementation of activating network services include (AVPN/L2VPN/L3VPN/QoS/MPLS/ELINE/ELAN).  • Experience developing scripts and workflows to activate services on network devices managed by Active Network Abstraction (ANA) through Scripts and Workflows.  • Experienced in Service Order Provisioning, Performance Management, Fulfillment Management (Comptel), EMS, and NMS & OSS Application Development and Testing. Activating Services on network devices managed by Active Network Abstraction through Scripts and Workflows.  • Has good eye in finding faults, and trouble shooting of logs, Analysis of root cause.  • E-2-E Testing of Telecom domain OSS. Test case generation and implementation, defect logging, tracking and coordination with development teams and UAT managers.  • Thorough understanding of Ethernet technologies and implementation specifics in Ethernet over Fiber, Ethernet over Copper and Layer-3 VPN with Ethernet access.  • Highly skilled and knowledgeable in OSS system architecture, designs, specifications, system testing and system user training and adoption in carrier services.  • Write code for Proof-of-concepts and prototypes in support of Project activities Work Experience Tech Lead, OSS AT&T Corp - Middletown, NJ May 2014 to Present Provisioning Application:  ? Provisioning Application is technology used by Service Providers to activate/ configure various services on routers through IPSA, IPSA is a product from Oracle which is a network management tool which communicates with all the routers on the network and configures the services on devices depending the request parameters it listening from the PAL.  ? Provisioning Application is a service provisioning solution that helps service providers in managing the Customer Edge devices. Provisioning Application and IP Service Activator (IPSA) formulates the provisioning & activation. Provisioning Application and IPSA in conjunction deliver the required configuration on CE routers in managed customer scenario. IPSA is used to configure Quality of Service (QoS) parameters on the CE routers. The business services that are supported by this system are AVPN, EVPN, MIS and MRS.  ? Provisioning Application and IPSA gets service fulfillment orders from an upstream Order Management System called EFMS. Once the order is received by PAL, it orchestrates the order till the completion of the same.  Roles:  ? Troubleshooting of Applications, Providing information and the root cause analysis.  ? Working closely with team to understand business requirements.  ? Managing the Network Elements (Device Discovery, managing the NEs).  ? Involved in Implementing Web applications for managing the NEs.  ? Automating Provisioning, Activation and Billing of Services (VPN, Staging and QoS) on NEs.  ? Work with other developers to design and implement innovative solutions with a focus on adhering to standards, best practices and code quality techniques.  ? Building roadmap to deliver defined solution/deliverables within expected timelines.  ? Transforming a functional requirement into a technical requirement for development team.  ? Design and implement technical solutions to satisfy functional and non-functional requirements while ensuring quality and timely delivery.  ? Lead troubleshooting and fixing defects for the planned releases and production  ? Build and maintain effective working relationships with key technology team members  ? Understanding the gaps between APIs exists in the Application and various systems.  ? Understanding the gaps between the Application generated configuration and Device supporting configuration  ? Verifying of configurations on devices (various device models includes ISRG1, ISR G2, and ASR) and logs.  ? Responsible for performing functional & system testing on various device platforms.  ? Providing technical support to the team members.  ? Verification of Configurations on devices depending upon the Service type and parameters.  ? Reviewing of Test Plan, and Test Results, Tracking of Development and testing activities using Quality Center.  ? Responsible for performing Functional, GUI, Sanity, and Regression Testing  ? Troubleshooting and debugging of applications and logs in application and products.  ? Activation and verification of network services on devices.  ? Preparation of Data using XMLs (Test Data - XML Manipulation) to activate services on network devices. And to run test cases(Junit).  ? Responsible for communicating with client/customers including presenting the design/solution to the client, coordinating with onsite, off shore teams and also third party stake holders to resolve issues.  ? Aggregation of Network elements and customers using Elastic Search.    Environment:  IPSA (IP Service Activator), PAL (Provisioning App), NC3 Simulator, EFMS, NP Server, MIS Tools, Routers (CE-PE), Websphere Server, Java, J2EE, JSPs, xml, Elastic Search, Angular JS, XQuery, Endeca, Web Services(SOAP and Rest), Play Framework, Akka, Scala , Jira and HPQC. Java Developer, OSS Cisco systems - Bangalore, Karnataka May 2009 to April 2014 CEMS:  The IP NGN Carrier Ethernet network has been designed to offer a scalable and flexible Service fulfillment process and Fault Management for business and residential services. Service fulfillment includes three primary components  • Order management system  • Provisioning/activation system  • Inventory  Provisioning and activation systems are two layers, which include the service creation layer and the resource management layer. The Cisco ANA product provides an abstraction layer for the resource management layer and facilitates a powerful, yet flexible service activation capability that allows control and alignment with service provider business processes and business policies.  During the tenure i participated in developing scripts, web applications and web services supporting ANA.    Roles:  ? Involved in developing Workflows and scripts for provisioning network devices.  ? Implementing workflows using Jboss jBPM and rules.  ? Transforming a functional requirement into a technical requirement for development team  ? Coding using Java and J2EE technologies to develop web based application to interact with NMS products (ANA).  ? Troubleshooting of Applications, Providing solution and root cause analysis.  ? Responsible for the initiation of Trouble Reports on the bugs tracked.  ? Proactively involved in Customer Meetings & Training Sessions.  ? Designing and Development services and workflows. Packaging of commands.  ? Interfacing of API's to web applications (publishing and consuming web services)  ? Involved in understanding of HLDs and preparing Design document to development team.  ? Understanding the gaps in APIs exists between the Applications and various systems.  ? Responsible for performing/reviewing functional & Unit testing and results. Providing technical support to the teams.  ? Activating VPN, QoS services on devices.    Environment:  ANA (Active Network Abstraction),ANA Network Vision, ANA Workflow editor, ANA Event Viewer, PA (Provisioning Application), Routers (CE-PE), JBoss/Tomcat Server, Bean Shell script, Java, J2EE, JSPs, Web Services, Eclipse, shell script(bash), Java, XML, ANA Server, jBPM, Seam, ANA Server, ANA Gateway.3.    Customers:  Telefonica:  The scope of this project is to capture the High Level Design of ANA Service Activation solution being developed for Telefonica to enable flow-through provisioning of its Carrier Ethernet based services (MPLS L3VPN services.  BT- Firewall:  The scope of this project is to capture the High Level Design of ANA Service Activation solution being developed for British Telecom to enable flow-through provisioning of its Firewall services  NT:  The scope of this project is to capture the High Level Design of ANA Service Activation solution being developed for Neutral Tandem to enable flow-through provisioning of its Carrier Ethernet based services includes MPLS (L2VPN and L3VPN).  Alice Springs:  The scope of this project is to capture the High Level Design of ANA Service Activation solution being developed for Cisco to enable flow-through provisioning of its Carrier Ethernet based services ( Default services included as part of ANA Product). Java Developer T Group September 2006 to April 2009 T Money:  T Money has the ambition to develop a comprehensive personal financial services business serviced through the internet will bring the market to greater heights in terms of cost savings and convenience for customers.  The integrated Tune Money Portal will allow the customer to get quotations and buy insurance products. make payments and renew the policies and also Pre paid cards.    Environment: Struts, JSP, Tomcat Web Server, Oracle, Hibernate, Eclipse and winCVS.  Roles:  ? Responsible for implementing several of the utility and infrastructure classes for the project  ? Involved in the development of Module Functionalities using JSP and Servlets.  ? Wrote Oracle stored procedures for retrieving data from multiple tables, so that it can be invoked using callable statements from java code. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Maintenance and Engineering in Computer Maintenance and Engineering Osmania University 2002 Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Nagarjuna University Board of Intermediate Education Certification State Board of Andhra Pradesh Skills J2EE (8 years), Java (10+ years), Provisioning (8 years), Web Services (8 years), XML (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows, Linux and Unix  Domain Telecom / Systems supporting OSS/NMS/EMS. Provisioning and Activation.  OSS/NMS Products ANA (cisco) and IPSA (oracle), Comptel suite (OM, Catalog,SRI and P&A), XDM, IP-RDM.  Languages Java, Scala, XML(xslt,DTD,), SQL and PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSPs, Web services (SOAP and REST),  Middleware's Tomcat, jBoss App Servers(AS, EAP), Weblogic and Websphere  Frameworks Struts, Hibernate, jBPM, Axis and Spring (Core and MVC), Play Framework.  Reporting and Tracking Tools HPQC, Jira and Rally  Databases Oracle , Cassandra and MySQL  Tools Eclipse, Notepad++, XML spy, JIRA,HP Quality Center, Putty, Filezilla, GNS3,  Devices  Switches(catalyst 3750,4500), Routers (Cisco Devices ASR, ISRg1 and ISR g2) 18xx,28xx,38xx,29xx,39xx,ASR9k. Team Viewer, SOAP UI,TOAD,    Technologies Carrier Ethernet,E-Line, E-LAN, L2VPN,L3VPN,QoS, MPLS, TCP/IP, DOCSIS, CNR.  Standards ITU (TMN model and FCAPS), TM Forum (eTOM, NGOSS, MTOSSI, OSS/J)