Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Intuit Inc South Jordan, UT • Having 8+ years on requirement analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and support using Object Oriented Methodologies and Java/J2EE technologies.  • Actively participated in every phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) and proficient with software development methods like Agile (scrum) and Water Fall.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, JSP, Node.JS, React JS, PHP, Bootstrap.  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  • Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  • Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, DynamoDB, Elastic Search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Hands on experience with Amazon web services (AWS) and Amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers) and Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring).  • Deploy application updates to AWS and monitored the load balancing of different instances.  • Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring DAO, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security(SSL, OAUTH2).  • Extensive experience working in Spring framework, Struts framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate framework and web services.  • Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using SOA, Web Services such as JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML over HTTP, Apache CXF, JAX-B, XSD, Axis 2 and RESTFUL web services.  • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, IDM DB2, SQL Server and MySQL, MongoDB.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ and Apache Camel as JASMS provider.  • Experience in developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j.  • Experience in version control system tools like GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Experience in unit testing the applications using JUnit, TDD Framework.  • Worked on implementing full life cycle of software development process (SDLC) in using version control tools like Rational Clear Case, Tortoise SVN, CVS (Concurrent Version System).  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  • Significant experience in web development tools like Spring Tool Suite, RAD, Intellij, Eclipse  • Hands on experience with Windows, UNIX and Linux Environments.  • Having Experience on Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.  • Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss application Servers.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, lead/work within a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Intuit Inc - Plano, TX May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  • Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  • Developed the UI using HTML5, CSS3, JSP and JavaScript for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements  • Identify improvements to enhance CI/CD  • Involved in designing the client side module architecture based on new Angular Framework.  • Used Node.JS to run AngularJS on server with mock JSON data and completed the UI development independent of server.  • Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  • Oracle 11g was used as the database for the application which was hosted in the cloud using Amazon RDS service.  • Deployed the built docker image on Mesos using Marathon. Using a multi container setup deployed on Mesos  • Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring Boot, Micro Services and Hibernate ORM. Used Spring Core Annotations for Spring DI, Spring MVC, for REST APIs, Spring Security and Spring Boot for Micro-services.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro Services using the Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Used Spring MVC module to develop MVC Architecture.  • Developed the Controller to handle the requests and responses.  • Used Core Java to develop Business Logic as Spring Beans.  • Extensively used Core Java 1.8 concepts and implemented Collections, I/O, Exception Handling and Generics in logic design and development  • Configured Spring Container to implement IOC/DI of the Spring Beans, Bean Factory and to manage the beans life circle.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Used spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template to perform the database the database operations by connecting Data Sources available.  • Implemented Spring AOP for declarative transaction management.  • Using Hibernate ORM tool for Memory mapping object-oriented domain model to relational database  • Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  • Used Jersey to implement Restful Web Service and used XML form to transfer the data.  • Used Rest Controllers to replace the existing operations layer, which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI.  • Implemented OAuth2.0 for authentication based web application and accessed their APIs for fetching data services.  • Used Grunt as task runner.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharing and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Responsible for Production support activities like Jobs monitoring, log the load statistics, analysis and resolve in case of any production issues, coordinate with business to fix any source file issues, coordinate with DBA to resolve any table space or file system related issues.  • Deployed the Web Application in WebSphere.  • Developed Unit Test Cases. Used JUnit for unit testing of the application.  • Developed the unit testing scripts using Jasmine for testing the JavaScript code and automation of the tasks with Grunt/Gulp.  • Configured pom.xml to deploy the project using Maven.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, OAuth2.0, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, JSON, JSP, JNDI, Oracle, SQL Server 2008/12/16, Spring AOP/Bean Factory, Spring cloud, Hibernate, RabbitMQ, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JDBC, Amazon Web-Services (Elastic Search),SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture, REST, JAX-RS, Jersey, JUnit, JAX-B, Mongo DB,CI/CD, Docker, WebSphere, Micro Services, JIRA, Maven, GIT, RAD, Jenkins, Unix, Grunt, Gulp, Jasmine, Salesforce, Agile Methodology Full Stack Developer Health Care Management Systems - Irving, TX December 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  • Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  • Developed the UI using HTML5, CSS3, JSP and JavaScript for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Involved in designing the client side module architecture based on AngularJS Framework.  • Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  • Virtualized the servers on AWS using the Docker, created the Docker files and version controlled them.  • Expertise in container technologies and writing containerized software Docker.  • Manipulated data using CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations of SQL database management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring Boot, and Spring JNDI. Used Spring Core Annotations for Spring DI, Spring MVC, for REST APIs, Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Used spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC, Spring data JPA and Spring ORM classes like JDBC template to perform the database operations by connecting Data Sources available.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro Services using the Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  • Implemented swagger in project for API design, build, document, and consume RESTful Web services.  • Implemented Spring security and authentication using Java Web Tokens using Layer Seven on both frontend and Backend.  • Created Ant build file to build the application and deployed in WebLogic.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases using Mockito framework and also using in memory H2-DB. Used JUnit for unit testing of the application.  • Used HARVEST for version control tool.  • Configured pom.xml to deploy the project using Maven.  • Experience on Log4J to validate functionalities and developed customized reports  • Used Version One for tracking the Project Stories in AGILE Methodology  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, JSON, JSP, JNDI, DB2, SQL Server, Spring data JPA, Spring AOP/Bean Factory, Spring cloud, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JDBC, Amazon Web-Services (Elastic Search, RDS, S3),SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture, REST, JAX-RS, Jersey, JUnit, JAX-B, Docker, WebSphere, Micro Services, Version -One, Maven, Harvest, Eclipse IDE, Jenkins, Unix, Grunt, Gulp, Jasmine, Salesforce, Agile Methodology. Full Stack Developer AT&T - Alpharetta, GA January 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Java script, JQuery, AngularJS.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Used Spring MVC design patterns, Ajax and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  • Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate& Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  • Used Active MQ for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the message queue.  • Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  • Integrated spring and hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  • Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP.  • Designed and implemented MySQL solutions as per project specifications.  • Used Rest methodology for the service layer interface and used JSON for the data transformation.  • Developed various AJAX and JSON calls for the communication between the server and the UI.  • Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform.  • Worked on Spring Cloud Config, Pivotal cloud foundry to deploy application to cloud.  • Developed RESTful web services are deployed to pivotal web services.  • Deployed application using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) CLI.  • Good knowledge on Pivotal Cloud Foundry  • Established Database Connectivity using Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for MySQL Server.  • Experienced in implementation of JMS in order to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using ActiveMQ as a message queue.  • Packaged and deployed the application in IBM WebSphere.  • Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  • Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements  • Used Maven as the build tool.  • Used J-Unit Testing and Ant Scripts.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in AGILE Methodology.    Environment: Java, JDK, J2EE (EJBs, JSP/Servlet, JDBC), XML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Node.JS, JSON, JMS, Struts, Spring, MVC design patterns, ActiveMQ, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Agile, Ant, Maven, IBM Web Sphere, PHP, SOAP UI, JNDI, Log4J, MySQL Server 2008/12/16, JIRA, RMI, Intellij, IDE, LINUX. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Health Connection Minnesota January 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis & application design of Extreme Programming using Agile methodology with iterative and incremental software development.  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using AngularJS, HTML, JSP, JS, CSS and AJAX.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring framework to inject dependency into objects and to wire objects of business classes.  • Used Spring framework including Spring core /IOC/Bean Factory, Spring Web, Spring Security.  • Developed persistence layer Data access objects using DAO pattern, JDBC, Hibernate  • Developed costume queries using Hibernate criteria, native SQL and HQL. Developed inheritance domain objects using table per class hierarchy strategy.  • Configured EH Cache to load the static tables into secondary storage area.  • Implemented SOA architecture with WSDL Mainframe Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons.  • Developed Stateless session beans to parse (parser frame work) and process the user request into domain object (DAO design pattern) to delegate the business request to the business delegate object  • Used SOAP web services and XML data over HTTP.  • Developed necessary parsing and XML construction logic using XML parser APIs JAXB.  • Developed user interface using JSP, Struts published validation framework to support client side and server side validation.  • Used built in store Procedures to reach the requirements from the Client to improve the response times of the services.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, Oracle using TOAD tool.  • Developed an automated application using JMS for messaging and JNDI to interact with the Server.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the Oracle database.  • Created Stored Procedures using PL/SQL.  • Developed Scripts for the build process and deployed in Web Logic Server.  • Developed customized SQL for retrieving the data from the database worked with business and client to reach the performance parameters.  • Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process.  • Implemented Log4J for logging errors, tracking using logger's components.  • Developed unit test cases to test business scenarios associated with each use case sequences.  • Used GIT for version control tool.  • Experienced in writing unit test cases using JUNIT.  • Worked on UNIX environment for development.    Environment: Java, JEE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Spring (dependency injection, AOP), Spring core/bean factory/IOC, Web, Struts, Hibernate, JMS, Clear case, WebLogic Server, Web- services, SOAP, WSDL Mainframe, JNDI, UDDI, JAX-RPC, JAXB, Log4j, Oracle, Rally, JUnit, Jenkins, GIT, TOAD, UNIX. Java Developer Colonial Life Insurance - Columbia, SC May 2010 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using Agile methodology.  • Used Spring MVC design patterns and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  • Involved in developing SOAP and Restful web services functions to get data from the MainFrame.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Developed user interfaces for policy owner module using Swing, JSP, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed policy owner business logic using Stateless Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs).  • Participated in designing and development of DAO (Data Access Objects) for policy owner module.  • Developed application components using Apache Struts Framework.  • Performed server side validations using Struts validations.  • Developed Business tier and Presentation tier using IBM WSAD.  • Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  • Involved in Unit testing and System testing of the application.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in Agile Methodology.  • Used CVS for version Repository maintenance.    Environment: Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JDBC, Hibernate, JSP, HTML, CSS, IBM WSAD (WebSphere Studio Application Developer), MainFrame IBM WebSphere Application Server, CSS, IBM Rational Rose, DB2, Jira, CVS. Junior Java Developer World Bank - Washington, DC August 2009 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Technical responsibilities included high level architecture and rapid development  • Design architecture following J2EE MVC framework  • Developed interfaces using HTML, JSP pages and Struts -Presentation View  • Developed and implemented Servlets running under JBoss  • Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, developed custom tags, and used JSTL Taglib  • Developed various java business classes for handling different functions  • Developed controller classes using Struts and tiles API  • Used J2EE design patterns and Data Access Object (DAO) for the business tier and integration Tier layer of the project  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue  • Implemented CMP entity beans for persistence of business logic implementation  • Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and advanced prepared statement  • Inspection/Review of quality deliverables such as Design Documents  • Developed EJBs (Session and Entity Beans) for business processing and database access  • Wrote SQL Scripts, Stored procedures and SQL Loader to load reference data.  • Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Used Maven as a build tool for deployment purpose.    Environment: Java, J2EE ( Java Servlets, JSP, Struts), HTML, EJB, MVC Framework, JDBC, Maven, JBoss, SQL, Oracle, Tortoise SVN, Apache Tomcat. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (9 years), HIBERNATE (8 years), JSP (9 years), DATABASE (9 years), JDBC (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C, C++, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSF, JMS, EJB, Java Security, JMS (ActiveMQ, Rabbit MQ)  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, PHP, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM,, Node JS, React JS, JSON.  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Security, OAUTH2, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, PHP, Apache ActiveMQ. ANT, Maven, Apache camel. CI/CD    Web services SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, Micro Services.  Web/App Servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic Server  Database Oracle, SQL-Server 2008/12/16, Netezza, MySQL server, TOAD, MongoDB/NoSQL  IDEs Eclipse, Intellij, Spring Tool Suite (STS), RAD  O-R mapping Hibernate, IBATIS  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Soap UI, Putty, Log4j and Jira.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, GitHub  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Docker  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX, Linux.  Cloud Technologies  AWS EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB,  Cloud front, Elastic search, Elastic Beanstalk, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Micro Services. Pivotal Cloud Foundry(PCF), Docker