Senior Pega Developer Senior Pega <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Pega Developer - Bank Of America Plano, TX ? Over 10 years of IT experience including 6 years of PEGA/PRPC experience in Design and development of Business Process Management (BPM) using Pega Rules Process Commander (PRPC).  ? 3.5 years of Java/J2EE experience in developing Enterprise Client server applications.  ? As a PEGA Senior Developer, expertise in designing and implementing Enterprise class structure for the organization based on Pega best practices and guardrails, which can be reusable and extendable.  ? Hands on Experience with PEGA 7.1.9  ? Experience with Agile/Scrum Development methodology  ? Hands on experience in PRPC flow design, activities, integration connectors (connect SOAP, connect SQL), services and screen design (harness, section, flow action), Agents & SLAs.  ? Experience in using Decision and Declarative(Declare Expression, Declare Onchange, Declare Trigger and Declare Index) rules.  ? Hands on experience with PRPC Reporting features (List View, Summary View and Report Definitions, Charts).  ? Good hand on experience in Gathering the Requirements for the enhancements from the business, Analyzing and Providing Estimates.  ? Good Experience in PRPC V6.x features and Hands on experience on PRPC construction and debugging tools such as Tracer, PLA,Preflight Clipboard, DB Trace and System management Application (SMA).  ? Experience in implementing the Business Intelligence Exchange (BIX)  ? Experience in conducting Design and Code reviews.  ? Knowledge in Performance tuning of the applications.  ? Experience in PRPC integration in Enterprise Environment using Service-SOAP, Connect-REST, File Listener, Connect-JMS, Connect-SOAP & Connect-SQL  ? Experience in Bulk Creation of Cases using CSV file upload, File Service.  ? Experience in Creating Parse XML, Parse Stream and Parse Delimitted rules.  ? Ability to troubleshoot and resolve complex production issues.  ? Strong communication and Presentation skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Pega Developer Bank Of America - Plano, TX September 2015 to Present The various assignments with which I have been associated are as follows (in chronological order):  Project 1: LRM DocGen (Letter Request Management)  Client: Bank Of America, Plano, TX,USA  Employer: Tata Consultancy Services Sept 2015 - Till Date  Role: Senior Pega Developer  Environment: PRPC 7.1, Oracle 10g, XML Spy, SOAPUI.  Project Description:  LRM (Letter Request Management) Document Generation project's main goal is to develop a configurable letter (Trigger/Package/Template) and automate the process of sending the letters to Bank Of America customers and Stake holders. Different letters includes Appraisal Letters, Incomplete Information notices, Acknowledgements, Solicitation letters, Statements etc.  LRM integrates with multiple fulfilment service providers to mail the letter to customers, attorneys and interested parties with relevant details prefilled in letter.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Line of Business and End users to understand the Use Cases and requirements.  • Involved in story creation, story grooming, Estimation, Coding, Testing and Code migration to higher environments.  • Attending daily stand up & Issue resolution meetings.  • Created High Level Class structure, Workflows and Rule sets in Pega PRPC.  • Designed the Letter Request flow and Integration service to accept the Case creation request from different systems.  • Created the Standard and Advanced agents for Background processing.  • Created different portal for various users like Admin, Setup user, Approver user.  • Customized the OOTB Work Transfer functionality and User Interface.  • Created different PRPC components like Flows, Activities, Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions, Constraints and Indexes etc.  • Worked on Developing UI components like Section, Layouts, Harness(New, Perform, Confirm and Review Harness).  • Created Data models, Activities, Access groups and Access Roles.  • Worked on integrating PRPC with External Applications using Connect SOAP, Connect -REST, Connect-JMS and Connect SQL  • Worked on implementing Assignment SLAs.  • Coordinated with offshore team and played a key role in understanding the requirements  • Taking care of Business Ad Hoc Requests to update the Production Data  • Efficiently handled core production fixes Senior Pega Developer Bank Of America - Plano, TX October 2014 to August 2015 Role: Senior Pega Developer  Environment: PRPC 7.1, Oracle 10g, XML Spy, SOAP UI  Project Description:  DLN (Document List and Notification) designed to notify systems and users of Document ingestion progress based on document activity such as successful document ingestion & Delivery exceptions etc. Notifications implemented via different channels like Web service notification, MQ Notification & Email Notification.    Responsibilities  • Worked with Line of Business and End users to understanding the Use Cases and requirements.  • Involved in story creation, story grooming, and Estimation, Coding, Testing and Code migration to higher environments.  • Identify all the interfaces required for the application & POC study before the construction phase.  • Created standard and advanced agents for processing the Event Notifications as a background process.  • Developed the User interface for viewing the transaction history of notifications.  • Involved in analyzing & fixing the Scrum and UAT issues.  • Created Connect-SOAP and Connect-JMS integration.  • Created different PRPC components like, Activities, Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions, Constraints and Indexes etc. PRPC Developer Hanover Insurance, MA January 2013 to March 2014 Environment: PRPC 6.3, Oracle 9, XML Spy, SOAP UI    Project Description:  Real time Rating(RTR) is ACORD based interface to accept requests to quote both the Homeowners and Personal Auto Lines of Business. If the Agent likes the returned quote, phase I of the project will have them bridge the quote into our POS application, utilizing our existing Business Partners application Pre-fill and Flood. Having flooded the quote into our POS application, the Agent will be navigated as deep into the POS page flow as the bridged data allows where they will be prompted to complete the entry process and submit the quote for issue. To achieve this end, both new and existing functionality will be built, re-used and/or modified and extended utilizing a combination of new state of the art and existing technologies.    Responsibilities  • Worked with Business Analysts to understand the requirements.  • Created a Design and Technical Specification documents.  • Designed the Real Time Rating workflow for Auto and Home Quotes.  • Created Service SOAP to create the Auto and Home Quotes.  • Create the integration with MainFrame system to get the Premium.  • Worked with Release Management team to deploy the componenets.  • Single Point of contact from onsite for Test and UAT Team. PRPC Developer Hanover Insurance, MA April 2012 to December 2012 Role: PRPC Developer  Environment: PRPC 6.3, Oracle 9, XML Spy, SOAP UI,SVN.    Project Description:  Account Credit Score is used by the underwriter for making decisions towards writing the bonds for the accounts that Hanover has. This will help the bond department to write the good business under Commercial Line of business.  The scope of this project is:  1. Generate the score matrix for statement period for each financial statement defined at an account level.  2. Define the standard spectrum and allow modifications to the spectrum. Note: Modifications to spectrum will be allowed only by administrator role. Normal user cannot modify the spectrum and weights.  3. Colour coding and Equity check on the UI screen based on certain requirements will be part of this phase of implementation and will be handled.  4. Design a PEGA batch process to process daily bonds transactions.  5. Design Financial scoring UI for underwriters.    Responsibilities  • Studying and understanding the functional specifications and writing technical specifications.  • Implemented Bonds agent for batch processing  • Created the technical specification and unit test plans.  • Writing new activities, decision rules.  • Involved in bug fixing.  • Communicate & interact with Business analyst and Quality analyst for clarifications, issues. Java & PRPC Developer Hanover Insurance, MA May 2010 to March 2012 Project 5: Quote Proposal for Personal & Commercial lines  Client: Hanover Insurance, MA,USA May 2010 - Mar 2012  Employer: NTT Data Global Delivery Services ltd.  Role: Java & PRPC Developer  Environment: Java/J2EE,PRPC 6.3, Oracle 9, XML Spy, SOAP UI    Project Description:  One of the major themes within the PL Strategy is the ease of doing business. In our quest to increase our book of business, one of the key areas we are focusing on within this initiative is to make our systems attractive as well as easy to use. Today agents have the choice of placing their business with whichever company they please, and one of the decision points involved in this is the ease and flexibility that a company's application provides to them. Quote proposal provides the estimated premium and Cross selling information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Tech Design and Technical specification documents and defining standards using NTT Data's Proprietary Architectural Practice methodology.  • Involved in discussions with Data architect for preparing Field requirement specifications.  • Involved in requirements gathering, guided business analyst to understand the existing Quote detail.  • Using top down approach created data objects, implemented JDBC connectivity.  • Created client project to interact with Process server deployed Bpel process and WebSphere deployed loss handling service for PL QPP.  • Involved in Pega PL and CL pay plan services and Marketing message service class hierarchy design and developing web services.  • Involved in XSD objects creation.  • Worked on activities, maps, decisions rules. Java & PRPC Developer Hanover Insurance, MA February 2009 to April 2010 Role: Java & PRPC Developer  Environment: Java/J2EE,PRPC 6.3, Oracle 9, XML Spy, SOAP UI    Project Description:  Insurance Score System application developed to get the Credit report of the insured. Credit score is the main driven element while underwriting process. Choice Point is a provider of insurance and credit score information. Currently Choice Point is single source of information costing us millions of dollars each year for Hanover. The first step towards this vision with a focus on alternatives to Choice Point's Insurance Scoring Model is to begin collecting the raw Credit Report data (Phase I). This will allow Hanover at some point in the future to create a proprietary Credit Scoring Model with equal or superior predictive properties, reduced expense, and an aligned credit score that can be used across all personal lines of business (single insurance score for auto, home, umbrella, etc). This Phase will be further divided into three releases.  Responsibilities  • Participated in BRD, Tech Design and Technical specification documents walk through.  • Received KT and Involved in bug fixes of release 1.  • Involved in writing new business process flow, activities, maps, decision tables.  • Created rules to connect to the external data base and retrieve the data. Java Developer Hanover Insurance, MA November 2006 to January 2009 Environment: Java, SOAP, RAD v6.0, Windows XP, IBM DB2.    Project Description:  Provide quote, underwrite and issuance capabilities for an account. The agent/HUB user will have the ability to quote and issue multiple lines of business for an account. An account Quote Proposal Package will be provided. Account level data will prefill to the lines of business eliminating redundant data entry. The user will have the option to rate one, multiple or all quotes for an account. All referral messages will be displayed in Account View in addition to data from multiple locations within the individual line of business quote flows. Each quote will be issued separately through the current line of business issuance flow. Issuance will be also allowed from the Account View one line of business at a time. This project will provide the ability to determine account eligibility in an upfront triage process.  Responsibilities  • Studying and understanding the functional specifications and Technical specifications.  • Involved in development and unit testing of Web services by using RAD.  • Generating Caster objects using the XSD's provided with Rational Application developer.  • Implemented JDBC connectivity to interact with IBM DB2 data base from Java application according to the Hanover enterprise standards.  • Unit testing of web service using IBM process server provided test client.  • Developing the modules and interfaces for application's health check. Java Developer Zenith Consultancy - IN June 2006 to September 2006 Environment: Java, SOAP, RAD v6.0, Windows XP, IBM DB2.    Project Description:  ZCS project deals with the Resume Repository software with a centralized database. The Application will allow creation of Job Profiles for different categories of jobs mentioned and as changed from time to time. It will facilitate the creation of clients and the orders placed by the clients and as well as a module to help track the order status. ZCS application consists of both Web application and Desktop application. So that it can help the job seekers to post the resumes through the web application and consultancy people to search the resumes based on Desktop application It also consists of a smart search facility, which will help in searching and sorting the resumes according to recruiter's requirement.  Responsibilities  • Developing Servlets, JSP as server side programming for generating HTML Pages  • Data Base Access / Storage using JDBC Using Tomcat web server for production  • Developed user interaction html forms. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNTU) - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2004 Skills J2EE (3 years), Java (5 years), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), WebSphere (1 year), XML (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java, J2EE  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, XML, XSL  BPM Tools PRPC 7.X, 6.X, PRPC 5.X,  Application Servers Websphere, Weblogic, Jboss server