Director, Software Development, IOT Director, Software Development, IOT Director, Software Development, IOT Brooklyn, NY ? Senior developer/manager with a long track record of taking full responsibility for designing and  expanding business-critical systems, team building and technical direction.  ? Experience in training/mentoring, hiring, architecture and technical project management.  ? Development in Java, Clojure, Scala, Python, Ruby, Go, Javascript  ? Experience with SQL, MongoDB, Redis, ElasticSearch, AWS, GCP, AMQP, XMPP, Angular, Flask Work Experience Director, Software Development, IOT Sierra Wireless Corp June 2017 to November 2018 Worked with distributed teams on integrating Flow and Sierra Wireless platforms after acquisition.  ? Development of new Sierra/Flow user interface in GraphQL/Go. VP of Engineering Flow Search Corp April 2010 to June 2017 Designed the core distributed stream processing system. This system allowed users to upload javascript  code that was run in sandboxed environments.  ? Microservices supporting websockets, MQTT, REST, XMPP in scala and clojure  ? Platform client libraries in ruby, python, java and C#  ? Interviewing and hiring, technical mentoring, overall system architecture Senior Developer Opt-Intelligence October 2007 to April 2010 Designed/Built Opt-Intelligence's second-generation ad-serving decision platform responsible for choosing ads to display based on user personalization data. The system used a combination memcached  and journaled backup to collect and access aggregated data on similar users and respond very quickly.  The created system significantly outperformed the previous system in response time, reliability, and generated revenue.  ? Python and bash scripting, server maintenance and deployment, Spring/Stripes/Hibernate component  development.  ? Worked to improve development and build practices by creating tech talk series, code reviews and work  on process improvement.  ? Initiated projects to restructure existing projects and rebuild sections of the legacy codebase to remove  unneeded code and increase reliability. Software Consultant Boyle Software April 2005 to September 2006 Development projects for a variety of clients. Projects included:    - A client-server chat system for a mobile-phone text messaging system for concerts and other special  events.    - Design of a python based xml-sql text processing system for flexibly configuring different delimited  file formats into local database statements..    - Spring/hibernate/JBoss components. Senior Developer C2Creative May 2004 to March 2005 Worked to implement best practices within the organization ( CVS, testing, build scripting, documentation, use of frameworks).  ? Created a data-feed parsing framework to map delimited and xml-defined data feeds into database tables  or related data sets managed entirely through configuration mapping files.  ? Website development including the design of custom taglibs and search components.  ? Mentoring of junior developers. Senior Developer Media Farm May 2002 to May 2004 Served as the lead software architect on a project to rebuild a system for offering online courses for the NYU School of Continuing Education. The project was implemented using Struts to communicate with  components generated from a custom designed persistence framework.  ? Designed and implemented several e-commerce sites as software architect and technical lead. This role  included designing all back-end code, managing a technical staff, writing requirements and serving as the primary client technical contact.  ? Conducted technical training sessions on new tools and technologies including Ant, Struts and internal  code libraries.  ? Created a code generation tool to automate the creation of database driven code. This system could  generate entire websites based on a connected database and a set of user-defined templates. Java Developer Mediaedge November 2003 to April 2004 Created systems to migrate legacy databases to J2EE-based applications including the automated data- transfer components, design of web components and user interface, and management of database and  application deployment. Java Developer Thinking Pictures September 2001 to April 2002 Sole developer on a project to build an application to create video broadcast schedules from flexible  statistical criteria and publish the schedules over a network. The application created schedules for a system of over 70 video screens and insured maximum diversity of scheduling user-defined constraints.  ? Created internal tools to monitor system status, provide system management functions, and to generate  user-defined graphical reports.  ? Built a system to parse daily feedback logs from the broadcast system and to generate graphical reports Senior Developer Earthlink June 2000 to September 2001 Created and deployed an EJB-based application in Weblogic as part of a group responsible for building a web hosting administration interface.  ? Created a generic architecture to handle site-wide data validation via XML files.  OneMain Java Developer  ? Participated in the development of the OneMain home page (750,000+ users). The site parsed news feeds  and supplied dynamic content to users based on their preferences. Senior Developer PlanetLeap June 1996 to June 1996 Rebuilt the legacy 100+user, 5-server accounting/billing/tracking system. As the sole developer on this  project, I designed the user interface, worked with end-users to optimize the design, was responsible for all debugging and quality control, and created additional systems for job/time tracking and cost  estimating. Education computer science Columbia University - New York, NY 2006 computer science CUNY Graduate Center - New York, NY 2004 Doctoral in music Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ 1992 to 1995 MA in music composition Columbia University - New York, NY 1991 BA in music composition SUNY Stonybrook 1989