Sr. NodeJS Developer Sr. NodeJS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. NodeJS Developer - GlaxoSmithKline Chicago, IL Over 10 Years of IT Experience as an UI Developer with the core areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance of various application. Extensive exposure in end-to-end development of software products.    • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including modeling, analysis, architecture design, and development and testing phases.    • Strong command in leading Frameworks Team such as Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js and Node.Js.    • Hands on experience in Web Application development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.    • Experienced in WEB and GUI development using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, POJO, AJAX, JSON technologies.    • In-Depth understanding of entire web based architectures, web technologies, SDLC and OOAD.    • Expertise in front-end development in working with AJAX frameworks: Angular 2JS (typescript), Angular JS, JQuery, Sencha, YUI, DWR and Dojo.    • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, JDBC, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, MongoDB.    • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM and TDD.    • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.    • Experience of complex threading, Reactive Extensions.    • Experienced in using Reacts JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.    • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL Work Experience Sr. NodeJS Developer GlaxoSmithKline - New York, NY May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed front-end user interfaces with ReactJS by creating many components and modules.  • Developed front end using Bootstrap.js, Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, where back end is JAX-RS (Jersey) REST web service.  • Developed user interfaces using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as Angular.Js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSON, Angularjs, and REST Services.  • Full stack web development with Node.js, Koa.js, Angular, and MongoDB with additional integrations of Redis and Elasticsearch.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Implemented ReactJS to create a dynamically changing website.  • Used angular-cli tool to configuring the angular project and building it for development of Angular application using Angular 4.  • Developed a few UI modules for the mobile version of the website using ReactJS.  • Created design mock-ups and wireframes using Adobe Photoshop and Dreamweaver.  • Used graphQL together with Feathersjs to build a real-time web application back-end environment.  • Worked on Developing cross browser functionality with Ext JS 6 and Used AJAX, JQUERY to design specs for single page layout using good programming practices  • Developing Web Application in Groovy/Grails with Mongo DB as a data stores using the IntelliJ Idea IDE with the latest Grails SDK, Java.  • Integrated the different pages to be a single page application using Angular 4 and Typescript.  • Scalable asynchronous microservices and REST api's implemented on Koa.js middleware.  • Used Node.js, Express.js and Angular.js to build responsive application.  • Used Material-UI and Ant Design to provide better user experience of add-in application.  • Development of front-end application using Angular 2 JS, Dependency injection, Rx and Http modules with Node.js server for future evolutions.  • Designed domain specific language system using groovy/grails framework.  • Involved in hands on programming on the core application development using multithreading, Groovy and Grails that combines Hibernate and Spring.  • Worked with Angular 2 and typescript as part of migration from Angular and vanilla javascript to Angular 2 and React.  • Interacted with DB sharding, Redis, Jenkins, SOLR, GraphQL, Grafana, Click Tracking for analytics.  • Worked with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, EXT.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Ember.JS, bootstrap.JS, Require .JS, D3.JS, etc.  • Introduced redux-thunk and Immutable.js as additional libraries to support ReactJs application.  • Created client website running on a Node.js, using the Express framework, Jade, AngularJS and Backbone.js for front end MVC/templating.  • Use of ReactJS help to refresh the pages and update the changed parts.  • Used NoSQL Databases such as Hive, HBase; Installed and configured MySQL Databases and performed data load from MySQL to Hadoop.  • Worked on building jquery modules and vue.js apps.  • Designed GraphQL to build client applications by providing an intuitive and flexible syntax and system for describing their data requirements and interactions.  • Used ECMAScript 6, ReactJS, Flux, Babel, Node and Web-Pack to create a SPA.  • Used JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery, Dojo, Ext JS, CSS preprocessors such as LESS or SASS.  • Created Directives, Services, Filters using Angular JS with Typescript.  • Build up pagination for search results using Ext paging store.  • Experience in limiting page-loading delay and visible browser-server interaction using MVC framework with Ajax, JavaScript, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Node.js, D3.js.  • Created design mock-ups and wireframes using Adobe Photoshop and Dreamweaver.  • Wrote unit tests supporting a complete architectural overhaul (from SOAP to REST) of backend.  • Used Node JS (Hapi JS, Express JS) to build event driven, non-blocking i/o model web applications.  • Developed single page web application with complex interactions and state management using MobX.  • Architected the frontend solution using React, Relay and GraphQL. Lead the UX and design outsourced teams helping with product ideation to creation.  • Built SOA microservices architecture to support enterprise level application.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Developed application as Enterprise JavaScript using - AngularJs, NodeJs, Websockets, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, Gulp, Protractor etc.  • Develop custom drag and drop tree view, web application to transfer and arrange HL7 data using Angular, html, Vue.js.  • Designed Frontend with object oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, React.js/Redux, Spine.js, Ember.js, Require.js, Express.js, Pdf.js and Experience with client side templating like Handlebars.js.  • Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS using components, directives using TypeScript.  • Used Redux SAGA to view and action creators as pure functions and it allows to model state transitions using familiar JavaScript constructs.  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Migrated from Express.js to Hapi JS which is configured on top of Node JSto attain better performance.  • Worked on implementing React.js flux based page updates using React fetchers, state mutating actions and stores.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript and AngularJs.  • Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Built Single Page Apps using Angular and Typescript for Responsive Design.  • Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS using components, directives using TypeScript.  • Used Reactive Extensions for JavaScript (RxJS) in Angular2 to make the HTTP requests to the REST API for getting the patient details.  Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Angular 4, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, JQuery, Redux, JUnit, Dojo, Wireframes, koa.js, express.js, hapi.js, graphql, microservices, Material-UI, RXJS, TypeScript, Node.js, Backbone.js, Vue.js, Bootstrap, Groovy, Grails, D3.js, Extjs, Java, Oracle, PL/SQL, MS-Sql, Thunk, MobX, JDBC, Flux, Maven, React Router, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Saga, Subversion (SVN), Linux Sr. NodeJS Developer Harris Bank - Chicago, IL November 2014 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSON and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, Node.js, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in EmberJS.  • Developed single page application with Angular JS, Node.js.  • Created single page applications using Node.js, AngularJS, ReactJS.  • Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, REST API, ReactJS, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods with Angular JS.  • Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using HTML, CSS, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML and XSLT.  • Design all UI elements, wireframes, and comps with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign.  • Configured with gulp.js to test the Typescript with TSLint.  • Extensively used MobX for state management by applying functional reactive programming.  • Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  • Worked on JIRA development with JAVA and Groovy scripting.  • Design and developed complex UI screens using Ext JS Framework.  • Implemented Grails TagLibs to avoid groovy code in GSP pages.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular.  • Developed API Gateway and Restful Web services using Node.js, MongoDB, Express.JS.  • Used microservices architecture with Spring based services to integrate user libraries in the application.  • Developed frontend application using React.js, Express.js and Knockout.Js.  • Used groovy and spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as json distributed to number of applications.  • Developed Agile processes using Groovy, JUnit to use continuous integration.  • Developed front-end applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, Backbone JS, Require JS, Morris JS, Flot JS and MVC frameworks.  • Implemented AJAX calls with Ext JS and handled request and responses for various modules.  • Data was bound to the components with MVVM using Kendo and Vue.JS, and was retrieved, created, updated, & deleted using REST.  • Built web application using Vue.js and Firebase.  • Used the Middleware, Redux-saga, Redux-promise in application to retrieve the data from the external API's and perform the RESTful Services.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js  • Displayed proficiency in React.js, MongoDB, and CSS by developing and seeing through to deployment version Alpha of a cross-platform mobile application.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML.  • Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Created the Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  • Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's.  • Converted grunt build tasks to gulp to decrease build times in an angular node project.  • Created a library of visual components using Highcharts, D3, and jQuery for reporting results.  • Developed the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, and D3.JS.  • Develop application using Ember, AngularJS, Bootstrap, RequireJS.  • Implemented UI angular bootstrap for faster and easier web development  • Create web service component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML to interact with the middleware.  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  • Developed bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL, Bootstrap, Backbone.js  • Designed and implemented the web application in Ruby on Rails, Node.js, HTML and JQuery from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application.  • Developed Angular-JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies    Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, JQuery, Wireframes, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Redux, Java, express.js, microservices, Groovy, Grails, Flux, DB2, Vue.js, PL/SQL, MobX, Extjs, Saga, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven Sr. Backend Developer United Parcel Service - GE March 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Built asynchronized Notification REST web service to send mess email/sms with Log4j, Spring, Hibernate, Tomcat and MySQL Queue  • With the IBatis implementation, all the queries were separated away from the code and moved to the XML files. Used Spring IBatis XML configuration files to call the queries.  • Designed the page flow using struts, server side components, and ibatis for DAO layer  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS  • Participated in conversion of Piper Jaffray Investments, Inc into RMA System using Java, J2EE, Servlets/ JSP, EJB, JMS, MQ, ORACLE, JDBC, HTML, Swing, XML, Struts, JavaScript, SOAP/web services  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery  • Involved in developing application using Velocity framework, JSP, JSTL, struts tag libraries (struts-bean, struts-html, struts-logic), CSS, spring framework, java, java script, Ajax, HTML and DHTML for front-end development.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  • Scheduled jobs, Alerts using SQL Server Agent  • Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2. Also used JPA with Hibernate provider.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL  • Used JavaScript , XML Spy for validating the WSDL and XSD's.  • Used NetBeans IDE for fundamental Java projects  • Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic, Web Sphere, jboss and Apache Tomcat.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM  • Setup ClearCase server to support CCRC (ClearCase Remote Clients). Evaluated existing software development environment, drafted recommendations for improvements. Worked with GHX and IBM to resolve licensing issues involved with ClearCase software change management solution package. Environment was mixed Windows and Linux, projects written in C++ and Java.  • Used: INCA, Clearcase, XMetal, Codewrite, Embedded C  • Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application  • Carried out complete SDLC testing by following both agile and water fall model and generated cross test summary and generated customized reports suiting to the needs of the client  • Involved in detail design developing use cases, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high level activity diagrams using UML from the requirements.  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Development and deployment of application in Weblogic and Managing the Build process using Ant  • Used XMLSpy plugins with in WebSphere Application server for designing the schemas and transferring the XML to HTML files  • Dynamically generated PDF file to browser by using iText  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management  • Used AJAX, Java script and GWT to create interactive user interface.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, Jboss, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, JQuery, JQuery, JSP, SERVLET, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, UML, Netbeans, SeleniuM, ANT, Xml, EMC Documentum, JIRA, SWING, CVS, Visual Source Safe, Cognos, ILOG, Water fall model. Software Developer TIAA/CREF Insurance - New York, NY May 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  • Involved in group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  • Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  • Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  • Successfully differentiated presentation from code.  • Used multi threading and socket programming.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  • Created connection pools and data sources.  • Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  • Used WinCVS as version Control system.  • Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  • Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  • Involved in separation of components and deploying in different servers and balancing the load among each Server.  • Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Environments: Java, J2ee, Sybase, Bea Weblogic Server, Jstl, Sql Server, Struts, Frame Work, Servlets, Jsp, Ejb, Wincvs, Javabeans, Eclipse, Uml, Windows Xp/Linux. Java Developer MCI - Ashburn, VA October 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • A new interface between Acela and IMPACT was developed. IMPACT will provide a web service that will allow Acela to notify it to start and stop monitoring of a circuit. Acela will utilize the Web services adapter to communicate with IMPACT.  • Modified interface between Acela and F&E. This Receives F&E requests to update F&E circuit segments in NetPro CSDB (Circuit Segment Database).  • Built UNIX scripts to monitor each instance of ICS, which check if ICS process is running, application adapters are running and bring them up if they are down.  • Responsible for developing complex SQL queries for ICS Core  • Designed and Developed the Collaboration flow for each interface  • Performance tuning of interfaces developed by other development teams  • Development of the Business Objects, Maps, Collaboration Template/Objects  • Extensively used JDBC, Email, Workflow and Web services connectors  • Involved in the testing phase and in the deployment of interfaces from DEV to QA, QA to UAT and UAT to Production environments.  • Debugging data in Work In Progress (WIP) tables    Environment: JDK , IBM WBI ICS, WebSphere MQ, Web services Adapter, JDBC Adapter, Workflow Adapter, Email Adapter, Oracle.    Visa Status: U.S. Citizen. Education Master's Skills Node (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    UI Technologies:  Node.js, React.JS, Angular.js, Java, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, C, C++, Agile, Backbone.js, D3.js, JUnit, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Redux, Typescript, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery, Dojo    MVC Frameworks: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Web Logic, Apache CXF, Rest  Operating Systems: UNIX, AIX, Solaris, LINUX  Technologies: J2EE, JDBC, JSF, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, RMI, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript, Hibernate.  Databases: Oracle, DB2 and SQL Server