Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Dallas, TX ? 8 years of experience in developing applications using JAVA, J2EE Technologies  ? Experience in User Interface Development using Web Technologies.  ? Experience in developing critical and responsive GUI /front-end components using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, jQuery.  ? Proficient developer of view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, Struts Framework, Tile Framework, Validation Framework.  ? Good experience in working with different types of databases like DB2, Oracle, MySQL and Postgres.  ? Rich experience in deploying of J2EE Applications on various servers (WebLogic, WebSphere, JBOSS and Tomcat)  ? Worked with applications developed using Object Relational Mapping (ORM) frameworks like Hibernate and MVC frameworks like Struts, JSF etc., and IOC frameworks like Spring and its subsidiary modules such as Spring DI, Spring ORM.  ? Experience with various IDEs like IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans and Web sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD) and Rational Application Developer (RAD).  ? Worked with complete Software Life Cycle Development (SDLC) process which incorporates Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Designing, Developing, Testing, Implementing and Documenting the whole life cycle utilizing different approaches like Waterfall, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven improvement (JUNIT, Mockito) and Rapid Application Development.  ? Good working knowledge Version control management using CVS, Git, GitHub, Rational clear case, Perforce and SVN.  ? Knowledgeable of build and deploy systems like Ant and Maven  ? Very strong analytical and problem-solving skills  ? Good interpersonal skills to work effectively in a team environment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Woolpert Inc - Dallas, TX August 2017 to March 2018 Client: EPA (Environmental Protection Agency), VA  Project: EDG (Environmental Gateway System)  Description: The EDG Performance Metrics and Inventory site allows users to access information about EDG content and usage. The site is intended to allow EDG contributors to access detailed information about their contributions and to understand how their resources are being accessed via the EDG. The EDG Inventory page provides a simple interface that allows users to filter, sort and export content to a CSV file. Dynamic charts display the distribution of EDG metadata by office, type, access level, and metadata standard. The EDG Metrics page allows EDG contributors to view usage information about their resources at the EDG.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on updating look and feel of EDG metrics Inventory page using Exhibit 3, and jQuery.  ? Involved in redesigning the entire site with application using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Bootstrap for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  ? Worked with team where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  ? Used Apache Tomcat server for deploying the application  ? Integrated GitHub repository with Eclipse to check-in the code.  ? Used PostgreSQL database to insert data into database.  ? Attended daily sprint meetings for task allocation and status updates as part of working in Agile environment.  Environment: Eclipse Mars, UML, JavaScript, Servlets, JSF, HTML, XML, JSON, JSTL, XSLT, Postgres 9.1, oc4j, Tomcat Server 6.0, Maven2.0, GitHub and Windows    Worked remotely Dallas, TX Java Developer EPA (Environmental Protection Agency), VA - Alexandria, VA April 2016 to July 2017 Project: EDG (Environmental Gateway System)  Description: EDG is a repository of data set records and geospatial tools from EPA and partners. EDG provides users with a central access point to data sets and geospatial tools that have been created by EPA program offices, regions, and labs.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on upgrading EDG home page using Bootstrap and JSF.  ? Worked on front end pages that were developed in a professional manner using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQUERY.  ? Involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  ? Worked with team where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved  ? Used Apache Tomcat server for deploying the application.  ? Integrated GitHub repository with Eclipse to check-in the code.  ? Attended daily sprint meetings for task allocation and status updates as part of working in Agile environment.  ? Used PostgreSQL database to insert data into database.  Environment: Eclipse Mars, UML, JavaScript, Servlets, JSF, HTML, XML, JSON, JSTL, XSLT, Postgres 9.1, oc4j, Tomcat Server 6.0, Maven2.0, GitHub and Windows Java Developer CSC (Computer Sciences Corporation) - Alexandria, VA April 2009 to April 2016 MD    Project: VERIFY  Description: Verify, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) new Vehicle and Engines Compliance Information System, which collects emissions and fuel economy compliance information for all types of vehicles (mobile sources of air pollution) including light-duty vehicles and heavy-duty and Non road engines. Engine and vehicle manufacturers report this information to the Verify system. The system works through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX), the Agency's single source for collecting electronic data from local governments and agencies, private industries, state governments, and tribes. The EPA-only data base gathers and processes the data, confirms fee payment, issues certificates of conformity, and supports other compliance functions.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Green House Gas (GHG) regulations for Light-Duty Vehicles.  ? Worked on Different Components like Light-Duty, Locomotive, Non-Road Compression Ignition (NRCI), Non-Road Spark Ignition (NRSI) and Marine Compression Ignition, Heavy-Duty Engines.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design & development and the project was developed using Agile Software Methodology  ? Working with an Agile, Scrum methodology to ensure delivery of high-quality work with every sprint.  ? Involved in developing VERIFY MAINTAIN PROFILE Front End using JSP, CSS, JSTL, JSP Tag Libraries and Free marker Templates  ? Developed UI enhancements with jQuery and Ajax to allow for advanced user-friendly interactions and improve website response times  ? Working on Dynamic Interface Controls which avoid time-consuming back-and-forth between the application.  ? Used Web application Struts Framework and TILES for presentation layer  ? Implemented Struts validation Framework for Server-side validation and JavaScript for client validation  ? Used Hibernate and Hibernate mapping files for database access to maintain the persistence and Integrated Castor Mapping for Marshalling and un-marshalling  ? Used Inversion of Control (IOC) in spring framework with Dependency Injection, and DAO support for the business Layer and integrated with the Struts framework and Hibernate  ? Used DAO design pattern to abstract and encapsulate all access to the data source and to store data  ? Designing Back-end screens with filters using APEX (Oracle Application Express), securing APEX pages by giving roles using AACM (Apex Access Control Module).  ? Implemented Restful Service to invoke manufacture details using JERSEY.  ? Involved in writing JBOSS Business rules (Drools) for the Front End and Back End validation  ? Developed build and release management system using Maven, CVS and SVN  ? Testing Application Components using JUNIT framework.  ? Worked in Amazon cloud environment.  ? Using JBOSS Application Server, OC4J and WebLogic for application deployment in clustered Environment  ? Using Maven and Hudson plug-ins to automate End to End deployment  ? Using Selenium ATH (Automated Test Harness) to test the application.  ? Attended daily sprint meetings for task allocation and status updates as part of working in Agile environment.    Environment: Eclipse Mars, UML, JavaScript, Servlets, Struts 2.1, Spring 3, Hibernate 3.0, HTML, XML, JSON, JSTL, Ajax, Drools 4.0, Oracle 10g, Apex 3.0, oc4j, JBoss Server 4.2.3, Jetty, JUnit 3.8, Selenium, Maven2.0, CVS, SVN and Windows.    Project: OTAQ (Office of Transportation and Air Quality)  Description: OTAQ is responsible for maintaining systems and processes associated with reporting fuels and fuel additives, and reformulated gasoline and anti-dumping registration. The submissions are conducted on a quarterly basis. The data collected from these programs are analyzed for regulatory compliance, health effects, and regulation development.    Responsibilities:  ? Attended Daily Stand up meetings plans for every 10 days and followed Agile software methodology (SDLC).  ? Involved in developing OTAQ Registration System Front End using JSP, CSS, JSTL and JSP Tag Libraries for more user-friendly application  ? Used AJAX Asynchronous Java API for XML for better look and feel and better validation  ? Developed Web application using Struts Framework for presentation Layer  ? Implemented Struts validation Framework for Server-side validation and JavaScript for client validation  ? Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Data Objects and Data Access Object  ? Used Inversion of Control (IOC) in spring framework with Dependency Injection, and DAO support for the business Layer and integrated with the Struts framework and Hibernate  ? Used Hibernate and Hibernate mapping files for database access to maintain the persistence  ? Using Oracle 10g database for Otaq Registration  ? Developed build and release management system using Maven, CVS and SVN  ? Used Web logic Server application deployment in clustered Environment    Environment: Eclipse 3.4, UML, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, Servlets, Struts 1.2, tiles2, Hibernate, Spring 2.5, HTML, CSS, XML, JSTL, Oracle SQL Developer, Oracle 10g, WebLogic Server 8.1, JUnit 3.8, Maven2.0, XBeans, CVS, SVN and Windows. J2EE Developer Confinity Inc October 2007 to March 2009 MI  Project: Claims Gateway System    Description: COFINITY provides solutions that help healthcare plans and benefit managers automate the management and administration of healthcare payment systems, greatly improving process efficiencies and productivity, while reducing errors, overpayments and costs. The Claims Gateway Solution uses business process management (BPM) technologies to create new efficiencies and offer process transparency throughout the claim process.  As part of this commitment a system is developed that uses J2EE technologies, centralized data management and a custom rules engine system. It enhances the rules subsystem to include and reconfigure the claim validation rules by defining claim document context.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis and design and various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering design & development and the project was developed using Rational Unified Process (RUP)  ? Developed user interface for BRE using JSP, HTML, CSS, JSTL and JSP Custom Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the presentation layer  ? Used Struts Validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer and used JavaScript for client-side validation  ? Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers using Apache AXIS  ? Responsibilities included evaluation and prototype development, used to convert the existing Struts application to a JSF application  ? Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information from Oracle 10g database and have written HQL queries to transact with database  ? Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 10g database and used Stored Procedures, writing complex SQL queries (DDL, DML)  ? Performed unit testing using JUnit framework and monitored the error logs using Log4J  ? Participated in knowledge transfer to the end users  ? Developed ANT scripts for application deployment on server and build setup were done with ant framework  ? Developed the different components of application using Rational Application Developer (RAD) 7.0 and used CVS for version control    Environment: RAD 6.0, WebSphere Application Server 6.1, CSS, Struts 1.2, JSP, Servlets, Ajax, UML, XSLT, Hibernate 2.1.8, JDBC, JSF 1.2, ANT, Oracle 9i, JUnit, and CVS. Java/J2EE Developer Texas A&M University-Commerce - Commerce, TX August 2006 to June 2007 Description: The main goal of this application is to develop and maintain the campus job portal. The portal allows students to search for specific jobs, manage interview schedules, create/edit resumes and allows staff to manage the student details, job postings and employer requests.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed front end Webpages using JSPs  ? Involved in writing Java scripts for client-side validation  ? Involved in developing Servlets to get the request and send response  ? Used JDBC to access MYSQL database  ? Developed code to access data from Oracle database using JDBC    Environment: HTML, JSPs, Java Script, JDBC, MYSQL, Oracle 9i Education Master of Science in Management Science in Management Texas A&M University - Commerce, TX 2006 to 2007 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Kakatiya University 2000 to 2004 Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, Rest, Spring, Soap, Core Java, Java J2Ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, J2EE, PL/SQL  Operating Systems Windows  SDLC Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Scrum, TDD  JAVA Technologies Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Struts, EJB, JSF, Spring Framework  Web Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON  Open Source Knowledge IText, ANT, MAVEN, Jenkins  Middleware Technologies Web Services (SOAP, REST, UDDI, WSDL and Restful)  XML XML Schema, DTD, XSLT, JSON, XPATH, SAX and DOM parsers.  Application Server/Web Server Tomcat, Apache, WebSphere 6.0, JBoss4.0, WebLogic  Databases Oracle 10g, 11g, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL  ORM Hibernate  Version Control Tools CVS, Git, GitHub and SVN.  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, IntelliJ  Other Tools Log4J, JUnit, Ant, Maven, JIRA, Putty, Jenkins, Putty