Java/J2ee Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2ee <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2ee Developer - Verizon, eCommerce Pittsburgh, PA • Over 5+ years of solid professional experience in development of multi-tier Enterprise applications.  • Experienced in all the technical phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in performing code reviews, refactoring and training and mentoring team members.  • Experience in developing distributed Web applications and Enterprise applications using Java (Core Java (JDK 6+), Spring, Spring Boot).  • Experience using frameworks like Spring, JPA, Hibernate.  • Strong development experience creating rich frontend UI in AJAX, JavaScript technologies using JavaScript libraries like jQuery, Node JS, React, Redux.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like HTML5, JAVASCRIPT, CSS3, SASS, XML.  • Skilled at programming in JAVA applications using various IDE tools intellij and NetBean.  • Experienced in working with Hibernate annotations to map POJOs to databases.  • Experienced with J2EE Design Patterns such as MVC, DAO, DTO, Singleton Pattern and Front Controller.  • Experienced in developing web services with XML based protocols such as Microservices.  • Extensive experience using SQL to write Stored Procedures and Functions.  • Proficiency in working with all databases like Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Postgres.  • Good knowledge of various design patterns like singleton, Strategy pattern and factory pattern.  • Excellent problem solving, analytical and interpersonal skills.  • Familiar with MEAN stack, Node with Express framework, NoSQL like MongoDB with dynamic schemas.  • Experienced with Redis, WebSocket, Passport to develop multi-tier application.  • Ability to work in-groups as well as independently without supervision.  • Excellent Technical, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment.  • Excellent communication skills, interpersonal, strong architectural skills, hardworking and a very good team player and ability to effectively communicate with all levels of the organization such as technical, management and customers. Work Experience Java/J2ee Developer Verizon, eCommerce - Piscataway, NJ January 2019 to Present Job Description:  Monitor production and QA issues and provide expert advice on various methods and processes for existing systems.  Develop and design APIs to improve web service performance.  Develop well designed, testable, efficient code.  Collaborate with teammates for dashboard portal solution of web service performance.  Responsibilities:  • Work in 5G_Home feature team for backend service monitoring, performance analysis and optimization using Java, Akka, Play and Kafaka.  • Develop 5G_Home feature workflow for 5G store in a distributed environment for cascading failure, use Akka Cluster, Kafaka Message.  • Create RESTful API documents with swagger, an API developer tools for the OpenAPI Specification (OAS).  • Use Redis to get Cache data, such as mdn, skuid, storeid.  • Add routing rules to enhance web service latency.  • Maintain and optimize latency and fault- tolerance by replacing previous implements.  • Use Kibana to complete migration, integration of new service performance analysis.  • Collaborate with other teams to handle business enhancements.  • Analyze JSON/XML data, debug code to solve existing defects.  • Reuse existing code with additional changes to construct other request and service response.  • Review teammate merge requests on GitLab.  • Use Postman to test backend service call and create unit test with Akka TestKit.  Environment:Core Java8.0, Akka, Play, Kafka, Oracle, Redis, Memcached, Swagger, Kibana, Cloud microservices, Postman, JSON/XML, React, Git/GitLab, Unit Test. Software Engineer (Backend) Elbum - New York, NY May 2018 to December 2018 Job Description:  Monitored food order issues and provide expert advice on various methods and processes for existing systems.  Developed and wrote design APIs to improve product performance.  Wrote well designed, testable, efficient code.  Collaborated with teammates for dashboard portal solution of service performance.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in service performance team for backend service monitoring, performance analysis and optimization using Java, Spring boot and Ribbon, Zuul.  • Developed RESTful APIs and workflow in a distributed environment for cascading failure, such as Hystrix and Turbine.  • Created RESTful API documents with swagger, an API developer tools for the OpenAPI Specification (OAS).  • Used Hibernate to get data, such as food type, order time from database.  • Added routing rules for new microservices.  • Maintained and optimized latency and fault- tolerance by replacing previous implements, such as from MySQL cluster to PostgreSQL, Memcached to Redis, Retry pattern to circuit break pattern.  • Completed migration, integration and adoption of new service performance analysis.  • Developed new load balancing algorithms with Availability Filtering mode and weighted Response Time mode besides Round Robin mode.  • Implemented rate limiting feature to prevent DDoS using token bucket algorithm by leveraging open sourced library Bucket4j, available at https://github.com/vladimir-bukhtoyarov/bucket4j.  • Automated tests with TestNG reached code coverage of 99%.  Environment: Core Java8.0, Spring, Spring Boot, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, Memcached, Swagger, GitTestNG, Cloud microservices, Postman, Navicat Premium12 Software Engineer (Full stack) Newbeast - Los Angeles, CA July 2017 to May 2018 Job Description:  Developed and optimized a high-scalable project to collect feedbacks from customer.  Developed new user-facing features using React.js and Redux.  Developed a flexible and well-structured full-stack architecture, along with the APIS to support it.  Responsibilities:  • Contributed to Customer Service team who designed and developed new user login function with Google APIs.  • Implemented user login authentication by middleware, Passport.js.  • Authorized redirect URI's after authentication success or fail.  • Set up Nodemon to synchronized development.  • Handled front-end payments/credits module with REST API.  • Implemented Checkout component with StripeKey and token at front-end.  • Handling backend to front end routing in production mood.  • Deploying development remotely on AWS Cloud using git.  • Set up testing suite and applied TDD with Mocha.  Environment:Node.JS, Express.JS, Mocha, HTML5, CSS3, React, Redux, NPM, REST API, Mongoose Java Developer JD.com - Shanghai, CN May 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on REST API to dispatch orders and determine dynamic prices using Spring framework.  • Used Spring boot and MVC module to develop REST API  • Improved the dispatching and pricing model by adding more features into consideration.  • Used twemproxy to change redis sentinel mode to proxy + consistent hashing mode and improved redis latency by 30%.  • Set up AWS S3 storage and backed up local files to AWS S3 using AWS Cli.  • Completed migration, integration and adoption of new service performance analysis.  • Developed new load balancing algorithms with Availability Filtering mode and weighted Response Time mode besides Round Robin mode.  • Automated tests with TestNG reached code coverage of 99%.  • Reporting and fix failed patches weekly/monthly. Provide status of software pushes.  • Developing checklists, guides, best practices and procedures to support patch management process.  Environment: Core Java8.0, Spring, Spring Boot, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, Memcached, Swagger, GitTestNG, Cloud microservices, Postman, Navicat Premium12 Software Engineer (Oracle) Neusoft - Shenyang, CN April 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used UniEAP framework modules such as: workflow, report, rule, form, data exchange, and business process designer to build efficient, simple-to-use, Enterprise-wide data exchange applications for a government water conservancy resources project.  • Cooperate with team member to write a C# app to speed up search.  • Design, implement and deliver software and infrastructure to improve the scalability, availability, performance, latency, and efficiency of data transfer.  • Project was honored as the most outstanding project of 2014.  • Managed a 3-person team for data exchange, cleaning, and sharing with Oracle on water conservancy information resources.  • Perform deep dives into reliability issues; partner with software and systems engineers across the organization to produce and roll out fixes.  • Hands on experience scripting with C#, Oracle.  • Windows system programming or driver development.  • Develop simple tools to support analysis work or to parse data from various data structures to database.  • Statically analyze shell code, packed and obfuscated code and the associated algorithms.  Environment:Oracle, C#, Windows platform, Database Education Master's Skills Aws (1 year), Java (2 years), Mysql (1 year), Redis (2 years), Rest (1 year), J2Ee, Hibernate, JSP, Java J2Ee, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Java, Python, Node, R.  Java Technologies Microservice, REST(JAX-RS), HIBERNATE, SOAP, Socket Programming.  Web Technologies JavaScript, jQuery, Node.JS, HTML5, CSS3 (SASS), Bootstrap, React, Redux.  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, Linux/Unix BASH, Command Line.  Databases MS SQL Server 12.0, Postgres, MySQL, Redis.  Cloud AWS (Amazon Web Services) EC2, S3.  Java IDE's Intellij.  Frameworks GIT/Gitlab, Apache Tomcat, Struts2, Spring, MVC, Heroku, Play.  Testing Frameworks Agile Testing, J-Unit, TestNG, Postman.