Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Newtown, CT Results-driven Software Engineer with over fifteen years of experience in architecture, development, and management of  cloud-based applications. Veteran of FDLC, full stack development. Enthusiastic collaborator with strong analytical,  interpersonal, and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Agency Labs - Bethel, CT 2018 to Present ? Balance multiple concurrent projects, from responsive websites to complex back end data-driven applications.  ? Plan and develop a Laravel application to securely digitize data gathering and monitoring in a pharmaceutical  lab. All data is encrypted on input using bcrypt, ensuring that sensitive proprietary data is safe in storage, even  if the database itself gets into the wrong hands.  ? Build responsive, mobile-friendly client websites to exact design specifications using modern tools such as  Bootstrap, LESS/SASS, and package management.  ? Build custom themes and plugins for WordPress and Drupal projects  ? Analyze and reverse-engineer existing code to determine feasibility for re-use or repurposing. Ex: a client sends a package that includes a mobile game that attendees at a sporting event could play, and a leaderboard would  show on the stadium screen. It is determined that the package could be repurposed for different events using  modified text, graphics, animations, etc. Senior Developer etouches - Norwalk, CT 2015 to 2017 As a member of the new product scrum team, contribute to the build of a new CMS that lets clients create an entire website visually, by dragging and dropping various content widgets into place and customizing the  content and look and feel. The UI is heavy on compiled ES6 and makes efficient use of AJAX/XHR requests and    JSON responses. Performance is optimized using Varnish to cache static elements.  ? Developed RESTful endpoints using modern best practices  ? Addressed reusability and maintainability by employing DAO pattern  ? Refactored legacy system for scalability, using Redis to handle frequently queried data, and Varnish to process  static content  ? Participate in daily scrum meetings and regular sprint planning, backlog grooming, and retrospectives.  ? As a member of the product enhancement team, contribute to legacy product build with new features and stabilizing and improving existing features.  ? Troubleshoot and bug fix legacy and new product features.  ? Develop unit tests to new and existing products using PHPUnit.  ? Follow standard OOP design patterns in PHP 7 and PHP 5.3.  ? Review team members' code. Senior PHP Developer UBM Medica - Norwalk, CT 2013 to 2015 ? Collaborate on development of large scale multi-site Drupal platform. Build custom Drupal modules. Create Drupal themes with SASS and Omega 3 and 4.  ? Build custom applications as needed.  ? Interface with third party APIs to synchronize data between multiple endpoints.  ? See code through FDLC, from planning through to deployment.  ? Administer and optimize servers for performance and security.  ? Review and test team members' code.  ? Mentor team members. Java Developer UBM Medica - Norwalk, CT 2009 to 2013 ? Build, enhance, and maintain custom SSO platform to integrate users across multiple brand properties.  ? Collaborate on development and maintenance of large, multi-site Liferay Portal/CMS.  ? Create endpoint interfaces to email marketing, analytics, and reporting systems.  ? Build custom applications as needed.  ? Interface with third party APIs to synchronize data between multiple endpoints.  ? See code through FDLC, from planning through to deployment.  ? Administer and optimize servers for performance and security. Independent Contractor Brooklyn, NY 2002 to 2009 Build, enhance, and maintain client websites.  ? Manage client website hosting.  ? Administer web servers for new site builds, security, and performance.  ? Provide custom solutions to meet client needs. Web Developer Fortune Magazine - New York, NY 2000 to 2002 Support large content management system housing some 12,000+ articles.  ? Develop dynamic templates to populate with content from Fortune's signature lists, such as Fortune 500.  ? 3 rd party API integration.  ? Automate content delivery from print to web.  ? Optimize server side code to improve scaling. Education Some college Skills PHP (10+ years), SASS (4 years), SSO (4 years), REDIS (3 years), SQL (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), ES6 (3 years), LESS (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Drupal (5 years), Wordpress (5 years), Laravel (2 years), Vue (1 year), Agile (4 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Git (6 years), Docker (1 year), Symfony (2 years), Varnish (2 years), RabbitMQ (2 years), React (1 year), Angular (1 year), Jquery (6 years), Node (1 year), Python (1 year), AWS (1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/jamespdoris Additional Information Key Technical Skills  Languages PHP, SQL, Perl, JavaScript, ES6, HTML, CSS, LESS, SASS; Some Ruby, Python, C#/.NET    Platforms Drupal, WordPress, ImpressPages, SSO, AWS, Docker, Dokku, Heroku, Custom    Frameworks Laravel, Symfony, Bootstrap, jQuery, Vue, Slim    Methodologies Agile, Scrum    Architecture Microservices, Event-driven Architecture, Service-oriented Architecture, MVC/MVVC    Version Control Git, SVN, BitBucket    Tools UNIX Shells, Composer, Doctrine, Redis, Varnish, APC, PHPStorm, Grunt, Babel, NPM, RabbitMQ    Server Linux, Apache, NginX, MySQL, SQL Server