Sr. Python Developer Sr. Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Liberty Mutual Insurance New York, NY • Around 8+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server applications using Python and Django.  • Good Experience with Python web frameworks such as Django, Flask and Pyramid Framework.  • Have work experience with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Geany, Eclipse, Spyder and NetBeans.  • Expertise in handling Django ORM and SQLACHEMY.  • Experienced in developing User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX and XML.  • Experienced in developing applications using Agile Methodologies, Waterfall Methodology and Scrum stories in a python based environment.  • Have knowledge in relational databases like Oracle SQL and MySQL.  • Knowledge in Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.JS.  • Installed various packages in python using pip and easy install.  • Have Knowledge on Python packages like Numpy, Pandas and Pickle.  • Worked with web-based application development using frameworks like Django and Flask.  • Actively participated in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Experience in writing SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL-Python.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS.  • Experience in handling REST and SOAP Web Services and have Knowledge of Servers like Apache Tomcat and Web Logic.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web application using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Experience in using various version control systems like Git, GitHub and SVN.  • Knowledge in writing code using Core Java, C and C++.  • Experience on Object Oriented Programming Concepts in Core Java.  • Having knowledge on deploying applications by using Jenkins that provides Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment  • Hands on experience of Java projects in IDE tools like NetBeans and Eclipse.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Design and maintain databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Scraping website using Python Beautiful Soup, and then parsed it with XML.  • Installed various packages in python using pip and easy install. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Boston, MA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizingPython on Django Web Framework.  • For the dashboard utilized the Python web development framework TurboGear.  • For the development of the user interface of the website used HTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX  • Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • To update a portion of a webpage used JavaScript and JSON.  • Expertise in developing consumer based features and applications withPython, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Controlled modules that allow applications to be built on top of the web, irc or the command line using Giotto.  • Modify the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Have work knowledge on JIRA(Agile) for the bug tracking of the project.  • Worked on a lightweight Web framework emphasizing flexibility and rapid development with the help of pylons.  • WrittenPython scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • The data manipulations on the client side is done by using JQuery.  • Made reusable Widgets using concepts familiar from GUI programming with Reahl.  • For the development of the web applications utilized CSS and Bootstrap.  • To share the information across the applications used pickle/unpickle in python.  • Utilized Python libraries like Numpy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  • Experienced withGIT version control and deployed the project to Heroku.  • Worked with Zope frameworks include the ZODB, an object database for Python.  • Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Independent template engine agnostic (integration with: ninja2, mako, tenjin and wheezy template) plus html widgets.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Developed full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility. It is built atop excellent components and reinvents zero wheels. WSGI, routing, templating, forms, data, plugins, Config, events, SQL Alchemy, Storm, CouchDB, OpenID, App Engine, JQuery, etc.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created an any database independent web Framework, with a clear and intuitive syntax using Karrigell.  • Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Prototyped an augmented reality solution in the form of a video using Premiere Pro, Pylatte and Python, Git Adobe After Effects.  • Implemented the application in UNIX environment and comfortable with all its commands.  • Designed and implemented a machine learning based system for categorizing customer contacts (tickets and live chat transcripts) which allows for faster reaction time for emerging issues (written in python and javascript using: tornado, SQLalchemy, scikit-learn, jquery, and d3.js)    Environment: Python, Django, PostgreSQL, Flask, scipy, Pandas, HTML5, Karrigell, Pylatte, Glashammer, Zope2, wheezy.web, Reahl, Pylons, Giotto, TurboGears , CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, MySQL, JIRA, JQuery, Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, Git, GitHub and Shell Scripting, Sr. Python/Django Developer Dell Computer Corporation - New York, NY September 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities  • Developed and maintained a content management system built from initial stage.  • Handled development and management of front end user interfaces with help of HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked on Django for web application development.  • Experienced in developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Python and Django.  • CMS is the backend application for a consumer-facing website.  • CMS involved ingesting data from heterogeneous sources, producing directly renderable data as a RESTful service.  • CMS application was an internal application, used by subject matter experts (SME) for curation of data for accuracy.  • Interacted regularly with SMEs to understand requirements and incorporate them into the application.  • Worked on Virtualenv for sandboxing and application isolation.  • For Text Search in the application used Haystack.  • Module installation and Dependency Management is done by pip.  • UI interactions are done with the help of JQuery.  • Worked on Ajax for Asynchronous server calls.  • Implemented the application in a Linux environment.  • Utilized SQLite database for development and SQL server for production.  • Written Scripts to establish continuous workflows from different teams providing data.  • Utilized GIT for Source code control and JIRA for Bug tracking.  • For Documentation used Confluence.  • Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related with deployment of Django based applications.  • Analyzed the Business Requirement Documents and made the Technical Specification Documents.  • In order to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate member entries implemented business logic in Python.  • Re-designed various modules for executing changes and made efficient system.  • Created Map Reduce programs in Python to reconcile the existing member history and new files.  • Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated utilizing Django Framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • By utilizing Python on Django Web Framework developed entire frontend and backend modules.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and Application Parameters.  • Written Python Scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web Services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Utilized Jenkins to deploy the Django application and run unit tests.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell Scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.    Environment: Python , Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, MySQL, JIRA, JQuery, SQLite, SQL Server, Haystack, Virtualenv, pip, GIT, RESTful and Linux, Karrigell, Pylatte, Glashammer, Zope2, wheezy.web, Reahl, Pylons, Giotto, TurboGears Sr. Python Developer Mercedes Benz Credit - Reston, VA September 2014 to August 2015 Responsibility  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Analysed system requirements specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Worked on Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server-side interaction.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and Spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used spring, JDBC and JPA at persistence layer (DAO)  • Used Robot Framework, RIDE and developed few test suites for testing application.  • Used Adobe CQ for helping with reusing the components and templates for creating different web pages.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front-end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Develop digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Special skills in developing user-friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used NumPy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python , Django , Cassandra, Linux, HTML, CSS, Node.js, JavaScript, Jira, Linux, Git, Google Analytics, CRUD, Adobe CQ/AEM. Django, Flask, Pyramid, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, XML/XSD, X Path, XSLT, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services (Soap, Restful), SES, Selenium, PyUnit. Python Developer Johnson & Johnson - Atlanta, GA March 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Working knowledge of modern development methodologies and tools such as Jenkins, Maven, JIRA, and Git.  • Worked on Spark Scripts to find the most trending products (day-wise and week-wise) using Scala.  • Experience with big data technologies (Spark, Kafka, HBase, HIVE, PIG).  • Coded custom processors in NiFi and implemented consumers and producers for Kafka topics  • Worked on project to retrieve log messages procured from Kafka by leveraging Spark Streaming.  • Fixing issues with routers and firewalls and IP configuration  • Having good experience in developing an enterprise MEAN Stack application by writing server-side code with Node.js and Express framework, a database to store and retrieve data with MongoDB and front-end web pages designing with React.Js.  • Designed and implemented a Perl Nagios plug-in to monitor fleet-vehicle communication to detect outages  • Designed and implemented complex server-based Internet applications on Perl CGI and UNIX/Linux environments  • Worked on Airflow scheduler executes tasks on an array of workers while following the specified dependencies.  • We have used Airflow rich command line utilities make performing complex surgeries on DAGs a snap.  • Having good experience in implementing the Node.js server-side code to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Implemented Jenkins workflow and plugins for repeatable deployments of multi-tier applications, artifacts, and services to Docker.  • Proficient at using Spark API's to explore, cleanse, aggregate, transform and store machine sensor data.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Knowledge of data structures, algorithms, OO design, web application design, SOA architecture.  • Worked on analyzing Hadoop distribution (HDP) and different Big Data analytic tools including Hive, and Sqoop.  • Used Angular.Js framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models), converted wireframes to web pages with behavioral design development (BDD).  • Applied the fundamentals of TDD, OOP, Agile development and continuous integration.  • Reviewed source code ( Java/J2EE/Spring/FTL/JavaScript) and developed security filters within App Scan for critical applications using IBM AppScan Source, triage and resolve the security vulnerabilities.  • Worked on ORC file format, bucketing, partitioning for hive performance enhancement and storage improvement.  • Monitoring system based on Docker and Big Data (HBase - OpenTSDB, Redis)  • Involved in Hive query tuning for better performance.  • Imported and exported data into HDFS and Hive using Sqoop  • Developed a remote integration with third-party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Developed Cloud infrastructure like compute, storage, and platform Restful services to implement Open Stack API.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, and Matplotlib.  • Placed data into JSON files using python to test Django websites.  • Deployed and supported web hosting platform based on Linux CentOS, Ubuntu, Open Stack.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Used JIRA for tracking, updating the project issues and issue tracking.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting issues.  • Actively worked as a part of a team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Ensured high-quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.    Environment: Python, HTML, Django, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Spark, APIs, Git, Flask, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, Pandas API, J2EE, Ajax, Web Services, Hive, Perl, Eclipse, Kafka, XHMTL, Airflow, WxPython, NumPy, Matplotlib, UML, SVN, JSON, Linux CentOS, Ubuntu, Open Stack, JIRA. Java Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC April 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities  • Designed & developed the application using Spring Framework  • Developed class diagrams, sequence and use case diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Designed the application with reusable J2EE design patterns  • Designed DAO objects for accessing RDBMS  • Developed web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL  • Designed and developed a web-based client using Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JavaScript, HTML and XML using Struts Framework.  • Involved in developing JSP forms.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  • Designed various applets using JBuilder.  • Designed and developed Servlets to communicate between presentation and business layer.  • Used EJB as a middleware in developing a three-tier distributed application.  • Developed Session Beans and Entity beans for business and data process.  • Used JMS in the project for sending and receiving the messages in the queue.  • Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Business logic is implemented using Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  • Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts Framework, JSP, AJAX, XML, XSLT and JavaScript  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures, and triggers) using Oracle SQL/PLSQL    Environment: Java / J2EE, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring, XML, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, HTML, XPATH, XSLT, DOM and JDBC. Python Developer VISA - Foster City, CA October 2008 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the system requirement specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • By utilizing Python, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery developed the front end of the application.  • Implemented and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.  • Written backend programming in Flask.  • Created RESTful http services to interact with UI.  • Utilized JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Implemented Backbone JS for creation of networking applications using JavaScript.  • Experience in writing SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Utilized regular expression to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.    Environment: Flask, XML, HTML, CSS, IE8, FF, Safari, SQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, RESTful. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), database. (10+ years), Django (7 years), Eclipse (4 years), HTML5 (3 years), J2EE (4 years), Java (7 years), Java Script (10+ years), JQuery. (6 years), MS SQL Server (3 years), MYSQL. (8 years), Python (8 years), Scripting (3 years), SQL (8 years), SQL Server (3 years), UML (4 years), version control (4 years), Web Services (6 years), XML (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Python Libraries  Django, PostgreSQL, Flask, scipy, Pandas, Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2, Karrigell, Pylatte, Glashammer, Zope2, wheezy.web, Reahl, Pylons, Giotto, TurboGears    Web Services SOAP, REST, WSDL  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, UML, J2EE Design Patterns  Version Control SVN, Clear case, CVS  Tools RAD, Eclipse, Edit Plus, Apache Ant, log4j, JUnit, Visio, ANT, Maven  ORM Tools Hibernate, JPA, iBatis  Cloud Technologies AWS, S3.  Web Technologies/other  Django, Flask, Pyramid, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, XML/XSD, X Path, XSLT, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services (Soap, Restful), SES, Selenium, PyUnit.    IDE Tools Eclipse, RSA, JBuilder, Oracle ADF, Web Logic, Rational Rose, LDAP, RUP Methodology, Clear Case/Clear Quest  Web Languages Java, J2EE (JSP, JSF, Servlets, Struts, Spring Web Flow, JSP Tag Libraries, EJB , JDBC, JavaScript, SQL  Scripting Language JavaScript, CSS  Database Oracle, MySQL, and SQL Server