System Manager / Interface Lead System Manager / Interface Lead System Manager / Interface Lead - NYC DOB Jamaica, NY Work Experience System Manager / Interface Lead NYC DOB - New York, NY May 2015 to Present I have joined the NYC Dep. of Building as part of the current initiative to modernizing the agency's IT infrastructure. Currently I am leading the DOB Now Inspection technology support that includes the inspection implementation platform, Accela, and integration applications. Agency's integration platforms talks to agency's legacy applications (BIS), 311 and integrate other agency application endpoints.    Scope of Responsibilities:  • Lead the DOB Integration Application Production support: After go live I have been working with implementation team, hands on development and supporting DOB functional units (Electrical, Plumbing, Elevator, Boiler etc.) to address/ analyze the integration related issue and failed transactions, identify the functional gap (often coding to fix bugs), and provide temporary or long term design solutions.    • Responsible for audit, validate and overview the deployments in production. Debug code issue and provide bug fix/enhancement for integration/interface applications. Integration application is built on JEE platform and uses batch process implemented with concurrency framework to consume data. Also Jersey RESTful Web Service to interface with Accela for real time transactions. Integration application deployed in JBoss app server.    • Lead and manage end-to-end Accela, inspection application, production support team which also involves coordinating/ supervising infrastructure, Accela mobile help desk, Accela public portal, DBA and the consulting team (Accenture) responsible for primary implementation.    • As part of other agency initiatives, created POC and developed RESTful Web service Interface and baseline code to expose inspection data from Accela (Oracle) platform to other applications. Framework/Tools: Jersey 2.22 for RESTful web service implementation, Spring 4.1.6, Spring Data JPA, Hibernate, Jersey unit test, Spring test framework and Mockito for unit testing, SOAP UI Test tool, SLF4j, solution for both JSON and XML data processing, Maven 3.0.3 project, Tomcat 7 app server and Oracle 11g database.    • Build and support Web application developed using Spring Boot MVC, Thymeleaf, Spring Data JPA and oracle DB    • Build and expose Python based REST services using Flask and client application    • Code, build, configure Accela and scripting with Maven    • Produced inspection reports and bug fix reports for management.    • Understand and implement Agency's Business process and manage the coordination efforts between agency's technical resource, business/functional team and inspection units/departments.    • Document product issues/enhancement and meet with product team to address them.    • Hands on experience in provisioning/configuring AWS resources using Ansible playbook.    • Build and automate deployment of Spring Boot web application in EC2 instances. Middleware (Mule) Service Dev. & Tech. Lead Express Scripts - Franklin Lakes, NJ October 2014 to May 2015 Project Description:  Express Scripts is one of the largest organizations in the industry to provide integrated pharmacy benefit management services including pharmacy claim processing, formulary management, drug data analysis and plan management etc.    In this project, I was responsible for leading the effort to build middleware reusable and scalable integration applications/services and components and the development team in agile environment.    Scope of Responsibilities:  • Lead one of the Mule Integration team that is comprised of onshore/offshore and Sr. and junior resources.  • Work with functional lead/ business Arch. to document and validate requirements  • Own and deliver the Detail Technical Design document and integration solutions to enable secure, scalable, and maintainable software  • Validate, Support WSDL/XSDs/Data contracts to make sure designs are following the best practices  • Set up Initial baseline code and packages for middleware services  • Estimate work effort and created project plan for team and effectively identify and prioritize the tasks which include resource timeline for Dev. Env., deployment infrastructure, application development, Test/QA support, prod and warranty support  • Articulate the implications of design/architectural decisions, issues and alternate solutions and best solution to SOA Architects to buy in design approval  • Provide hands-on leadership, coaching, mentoring, and software engineering best practices to junior developers.  • Conduct design and code reviews and run PMD/Clover tools to ensure code developed meets or exceeds coding best practices guidelines, unit testing, security, and scalability and maintainability guidelines  • Drive a quality mindset, track issues and delegate task and responsibility within the team  • Write and supervise JUnit and integration tests for services, DAOs, Business Object components using Easy Mock, Spring JUnit Test frameworks  • Set up Willy Dashboard for Monitoring scalability and performance.  • Build consumer and provider REST interfaces using Jersey, DAOs using Spring/Hibernate for database queries and integrate with JMS services ( Broker)  • Build positive team environment, give and receive feedback, and listen to others views.  • Deliver execution plan for service deployment and help Dev. Ops. Team and support QA, Staging and Prod cloud mule servers  • Provide training for the level 1 support /application operation team Accenture March 2005 to May 2015 I was an experienced consultant of Accenture Tech. Arch. group. Following are my short description and highlights of Accenture project experiences. Integration Development Lead Baxter International - Chicago, IL May 2014 to September 2014 Project Description:  Software development/integration project that build an integration platform and interfaces to communicate between Baxter medical devices (Dialysis) and business system as distributed web application.    Scope of Responsibilities  • Hands on development and troubleshoot integration issues.  • Work with client and external vendor for issue resolution  • Architect and propose solution for new features  • Identify and drive out requirements with interface partners  • Tools/framework: STS, Spring Integration, Spring MVC, Spring RESTful Web Service, Active MQ, JPA/Hibernate (ORM), JAXB (OXM), XSLT, XSL, XPath, XML Schema Batch-Interface Development Lead State of Ohio - Columbus, OH November 2012 to April 2014 Project Description:  Medicare/Medicaid eligibility project is to build a modern eligibility system for State of Ohio that will increase access to benefits and support the implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA).  The solution consists of a hybrid of Accenture eligibility product (online JEE application built using Spring, Hibernate), data transfer based components to interface with external system, Oracle ESB, Oracle rule engine ( OPA), Oracle business process management ( BPM) and batch process.    Scope of Responsibilities  • Developed real-time interfaces using CXF SOAP based Web Services framework  • Designed, developed and implemented several batch sweep jobs to automate eligibility determination using multi-threaded batch frame work built on Spring, JDBC and Hibernate  • Document the Batch run book for monitoring job workflows as well as restarting/killing background jobs as required.  • Worked with performance team define load and performance test criteria  • Created UML diagrams (i.e. Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Use case diagrams in different tiers of the module).  • Developed the DAO layer for the application.  • Bug fix, Optimized queries, data structures, and code design to improve performance of batch application  • Co-ordinate between infrastructure team and BMC vendor to integrate Control-M for used as batch scheduler.  • Work with the application architect to create a high-level design of an end-to-end integration solution  • Document and communicate the status of progress against plans, taking corrective action as necessary  • Review technical documentation to verify compliance with client  • Worked on validation and error handling of the batch framework implementation  • Develop unit testing (JUnit), Mockito & integration testing components  • Integrate Spring JMS with ActiveMQ broker Build Manager JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH June 2011 to September 2012 New Port, NJ    Project Description:  Admin Center Application is a centralized self-service entitlements management system for accessing internal and external client. It provides integrated hub for client and employees to view and mange administrative activities. Admin center project was an initiative with 150 plus developer in over 10 team distributed in multiple onshore and offshore work environment.    I was responsible for managing dev. arch and build team to support application development. Drive the Team to design build process, build, configure, package, implement and support the operation of fully automated/CI build and Deployment environment. The environment was supported 70 + custom application artifacts using Jenkins CI engine, SVN repository and Maven build tool with custom maven plugin and scripting (Perl, shell etc.) to automate the end to end build process.    Scope of Responsibilities  • Manage admin center Dev. arch and build/deploy team, interview/hire resources, and execute project management tasks throughout the duration of a project  • Support development activity, cross merge and build operation for multi release process  • Responsible for defining the branching, Java project structure and the merging strategies  • Design and implement Configuration Management processes and procedures  • Conduct training and meetings with developers for updated process.  • Work with Technical Lead and Lead Architects, Project Managers, Vendors, Developers and JPMC key stakeholders to design the development architecture spec (i.e. processes, tools, and general approach including environment strategies)  • Design and implement automated server build, management, monitoring and deployment solutions spanning multiple platforms, tools and technologies including Jenkins, maven, SVN, nexus, Tomcat, Sonar Fish Eye (reporting) tool  • Co-ordinate with Sonar team, infrastructure, application admin, test automation teams to implement Unit and integration test code coverage and to produce reports to show overall health of the application.  • Build and maintain Custom maven Java plugin (MOJO) for automation or provide solutions for build issues like circular dependency.  • Developed Perl scripts invoked by Jenkins jobs to deploy application package on Unix environment  • Configure Jenkins CI build with Selenium test automation  • Coordinate with tech-ops, IST, build and sonar team and lead the effort of implementing test measurement, process and sonar reporting.  • Recommend options for how to measure the manual testing in UAT, which provide the management a way to measure the current manual testing effort.  • Configured Jenkins CI jobs, including automatic generation, reporting and alert, code metrics (JUnit, PMD, Emma etc) and configure failures and build status indicators Technical Architect Accenture February 2010 to December 2010 Location: NJ/New York    Project Description:  Accenture's internal Custom development initiative for converting current Accenture claim application built on .Net platform to JEE platform. I have managed the project development and testing infrastructure environments, as well as involved in hands on development activity. Other software used are Spring, Hibernate, DB2, MySqL, Linux 9.7, Tomcat 6.1, WebSphare 7.0 and Eclipse IDE    Scope of Responsibility:  • Research for determining frameworks and technologies feasible for the development of application.  • Create the development architecture and infrastructure project plan  • Coordinate and support any issues (tech or non-tech) to maintain the environment and accessible to offshore as well as to onshore App. Dev., Tech. Arch. and Dev. Arch. teams.  • Deploy remote VM Desktop for JEE Developers, development and test environment, Database, defect management Environment  • Wrote DAOs, DTOs/custom domain objects and maintained framework configurations  • Develop POC, Technical Specification and Technical Design docs, and How-To deliverables  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework.  • Led the team to implement CI Build and automate source code deployment process  • Manage, train and delegate activities to the Deployment, Environment team, and Murray Hills , IDC Bangalore infrastructure and network team  • Manage DBA and Mainframe Admin team DB environment deployment.  • Initiates and/or propose improvements in all areas of responsibility.  • Communicates effectively with managers to identify needs and evaluate alternative business solutions. Sr. Developer FEDCAT - San Antonio, TX April 2009 to August 2009 Project Description: I was a senior developer of this project for provide custom solution to secure the web application.    • Researched and built prototype to recommend the solution for SSL and provide documentation.  • Recommend appropriate version of servlet engine to reduce security holes.  • Wrote custom JEE Spring security solution to prevent SQL injection vulnerability for both JDBC and Hibernate queries.  • Provided configuration solution for blocking open relay, anonymous access to FTP server and SSL3/TLS and cache-control solution for JEE platform as well as documentation  • Mentored new and junior developer of the project to bring them quickly productive.  • Provided conceptual understanding of technologies to the maintenance team during KT and offer brown bag session.  • Developed test code using JUnit/ EasyMock / DBUnit.  • Developed Spring Beans and Hibernate Dao components using Spring DI/AOP framework.  • Documented and designed project change control process, technical architecture, architecture diagrams etc. Business Rule Architect New York City - New York, NY January 2008 to March 2009 Project Description:  An initiative is to provide an automated, effective, and efficient procurement system.    Scope of Responsibilities:  • Lead the technical and functional design of the Blaze Advisor business rule implementation. The key areas of the technical designs are rule architecture, service design and repository design.  • Collaborate with test team to develop test strategy and test model.  • Led the Business rule team in analysis, design and build phase.  • Built the prototype and provide proof of concept on Blaze rule implementation, web service solution for integrating Blaze rule service with Documentum BPM engine and rule maintenance application.  • Established myself as a Business Rule and Blaze expert, provided subject matter expertise (SME) to functional, infrastructure and development team.  • Design and implement rule deployment and rule service integration (as web service) with Documentum BPM engine.  • Document Business Rules (technical & functional) design in Detail Design deliverable.  • Deliver the initial code for base line analysis of the business rule, which define the framework of the functional rule design.  • Support infrastructure team to automate the rule service deployment and server setup.  • Contributed in Application architecture design in Business rules and Blaze topics.  • Deliver presentation on rule maintenance and operation process to the client (NYC).  • Supported test team to write Rule maintenance test scenarios. Technical Architect Verizon Wireless - Atlanta, GA January 2007 to May 2007 Project Description:  This project was to build a front end and Integration Platform to improve and expand the current client support capabilities.  My major responsibilities were to implement portal infrastructure, SCM (source control management) strategy and overall support/mentor development team.    Scope of Responsibilities:  • Installed portal server and RSA 7.0 in developer's workstation and provide installation documentation.  • Install and deploy Subversion for our Source Control Repository. On time setup and operation of subversion was very critical for the project.  • Installed and configured stand alone and clustered WebSphere Portal Server with an external database and with the WMM database for security. Eventually the process was used as example installation for all other server environments.  • Installed IBM HTTP Server and configured plug-in with the portal server.  • Setup the Portal development environment and source control repository (SVN)  • Provide technical assistance to resolve source control, portal or RSA related issues.  • Helped developer install and operate subversion client tools/plug-in.  • Wrote ANT script to automate build and deploy portal application.  • Worked with Clients daily basis, and report status or any potential issues.  • Deployed WebSphere Portal Server Administration  • Documented Users Guide and Build and Deployment process and other how-to deliverables  • Assisted in Software and Hardware Requirements gathering  • Present a brown bag session for SCM and Subversion introduction and usage instruction.  • Work with cross team members with high optimism and friendly attitude. Java/JEE Developer The Hartford - Hartford, CT August 2006 to December 2006 Project Description:  The primary focus of the BIBRMS (Business Insurance Business Rules Management System) architecture team was to design, build prototype and document the technical specifications and recommendations of the components and services necessary to implement BRMS platform.    Scope of Responsibilities:  • Built Ant script for source build and deployment. Integrated the prototype with client's current build and deploy process.  • Design & implement Hibernate ORM framework.  • Provide Spring-JMS implementation for asynchronous persistence and Hibernate Mapping.  • Contributed in Prototyping rules development and deployment using Blaze Advisor rule engine.  • Other design deliverables include technical specification of spring -JMS implementation, Hibernate mapping for Rule result components, sequence diagrams, Unit, Assembly and integration testing components design, development standards and best practice documents.  • Helped Project Management actively in following areas:  - Managing deliverables  - Co-ordinate with client resources for on time tech spec review completion  - Initiate training agenda and help prepare and identify necessary training for client resources. Java Developer EMC - Boston, MA September 2005 to June 2006 Designed and developed customer service portal with the vision to provide self-help and web-based case management tool for customers, partners, and employees to drive support center call deflection.    Scope of Responsibilities: Lead buildings Conference Room Pilot (CRP) to present "to be" functionality for client. Installed and configured Autonomy IDOL Search Engine for Oracle Fetch, ODBC Fetch and set up autonomy Query String. I gave configured BEA Weblogic WSRP development environment, developed UI using BEA Weblogic workshop tool (8.1), Net UI tag library, BEA Portal framework, installed and set up MS SQL Database Server, created tables, Views, MS SQL User Define Functions and Oracle Functions. Written Data Access Objects (DAO). Implemented ORM using Oracle Toplink tool. Build, Migrate database views and table schemas to System Test Database. Also set up and worked with MS SQL Database Server. Java Developer Kaiser Permanente - San Francisco, CA April 2005 to June 2005 It was an initiative to develop National Pricing System. The implementation of the National Pricing System will impact the way many departments do business within Kaiser Permanente, primarily Underwriting, Sales and Account Management and Actuarial.    Scope of Responsibilities: Design, develop and unit test use cases. Assembly test the several portion of the application. Implemented OOD patters such as DTO, CBO, DAO. Worked with Spring framework, Hibernate, Struts frame work. I have also written SQL Scripts for mocking data and other activities for Database maintenance. Provided assistance to new members of a team to help them understand the tasks at hand and referred to other resources when issues/questions arose Business Developer/ Java Developer Teleformix - Schaumburg, IL April 2001 to March 2005 Teleformix is a telemarking and IT solution provider. It hosts and provides end-to-end technical support (Software & Hardware) for telemarketing companies.    Scope of Responsibilities: I was primarily involved in designing, developing and supporting front-end components of the application and also worked on integrating and testing of various individual modules. Developed and maintained JSP, HTML, Java Scripts and BASH shell scripts in Linux/Unix platform. Education BBA in Computer Information Systems University of Louisiana - Monroe, LA December 2000 Skills Amazon web services, Orm, Sharepoint, Web server, Web services, Http, Artificial intelligence, Ec2, Aix, Apache, Linux, Solaris, Documentum, Jreport, Emc, Stress testing, Testing tools, Mac, Mac os Additional Information Operating Systems: Amazon Linux( EC2), Windows, Linux, AIX, MAC OS, Solaris,  Miscellaneous Applications: WinCVS, JReport, Performance and Stress testing tools, Top link ORM tool, EM - Documentum, EMC-Documentum-Business Process Manager , IBM HTTP Server, Apache Web Server, Wiki, Confluence, SharePoint.  Technology Interests: Amazon web services (AWS) / cloud computing, Big data, Artificial Intelligence (AI).