Team coordination, lead Team coordination, lead Team coordination, lead - Tractor Supply Company Franklin, TN Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Team coordination, lead Tractor Supply Company - Brentwood, TN February 2017 to Present Brentwood, TN Feb '17 - Current  Domain: Retail  • Lead and delivered the projects in Retail and Supply chain (POS, Store support and reporting, data Integration with Order Management System (IBM Sterling), Warehouse Management Systems and ecommerce through IBM WCS).  • Formulate strategic plans for component development to sustain future project objectives.  • Suggest architectural improvements, design and integration solutions, and formulate methodologies to optimize object-oriented software and database development.  • Team coordination, lead, managing incident and problem incidents and guiding towards development of process or root case analysis and fix.  • Exposure to TOGAF architecture.  • IBM MQ usage for data transfer within applications.  • Using Active MQ for data transfer within services  • Develop data architecture design to facilitate targeted customer analysis.  • Point of sale system (POS): XSTORE implementation, integration and coordination.  • Exposure to AWS cloud platform with PaaS for docker and kubernets.  • Designing and implementation of Self-Checkout design and Integration with POS register application  • Back Office Operation: Receiving, Inventory management, sales audit enhancements, upgrade and communication.  • Private Level Credit Card (PLCC): Enhancement, Certificates implementation and update, Loyalty program / Neighbor's club implementation, management and reporting  • Database used for the register and central is of Postgres.  • Writing procedure, functions, packages, cursors in PostgreSQL.  • Implemented Postgres replication for Postgres database for shutdown or fall back conditions.  • Reports: MIS reporting, daily monthly, quarterly and yearly reporting sharing, communication and leading.  • Payment systems: PIN Pads (VeriFone MX 880 and MX 925) upgrade and enhancements.  • Payment Methods: Credit/Debit (Visa, Masters Card, Business Cards), Cash, Check, Gift Cards, Reward Cards, Manufacturer's Coupon, Private level credit cards (PLCC), Layaways implementation and enhancement time management.  • Exposure to Micro services Architecture.  • Writing queries for NoSQL, Cassandra used in MPOS project.  • Used symmetric ds for data replication from Postgres to Oracle database.  • Taxware 3.5 integration with Xstore POS  • Data Loader, Talend jobs, integration with scheduler, inter projects communication and data modeling.  • Connectivity with SAP CRM with REST web services enhancements  • Oracle data replication process improvements from store and central database and time line management.  • Data loader process loading data in store and central databases enhancements, support and coordination.  • POS Dashboard upgrade and Developing tools based on spring boot, Node JS, Angular JS and java.  • Coupons and deals application upgradation with latest UI technologies.  • Apache Solr as search engine.    Lead Responsibilities:  • Vendor management regarding project deliverables, planning, risk analysis, risk mitigation and monitoring.  • Lead team before stakeholders during communication, meetings, application design, project plan.  • Work with business analysts, stakeholders and clarify the design, requirements and implementation.  • Executed and controlled the planned tasks through and thorough monitoring of projects.  • Management and Director level monthly update about the project progress.  • Involved in translation of Business User requirements into functional and technical details and vice versa.  • Developing project team for technical skills and mentoring new team members. Lead Developer Hallmark Cards - Kansas City, MO May 2015 to February 2017 • Delivered and lead the projects in Retail and Supply chain (POS, Order management system, reporting).  • Worked in retail.net POS system.  • Leading and Developing WIN reporting applications development in Java 6, Java 7 and Java 8 using Eclipse.  • Upgraded Java 4 and older codes to newer version of Java.  • Developed and enhanced frontend applications written using JSP, HTML, CSS, Java scripts.  • Developed reactive frontend code using Ajax, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js and Unit.js.  • Working on retail eCommerce side of Hallmark having the POS system implemented with web commerce  framework using SAP Hybris.  • Used symmetric ds for data replication from Postgres to Oracle database.  • Writing procedure, functions, packages, cursors in PostgreSQL.  • Exposure to Micro Services Architecture.  • Exposure to TOGAF architecture.  • Implemented multitier architecture in application development of vendor management for retail owners.  • Developed MVC architecture and the design for the Middle Tier Development using Spring and REST Web  • Services  • Unit testing the application using JUnit. Unit tested, regression tested, load tested the changes and performed  • the code review.  • Developed code using Hibernate for persisting data in data base integrated with Spring framework.  • Business Logic analysis to produce Business Workflow Diagram, Use Cases, Architecture, Functional/Design  • specifications, sequence diagrams;  • Perform coding in Core Java Threads, Multithreading, Synchronization, Collection API for in house  • applications for masking and stock balancing projects.  • Worked on Unix scripting for fixing/workaround issues and server logging and scheduling.  • Code management through Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Worked on e-receipts projects for emailing the receipt generated at Hallmark stores.  • Used DB2 scheduler to schedule the iterative and frequently running process and jobs.  • Used Jaspersoft server with ireport designer 5.5 on top for report creation, compilation and running.  • Writing queries for NoSQL, MongoDB used in digital project.  • Involved in architectural change in the application. Implemented Java in between Reporting and Database  • environment.  • Done the development work in Waterfall and agile methodology for different projects.  • Worked and managed on Agile Kanban methodologies for 2 week sprints.    Lead Responsibilities:  • Lead team before stakeholders during communication, meetings, application design, project plan.  • Work with business analysts, stakeholders and clarify the design, requirements and implementation.  • Executed and controlled the planned tasks through thorough monitoring of projects.  • Senior management and Director level monthly update about the project progress.  • Creating and managing project documents in SharePoint and TFS.  • Involved in translation of Business User requirements into functional and technical details and vise versa.  • Developing project team for technical skills and mentoring new team members. Lead Developer Farmers - Bristol West - Independence, OH October 2013 to May 2015 • Lead and delivered the projects in Insurance (Point of sale system, payment processing, Quote generation process).  • Developed code for generating quote for insurance and real time rating.  • Lead and "hands on" application development in Java 6, Java 7  • Implemented Struts MVC architecture and the design for the Middle Tier Development.  • Responsible for unit testing the application using JUnit. Unit tested the changes and performed the code  • review.  • Developed code using Hibernate for persisting data in data base integrated with Struts framework.  • Coding through Java Collections like hash map for mapping/converting the information sent by raters into  • our system specific information.  • Exposure to Micro services Architecture.  • Created design, code flow, flow charts, sequence diagrams and documents.  • Coding in Core Java Threads, Multithreading, Synchronization, Collection API  • Performed joint system testing the application that involved other downstream systems.  • Documented and streamlined business processes, including production and online distribution of  • product/processes.  • Worked in JAX RPC, JAX WS Web services in code development.  • Used Unix Crontab to schedule the jobs.  • Worked in XML style sheets, XSLT and XSD for converting the Accord XMLs to valid data objects.  • Created WSDL during web service coding and using XPATH for URL generation.  • Developed various components of project (handler classes, agents to access the services, rendering HTML  • pages, generation of views etc.) and project enhancements.  • Configuration and deployment of application in Websphere 1.8.  • Worked on Unix scripting for monitoring/fixing/workaround issues.    Lead Responsibilities:  • Developed Project plan, design and schedule document for projects like State rating and presented before  • PMO.  • Created Project WBS document for FFQ states, State level ratings.  • Involved in sequencing and prioritizing activities based on scheduled deliverables.  • Requirements gathering, clarification and modification from client/business and business analysts.  • Worked with business analysts, stakeholders to clarify design, requirements and implementation.  • Involved in translation of Business User requirements into functional and technical specifications.  • Managing communications expectations for PMO and stakeholders during crisis.  • Risk assessment and mitigation planning for projects before during project lifecycle.  • Mentoring new and existing team members with their technical skill sets. Lead Developer / Onsite Coordinator Wal-Mart - Bentonville, AR February 2011 to October 2013 Team Size: 16  • Lead and delivered the projects in Retail and Warehouse management systems (Point of sale system, GLS - warehouse management system, YMS - Logistics management system, EDC - warehouse management system for online orders and logistics, payment processing).  • Developed code for POS system implementing Oracle ATG web commerce framework on check-in, check-out,  • search, web services, third party integration. Core Java Threads, Multithreading, Synchronization, Collection API  • Involved in Implementation/translation of Business User requirements.  • Used design patterns like DAO, BO, Singleton and Business Delegate, MVC into the code.  • Involved in design and hands on development of persistence framework components. Implemented  • Persistence layer using Springs 2.5 with DAO's.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures and invoking them from Components.  • Implemented MVC architecture and the design for the Middle Tier Development.  • Responsible for unit testing the application using JUnit. Unit tested the changes and performed the code  • review.  • Performed joint system testing the application that involved other downstream systems.  • Design/Development of UI using Java, JSP, Camel, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.JS, React. JS, Unit JS.  • Development and coding of JMS through Active MQ broker.  • Involved in Camel code development for the processes running in ServiceMix ESB and Rest Web service code  • development.  • Used IBM MQ and active MQ for asynchronous flow of messages in GLS and TMS systems in between central  • systems and various distributed devices like desktop of handheld devices.  • Worked on JMS for message transfer in eDC and internal store systems projects.  • Responsible for Defect meeting, Defect fixing and leading Iteration.  • Java coding for the MapReduce functionality and mapping with Hive or Cassandra.  • Worked on Unix scripting for monitoring/fixing/workaround issues.    Lead Responsibilities:  • Involved in Implementation/Translation of Business User requirements into technical and functional  • specifications.  • Reporting to higher management about project's progress, issues, decisions and challenges and mitigation plans.  • Risk assessment and mitigation planning for projects by SWOT analysis.  • Requirements gathering, clarification and modification from client/business and business analysts.  • Coordinating offshore team and management for development and enhancement projects. Java Lead/ Developer Sallie Mae - Reston, VA February 2010 to January 2011 • Application development for loan lending processes Loan origination, Underwriting, Credit decision.  • Requirements gathering, clarification and modification from client/business and business analysts.  • Involved in design/development of UI using Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Struts.  • Involved in technical decision making, stakeholder communication, team building and training, knowledge  • transfer.  • Coding Core Java Threads, Multithreading, Synchronization, Collection API  • Involved in writing required Unix shell scripts. (e.g. Executing the daemon threads, start/stop processes, batch  • jobs)  • Involved in development of various components of project (action classes to render the HTML, dispatcher  • handling, conversion API, export, production deployment etc) and project enhancements.  • Involved in writing Oracle SQL queries, packages, triggers, and stored procedures and invoking them from  • Components.  • Used design patterns like DAO, Singleton, Facade, MVC.  • Involved in development of database access framework using DAO's (Legacy tables) and Hibernate 3.2(new  • tables).  • Configuration and deployment of application in Web Sphere. Senior Java Developer Discover Financial Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2008 to February 2010 • Involved in application development for credit card authentication process through encryption/decryption and web service call.  • Involved in design/development of UI using Java, JSP, Cold-Fusion, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Model-Glue.  • Involved in development of various components of project and project enhancements.  • Involved in database design and writing Oracle SQL queries, triggers, and stored procedures and invoking them from Components.  • Writing procedure, functions, packages, cursors in PostgreSQL for reporting purposes.  • Coding Java Threads, Multithreading, Synchronization, Collection API  • Used design patterns like DAO, Value Objects, MVC etc.  • Worked in Unix and Perl scripting.  • Used rational rose for design and diagram creation for work flow or sequence flow.  • Wrote deployment descriptors like struts-confit, validation files and web.xml.  • Configuration and deployment of application in Dream Weaver/Eclipse.  • Responsible for Defect meeting, Defect fixing and leading Iteration.  • Fixing Production tickets, bug fixing.  • Involved in client's meetings and demos.  • Implemented Agile development methodology. Java Developer New York Times - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2006 to April 2008 • Coding of Java classes using the Java/J2EE  • Involved in modifying and implementing configuration files like config.xml.  • Responsible for enhancement of UI in JSP, CSS, HTML.  • Involved in modification of tiles framework.  • Responsible for Defect fixing, enhancement.  • Coding Core Java like Threads, Multithreading, Synchronization, Collection API  • Supporting Production issues.  • Resolving Production tickets.  • Involved in defect and bug fixing.  • Implemented Agile development methodology. Java Developer Bokaro Steel Plant - IN December 2005 to April 2006 • Coding of Java classes using the Java/J2EE  • Involved in modifying and implementing configuration files like config.xml.  • Responsible for enhancement of UI in JSP, CSS, HTML.  • Involved in modification of tiles framework.  • Responsible for Defect fixing, enhancement.  • Supporting Production issues.  • Resolving Production tickets.  • Involved in defect and bug fixing. Education Master's Skills AWT, ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAXB, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSP, Java Server Pages, RMI, SERVLETS, STRUTS, C++, ENTERPRISE APPLICATION, APPLICATION INTEGRATION, ENTERPRISE APPLICATION INTEGRATION