Senior Salesforce Developer /Admin Senior Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> /Admin Senior Salesforce Developer /Admin - GE Healthcare Barrington, IL • 9 years of IT experience in Application Design & Development, this includes 8 years of experience in the Salesforce platform both as Administrator and Developer.  • Salesforce.com certified administrator (ADM 201) and salesforce.com certified platform developer (DEV 401).    • Strong knowledge in working of the Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and Community Cloud using traditional and lightning platform solutions.  • Strong working experience with Lightning Component Framework, using Lightning component in Visualforce page and adding to lightning component to salesforce1.Proficient in configuring and customizing salesforce1 App.  • Proficient in Workflows, Triggers, Email-To-Case, Web-to- case, Email Template, Workflows, Approval Process, Triggers, Custom Settings, Static Resources, SFDC API, Batch APEX, AJAX Toolkit, Enterprise WSDL and SOQL.  • Experience in working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex Programming Language.  • Hands on experience in force.com Development by developing the presentation layer in Visualforce and business logic in the Apex by creating/using the Classes, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, and Web Services API.  • Sound knowledge on Salesforce setup menu, Configuration, custom Application Development, Administration, Data Migration and Deployment of applications to Force.com platform.  • Good experience in establishing relationships based on business use cases using relationships Master-Detail, Lookup and Many-to-Many (Junction Object) between objects.  • Integrated the SOAP and Rest based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Experience in Integrating App Exchange Applications with Salesforce, Informatica on Demand, Mass E- Mail Management, Application management using Force.com Plug-in & Eclipse IDE in Sandbox and Production Environments  • Have good knowledge in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Users, Page Layouts, Email Templates, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and Events and Workbench.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules and Work Flows, sharing rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Have knowledge in implementing various advanced fields like Pick lists, Custom Formula Fields, Many to Many Relationships, Lookups, Master-Details, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates & Email generation according to application requirements Designed the web layouts using Adobe Photoshop.  • Well versed in analyzing CRM business processes that include Forecasting, Campaign management, Lead Management, Role Hierarchy, Territory Management, Order Management, Account Management, Case Management and merging management in a multi-tier environment.  • Experience in Development, Administration, Configuration, Requirements gathering, Implementation, Integration and Support of Salesforce using Apex Language and leveraging Force.com Platform.  • Have excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills. Ability to adapt to changing professional work environment to implement software solutions in an efficient manner.  • Extensive experience in coordinating the effort with team members, responsible for deliverables, producing the status reports to management, responsible for managing any escalations.  • Used the Force.com IDE for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Imported data from Seibel CRM into Salesforce using Informatica Power Center as part of Data Migration.  • Used different data loading tools - Apex Data Loader, Excel Connector, Import Wizard, Data Export, Mass Delete etc.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Design, Modeling, Programming and Testing in Java, J2EE, XML and Relational Databases.  • Experience in developing AJAX based design in creating better, faster and more interactive web applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Salesforce Developer /Admin GE Healthcare - Barrington, IL June 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and created solutions by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and Web Services.  • In the service cloud environment, performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization. Also Participated in translating and documentation of business requirements into functional requirements.  • Created various Custom Objects, Custom Settings, Custom Labels, Validation rules, Record types, Custom Tabs, Workflow rule and approval process including Field updates and email alerts.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports, and created custom objects based on Business need.  • Developed Lightning components along with server-side controllers and used AJAX calls to retrieve the data from an object.  • Developed Lightning apps using Lightning Components and made them compatible with salesforce1 mobile app.  • Involved in using Lightening process builder and workflows  • Created New Reports, New Dash Boards, and worked on Data Loader by uploading about close to a million records and experienced in cleansing and De-duplicating bulk loads.  • Developed Wave dashboards using Salesforce platform as the backend.  • Created Wave datasets from using internal Salesforce data and external data sources  • Worked with Ajax Toolkit to invoke Apex through anonymous blocks and Public web service methods. Used SOSL query to search all objects including custom objects.  • Used Service Cloud in Preparing and getting approval of design, functional and technical specifications from business.  • Worked on Salesforce Community cloud like how to engage with employees , customers and partners.  • Implemented sales and Operative executive monitor sales performance from the Community. Used ( Java-Ant based) Force.com migration tool to deploy Metadata between local Sandbox environment, Production and other Salesforce organization.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Created workflow rules, defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Used CTI in Inbound and outbound call information and interaction times are automatically logged in Salesforce. com.  • Implemented Integrations with Informatica.  • Experience in migrating data from various systems into force CRM using Data ETL tools - Informatica onDemand, Cast Iron and SOQL and SOSL queries in Apex.  • Generated Apex Classes using WSDL and wrote business logic layer for integration with external web services to the system for functional needs.  • Implemented Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows Implemented in the system.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information.  • Used force.com developer toolkit including Visualforce pages, apex classes, apex controllers and apex triggers to develop custom business logic.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Apex Controllers to develop custom business logic.  • Part of development team Developed Visualforce pages.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.    Environment: Salesforce.com CRM Application Platform, Apex Language, XML, Visualforce, S-Controls, Custom Objects, Tabs, Page Layouts, Workflows, Approval Processes, Email, Messaging, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse, ANT Migration tool. Sr. Salesforce Developer Cap group, LA March 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implementing SOAP web services to get the content and display in UI.  • Integrating with JIRA of case handling with Salesforce (REST API).  • Developing and configuring components for communities and updating task status & work logs in JIRA.  • Adding Lightning components to salesforce1 using in Visualforce page.  • Working extensively on console application with account hierarchy.  • Designing and delivering project in an Agile environment, utilizing a test driven development approach.  • Gathered business requirement and did a gap analysis and Prepared functional requirement and design documents.  • Performed fields mapping of Salesforce and Legacy CRM systems.  • Developed APEX triggers, Apex classes for various functional needs of the application.  • Developed different Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application using different Visual force components.  • Worked extensively on Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Activities, other Standard Objects and Customized Objects for additional fields, Layouts, record types and validation rules.  • Good working knowledge in querying Salesforce.com database using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer.  • Imported products and price books using Data Loader.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Imported Accounts and Contacts data through Import Wizard.  • Worked on doing making enhancements to SFDC application required by business users from time to time.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, Validation rules on the objects and Tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages.  • Created Workflows rules, Field updates, Tasks, and Email alerts  • Extensively used HTML tags, Frames and CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) to maintain uniformity in the Web pages.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Worked with Salesforce.com premier support to resolve technical issues.    Environment: SaleForce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, Apps, Validation Rules, Workflows, Email-Alerts, Roles, Profiles, HTML, Java Script. Salesforce Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA April 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:    • Performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer in the organization.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Visualforce pages with responsive design using company CSS and style-sheets with the help of jQuery and static resources.  • Created the visual force pages and integrated with external legacy system using REST based web-services.  • Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects. Developed visual force pages using apex components.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Implemented REST Web Services with Jersey API to deal with customer requests.  • Responsible for writing test class for classes related to the project, helped other teams in writing it and always maintained overall 85% of code coverage and made a safe deployment for every bi weekly releases and major releases.  • Enforced security by implementing object and field level security, sharing rules, permission sets, organization wide defaults and roles.  • Performed code migration between the sand box and production platforms via eclipse force.com IDE plug-in.  • Performed Data Migration from home grown legacy system to Salesforce CRM.  • Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  • Conducted training sessions to the UAT users to use the Salesforce Knowledge application and developed a feedback custom report.  • Developed Call in Rest Services for e-Commerce (Online Sales).  • Developed Call Out Rest Services for Billing System and Provisioning.  • Code deployment was done using the Eclipse IDE, Deployment Change Set and Snapshot.  • Worked in agile methodology and participated in daily meetings and presentations in the organization.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Components and Controllers, Data Loader, Workflow and Validation Rules, Reports and Report Types, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Services, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer/Admin Cigna August 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in interacting with business users (subject matter experts), requirement gathering, defining functional and technical specifications.  • In the service cloud environment, performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization. Also Participated in translating and documentation of business requirements into functional requirements.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visual Force, Force.com API.  • Created the Custom fields for sales force CRM content management.  • Customized Company Profile, Page layouts, record types, Security & Access Controls and Communication Templates as per the organization requirements.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE with force.com platform for writing business logic in Apex Programming language.  • Implemented Agile and Lean principles to ensure speed-to-market of solutions and maximum business value capture.  • Designed and developed Visual Force pages based on the business requirements.  • Developed Complex Apex Batch Jobs and changes to the existing Jobs for better Performance.  • Used Chatter, worked together on sales opportunities, service cases and marketing campaigns and monitored the latest developments at the organization.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created case escalation rules to escalate cases automatically if they are not resolved within a certain period of time, also worked on app-exchange tools for tracking orders.  • Established new best practices in building marketing programs (email, trigger, operational, and SEM) within Marketo, with consistent naming conventions and type of assets used.  • Designed various web/landing pages to provide registration for various content downloads and event attendance through Marketo.  • Integrated a CRM search product Coveo, with Salesforce.com Service cloud and Communities Editions.  • Enabled unified indexing of multiple repositories, contextual search, and search management via the Salesforce console through Coveo.  • Created formula fields and Roll-up summary to validate the information provided by the customer using validation rules.  • Created templates using CSS, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Implemented salesforce.com web services client using Salesforce web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Exported data from legacy system and imported into SFDC through Apex data loader for data migration.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles.    Environment: Saleforce.com, Security Controls, Escalation rules, Apex, Assignment rules, Agile Methodology, Record types, Custom objects and Fields, Workflows, Rules, Web Services, HTML, CSS, Coveo, Marketo, Eclipse, Data loader. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Amgen - Thousand Oaks, CA November 2008 to July 2010 Responsibilities:  • Skilled the roles of Salesforce.com Administrator in the organization and Employed Data Loader to read, extract, and load data from CSV files.  • Achieved comprehensive analysis of business practices and guided on ways to boost up the processes.  • Designed Profiles, Roles based on Organization role hierarchy and implemented Record-Level and Field-Level security and configured their sharing settings.  • Skilled on Case Management, captured cases from the company's website and customer emails.  • Managed Auto response rules if customers approached beyond the business hours.  • Toiled on Record Types, Validation Rules, Triggers and Page Layouts.  • Designed workflow rules and specify related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to enable business logic.  • Generated sync of contacts, email alerts, events and tasks amidst Salesforce to Outlook and Outlook to Salesforce strongly.  • Organized Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was committed in doing the mail merge for various standard and custom objects.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Case Management, Accounts, Contacts, Content, Reports and Workspaces.  • Described organization hierarchy and built profiles, roles accordingly in Salesforce; managed on visibility and security settings around them as required by the business.  • Implicated in mapping the fields amidst the current reporting system and Salesforce using data loader.  • Achieved import and export operations to load customer data and other master data adopting data loader.  • Interpret business requirements into SFDC system functionality. Identify, evaluate, test and deploy solutions that are cost-effective and meet business requirements.  • Generated several Reports and Report folders to support managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and organized various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization.  • Deliver continuing support in the areas of SFDC configuration, administration, reporting, data migration, solution design and project co-ordination.  • Examined distinct business reports and governed the team on deployment and customization of those reports in Salesforce.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Record types, Reports, Dashboards, Email, Triggers, Sharing Rules, PowerPoint, Excel, Waterfall, Validation Rules, Messaging, Dashboards, Standard and Custom Objects. Java Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX January 2008 to October 2008 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for documenting the user requirements and system design specifications.  • Responsible for analyzing business processes, user new requirements.  • Analyzed current business process and investing the old system.  • Used HTML, CSS and JSP for developing web pages and JavaScript for client side validation.  • Designed and developed back end code using Servlets and JavaBeans.  • Designed and implemented the database interaction using JDBC, and stored procedures using PL/SQL.  • Involved in process of gathering, modeling and transforming data into useful Information.  • Created tables, Queries, indexes, stored procedures, triggers and constraints.  • Developed Logical data model, Physical data model and Entity Relationship Diagrams.  • Fixing defects on the JSP pages and working on enhancements.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Web Services SOAP, Restful, XML, Ajax, JSON, JSP, CSS3, HTML5, Hibernate, JDBC, UML, Eclipse. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communications Andhra University Skills LOADER (9 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), APEX (7 years), API (7 years), CRM (7 years), Salesforce.com CRM Application Platform, Apex Language, XML, Visualforce, S-Controls, Custom Objects, Tabs, Page Layouts, Workflows, Approval Processes, Email, Messaging, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse, ANT Migration tool (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML4/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery  Programming languages: C, C++, Java , Apex, Visualforce  Scripting: Ant, Maven, Java Scripts, xml,html  Salesforce Technologies:  Salesforce CRM, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, Apex Web Services, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation, Custom Objects, Apex Data Loader, Rest based API, Soap API    Databases: Oracle, DB2, My SQL, PL/SQL  Salesforce Tools: Workbench, Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Apex Data Loader, Agile, SCRUM  Operating System: UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  Other: MS visual studio, Putty, Wire Shark, Team Viewer, MS office 2013(Word, Excel, PP).