Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Cognizant USA Chicago, IL • 13+ years of IT experience in End to End management, development and implementation in Client/Server technology.  • Domain expertise in Banking, Credit Card,Payments,Home Loan (Mortgage), Healthcare, Insurance, Telecom and Logistics.  • Worked as an individual development contributor to project. Experience in development using Core Java,Spring,Apache Spark,CXF,SOA,Spring Integration,Spring Boot,SOAP,XML,MQ,JSP,Servlet,XML,JAXB,AJAX,Hibernate,Angular  Application server:Weblogic,Websphere,JBOSS,AWS by applying both the SDLC model and AGILE methodology of development and deliverable.   • Worked as a Project lead. I was involved in the team management related activities such as Resource planning, Time and Effort Estimation, Metrics generation to showcase overall team performance and SLA adherence, Work Allocation to team members, providing technical and business solutions to customers.   • Effective experience in handling project transitions right from the KT phase to the Steady state phase.  • An effective communicator with excellent relationship & interpersonal skills. Strong analytical, problem solving and organizational abilities. Good knowledge in training new members. Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Chicago, IL November 2017 to Present I am working for client Northern Trust for Balances Cash project using spring boot,spring integration,xml,angular technologies. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Richmond, VA February 2016 to October 2017 I worked at Capital one Cards project as Sr System Analyst.My roles includes end to end applications development.    EASE Credit Cards project:  As a senior software developer, I worked on EASE UI platform application for Web, Mobile, Android, IOS devices. I created UI features for credit cards such as Missing card, Report Disputes using angular JS, Type Scripts, REST API, Karma test cases.  Key Achievements:  As part of development team, I worked on  * Creating UI component screens, writing angularJS code etc.  * Writing karma test cases for angular components.  * Writing ATDD test cases.  * Site catalyst, Accessibility, Audit logging for UI components.  * Creating AAPI for report fraud get and close case module.  Credit Steps:  I worked on Apache Spark framework base project on Big data. The project was related to process huge data and stream eligible customers who qualify for credit steps increase.  Key Achievements:  As part of development team, I worked on  * Creating Spark base business rules for streaming data from files.  * Creating database tables for storing data using PostgreSQL.  * Creating REST API for storing data to database.  * Creating AWS Chef cookbook for API deployment to AWS.  * POC for creating AWS Lambda for triggering job.  Real Time Payments project:  I worked on various payments applications and worked on REST, SOAP, KAFKA message base micro services API.  Key Achievements:  As part of development team, I worked on  * Writing REST and SOAP webservices.  * Writing Junit, improving code line coverage.  * Improving code quality using Sonar, PMD, check styles etc. Sr. Software Engineer Cognizant USA - Plano, TX March 2014 to February 2016 I worked at Capital One home loan project as a senior software developer    EASE Home Loan project:  As a senior software developer, I worked on building mortgage, home-equity application for Web,Mobile, Android, IOS devices. I build several REST, SOAP base services for various functionalities such as Statements, Payments, Accounts, Escrow details etc. I worked on POC to connect to legacy applications and build REST, SOAP services. I also worked on UI using JavaScript and angular JS.  Salesforce Integration project:  I worked on migration of existing mortgage, home-equity tools base applications to Java, Salesforce.  During this project, I was involved in creating POC such as integrating web services with salesforce, building UI, authentication, role base mapping etc. I did research of existing functionality and created functional, technical documentations and build applications.  I worked in Java, J2EE, Spring, REST, SOAP web service, JMS, JAXB, Salesforce (Cloud computing), MongoDB, maven, tomcat, weblogic, CI/CD, GIT, angularJS, Junit, Mockito etc. technology using Agile methodology. Sr. Java Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Lowell, AR January 2013 to February 2014 In Cognizant as a Senior Developer I worked for JB Hunt client.The project was integration of existing in house applications with third party product and upgrade existing functionality.  I am working in spring, CXF SOAP web service, JMS, JAXB technology.    Technology used in project: Java, J2EE, spring, CXF SOAP web service, JMS, JAXB creation. Migrate existing COBOL program logic to java base web services (cxf) etc. Sr. Java Developer Cognizant India - Pune, Maharashtra July 2011 to December 2012 I worked as Senior Associate-Projects (team lead) in UBS WMA investment bank applications. These application deals with financial advisors day to day activity to manage client's wealth and asset using various applications. I did enhancement and support to these applications.    Key Achievements:  As a Project lead, I lead a team size of 5, I was responsible for End to End management of the project which includes below responsibility -  • Requirement gathering & Impact Analysis.  • Code Review with Code approval and Unit Test approval.  • Provide required support during various phases of Testing until successfully released in production.  • Provide the required support for any fix required for post production release.  • Measure the overall team performance and showcase it to the customer.  • Provided post production support of application, resolved client queries.  • Inform client about new findings / changes required in the existing applications.    CLIENT:  UBS AG WMA    ENVIRONMENT:  Core Java, J2ee, JSP, Servlets, Web Services, Spring, JSP, Jquery, ExtJS, RAD7.5  Database: DB2 Consultant Capgemini - Pune, Maharashtra June 2009 to June 2011 In Capgemini as a Senior Developer I worked in ITRFD project.It's a web base project to create on demand request for Morgan Stanley employee's information that leaves the firm across the globe. Such as emails, PC/network data, voice records etc any other confidential data.  There is request approver functionality to approve request raised by users for particular information.  Daily, weekly autosys jobs present to send reminders to approvers to approve request and send status mails to requester.    ITRFD webform sends request to Archer (central system which is integrated with other systems) once request is approved by Lavel 1,2 and 3 approvers by webservices.  Once request is present in archer corresponding group takes action on the request and provides data to user.  There is also draft functionality for user to save request temporary and worked it on later.    Key Achievements:  As a Project lead, leading a team size of 2, I was responsible for End to End management of the project which included -  • Sole point of contact for Client during analysis, design and development.  • Created database design, tables, store procedure of application.  • Involved in estimation process.  • Created screen design and share idea with client for user friendly GUI during development, enhancement phase.  • Provided post production support of application, resolved client queries.  • Inform client about new findings / changes required in the existing modules.  • Create, maintain and support tools used in development phase.  • Ensured the Morgan Stanley coding standards are followed during code review.  CLIENT:  Morgan Stanley    ENVIRONMENT:  Java (J2EE), Springs, hibernate, WSDL, XML, XSD, Eclipse 3.3, Tomcat 5.5, Oracle 9i Database, SQL developer, SOAPUI 3.0. Entitlement tool Eclipse Consultant Capgemini - Pune, Maharashtra June 2010 to March 2011 In Capgemini as a Senior Developer I worked in FA Assignment project.This project is used to assign Financial Advisor on rotation basis to those who have Million dollar account in Morgan Stanley. There is auto generated monthly and weekly cycle to assign FA.There is system check, FA should not assign multiple accounts for particular duration.There is also provision to assign FA manually and to make a monthly plan for advisors.    Key Achievements:  • Involved in Requirement gathering from client.  • Analyse requirement to provide FA rotation cycle solution.  • Involved in estimation process.  • Document the new solution.  • Modify the code and test it for new functionality.  • Provide Performance based system solutions.    CLIENT:  Morgan Stanley    ENVIRONMENT:  Core Java, J2ee, Spring, Hibernate  Database: Sybase (in DEV, UAT),DB2(in PROD) Tools: DBArtisan,Entitlement tool Eclipse Consultant Capgemini - Pune, Maharashtra September 2010 to October 2010 In Capgemini as a Senior Developer I worked in Staffing Management project for Morgan Stanley to assign employees to project as per their skill set, experience level and their bandwidth.  There is autosys jobs which sends weekly emails about status of project.    Key Achievements:  • Support in Requirement Analysis and Design to Client.  • Involved in estimation process.  • Involved in Development, testing of application.  CLIENT:  Morgan Stanley    ENVIRONMENT:  Core Java, J2ee, Spring Database: Sybase Tools: DBArtisan, Entitlement tool Eclipse Consultant Capgemini - Pune, Maharashtra June 2009 to August 2010 BIZCON (Business Continuity Planning) for each project of Morgan Stanley there is alternate plan of BCP location in case of any issue arises to current location. This is a web base project used across globe to plan alternate BCP for each critical and important projects.BCP owner can view plan of each location in pdf format and select location from available locations, reserved floor, number of seats. BCP owner can also reserved hardware, telephones etc from application. Once BCP owner fills all details, he can generate plan in pdf format and send this plan to project relevant groups via email.    Key Achievements:  As a senior developer I was responsible for project development which included -  • Requirement gathering & Impact Analysis.  • Helping in creating the High level design document (flow chart format) and a detailed design document which is a low level design document and giving the final approval for the coding to begin.  • Coding, Code Review with Code approval and Unit Test approval.  • Maintain application and done enhancement base on change requests in phase 2.    CLIENT:  Morgan Stanley    ENVIRONMENT:  Core Java, J2ee, Spring Database: Sybase Tools: DBArtisan, Entitlement tool Eclipse Consultant Capgemini - Pune, Maharashtra July 2007 to June 2009 At Capgemini I worked for HSBC Project: EChamps HBEU and HBEU Upgrade Jul'07 - Jun' 09    I assisted in analysis and development of the eChamps HBEU, HBMX, Compliance and HBEU Upgrade credit card call center application a web based application system. EChamps is a credit card call-center application that provides inquiry and update functionality for customer account information hosted by Whirl 8 mainframe applications. CSR can work on customer's account as per customer's request using this application and provide various account details to user as per his need.  Can worked on disputes raised by users and adjust interest amount in monthly cycle.  Can also reverse transaction which is disputed transaction.  Can generate transaction report for required period and provide information to user.  Key Achievements:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Documentation, Development (Using Core java, J2ee, MQ, Mainframe) and Testing of application.  • Interaction & co-ordination with the Capgemini Onsite team throughout the project cycle.  • Developed various modules such as statement and transaction, resolve dispute, loyalty modules etc.  • Preparation of the Technical Specs.  • Coding the business operations and validation (Using Core java, javascript)  • Preparation of the Unit Test Cases.  • Perform Unit Testing  • Involved in review activities and in ensuring quality of all the project deliverables from offshore.    CLIENT:  HCBC    ENVIRONMENT: Core Java, J2EE, IBM MQ-Series, Java script Programmer Analyst, I Syntel - Pune, Maharashtra September 2005 to June 2007 Assisted in analysis and development in various modules of McKesson healthcare project. I worked in Payment and Adjustment modules related to financial transactions between patient and hospital. Patient has various schemes from Insurance Company. Depending on criteria of Insurance policy which patient purchase from Insurance Company, there is payment and adjustment in corresponding bill of patient. I worked as an analyst, developer in various modules such as Payment and Adjustments, daily balancing, refunds, RM banner etc.    Key Achievements:  As a Senior Software Engineer (with a team size of 10), I was responsible for the follows -  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Documentation, and Development.  • Maintain and enhance code pertaining to the change request.  • Worked on performance improvement of the system  • Preparation of the Tech Specs.  • Preparation of the Unit Test Cases.  • Perform Unit Testing  • Involved in review activities and in ensuring quality of all the project deliverables from offshore.  CLIENT:  McKesson    ENVIRONMENT:  Core java, XML, Oracle.Windows Developer Clover Infotech April 2005 to September 2005 IPOS & CRS System: As a developer and support to system I worked in J2EE Technologies. Project was designed for Hutchison Max Telecommunication (Orange), for inventory, Billing and customer registration system. In this project all the prepaid Cell No billing and registration system implemented at Orange House. Project designed using Java, JSP, Servlets, Java Bean and Oracle 8i at the Back-end following MVC Model and deployed on Tomcat.    This project is used by CSR to handle customer's queries and modify personal data such as address change, email, billing payment mode details.    Key Achievements:  As a Software Engineer (with a team size of 8) i was responsible for -  • Basic Design of the application.  • Development of the business logic using Servlets, java.  • Development of the Jsp view screens using JSP.  • Code modification and unit testing in the test environment.  • Testing of the developed application.    CLIENT:  Hutch mobile (Orange)    ENVIRONMENT:  HTML, JavaScript, Java (J2EE), Servlets, JSP, Oracle, Eclipse (IDE), Apache Tomcat. Education BE in Computer SSBT COET - Jalgaon, Maharashtra Skills java (10+ years), Spring (10+ years), J2EE (10+ years), Angular, Javascript, Apache Spark (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (2 years), Spring Boot (6 years), Oracle (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/prasadvkulkarni Additional Information Methodologies: AGILE,SPRINT, Waterfall  Internet Tools/JS Framework: HTML, XSLT,CSS, Java script,Jquery,Angular, JavaScript  Web Services ( Java / J2ee)  Middle-Tier: XML, Data Modeling, UML, Worked on IBM Requisite Pro POC. Autosys jobs  Other: Cognizant certified architectural Level0 (CCA L0)  Architectural internal certification: BFS L0 certified