Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - JP Morgan Chase, NJ • 10+ years of experience in design, development and implementation of Java/J2EE applications.  • Proven experience in successfully delivering time sensitive projects with high quality.  • Experience in working on large scale Java/J2EE applications consisting of different subsystems.  • Exposed to all phases of SDLC from Requirements gathering to User Acceptance.  • Very strong understanding of Enterprise application architecture and experience in using various design patterns.  • Excellent debugging and problem solving skills.  • Aptitude for learning new technologies and tools.  • Good team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer JP Morgan Chase, NJ January 2015 to Present Pay with Chase is JP Morgan's homegrown wallet solution for maintaining and protecting customer's credit cards. Senior Java Developer Morgan Stanley, NY September 2013 to November 2014 GL renovation project involves moving Morgan Stanley's general ledger functionality from mainframe to SAP. It involves development of various service components for interaction between existing systems and SAP system. Project Leader JP Morgan Chase, NJ July 2010 to August 2013 Treasury services - Admin Center" application is used to onboard a Client and provide entitlements (bank services) requested by the client to its associates. Senior Java Developer Direct Brands NY November 2007 to July 2010 The Columbia House DVD club is the largest direct marketer of DVDs in the United States and Canada. The club features the latest releases, blockbusters as well as classics. The website offers its members the convenience of purchasing online.    The project involved the redesign and rewrite of the DVD site with a view towards easier maintenance and greater flexibility for the marketing team.    Technologies: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Hibernate3.28, Groovy, ehcache, Oracle 10g, JBoss 4.2, JProbe, Maven, JUnit, Jmock, web services, Spring/Acegi security, IBM MQ, SVN, Windows/Linux, Shell scripting, Scrum methodology    Responsibilities:  • Worked with business analysts to analyze the business requirements, convert them into a software problem and implementing them.  • Implemented business layer components for Director Selection according to the business rules.  • Worked extensively on Hibernate, Spring framework, IBM MQ, ehcache, Jboss, JUnit, Web Services, Quartz scheduler, Shell scripting, JMX (for hibernate, Ehcache statistics).  • Configured internal maven repositories and the project build configurations (Development, QA and Production) using maven.  • Involved in performance tuning using Jmeter, JProbe and JConsole.  • Used heap dumps and heap dump analysis to analyze and track memory leaks in the application. Senior Java Developer ADP Corporation - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2005 to August 2007 EasyPayNet system is a payroll data entry and monitoring applications. Here, user (Employer) logs into the application to enter their company information, employee information, payroll schedules, and the payroll information. Once user has set up these things in the application he can track payroll status and tax returns of his employees.    Environment: JAVA, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JBoss, AJAX, Oracle 9i, IBM MQ Server, Microsoft Visio, JUNIT, MKS, Jasper Reports, MiddleGen, Ant, Eclipse IDE, Pearl/bash    Responsibilities:  • Designed Class, sequence diagrams using Microsoft Visio  • Worked on spring, Hibernate (Mapping, Query tuning), stored procedures.  • Developed messaging module, which communicates with MQ Server go load and retrieve data from AS400.  • Developed advanced log, Statistics and Cycle Reports using Jasper Reports. Java Developer ADP Corporation - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2004 to August 2005 Full Level tax(FLT) is an application that allows ADP to do Tax filing and returns on employer's behalf. In this application employer data comes from a mainframe. Application uses this data to calculate the tax, taking complex business rules such as different tax jurisdictions into consideration. Once it is done with calculations, it uploads the data into a mainframe using MQServer.    Environment: JAVA 1.4.2, Swing, EJB 2.0, Borland JBuilder, JAAS, SOAP, Axis, JAX-RPC, JMS, IBM MQ, DB2, Microsoft Visio, JUNIT, Jasper Reports, iReport, Log4J, PVCS.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Stateless/Stateful/Entity beans.  • Used Java Mail API for sending email notification module to notify clients about their status as perceived by system.  • Developed web services to get jurisdiction tax information from a legacy system (EPOPS) written in C language using SOAP, and Axis soap engine.  • Implemented messaging using JMS/MQ.  • Designed reports using Jasper Reports in iReports editor. Hibernate(JPA) March 2003 to May 2003 ehcache, Web Services (REST and SOAP), DB2, Clustering, Websphere, Crucible, Splunk, SVN, IBM MQ, JUnit 4.0, Jackson(JSON), Concordion Mockito, Windows/Linux    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Payment tech MPP integration.  • Worked on pay with chase (chase's equivalent of pay pall) services.  • Worked on appX - chase's gift card wallet for mobile services.  • Trillium Address service integration  • Production support  • Tests with Mockito and Junit4 Developed Reference Data Broker Jackson(JSON) March 2003 to May 2003 H2 database, IBM MQ, JUnit 4.0, Concordion User Acceptance Tests, Windows/Linux    Responsibilities:  • Developed ETL tools to aid data format conversions.  • Developed Reference Data Broker (RDB), which is responsible for communicating between SAP and other existing components.  • Developed Fx Rates publisher (FXRP), which is responsible for communication between SAP and daily rates publisher for all the major markets.  • Developed Reference Data Publisher(RDP) to migrate the existing mainframe data to SAP. Implemented application life cycle testing suit with Junit4.  • Implemented User Acceptance Testing using Concordion. Lead the team of 6 developers Scala March 2003 to May 2003 Spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.3.2, JPA, ehcache, Oracle 11, Tomcat 6.0, Maven, JUnit 4.0, web services, JProbe, IBM MQ, SVN, Windows/Linux    Responsibilities:  • Lead the team of 6 developers on the project.  • Involved in design, development, testing, maintenance phases of the project.  • Provided technical assistance to the other members of the team (as Spring/Hibernate Subject Matter Expert)  • Worked extensively on ORM (Hibernate), Spring transactions, ehcache.  • Created POC for scheduling framework using Scala.  • Involved in heap dump analysis to analyze and track memory leaks in the application  • Involved in performance tuning using JProbe  • Implemented application life cycle testing suit with Junit4. Education Bachelor of technology in Computer Science JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Development Cycle Architecture, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Maintenance  Programming Java, Scala, Ruby, C++, C, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, PHP  Design UML with Rational, OO Design, J2EE, Amertas Eclipse plug-in  Frameworks / APIs Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Rails, Play 2.0, JUnit, Web Services, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS (MQ, Mule), LDAP, XML  Application Servers JBoss, WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat  Databases DB2, Oracle, My SQL, Postgresql  IDE Eclipse, Borland Jbuilder, WSAD, RAD, iReports  Version Control GIT, SVN, CVS, PVCS, MKS, VSS and Clear case  Performance Tuning JProbe, JConsole  Build Tools Ant, Maven  Platforms Solaris, Unix, Linux, Windows XP, 2000, NT