Sr.Mule Soft Developer Sr.Mule Soft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Mule Soft Developer - Constellation Brands Arlington, TX • 9+ years' experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) experience in object oriented applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies, application Software Specifications, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and debugging, Maintenance.  • Extensive experience in Mule ESB Development and Testing over Any point Studio, Any point Cloud Hub, API Gateway management.  • Designed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Flow Charts, and deployment diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Experience in creating Web Services using JAX-WS, Apache Axis, XSL, XSLT, WSDL and SOAP message.  • Strong Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Services (SOAP/WSDL) and REST Web Services.  • Strong Mule ESB experience with implementing Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x.  • Extensively worked on XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, XQuery, Xpath and DTD.  • Worked with XML parsers like SAX, DOM, JDOM, XML Beans and JAXP.  • Experienced in front-end technologies like XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, and GWT.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL programming. RDBMS experience includes Oracle, MS SQL Server IBM DB2, and Stored Procedures & Triggers.  • Involved in creating java classes to syndicate the data from legacy system to the SAP hybris system.  • Expertise in using ANT and Maven scripts for building & deploying application in web/App servers.  • Well experienced in working with application servers including IBM WebSphere, Red Hat JBoss Oracle Web Logic and Apache Tomcat servers.  • Experience in developing test cases and test plans by using Junit. Extensive experience in Unit testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  • Design and development of integration workflows using Mulesoft ESB.  • Extensive hands on experience in consuming as well as developing API for SOAP and REST based Web services to integrate third party functional modules like Facebook, Twitter, Google into the core application.  • Expertise in using Mule Soft studio in creating various flows to integrate API's, Databases and SAAS applications.  • Experience developing on the Mule ESB platform to deliver SOAP & REST based APIs.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing.  • Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  • Experience in Mule Administration, Configuration, & Tuning with Mulesoft MMC & Enterprise release capabilities.  • Proficient with Web Services Description Language (WSDL) for describing Web services and developing a UDDI compliant registry for publishing and finding description for Web services.  • Performed System Integration test to ensure quality of the system.  • Knowledge in other integration tools like BizTalk, iWay and Azure logic apps.  • Knowledge on REX and Splunk architecture.  • Salesforce integration and along with different applications such as Trumba (Event planner) and the databases.  • Hands on experience in solving software design issues by applying design patterns including Singleton Pattern, Session Facade, MVC, Proxy Pattern, Service Locator Pattern, Builder Pattern, DTO Pattern, DAO Pattern and Command Pattern.  • Team-player with excellent communication and writing skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Mule Soft Developer Constellation Brands - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed few applications which connects to Webservice and will transform the outputand process data to third party system.  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.  • Work closely with functional leads/PMs to understand the partner integration requirements.  • Integrated different enterprise applications based on the designed architecture.  • Used putty for ssh keys and passwords information to access the folders.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from Queue and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Used DataWeave for Lookup, data transformations and data validations within flows & subflows.  • Implemented synchronous and Asynchronous messaging scopes using AnypointMQ in Mule.  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Extensively used Mule components that includes File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, JDBC Connector.  • Developed RESTful web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture  • Building web applications in WCAG guidelines.  • Configured server setting properties and Database drivers.  • Used encryption algorithms to encrypt the fields in the environment properties.  • Used Quartz connector to schedule the batch jobs.  • Used Mule Requester for different scenarios to fetch data from end point.  • Architected Integrations using Mule Soft ESB environment for Cloudhub.  • Experience in Mulesoft Any point API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's usingRAML File.  • Experience developing web applications with a PostgreSQL and AnypointMQ.  • For Continuous Integration Used Circle CI.  • Used GitHub as version control.  • Working knowledge of API management using Anypoint API management tools.  • Involved in creation & deployment of the application, done with unit testing by writing theMUnit test case.  • Provided production support by debugging system issues.    Environment: Java 1.8, Anypoint Studio 6.4.1, PostgreSQL 9.3, Mule ESB 3.8.4 with Mule Server 3.8.4, Mule Cloud hub, AnypointMQ, RAML, Apache-Maven 3.5.0, Log4j 1.2.14, Nexus (Nexus Maven Repository), FileZilla, Putty, Circle CI, GITHUB, Postman, SoapUI. Sr. Mule Soft Developer Mulesoft - Chicago, IL June 2016 to July 2017 Description: Created API's for Employee, Customer, Retail data and integrating from Service now, Salesforce, Sucessfactors into Hadoop database.    Responsibilities:  • Used Agile methodology was to emphasize on face-to-face communication over written documents and make sure that iteration is passing through a full software development cycle.  • Designed UML diagrams like Use case, Class and Activity diagram based on the requirements gathered.  • Implemented the Design Patterns like Session Facade, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Service Locator, and Data Access Object (DAO). Developed the web pages using JSP and Servers.  • Integrated Salesforce components in Mule ESB for connecting applications, data sources, APIs and different ERP tools.  • Developed the integration workflows using a MuleSoft ESB 3.7.3 framework.  • Done with integrations using connectors such as Sale force, HL7, SAP, Data Base, HTTP, FTP and File Connectors.  • Migrated Mule ESB 3.5.1 apps to Mule ESB 3.7.3.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through OAuth.  • Used Data base Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Have written MUnit test cases to validate the Mule flows.  • Experience in Mulesoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule API's.  • Done with asynchronous messaging using Active MQ.  • Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE configuration files and deployed.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from ActiveMQ topics and queues, some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Extensively used Mule components that include DataWeave, JAXB, File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, and JDBC Connector.  • Involved in creating java classes to syndicate the data from legacy system to the SAP hybris system.  • Developed the services interface to access the core services and provisioning services using Mule ESB.  • Designed and developed enterprise services using RAML and REST based APIs.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Experience with Mulesoft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Salesforce integration and along with different applications such as Trumba (Event planner) and databases.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Designed and implemented the server side logic using EJB.  • Designed transformer to read fitment backup xml and save to hybris type.  • Fixed several bugs related to code reviews done by SAP hybris.  • Performed integrated with other sub-systems through JMS, XML and XSLT.  • Implemented application communication through asynchronous messaging using MDB.  • Implemented Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database and configured .hbm and .cfg.xml files according to hibernate framework.  • Developed test scripts in JUnit and involved in testing.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Used GIT Hub for the version control.    Environment: JAVA 1.7, IntelliJ, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JAXB, Mule ESB 3.5/3.7.3, Maven, ActiveMQ, RAML, Any point Studio 5.4.1, Nexus, Apache-Maven, Cloudhub, XML, CSS, Ajax, JSTL, WebLogic Application server 10.3, LDAP, Oracle 11g- PL/SQL, SQL, Log4J, CVS, DOJO, Web Services - WSDL, SOAP, CXF, JAX-WS, JAX-RS. Sr. Java/J2EE Mule ESB Integration Developer HERSHEYS - Hershey, PA March 2012 to May 2016 Description: Integration of teradata (legacy pages) into SAP hybris using Mule ESB. Retail Execution (REX) is used by Hershey's for their retail market at their backend and giving guidance for offshore team.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using agile methodology and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  • Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database.  • Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Designed UI layout using JSP, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, and JSTL Taglibs, AngularJS.  • Developed RESTful web services using Spring, Jackson, Jersey, JSON in order to implement various APIs to check eligibility, provision, suspend, resume and delete a credit card token.  • Extensively used SoapUI Pro to perform local testing, System testing and Integration testing.  • Involved in creation of WSDL based on UI wireframes.  • Used WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and JAX-WS technologies to create web services by generating stubs and consuming the existing services.  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Packages, PL/SQL scripts are used to query the database. Designed & implemented client/server application to plan package forwarding & route scheduling.  • Used JIRA as issue tracker to file the bugs.  • Used Subversion for software version control.  • Used Jenkins for CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment).  • Written Unit testing and Test suites using JUnit framework for testing the application.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in WebLogic server.  • Involved in the development of reports using iText tool.  • Used Mule to configure Inbound and Outbound messages for message transformation between applications.  • Created Request transformer, Response transformers, Custom Components and configured them in Mule-config.xml.  • Created Mule Flow using End Point, Connector and Component been using Mule ESB to communicate client/server systems.  • Created Mule ESB helper class to call the Mule flow, connection end point and connectors directly from Java component instead of creating another Mule Flow.  • Used Mule Data Mapper, Custom transformers for mapping flat file structures to Salesforce interface structures.  • Worked on creating SOAP and REST web services in Mule, Consumption of REST and SOAP web services for downstream systems.  • Used Mule ESB CXF component in the Mule configuration file to consume SOAP web services.  • Good hands on UNIX commands used to see the log files on the production server and also developed several shell Scripts to automate file transfers.  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA and Oracle Fusion Middleware.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring , Hibernate, JQuery, Angular.js, , Node.js, WebLogic, Mule ESB, JUnit, UML, JSP, JSTL , JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX, Oracle, CRUD, SQL, EJB, PL/ SQL, Apache CXF, REST, Eclipse, Servlets, Maven, IText, Jira, Web 2.0, SOA, Jasper Report, ILOG. Java Developer AIG - Jersey City, NJ July 2010 to January 2012 Description: Clinical Content Management System is Clinical Information Architecture is a centralized gateway providing access to the company's analytical and data reporting tools. It provides an automated interface to send real-time data updates. It also provides online validation of patient data. Modules involved: Data Management Utility - This provides the user the ability to view, validate and update patient data.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed user requirements and designed the user interfaces, object model, application server logic and schema.  • Implemented RUP development processes on Software Development life cycle.  • Designed JSP pages using struts tag libraries, HTML, DHTML and Java script.  • Used Core Java - GOF & J2EE patterns for designing the applications.  • Coded Struts Action Classes and Model Classes.  • Worked with designers to get GUI mockups.  • Reviewing the code developed by other developers.  • Used and configured Struts Dynamic Action Forms, Message Resources, Action Messages, Action Errors, Validation.xml, Validator-rules.xml.  • Involved in writing code for Form Beans, Java Actions, DTO and DAO for accessing business methods in the business layer.  • Used J2EE web-services to get geographic data (city, country etc.) and EJBs for credit card validation etc.  • Used Struts2.0 and interacted with backend database using Hibernate framework.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information from the Oracle database.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for writing the queries.  • Created rules using Drools to support Business Validations across project.  • Created Hibernate mapping files, sessions, transacti0ons, Query and Criteria's.  • Used Valuator framework of the Struts2.0 for client side and server side validation.  • Implemented and used Web Services with the help of WSDL and SOAP to get updates from the third parties.  • Used Apache CXF, WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and JAX-WS technologies to create web services, generate stubs and consuming the existing services.  • Involved in developing Restful web services using CXF as wrappers to access existing business services by Mobile channel.  • Worked with QA team to validate the test cases whether the test cases meeting business Requirements or not.  • Used SAML for SSO login to access the web service provided and OAuth for authorizing the user to the application.  • Used SVN for version and source control.  • Deployed the applications into LIVE and QA Environment.  • Identified check style, PMD and Find bugs and fixed them.  • Involved in creating JUNIT test cases and ran the TEST SUITE using EMMA tool.  • Extensively involved in unit testing, worked with user's team to fix the bugs identified in Systems testing.  • Actively participated in promoting the application into production.  Environments: Java 1.5, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, JS , CSS, DOJO, Apache-Tomcat, Maven Repository, JMS, DOM/SAX, XML, XSD, XSLT, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, TOAD, Eclipse, JUnit, CVS, Struts, MVC, Oracle coherence, JSM, Web Services, WSDL, Drools, JAX-WS, CXF, JAX-Restful Services, JAXP, JAXB, QC. Java Developer FedEx - Irving, TX May 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Project Design Documentation, design Reviews and Code Reviews.  • Understanding the functional specifications and architecture.  • Implemented MVC-Model 2 architecture using Struts 1.1, J2EE design patterns for the application development.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Developing and coding J2EE Components with JSP, Java Beans, and business objects with Hibernate.  • Configured connection pooling using Web Sphere application server.  • Developed and Deployed the Application on WebSphere using ANT build.xml script.  • Developed SQL Server stored procedures to execute the backend processes using.  • Implemented Remote and Home interfaces for the Bean.  • Developed Bean's implementation Class.  • Developed Deployment descriptor using XML files.  • Developed jar file and then deployed the Bean.  • Designed tables to access DB in Oracle and involved in writing PL/SQL, stored procedures, and triggers.  • Created DSN in ODBC for database connectivity.  • Configured the Web Logic Console by creating Connection Pool.  • Used Eclipse to develop the Application.  • Integrated other sub-systems through, XML and XSL.  • BEA WebLogic was used as both the Application server in the development and production environment.  • Used SVN for version controlling.  Environment: Windows NT/XP, Java 1.4, J2EE JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, UML, Struts1.1, SVN, BEA Web logic application server, Servlets, JSP, EJB - session beans, entity beans, JMS, XML, XSL, XSD, Oracle - SQL & PLSQL. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (9 years), Java (9 years), JSP (9 years), Oracle (9 years), PL/SQL (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Application Servers Web sphere Application Server, BEA Web logic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss 4.2.x, JBoss 5.1 EAP.  ESB/EAI Mule ESB 3.7, 3.6, 3.5, 3.3, Oracle ESB.  J2EE Technologies J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, JIRA, Angular JS, JDBC, MVC, OOP, Grails, Hibernate, spring, XML.  Messaging Systems/ Web services JMS, Active MQ, SOAP, Rest, WSDL, JAX-RS and JAX-WS.  Languages Java, PL/SQL, Bash, UML, XML, HTML.  IDE Tools RSA, RAD, WSAD, Eclipse, MyEclipse, and NetBeans.  Web Technologies JavaScript, CSS, AWS, Mule ESB, HTML5, DHTML, XML, DTD, HTTP, and HTTPS.  Spring framework  Bean Factory, Application Context, Dependency Injection/IOC, MVC, Struts, and Data Binding, AOP, JDBC, ORM, JMS, batch jobs, and schedulers (Quartz).    Distributed computing SOAP WS, Restful WS, JMS API, WSDL, JAXP, JAXB, JNDI and XML.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server, and MS Access.  Design Methodologies UML, Rational Rose, Agile, SCRUM, TDD, and XP.  Version control Tools SVN, CVS, and Clear Case.  Operating Systems UNIX (Solaris, Ubuntu, Linux, and OSX); Windows 9x/XP/Vista/7/8.  Testing Tools JUnit, mUnit, Postman, boomerang and SOAP UI.