Websphere Consultant Websphere Consultant Websphere Consultant - Ellucian Philadelphia, PA • Having 10+ years of experience in Enterprise application Integration includes providing Architectural Solutions.  • Technical experience includes DataPower, WebSphereMQ and WebSphere Message Broker in Development, Administration and configuration implementation in SOA.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in EAI in IBMIntegrationBus (IIB), IBM WebSphere Message Broker V8.0/V7.0.  • Hands-on experience designing and implementing WMQ and WMB in huge and complex environments using High Availability Clustering on various platforms.  • Experience in configuring & creating components of DataPower appliance such as Web Service Proxy, Multi-Protocol Gateway, XML Firewall Implemented security policies like Authentication, Authorization & Auditing in a Multi-protocol Gateway.  • Experienced in configuration, creation and decommission of middleware MQ and MB infrastructure connected to applications with queue managers (AIX, Linux, Windows, and Z/OS).  • Experience in MPGW, WSP and XML firewall services in DataPower.  • Have worked on connecting with DataPower from Message Broker.  • Experience in Integration of DataPower with WSRR.  • Experience in creating Clusters, File transfers and Integration Nodes in WebSphereMQ explorer.  • Created crypto objects as part of the implementation of digital signature to ensure data integrity.  • Designed and implemented the Publish/Subscribe message pattern.  • Experience in Multi-Tier and Wed Enabling the legacy system with IBM Web sphere MQ series and IBM Webspheremessagebroker.  • Proficient in developing message flows and message sets and building the deployable broker archive (BAR) files.  • Provide consultation support to 200 application teams across the organization to correct their header issues related to IIH, RFH2 &MQMD that are not tolerated in MQv7.  • Expertise in different nodes of WMB such as Web services, Web sphere MQ, HTTP, Transformation, construction,and Database.  • Good experience in handling administrative activities and production issues.  • Enabling Triggering on MQ queues based on the requirement of various interfaces.  • Have used MQM commands for accessing MQ and MQSI commands for accessing Brokers.  • Good Experience in configuring and creating components of DataPower application such as Web service proxy, Multi-protocol gateway, XML firewall.  • Highly motivated team member with strong communication, analytical and organization skills.  • Extensive experience in designing and development of WSP, MPG and XML Firewalls objects using IBM Data Power XI50/XI52 involving SFTP, MQ, HTTPS and HTTP, LDAP, LDAPS protocols.  • Hands on experience in integrating Data Power with MQ, SFTP Server for SOA and Oracle 11g Database.  • Hands-on experience with supporting the development lifecycle from design > development > pre-production > production > implementation > post-implementation support.  • Has knowledge and experience in developing and implementing Web Services security standards using SAML Assertions and WS-Security.  • Exposure to automated deployments with Data Power including usage of Deployment Policies.  • Exposure to CLI, SOMA and Web GUI.  • Hands-on experience in configuring AAA objects for Authentication, Authorization of Data Power client applications.  • Hands-on experience in exposing REST based services through Data Power including various message formats including XML, JSON.  • Hands-on experience with XSLT and Stylesheet development within Data Power using DataPower Extension functions. Work Experience Websphere Consultant Ellucian - Reston, VA October 2017 to Present Description: We provide technology solutions and services that remove barriers, helping higher education institutions achieve student success. It's been our total focus for more than 40 years. Our passion speaks for itself: today we serve 2,500 institutions and 18 million students in 50 countries around the globe.  Responsibilities:  • Create documentation associated with MessageBroker flows including detailed design, technical design, message flow diagrams, system topologies, and test cases.  • Developed Stored procedures and built message flow to Interact to Databases with Stored Procedures.  • Developed message flows to interact with Backend Databases  • Design, develop, test, and service over many WebSphere Message Broker flows using, v8, and IBM Integration Bus(IIB)v9  • Developed Message Broker services for SAP integration (RFC/BAPI, ALE/IDOC) with SAP Adapters and HTTP services with SAP Net weaver (PI) web services.  • Created SOAP and REST-based Web services in IIB & Message Broker using SOAP and HTTPNodes.  • Developed Web services using SOAP and HTTP Nodes (REST) in IIB/Message Broker  • Working with multiple integration teams likeBPCS, Delboomi, Vastera, Axway to understand the interface and create Mapping documents and specifications.  • Working on Code review for more many project Interfaces and crosscheck, the functionality, Testing,and coding standard.  • Experienced in giving Knowledge transfer for Build to run and leading different meetings with the onshore and offshore team.  • Working closely fixing defects for requirement mapping changes, coding or database issues.  • Experienced with MQSeries, creating, reviewing scripts, write Script for Self-healing healing Queue Depth using wily.  • Used java computes node to write some java classes to corporate broker functionalities which couldnot be done in SQL like file compressions.  • Created the execution groups, broker domains,and topologies.  • Involved in a team that administered MQ, Message Broker in Development and test environments  • Involved in administration tasks using MQSC commands like creating Queue Managers, Queue, Channels,backup,and recovery.  • Involved in a team that administered MQ, Message Broker in Development and test environments  • Setup and configured WSRR to store the web services.    Environment: IBM Integration Toolkit v7&v8, IBM Integration Bus Toolkit, MQ Explorer, SOAP UI, RFHUTIL. Websphere Consultant Blue Shield - San Francisco, CA September 2015 to October 2017 Description: Blue Shield of California, an independent member of the Blue Shield Association, is a nonprofit health plan dedicated to providing Californians with access to high-quality health care at an affordable price.    Responsibilities:  • Meeting with system analysts to finalize mapping documents for interfaces and design requirements.  • Performed administration tasks in development and test environments on MQ and Message Broker.  • Installed Websphere Message Broker, Websphere MQ in development and test environments.  • Websphere Message Broker was used for routing, transformation and data enrichment.  • Designed and developed WMB Message flows and Message sets using the toolkit.  • Developed message sets in CWF, TDS, EDI, Name-Value pair MRM formats.  • Developed SOA, EAI, Web Services and Workflow based solutions for quick response time, integration with disparate systems and efficiency improvements.  • Involved in a team that administered MQ, Message Broker in Development and test environments.  • DB2 was used as broker database and Oracle was used for inbound and outbound message auditing.  • SQL was used extensively for message transformation.  • Expertise in Websphere Cast Iron, IBM WebSphere ESB,and Mule ESB technologies  • Developed SQL code for various message flow nodes like Compute and database.  • Used Java compute nodes for some of the complicated flows that involved sales for processing the JAR files that were created using servlets and JDBC Connections.  • Developed Publish and Subscribe flows.  • Deploying the message flows in WBIMB by creating the broker archive file/bar file.  • Debugging message flows.  • Creating datasets and unit testing.  • Problem identification and resolution on development, test and acceptance.  • Used SQL to execute database stored procedures, to get information from database tables, views.  • Set up ODBC client connections in the broker, SSL certificate registration with a broker.  • Built message flows to audit every incoming and outgoing message from and to the broker. i.e., before and after transformation of each transaction.  • Wrote some java classes with methods to complement broker functionality and called those java methods from SQL.  • Involved in migrating message flow and message set projects from Message Broker version 5.0 to Version 6.0 and also from version 6.0 to version 6.1.  • Written database stored procedures to build XML out of a database and write to a directory. Then anMQ adapter was developed to take the XML file and write to MQ Queue using MQ Java API.  • Involved in Production Broker Application Support.    Environment: IBM Integration Bus(IIB), Business Process Management(BPM) 8.5.5, WebSphere Integration Developer (WID) 8.5.5 , Websphere MQ 6.0, DB2 Websphere Consultant Comerica Bank - Birmingham, MI August 2013 to September 2015 Description: Comerica Incorporated is a financial services company headquartered in Dallas, Texas. It has retail banking operations in Texas, Michigan, Arizona, California,and Florida, with select business.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for all phases of the software development life cycle, including Initiation, Planning, Design, Development, Testing,and Implementation.  • Started working on various projects parallel from project definition phase and understanding existing systems and integrations.  • Participated in requirement gathering, analysis, identification of Service and transactions.  • Co-ordination with multiple integration teams to understand the interface and create Mapping documents and specifications.  • Created multiple web service proxies, XML Firewalls, multi-protocol gateway including MQ, HTTP's, FTP, SFTP Front,andBackside handlers  • Implemented security for Web services using WS-Security, Digitally Signing SOAPmessage, SAML,and SSL mutual authentication  • Configured a service level monitoring policy to monitor the network traffic to the back-endWebServices.  • Configured Remote Logging of systems Logs/ installed Audit logging for various purposes  • Created WSDLs, XSDs and developed message models in IIB  • Created WTX Maps, type trees and implemented EDI Message transformation and compliance in WTX.  • Developed Web services using SOAP and HTTP Nodes (REST) in IIB/Message Broker  • Developed XML to copybook, EDI and Text message transformations in IIB/Message Broker  • Developed message flows using Java and SQL. Implemented various java functionality to be used as functions in SQL  • Developed message flows for DB integration using stored procedures and SQL. Configured ODBC and JDBC for database interaction from message broker.    Environment: IBM Integration Bus (IIB), Web Sphere Message Broker(WMB), Web Sphere Process server (WPS), Web Sphere Integration Designer (IID) 7.5, Web Sphere Enterprise Service Bus (WESB) Message Broker Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA July 2011 to August 2013 Description: Comcast Corporation (formerly registered as Comcast Holdings) is an American global telecommunications conglomerate headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is the second-largest broadcasting and cable television company in the world by revenue and the second-largest pay-tv company (after AT&T), the largest cable TV company and largest home Internet service provider in the United States.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Message Broker services for SAP integration (RFC/BAPI, ALE/IDOC) with SAP Adapters and HTTP services with SAP Net weaver (PI) web services.  • Created SOAP and REST-based Web services in IIB & Message Broker using SOAP and HTTP Nodes.  • Developed services to work with EDI X12 transaction sets in IIB/Message Broker and WTX  • Implemented the WS-security for the services in DataPower based on the SSL using X.509 certificates and client certificates. Implemented the encryption based on WS-Policy at OSB level for the various services  • Implemented the SOAP-based Web services proxy, MPG objects, XML Firewall, Load Balancer objects in DataPower  • Developed SOA patterns for reusability in Message Broker  • Developed administrative scripts utilizing ANT, Perl, Windows,and Unix Shell Scripting and MQ and mqsi commands.  • Developed various java components to extend the functionality of Message Broker  • Worked on Message Broker and Web sphere extreme scale integration project.  • Involved in the Development of Naming standards for MQ and MessageBroker and best practices for SQL  • Setup WSRR and developed message flows using WSRR Endpoint and Registry Look up nodes  • Implemented Logging (Internal and Log4j), Error Handling and monitoring in Message Broker, MQ,andDataPower  • Involved in the creation of test plans for Unit & System Integration Testing  • Worked with Multi-instance brokers/Queue managers, Clustered environments, HA environments for MQ and Message Broker environments    Environment: Message Broker 8/7, Data Power XI50/XC10, IBM MQ Series, Web Sphere Extreme scale, WSRR, ESQL, Java, XSLT, XML. COBOL, DB2, Oracle, Stored Procedures, JSON, Oxygen, Perfmon on Linux, AIX. Java Developer JHC Technology, Inc - Washington, DC June 2009 to July 2011 Description: Case study repository is an inner project of Polaris, which is used for Resource Management Team in the company. It is useful to find the available resource in the organization, which is useful at the time of allocating the resources to the projects. This application is developed in Java, Servlets and JDBC technologies. It has all the information about each employee in the company.  Responsibilities:  • Reading and understanding application requirements  • Involved in design and development of the web pages in a web application  • Involved in using Spring JDBC templates to call the stored procedures  • Used AJAX for asynchronous communication with the server  • Involved in writing SQL queries in stored procedures in the Oracle database.  • Involved in developing web pages by JSP, HTML, and CSS.  • Deploy the application on the JBoss Application Server.  • Developed web application using JSF Framework  • Springs and Hibernate frameworks were used in the project.  • Used the rest by using web services JAX-WS  • Used Maven to trace all the changes made to the source code or files.  • Developed, implemented and performed the Unit Testing using JUnit.  • Performed Manual Testing in each module of this project and writing the test cases.  • Involved in UNIX training for writing the shell scripts.  • Validate the web code by using JavaScript and its libraries like jQuery.  • Involved as a responsible team member for production support and bug fixes.  • Implemented agile methodology for this project.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Eclipse IDE, HTML5, CSS, JUnit, Ajax, JBoss, JSF, JDK1.7 Oracle 11g, Springs, Hibernate, Maven, RESTful, Unix, JavaScript, jQuery, Agile. Java Developer Oracle Corporation - Santa Clara, CA May 2007 to June 2009 Description: Being a top web designing & internet marketing company since 2011, we mainly focus on creativity brand building techniques and services without sacrificing quality for our clients and it's our assurance to provide with high-quality services to our clients which builds a unique identity in-between their competitors  Responsibilities:  • Developed many JSP pages, used JavaScript for client-side validation  • MVC framework for developing a J2EE based web application  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design,and Analysis of the Customer specifications, Development,and Customization of the Application  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using Ajax, JSP,andHTML  • Design and develop Servlets, Session and Entity Beans to implement business logic and deploy them on the JBoss Application Server.  • Used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries.  • Good experience in writing the stored procedures and using JDBC for the database interaction  • Implemented client side and server side data validations using the JavaScript  • Developed stored procedures in PL/SQL for Oracle 10g  • Eclipse is used as an IDE tool to write and debug the application code, SQL developer is used to testing and run the SQL statements.    Environment: Java, Eclipse Galileo, HTML4.0, JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL, CSS, JDBC, JBoss 4.0, Servlets 2.0, JSP 1.0, Oracle. Education Bachelor's