Technical Lead Developer Technical Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Technical Lead Developer - Freddie Mac Corporation • Sun/Oracle Certified Java Professional with 10+ years of Extensive and Progressive Information Technology experience in the areas of Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Implementation, Production Maintenance(Support), Documentation of Client/Server, n-tier and Legacy Applications using J2SE (Core Java) and J2EE Architecture  • Expertise in Web and Applications development using Java and J2EE Technologies with Windows and UNIX Environment.  • Hands on experience in Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, PL-SQLs, Web Services (REST and SOAP), Hibernate, Object Oriented Programming concepts.  • Experience on Quality measurement tools like Surefire, Sonar.  • Knowledge of development tools like RAD, STS and Eclipse with Adobe LiveCycle Workbench ES 8.2.5  • Effective trouble shooting and technical problem solving skills  • Have intense experience in mentoring and managing a 5-6 members team in an onshore - offshore delivery model.  • 10+ years of experience as an IT Professional with Design, Development/Coding, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance (Enhancements and Change Requests).  • 6+ years of Working experience on Agile methodology.  • Sound experience in preparing Design documents and Writing Unit Test Cases with JUnit and Mokito APIs.  • Sound experience in generating PDF documents as integral part of Application using Adobe LiveCycle Workbench and Adobe Web services.  • Knowledge of Cenzic Hailstorm Tool used to enhance Security of a Web Application.  • Working knowledge in Scheduling tools like Control-M Enterprise.  • Knowledge of Informatica (ETL tool) in data warehousing projects.  • Working knowledge of SQL, PL/SQLs, UNIX Operating Systems.  • Worked for multiple vendors and in geographically distributed teams like US, UK and India.  • 2 years of experience in leading, Mentoring, estimating, reviewing, coordinating testing, assigning and tracking work, status reporting, providing quick resolution of issues in an Onsite-Offshore model.  • Experience in bug tracking tools like HP Quality Center, Clear Quest and StarTeam  • Experience in Source code version/management tools like Git, Clear Case, StarTeam, Rational Team Concert, Jira  • Exceptional ability to maintain and build client relationships, interact one on one with clients, business stakeholders and converse with all facets in the client's organization.  • Self-motivated quick learner with strong interpersonal, technical, problem solving, strategic thinking skills and leadership abilities. Work Experience Technical Lead Developer Freddie Mac Corporation - McLean, VA October 2018 to Present DXC Proxy application was data transporter between Loan Product Advisor and Loan Quality Advisor which enables Freddie Mac to connect with DXC mainframe system to contact various CBC's (Credit Bureau Connections) to perform Borrower's Credit check. Systems is capable of generating MBA tag format request based on LPA or LQA requests which is supported by mainframe system. This project is about migrating from (C + Solaris) to ( Java + Linux) Micro service.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Understanding Current C code and network requirements and prepare Understanding and Requirement document.  • Work on Application and Network Design and Preparation of Design document  • Development of Micro service with Spring Boot and Java 1.8  • Involved in Build and Management Activities with Jenkins Pipeline  • Writing Junit test cases, Perform various Security/Code quality scans  • Writing Autosys Jobs to start or stop DXC Proxy    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Framework (Boot, Integration, Batch), REST Web services, Oracle, Tomcat, Autosys, Git, Jenkin Pipeline, Maven Senior Java Developer/Technical Lead Freddie Mac Corporation - McLean, VA September 2016 to Present Loan Product Advisor / Loan Quality Advisor enables Seller or Servicer to submit no of loans to Freddie Mac as per defined master contracts. System will accept batch of loans as per MISMO format and perform Loan Quality checks such as Credit Risk Assessment, Purchase eligibility and Rep and Warrant eligibility. It helps to identify quality of loan/borrower before submitting through selling system which is entry point in Freddie Mac.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Gathering/Understanding Requirement from Business Ops  • Design and develop modules of LAS  • Involved in Build and Management Activities throughout Sprints  • Review of application Code, Test cases, Autosys Jobs  • Writing Junit test cases, Perform various Security/Code quality scans  • Responsible for providing extended production support for LAS applications  • Analyze Performance issues with help of Opnet    Environment: Java 1.8, Angular JS, Spring Framework (MVC, Boot, Integration), REST/SOAP Web services, Oracle, Tomcat, Apache, Weblogic 11g/12c, Autosys, Oracle 12c Senior Java Developer Fidelity Investments - Smithfield, RI January 2016 to September 2016 Smithfield, RI, USA Jan 2016 - Sept 2016  Project: Customer Data Information System - GEMINI  Role: Senior Java Developer    GEMINI program is a High Priority system migration project from DART to DST which is Industry standard TA source. This project involves an extensive redesign of legacy batch process to support sales and marketing team. It's a Multiyear project to save Millions of Dollars and spans across multiple inter companies.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Gathering/Understanding Requirement from Analysts.  • Involved in developing New Feed Framework using which can be used by batch jobs and other Legacy jobs.  • Designing new Batch processes with the help of Control-M scheduler.  • Creating and Managing RTC Tasks for Sprints.  • Involved in Build and Management Activities during Sprints.  • Mentoring and Managing Offshore Team to Full Fill Goals.    Environment: Agile Methodology, Java, JDK 1.8, Spring Framework (Batch and DAO modules), PL-SQL, Maven, Informatica 9.1, Oracle 10g, Control-M, Log4j, SONAR, Spring Tool Suit, RTC Technology Lead HSBC March 2014 to December 2015 Integrated Insurance Platform (IIP) is the strategic global system for the distribution of Insurance products within HSBC.  Tool will enable a multi-channel end to end straight through customer experience for Insurance solutions to HSBC business design and technical standards Providing and allow easy integrations to support Insurance sales, policy servicing and claims processing (multi-manufacturer), Wealth Management (financial planning, purchase and on-going management)    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in Scope Elaboration and Design Meetings for Backlogs.  • Analyzing Requirement prior to Sprint.  • Performed Task distribution, Development of Stories and Attending Daily Scrums during the Sprints.  • Involved in Test Cases Reviews and responsible for maintaining effective communication between development and Testing Team.  • Involved in Demo Meeting and Retrospective meetings at the End of Sprints.  • Build & Release Management using RTC    Environment: Agile Methodology, Java, JDK 1.7, Web services (REST), Angular JS, Spring Framework (Core and Integration Module), Hibernate, Maven, RAD, RTC, Oracle 11g, Log4j Technology Analyst American Express July 2012 to February 2014 The Global On-line Program Management is a self-servicing card apply and maintenance portal for corporate cards. It assists corporate clients to Manage Card Accounts, Monitor Spending & Payments, Process Applications and Status Tracking.  The primary business need for Customer Service Operation is to provide the ability for Corporate Services Operations (CSO) representatives to provide off-line support for the corporate clients to link and delink card accounts to/from the Corporate Card program, if they are eligible for Corporate MR.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Gathering/Understanding Requirement from Onshore Coordinators.  • Understanding Design documents and preparing low level design documents.  • Involved in Development, Unit Testing and Testing Support.  • Mentoring Junior Resources in Development Phase.  • Involved Build and Release Management Activities using Continuum tool.  • Involved in production deployment support.    Environment: Waterfall Methodology, Java, JDK 1.5, Web services (SOAP), Spring Framework (Core and DAO modules) and Stored Procedures, Maven, Eclipse, SVN, CAST, Cenzic Hailstorm Tool, Log4j Technology Associate British Telecom March 2011 to July 2012 BTGS Selfcare is a secure Customer portal provided by BT to enable the Customer to view the status of their platform.  This portal is the Front end system which is provides the customer with the means to design and configure their Virtual Data Centre (VDC) - to order, create, modify, monitor and manage their Virtual Data Centre.  It also allows the Customer to manage some of the function of their platform managed hosting platform and interact with our Service Desk - raise trouble tickets, view existing tickets etc.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked as a developer, involved in Defect fixing.  • Handling/Attending component level design calls.  • Involved in Build and Deployment activities.    Environment: Java, JDK 1.5, JSP, Servlets, PL-SQL, LDAP, Maven, Eclipse, SVN, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JQuery, YUI, Weblogic 9.2, Log4j, JQuery Software Engineer John Deere September 2008 to February 2012 The JDQuote2 Suit Application is used by John Deere Dealers to create price quotes, proposal, and purchase order for customers for complete goods equipment.  The application enables the dealer to create an online quotation for John Deere manufactured Equipment. The application also interacts with other applications of John Deere, which allows the user to configure quoted Equipment with the possible options. Purchase Order, Proposal is created for customers in interactive flexible PDF document.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked as a Developer, involved in Defect fixing.  • Involved in Build and Deployment activities.    Environment: Java, JDK 1.5, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Adobe LiveCycle Workbench, Oracle 9g, Maven, Star Team, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JQuery, RAD, Log4j, JQuery Education Post Graduate Diploma in Advance Computing in Advance Computing Sunbeam Institute - Pune, Maharashtra 2008 Bachelor of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Shivaji University 2007 Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Maven, Database, Db2, Jdbc, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Stored procedures, Sybase, Ajax, Css, Security, Web services Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Java Basics: Core Java, JSP, Servlets  Java Application Frameworks: Spring Framework (Core, MVC, AOP, DAO, Integration, Batch, Boot modules)  Java Middleware Technologies: JMS, Web Services (SOAP and REST)  Java Backend/ ORM Technologies: JDBC, Hibernate, Spring DAO (JDBC, Stored procedures)  Web Development Technologies: AJAX, HTML, CSS, Angular 6, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON  Database Technologies: SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Oracle, Sybase, DB2, LDAP  IDES/Tools/OS: Adobe LiveCycle Workbench ES 8.2.5, Informatica 9.1, Toad, Control-M, RAD, STS, Unix  Code Quality/Security Tools: Maven, SONAR, CAST, Cenzic Hailstorm Tool  Version Control Tools: Star Team, SVN, RTC, GIT  Continuous Integration Tool: Jenkins Pipelines  Monitoring Tools: Opnet, Sitescope, Splunk