ServiceNow Developer ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Developer - Cognizant Nevada, MO • About 12+ years of experience in application design and development and extensive understanding of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) which includes Gathering and familiar with methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum.  • on ServiceNow Development, Design, Maintenance, Administration.  • Well versed in all stages of software development life cycle, from conceptual design through entire development life cycle covering requirement analysis, designing, coding, testing and implementation.  • Extensive experience on banking domains like Investing banking and Wealth Management.  • Strong knowledge in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for enterprise applications  • Experience in Service Management and Service Delivery Process (ITIL Frame Work).  • Good experience in developing workflows and in customizing the applications in ServiceNow using Java script, Jelly, AJAX, and HTML  • Experience with the various ServiceNow versions(Dublin,Eureka,Fuji,Geneva, Helsinki, Jakarta and Kingston)  • Experience in creating the custom Applications, Modules in ServiceNow as per the requirements  • Experience in working on the ITIL Process Configuration like Incident and Problem Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management, CMDB, Asset Management and Service Catalog Management in ServiceNow.  • Experience on various ServiceNow customizations as per client's requirement.  • Experience on the Implementation and maintenance of Business Rules, Client Scripts and ACLs.  • Experience in configuring the SLAs for various ITIL processes as per the client requirements  • Change management experience using Update Sets, Import Sets in ServiceNow  • Experience in working with the workflows using ServiceNow workflow editor  • Expertise on defining workflows in Service Catalog items, Approvals and Dynamic tasks in ServiceNow  • Experience in working with UI Actions, UI Policiesand Data Policies in ServiceNow  • Excellent experience in ServiceNow Administration and Production support.  • Worked on various ITOM Modules mainly on Discovery to create schedules to scan enterprise IP subnets.  • Knowledge in Design and development of CMDB (Configuration Management) in ServiceNow.  • Experienced in complex transform scripts in transforming the data into the SNOW database.  • Experience in working with Content Management System(CMS) using Jelly Script and UI Macros  • Expertise in doing CMDB bulk data, load data reconciliation with the help of transform map and transform script.  • Installed several Mid servers at different locations and configured them for discovery process.  • Worked on several integrations and very much experienced with Web servers like SOAP, REST, JSON, XML etc.  • Experience in creating probes and sensors to various servers, web Servers, middle wares, and network devices.  • Worked and implemented Human Resources (HR) Service Management and created catalogs like Employee onboarding, offboarding, transfer and relocation.  • Worked on creating custom probes and sensors for IBM MQ, Apache, Tomcat, MSSQL, Oracle Database instances.  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of IT Service Management (ITSM) frameworks  • Demonstrated project management skills and experience working directly with customers and clients.  • Good Knowledge on using Glide Scripting for creating UI Action and Business Rules.  • Create, monitor, modify, and publish Service Catalog workflows with approvals.  • Exceptional organizational skills, dedicated Professional with demonstrated ability of effective managementand planning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer Cognizant - Teaneck, NJ May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on functional requirements within ServiceNow for CMS, Service Catalog Management (SCM), Demand Management and Project Management.  • Worked with Product owners in creating and modification of Business Requirement Specifications (BRS).  • Customization of many modules in ServiceNow including Incident, Change, Problem and Request.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, Jelly Script, HTML 5, and CSS.  • Design and Configuration of workflows to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes.  • Resolving typical Users access and roles issues by checking active directory and user table.  • Coordinated instance upgrade from Jakarta to Kingston to help admin team with development and testing to deploy changes  • Used scheduled jobs to create reports and send them periodically through emails.  • Used data sources to migrate the data from excel sheets to Service-Now through transform maps.  • Worked on CMDB to load bulk data and data reconciliation with help of Import sets and transform maps.  • Imported Configuration Items (CI) from third party applications using import set tables.  • Involved in the ServiceNow Discovery and CMDB maintenance.  • Involved in redesigning the workflows using ServiceNow workflow editor and making several changes to the existing workflows.  • Developed Incident management. Using of WSDL for Soap messages, Perl attachments, Homepages, Portals, PDFs creator, emails, catalogs, modules and applications.  • Design and Configuration of workflows to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes. ServiceNow Admin, Developer Moody's - New York, NY January 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various modules of ServiceNow like Incident management, Change management and Problem management, Service Catalog, CMDB and Reporting.  • Worked on many Server-side Scripts, Script Includes, Client-side Scripting, UI Actions and several business rules.  • Developed custom UI pages related to an application and for a custom login page too.  • Wrote many inbound email actions to ease the work of creating incidents from an inbound email.  • Developed ESS functionality and implemented appropriate workflow.  • Involved in Helsinki implementation.  • Developed Service Catalog that includes creating items, workflows, Catalog Client scripts and giving it an enhanced view using the Service Portal.  • Created scheduled jobs to run many scripts in background and to import XML files automatically from the TCP port.  • Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  • Worked extensively on LDAP integrations including SSO and SCCM.  • Configured SSO integration using Just in Time (JIT) User Provisioning.  • Worked on CMDB that involves importing the data and establishing the relationship between multiple CIs.  • Worked on DISCOVERY and set up mid servers and check for the connectivity.  • Worked on integration of third-party applications into ServiceNow using APIs and Web Servers.  • Experience on working with Script Includes and Scripted Web Services.  • Worked with Finance team in developing an application to automate the process.  • Cloned out of the box widgets and embedded them on portal to achieve certain functionalities.  • Worked on UI Macros to create pages as templates.  • Worked on loading the data into ServiceNow using import sets.  • Develop and manage application code, user interface, and third-party integration components. ServiceNow Developer Covance Inc - Princeton, NJ September 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Stakeholders, Users, Customers and attended JAD sessions for gathering requirements to arrive at design solution.  • Responsible for on-going enhancement and maintenance of the ServiceNow platform.  • Performed the most complex and advanced applications programming techniques.  • Handled onsite, offshore and near shore teams as a tech lead.  • Ensured the configuration and customization to ServiceNow - adhere to the goals/strategy determined by the SN Architect and SN Product Owner.  • Able to code programs of high complexity; derive logical processes on technical platforms; engage in performance/integration testing, business and technical analysis, data analysis; data modeling; and build screens, windows and reports of high complexity.  • Implementation of Service Catalog, incident Management and some part of Asset Management in Geneva instance.  • Contributed to the architecture and technical aspects of the ServiceNow implementation and operation project, independently making project related decisions, provides project status reports to project sponsor.  • Designed the most complex user system interfaces and business application prototypes.  • Executed the load test, stress test and Endurance tests.  • Developed solutions using JavaScript, Web Services, SOAP and other web technologies to integrate ServiceNow with internal/ external systems and tools.  • Regularly led analysis of existing programs or works to formulate logic for new systems, devises logic procedures, prepares flowcharting, performs coding and tests/debugs programs.  • Developed UI Actions, script includes and Business rules for overall platform.  • Initiates, develops, designs and uses extremely complex databases. ServiceNow Admin, Developer Nissan Inc - Decherd, TN July 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Successfully delivered the Service-Now Incident & Service Request projects on time, by working closely with Global command center & Black Belt's and provided extended support to the team as needed. This helped to simplify the processes by eliminating many of the in house developed tools used.  • Involved in analysis of end user requirements and business rules based on given documentation and worked closely with tech leads and Business analysts in understanding the current ServiceNow system.  • During development worked with JavaScript to create front-end and back-end components such as forms, buttons, views, pages, business rules and workflows.  • Worked on Creating Users, Roles and Groups and load the data to service-now objects using import sets on daily, weekly, monthly and on request basis.  • Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and ServiceNow tables.  • Customization of Service Catalog (Demand Management), Time Card, Project & portfolio Management & Financial Management  Applications  • Involved in developing Transform Scripts to trigger events during import process.  • Created many standard workflows which are being re-used and propagated and handled many custom events.  • Knowledge on License management - Optimization, planning for audit as per License agreements, Tracking and managing the illegal software licenses.  • Involved in developing workflows forms and views.  • Reviewed Business Rules and recommended solutions for implementation.  • Developed Scripts to invoke existing Script Include.  • Created several Client Scripts, UI policies, UI Scripts, UI Pages. Used Glide Scripting to develop Business rules.  • Worked Email Template and Notification. And, worked on Notify to communicate to group of users.  • Developed View, Approval and Assignment Rule Development.  • Development of SLA for the organizations. ServiceNow Developer Red Ventures - Fort Mill, SC April 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed and delivered technical methodologies around the ServiceNow platform.  • Writing Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client side changes. Created configuration documents for Self Service Portal and Backend System. Activated one outgoing SMTP, POP3 Server in the system for sending email messages.  • Working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions. Created Business Rules using server side scripting (Glide Record, Glide Element and Glide System)  • Worked on creating users, roles, groups and Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record. Created Data Sources from various external applications, scripts to parse incoming data.  • Creating scheduled tasks, monitoring the ticket queues and generating statistics.  • Resolving typical User access and roles issues by checking active directory and users table. Involved in cloning activities like raising the request for cloning and also coordinating the instance upgrade activities. Documented all implementations and best practices defined within team.  • Pulling reports and scheduling the reports as per the client requirement.  • Understanding of IT service management (ITSM) and the ITIL business process. Maintain service level agreement (SLA) and monitor SLA workflow.  • Developed cross-browser pages using CSS, HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Created schedules, reports and monitoring the performance. Java Developer SiriusXM - New York, NY February 2006 to March 2008 Responsibilities:  • Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application, requirement gathering, and design analysis and code development.  • Implemented Struts framework based on the Model View Controller design paradigm.  • Designed and developed business components using Session and Entity Beans in EJB.  • Implemented EJB's Container Managed Persistent strategy.  • Mapped classes to database tables in Deployment Descriptor files.  • Worked on triggers and stored procedures on Oracle database.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • JUnit was used to implement test cases for beans.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE to write the code and integrate the application. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages J2EE, C, C++, Jelly, Angular, SQL  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, XML, Jelly, Ajax, Glide scripting  Software Methodologies SDLC, Waterfall, Agile, Scrum  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, Linux, Ubuntu, OSX, Centos  Application Tools / Frame works ServiceNow (ITSM Tool), Manage Engine (ITSM Tool), HP Service Manager, NetBeans, Eclipse, Springs, Dreamweaver CS4, MySQL Workbench  Source Control SVN, Git, IBM Clear Case  Application Servers Apache, Tomcat, WebLogic  Databases Mysql5.0.1, DB2, Oracle11g, Microsoft SQL Server 2005