JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - FACEBOOK Park, KS ? Having 5+ years of experience in software development includes Analysis, Design and Development of Web-based applications.  ? Extensive experience in the design and development of multi-tier applications using Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate ORM, XML, XSD, Web Services (REST & SOAP), WSDL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, JUnit.  ? Worked on different Application Servers like Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) and JBoss.  ? Proficient in Java 8/J2EE technologies like JSP, Struts, Java Servlets, AJAX, JavaBeans, JNDI, JMS, XML, web service using IDEs like Eclipse, NetBeans.  ? Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  ? Good experience in implementing J2EE compliant applications using various Design patterns, Struts framework, Tiles, spring, MVC framework, Hibernate and Messaging Middleware using JMS (MQ series).  ? Extensive experience in the implementation of the version control software SVN, CVS, Git.  ? Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in the production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  ? Experienced in developing fully functional responsive modules using Scala with Akka, Arango DB.  ? Hands-on experience using Messaging Services like JMS, MQ Series.  ? Proficient in RDBMS concepts and experience in working with Oracle, DB2 and MY SQL PL/SQL, SQL Plus, Database triggers, Procedures, Functions.  ? Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments like DEV/QA/SIT/UAT/Prod.  ? Experience in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like analysis, design, development, and testing with SOA, Amazon Web Service (AWS) and Microservices architectures  ? Experience using core Java APIs to build multi-threaded server-side components for large-scale Web and standalone applications.  ? Strong Experience using RESTful Web services to save and retrieve geo locations using a remote server in Java 8 using Spring MVC, MongoDB.  ? Working Experience in different modules of Spring Application Framework (Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Tx, Spring ORM, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC, Spring JMS, Spring WS, Spring Cloud).  ? Self-learning knowledge of Amazon AWS Cloud Platform with focus on EC2 and S3, Lambda services.  ? Experience in building Spring-based Java microservices to support enterprise web application.  ? Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  ? Database Design, Development, and Query Optimization using Oracle, DB2. Experience in writing complex Database Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Cursors.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and involved in client interactions for scoping, effort estimates and status reporting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER FACEBOOK - Menlo Park, CA November 2018 to Present Worked on Design, Development, and Implementation in the field of Web Applications development using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSON, Restful web services and Responsive web designing.  ? Used persistence frameworks, Hibernate ORM, JPA to map POJOs to a relational database.  ? Created AngularJS controllers, directives, models for different modules in the frontend.  ? Worked on web services using SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, REST and implementation using APACHE AXIS and APACHE CXF.  ? Worked on Java 8 Lambda Expressions, Parallel streams, Streams and Predicates.  ? Worked on Query optimization. Can write SQL Queries, PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Cursors.  ? Designed and implemented application using AngularJS framework to two-way data binding.  ? Implemented Spring MVC architecture using JSP & Java beans.  ? Developed different modules using Spring and Hibernate.  ? Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  ? Implemented REST web service in Scala using Akka for CBPMAN log tracking application.  ? Worked in developing front end technologies such as JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, JSP and Struts.  ? Used RabbitMQ Queues for implementation of multithreaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  ? Processed data into HDFS by developing solutions, analyzed the data using MapReduce, Pig, Hive and produce summary results from Hadoop to downstream systems.  ? Develop UI automation for Node JS, Angular, and Ext JS -based web applications using Selenium Web Driver, developed in JavaScript. Micro services have been built using Spring boot, Spring cloud.  ? Team leader on numerous projects utilizing Java, Java EE, Enterprise Java Bean, and Apache Struts Web applications to create fully-integrated client management systems.  ? Worked on developing Flex Rich Internet Applications (RIA) with Cairngorm MVC architecture and Mate Framework, Flex Unit for testing, BlazeDs for remote development services, Action Script  ? Good understanding on AWS Cloud infrastructure like VPC, EC2, S3, ECS, IAM services.  ? Involved in development of services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring MVC Framework.  ? Worked on developing Microservices with Spring Boot.  ? Worked on Testing REST API using Robot Framework and SOAP UI  ? Created RFP microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Developed web layer using Spring framework to manage the project in MVC pattern.  ? Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  ? Worked on various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Backbone.js, React JS, Ember JS, Require.js, Knockout, Angular.js, bootstrap and Google Web Toolkit.  ? Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  ? Worked on Core Java Such as OOPs, Collections, Exceptions Handling, Input/output (I/O) System, Swing, Annotations, Enums, Concurrency, Multi-Threading, Lambda and Generics.  ? Can work on Continuous Integration (CI) like Jenkins, Hudson, Travis, Bamboo and Continuous Deployment (CD)tools like Electric Cloud and Nolio.  ? Worked with application teams to install operating system, Hadoop updates, patches, version upgrades as required  ? Worked on MongoDB Schema using Mongos.  ? Used GitHub and Jenkins for building the CI/CD pipeline and day to day builds and deployments using Gradle.  ? Use Testing frameworks in Test Driven Development (TDD) such as JUnit, Mockito, Power Mock, Easy Mock, Q Unit, Protractor, Cucumber and Selenium.  ? Worked on Core Java, Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception handling, File I/O, Design Patterns, OOPS Concept.  ? Worked on Java and J2EE technologies such as Servlet, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JMS and RMI.  ? Used SQL to communicate with HeidiSQL database  ? Developed website pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery.  ? Enabling customers to better manage software development, deployments and infrastructure with tools such as Chef, Jenkins and GitHub.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  ? Worked on Oracle and DB2 databases as backend.  ? Worked on tools like Siebel, JMT, WINSCP, LOTUS NOTES, and JENKINS.  ? Used JUnit and Mockito framework for unit testing the functionality being tested.  ? Knowledge of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP/RESTful web services.  ? Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, I/O, Multithreading and Collections.  ? Develop various screens for the front-end using AngularJS and used various predefined components.  ? Strong experience in RDBMS using Oracle 10g, SQL Server, schema development, PL-SQL programming, including experience in utilizing SQL Loader utility MySQL & MySQL replication setup and DynamoDB.  ? Used JavaScript, Angular 4 and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  ? Actively involved in the design of the application architecture in lines of their own Framework based on MVC2 Architecture with JSP Front End (HTTP Request/Response Integration) as View, Servlet as Controller and combination of EJBs and Java classes as Model.  ? Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by leveraging Amazon Web Services, open source technologies & best engineering practices of CI/CD.  ? Worked on developing microservices with Spring Boot.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API, Spring Boot for microservices and Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  ? Worked on developing, Testing, Debugging, Integrating and Deploying Enterprise applications using Integrated Development Environments (IDE) IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse and Rational Application Developer (RAD).  ? Developed the Application layer or GUI framework using HTML, CSS, and GUI Builder tool.  ? Utilized Spring Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence onto the Oracle database.  ? Assisted team mate in setting up Hibernate framework, configured mapping xml files, wrote POJO classes and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL Server or DB2.  ? Involved in deploying the application in the AWS cloud environment using cloud template.  ? Used various collections framework implementations like Array List, HashMap and worked extensively with Exception Handling.  ? Developed different modules using J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC) with Model-View-Controller Architecture.  ? Integrated the Application using MySQL with JDBC connector with JNDI API and WebLogic server.  ? Developed plugins, modules like adding languages, creating group as per location using technologies like HTML, PHP, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Curl, JSON and Google API, Microsoft Translator API.  ? Implemented MAVEN for building the application and GIT, SVN for managing and controlling the source code.  ? Implemented SOAP and REST for all the service calls.  ? Extensive experience working in AGILE methodology environment and participating in SCRUM sessions that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, implementation & Production Support JAVA DEVELOPER AMAZON - Seattle, WA September 2017 to October 2018 Worked on Java-JEE technologies such as JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JavaBeans, MVC, Struts II, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, JSF,EJB, Swing, Tiles, JNDI, JMS, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, RMI, iText, Jasper Report, Java Mail API, CSS, JavaScript, React JS, jQuery, Backbone.js, EXT-JS, AJAX, JSON, HTML5/HTML, XHTML, PHP, Maven, Ant, PL/SQL.  ? Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Implemented JDBC for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database.  ? Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, Java script, HTML and Struts framework.  ? Involved in Database design and developing SQL Queries, stored procedures on MySQL.  ? Programmed session and entity EJBs to handle user info track and profile-based transactions.  ? Involved in writing JUnit test cases, unit and integration testing of the application.  ? Implemented Node JS, JSF and Backbone JS for developing the server-side web applications and network programs.  ? Developed Kafka consumers to consume data from Kafka topics. Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  ? Automating test scenarios by writing java code and using selenium framework for cucumber testing.  ? Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow. Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  ? Used WebSphere Application Server as part of production implementation.  ? Mocha test runner and Chai test framework are used to test React JS components.  ? Involved in scripting through UNIX Shell scripting.  ? Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system Log4J was used to monitor the error logs and used GIT as version control tool.  ? Kafka is used for data feeds.  ? Contemporary applications rely on relational databases, NoSQL databases and messaging infrastructure for achieving the internet scale. Cloud Foundry exposes MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, RabbitMQ and Redis as services that offer the database and messaging capabilities.  ? Installed and configured Flume, Hive, Pig, Sqoop and Oozie on the Hadoop cluster.  ? Managing and scheduling Jobs on a Hadoop cluster using Oozie.  ? Involved to coding all the backend components using groovy.  ? Implemented different frameworks like Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Data (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), Spring Boot, Spring Microservice, JSF, Hibernate.  ? Worked on Oracle and DB2 databases as backend.  ? Used JUnit and Mockito framework for unit testing the functionality being tested.  ? Used JAXB, JAXP for parsing auditing information in xml format.  ? Used JSP, JSTL and Spring tags for retrieving and displaying data. Used jQuery Framework.  ? Designed and developed the system using J2EE based on Struts MVC architecture.  ? Implemented request and response objects using SOAP web services and created routes using Apache Camel.  ? Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  ? Kubernetes is being used to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  ? Worked on AWS (Amazon Web Services) and its features like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, EBS, ESB, Cloudfront, VPC.  ? Used Spring ORM Hibernate Template as the ORM tool to communicate with the database.  ? Implemented MVC architecture by applying AngularJS framework.  ? Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Apache Struts Framework.  ? Designed User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR JS, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Implemented design patterns like DAO, Factory and Front Controller.  ? Proficient in developing front-end applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Backbone JS and MVC frameworks.  ? Used Apache JSP, JSTL, etc. for presentation which invoke the Java Beans to interact with Controlling Servlets.  ? Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  ? Used SQL, PL/SQL to communicate with oracle database.  ? Used Restful API for client server communication.  ? SOAP web service interface implemented in Java using Apache SOAP and Axis to expose user master data to all the subsidiaries.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geo locations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS  ? Implemented MAVEN for building the application and GIT, SVN for managing and controlling the source code.  ? Implemented SOAP and REST for all the service calls.  ? Using JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.  ? Implementing different machine learning techniques in Scala using Scala machine learning library and created POC using Spark Sql and MiLB libraries.  ? Deployed microservices to Ansible Playbook in Docker containers, managed by Mesos/Marathon  ? Develops microservices and has extensive experience using GitLab, Jenkins, clustering other tools and technologies for developing a scalable application.  ? Developed various web applications /web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, NodeJS. Designed various web concepts like security (OAuth, SiteMinder and OpenID), session controlling, storage.  ? Implemented spring boot for standardized production run time.  ? Implemented JUNIT for developing the test classes of the developed requirements.  ? Apache Tomcat has been utilized as our application server and for the deployment of the application.  ? Implemented Active MQ and Qpid message brokers for interaction between the applications.  ? Implemented Agile Methodology, where we follow daily scrum and sprint process.  ? Have good understanding on Batch shell scripting, Collections, Generics, Core java and Business Intelligence tools such as MSBI and OSGI framework.  ? Good Knowledge in coded Java applications on both client-side and server-side using JDBC and advanced multithreading, have profound knowledge on Bootstrap.  ? Developed apps using AKKA toolkit for building concurrent JVM apps.  ? Involved using Parallel Streams and Lambda expressions.  ? Implemented Mocking Frameworks like Mockito for easy testing.  ? Designed, implemented and tested the Spring Domain Model for the services using Core Java. JR. JAVA DEVELOPER ACCENTURE - IN August 2012 to March 2015 Worked on developing UI based GUIs using Java Applets, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, JDBC, Typescript, AngularJS, Angular 2/4/5, XML, DOJO, AJAX, JSF, JSP, Java Persistence API (JPA), EJB, JNDI and JMS.  ? Worked on developing application in Single Page (SPA's) using various JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS.  ? Worked on frameworks like Junit, Mockito, Power Mock, JMock.  ? Worked with Eclipse. Also worked on NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEa.  ? Worked with functional usage and deployment of applications in JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat Server.  ? SOAP web service interface implemented in Java using Apache SOAP and Axis to expose user master data to all the subsidiaries.  ? Involved in User Acceptance Testing during each Agile Cycle.  ? Worked on Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  ? Good knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL.  ? Involved in test driven development using JUnit and Struts Test Case.  ? Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM).  ? Worked with NOSQL Database such as Couch base. Data modelling, establishing connection with Couchbase and providing API layer to integrate with to create, update, read, and delete documents from database.  ? Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Loop back to mock a Restful API.  ? Develop and deliver presentations on JavaScript, Node.js, loopback and Strong Loop.  ? Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  ? Configured and managed AWS Glacier, to move old data to archives based on retention policy of databases/ applications.  ? Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services. Worked on setting up of AWS RDS and DB instances.  ? Worked in integrating JMS with SPRING BOOT by providing an instance which is embed with Active MQ.  ? Installed SONAR on Jenkins server and configure with the build process for the code analysis process for better code quality and code metrics, and rapid feedback for development teams and managers.  ? Installing and configuring Kafka and monitoring the cluster using Nagios and Ganglia.  ? Load log data into HDFS using Kafka and performing ETL integrations Experience with ingesting data from RDBMS sources like - Oracle, SQL.  ? Can work on implementing Horizontal Pod Autoscaler on Kubernetes.  ? Configured S3 to host static Web content, Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto scaling groups and deployed Cloud Stack using AWS OpsWorks.  ? Used JSP and jQuery to create user interfaces to test and monitor the application.  ? Participated in unit and functional testing using Junit, Mockito and power mock.  ? Develop Java code with Spring, Restful Web services, Spring JMS for MQ and Mybatis framework.  ? Created the web application using MVC Struts framework.  ? Designed developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Struts, Application Framework.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP.  ? Examined the Oracle 9i database tables, stored procedures and views used in the project as part of testing using PL/SQL Developer tool.  ? Created database tables and implemented SQL Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle SQL Developer.  ? Worked on CI/CD tools like Jenkins, Docker in Devops Team.  ? Coded the UI using Struts Forms and Tags.  ? Used Hibernate ORM Tool for the backend persistence and developed DAO interfaces for interaction with the database.  ? Built and accessed the database using Hibernate with Oracle.  ? Developed unit test cases using JUnit framework.  ? Used Spring validation framework for server-side validation of user data submissions.  ? Created JSP pages using standard JSTL tags, as well as Struts tags.  ? Used Apache log4j logging framework for application logging for debug purposes.  ? Involved in the migration of data from SQL server to Oracle Database.  ? Wrote PL/SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  ? Worked on the Web Services classes and WSDL generation.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with ORM framework Hibernate. Education Master's