Sr. Pega Developer Sr. Pega <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Pega Developer - BB&T Bank Belleville, NJ • Qualified professional with 8+ years of experience in IT and over extensive in designing and developing applications in PRPC.  • Adept at Pega Implementation Life Cycle entailing business process modeling, PRPC design, development, deployment, Pega Business Rules Engine & Java/J2EE based applications  • Hands on experience in Pega PRPC 5.x/6.x/7.x, troubleshooting & performance tuning of PRPC applications using Clipboard, Tracer, PAL and SMA.  • Knowledgeable in the Initial set up of the application by defining the Rule Sets, Organizational Hierarchy and Enterprise Class Structure.  • Excellent understanding of various types of Rules like Product Rules, Correspondence Rules, Integration Rules, Ruleset management and associated tools such as export & import.  • Hands-on experience in Flows, Flow Action, Activities, Properties, Access Groups, Sections in PRPC.  • Technically skilled in interpreting Tickets and comprehension of complex Flow Shapes for business scenarios.  • Involved in designing high level Class structure, Workflows and Rule Sets in PRPC.  • Proficient in creating Access Groups, Operators, Work Manager and End User ID's, Rule Set versions, Work Baskets, Work Parties required to develop applications.  • Experience in implementation of various PRPC components like Data Transform, Decision Table, Decision Tree and Declarative expressions.  • Skilled in creating UI's using Harness, Section and HTML.  • Extensively used Connectors and SOAP Services in Pega PRPC to integrate with external systems.  • Hands on experience in creating the List view and Summary view reports.  • Experience with Pega WorkList and WorkBasket functionalities.  • Implementation of PRPC in Agile, Scrum, Waterfall and Kanban methodologies.  • Experience in generating Process Diagrams and Discovery Maps.  • Worked with project team (onsite/offshore) in terms of understanding, helping team members with knowledge sharing and ensured smooth delivery of the project.  • Experience in implementing Pega Guardrails.  • Planning, co-coordinating and performing Manual Testing, Functional Testing, Validation, Integration Testing, Migration Testing and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) of large-scale applications with multiple interfaces and training of end users.  • Technically literate in Risk Management and Project Management. Work Experience Sr. Pega Developer BB&T Bank - Charlotte, NC July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  * Understood Business Requirements for creating rule sets and class structure  * Created Process flows and Properties based on the requirements  * Developed of Harness, Sections and layout  * Extensively worked on the Integration part of the Pega PRPC  * Worked on Connect-Soap rules to integrate with the Bank Database  * Worked with Clipboard and Tracer tools extensively to trace hard to find defects.  * Developed decision rules and incorporated them in the work flows using decision smart shape.  * Created search reports using List view and Summary view rules of PRPC  * Developed validation rules to ensure that users enter the correct information  * Developed activities, Sections, Harness, flow actions and flows  * Created activities, steps for implementing core business logic  * Implemented Decision tables, Decision Maps and Declarative expressions.  * Created search reports using List view and Summary view rules of PRPC  * Involved in bug fixing and deployments of fixes into different environments by migrating the application  Environment: PRPC 6.1, Oracle 9i, HTML, SOAP, XML, Service Case Manager, CSS, Java Script, Quality Center, Share Point, MS Visio. Pega Developer Healthnow - Buffalo, NY March 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  * Interacted with the Business Analyst and Users to gain understanding of the requirements.  * Build the requirement and design documents.  * Analyzed and debug the defects.  * Performed Unit testing and Regression testing.  * Co-ordinated with the team members and made sure that the work is delivered by the deadline and ensure the quality of the work.  * Created Process Flows, Activities, Decision Rules and UI Rules.  * Utilized Harness, Sections, Layouts, Flows, Flow Actions, When rules and activities.  * Involved in updating and using different Rulesets Versions as required by the Organization.  * Generated reports such as List and Summary reports and enabled security levels on the reports so that particular access group can view them.  * Communicated with PEGA support team in order to resolve technical issues which hot fix from PEGA systems.  * Involved in using Decision tables, Decision Trees and Decision Maps.  * Optimized several major Flows; created sub flows to reduce number of connectors and shapes  * Used Clipboard and Tracer tools to navigate through flows along with the work objects and traced the results.  * Created high level Class structure, Workflows, Activities and core business logic.  * Developed Rules for Validation and Integration rules pertained to Rule-Connect- and Rule-Service.  Environment: PRPC 7.1.x, HTML, JavaScript, MS Visio, Windows XP, CPM Frame Work, Pega RULES Process Commander. Pega Developer Farmers Insurance - Woodland Hills, CA November 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  * Used PRPC's List View and Summary View reporting functionality to enhance business agility, measure business value and streamline processes  * Created activities and steps for implementing core business logic  * Created Operators and Workbaskets, Test types, Test environments, and Test applications.  * Prepared environment and created required Classes, RuleSets, RuleSet Versions, and Access Groups etc.  * Created HTML rules, Properties (Data types), Embedded Pages and Correspondences.  * Created Rule-Obj-Class, Rule-Obj-Property, Rule-HTML-Property and Rule-Obj-Model instances.  * Involved in the creation of user interface using Rule-HTML-Harness, Rule-HTML-Section and Rule-Obj-HTML.  * Integrated Pega with SOAP web services using Connectors/Services  * Involved in Unit Testing of the application and fixed bugs before migrating data instances and rulesets from development to UAT & Performance environment  Environment: PRPC 6.1 SP2, MS Visio, HTML, XML, SQL Connectors, Oracle 10g, Java, SOAP, J2EE, CSS and Java Script, IBM Web Sphere 6.1/7. Java Developer Client - Monsanto May 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  * Prepared System Requirement, developed test scenarios and implemented test plan. Providing key input in working with users in defining project and system requirements.  * Conducted the analysis of complex business problems and processes to translate Business Requirements into Functional specifications and system use cases.  * Worked with different IT groups reviewing design documents and project tracking spreadsheets, preparing issues tracking documentation during User Acceptance Testing.  * Leveraged JDBC interface for database connectivity.  * Used Session Beans for business logic and Entity Beans for database persistence.  * Leveraged EJB's in web application.  * Actively involved in deployment JMS (Message Driven Beans) using EJB.  * Deployed J2EE components (EJB, Servlets) in WebLogic Application server.  * Evaluated and implemented new initiatives on process improvement and technology initiatives.  * Managed changes to baseline requirements through effective application of change control processes and tools.  * Collaborated with development architect and the business to develop both high-level and detailed application architecture to meet the business needs.  Environment: JSP 2.2, JavaScript, HTML, EJB 3.1, XML, JDBC, Apache Tomcat Server, Windows 7. Java/J2EE Developer Client - Capital One - Richmond, VA July 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  * Created the UI tool - using Java, XML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  * Wrote stored procedures using PL/SQL for data retrieval from different tables.  * Worked extensively on bug fixes on the server side and made cosmetic changes on the UI side.  * Involved with performance tuning team and implemented caching mechanism and other changes.  * Re-created the system architecture diagram and created numerous new class and sequence diagrams.  * Designed and developed UI using HTML, JSP and Struts.  * Developed Authentication and Authorization modules where authorized persons can only access the  * Inventory related operations.  * Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data.  * Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  * Developed the Login screen so that only authorized and authenticated administrators can only access the application.  * Involved in preparing the Documentation of the project to understand the system efficiently.  Environment: JAVA, JSP, Hibernate, JavaScript, Tomcat, MY-SQL. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (9 years), VISIO (5 years), XML (7 years), J2EE (5 years), JAVA (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Smart BPM Suite: Pega PRPC5.5, 6.x, 7.1.x  Databases: PgSQL, MySQL, Oracle, DB2, MS Access, MS SQL  Servers: JBoss, IBM Web Sphere 6.1/7, Apache Tomcat  IDE Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans  Technologies: JSP, Servlets, CSS XML, XHTML, HTML, Java Script, J2EE, JDBC, JMS, Web Services (SOAP/Rest), Hibernate  Control Versions: SVN, Git, GitHub  PM Tools: JIRA, MS Visio, MS Project  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux