Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer - Shaw Systems Houston, TX • 8+ years of experience in IT industry worked with all phases of Analysis, Design, development, testing and documentation of Web Based Applications.  • Extensive experience in Content Management System with Adobe AEM 5.6, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2 and AEM6.3  • Worked on complete stack of AEM development project and delivered end-to-end implementation from requirements till production  • Worked on AEM upgrade project from AEM 6.0 SP2 to AEM 6.3 using in-place upgrade approach.  • Experienced in DAM migration projects including DAM console customizations, migration of DAM assets from legacy DCM solutions onto AEM DAM and Scene7 cloud.  • Worked on website performance tuning both client side and server-side performance tuning.  • Work experience in enhancement projects and maintenance projects.  • Highly skilled and expert in all tiers of AEM technology stack including AEM, JCR, Sling and OSGi technologies, component template development, reports, DAM, workflow components.  • Experienced in developing Day CQ Components, Page Templates and Custom widgets using JSP, OSGI bundles, sling services, custom.  • Real time work experience in production Dispatcher configuration setup, dashboard monitoring, production issues resolution, Production environment setup for author, publish, user admin, packaging.  • Expert in Sling technologies including sling servlets, sling mapping, sling models, sling OSGIi config, sling context aware configuration, sling core.  • Explored in depth in new AEM 6.3 features including Editable templates, new Sling annotations, Experience Fragments, Dynamic Media, new OSGI, context aware configuration, layout mode, mobile simulators.  • Strong knowledge in creating Tagging, Personalization, Internationalization and Search Engine optimization in AEM suite.  • Experienced in creating AEM Communities, creating events, linking to Social media sites, blogs, configuring plug-ins and understanding Adobe Analytics.  • Created multiple shell scripts to automate CI process like cache clearance, deploy + bounce, Akamai cache clearance, repository diff finder etc.  • Extensive experience of Front End Technologies: AJAX, JSTL, JSP, HTML, EXT JS, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Have experience with configuring maven for AEM project using archetype and customize to add maven-release-plugin, sonar-plugin, content-package-maven-plugin  • Worked on CI tools including Jenkins, Atlassian Bamboo and version control tools including Atlassian Stash, Git, GitHub, Tortoise SVN.  • Hands on experience in Java 1.8, J2EE, JDBC, Multithreading, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, XML, Web Services, REST services, Struts, JSTL, Hibernate, AJAX, CA Harvest Manager, Tortoise SVN.  • Good understanding of Java content repositories, sling request processing and OSGi bundles.  • Efficient use of various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Service locator, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), and Business Delegate in the development of distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience with Agile process methodology.  • Good understanding of internet information architecture, social media applications, search engines, metadata, and tagging.  • Good team player with extraordinary problem-solving and trouble-shooting capabilities.  • Proficient in using various IDEs like CRXDE, CRXDE-Lite, IntelliJ, and Eclipse. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer Shaw Systems - Houston, TX May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Installing and Configuring version 6.3 of AEM Web Content Management System and Apache Felix Admin Console.  • Involved in Designing and developing Migration from legacy systems (Concentra & Mediabin) to AEM  • Have expertise knowledge on Migration and fixed many issues while migrating huge content(40TB).  • Developed multiple JMX scripts for updating content.  • Worked on developing Custom Index rules for minimizing the search queries response time and for improving the performance.  • Leveraged out-of-box asset search and indexed custom metadata properties.  • Designed and developed custom assets search result page for list view.  • Embedded many features like exporting search results in excel.  • Developed custom launchers and workflows for processing & publishing Assets.  Written schedulers for batch processing of assets. Made many configurable properties in schedulers.  • Fixed many system performance related issues like observation queue max out and indexing (async).  • Created templates using Adobe experience manager 6.3  • Worked on AEM product suite, including CQ/ AEM, CRX, CQ WCM and DAM.  • Developed custom metadata form for assets and implemented many conditional logics in the form.  • Has experience on Tracking messages, Emails and OOTB reports.  • OSGi bundle containing components is created and OSGi services are accessed from AEM components.  • Designed, test and development environments and migrated workflows from one environment to other.  • Used JQuery, Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  • Managed entire campaign management environment.  • Configure and implement Adobe Campaign solutions including web forms.  • Create Target Cell Spreadsheets for campaign execution. Create and use flowchart templates as well as strategic segments.  • Integrated Campaigns with AEM to manage email delivery content and forms directly in Adobe Experience Manager(AEM).  • Written event handlers and servlets for processing business logic.  • Involved in system tuning activities like workflows purging, custom loggers and url shortening configurations.  • Developed User- Interface screens involving Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  • Developed Adobe CQ templates and reusable components.  • Integrated with a shared globally accessible repository for shared permissions-based digital media assets using AEM DAM.  • Manage extensive campaign quality assurance processes prior to campaign execution  • Support communications in production; monitor existing campaigns, troubleshoot campaign and technical issues, make modifications to existing campaigns and ensure campaigns are being executed correctly.  • Did gap analysis of the integrations and designed more optimal solution for file transfers, database archival, data migrations, configuration of Marketing data marts, response upload processes  • Designed test and development environments and migrated flowcharts from one environment to other.  • Development and deployment of complex marketing Campaigns through multiple channels.  • Support the day-to-day execution of marketing activities and campaigns across multiple channels via enterprise marketing management system / processes.  • Involved in story estimates on regular basis. Have sound knowledge in Agile Manager.  • Involved in building, deploying the code, moving code to different environments.    Environment: Java, AEM 6.2, AEM 6.3 CQ5.6.1, CQ5 DAM, CQ Tagging, Apache Maven, JIRA, JSP, Apache HTTP Server, Servlets, RESTful API, JDBC, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, AJAX, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat 6, eclipse, Angular JS, jQuery. AEM Developer Inovalan - Bethesda, MD December 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities  • Created and maintained AEM 6.1 and AEM 6.2 content management systems  • Developed Templates and Components using AEM 6.2 Sightly and the Sling Models.  • Define/Develop Junit for classes testing and Multi Site Management strategy.  • Verify/Validate testing to ensure that the team generates high quality output.  • Develop Custom AEM Workflows, OSGI Services and other Dynamic/Static web content management components. Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Involved in content migration from AEM 6.1 to AEM 6.2  • Worked on storage implementation like MongoDB Storage available in AEM 6.2 on the author instance  • Development of the static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  • Implemented i18n internationalization in the website.  • Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • GIT is used as a distributed revision control system. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  • Provide estimates, designs, and the specifications for components, AEM templates, and workflows  • Built various web pages using Java Script, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Setup and configure the Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache landing pages HTML and serve as the static pages from Apache  • Using Angular JS to provide services to the different components of portal.  • Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Held responsible for designing and implementing cloud-based solutions, including private, community and public cloud deployment models.  • Server Monitoring and implementing automated/custom maintenance tasks.  • Worked on the Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  • Provided estimates, designs, and specifications for AEM templates, components, and workflows.  • Built various web pages using HTML, Angular JS, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  • Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Used Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  • Worked on Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  • Worked on Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.    Environment: Adobe AEM 6.1 and 6.2, DAM, AEM Tagging, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Java, J2EE, Amazon AWS, Apache Maven, Angular JS, Rally, Restful Web Services, JAXP, JAXB, Axis 2.0, Jersey 1.2, Servlets, JDBC, MS SQL Server, HTML, Angular JS, JSP, AJAX, JUnit, log4j, Linux, Windows, ATTD. AEM Developer Quantum/NRUCFC - Dulles, VA October 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and implementation of AEM work flows.  • Developed AEM 5.6.1 custom work flow templates and modules for WCM life cycle management.  • Created AEM 5.6.1based Forms.  • Developed GET/POST Sling Servletto provide various services in the AEM 5.6.1system.  • Implemented the Sling Filter, Felix Filter, Sling Servlet, OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring web app services and custom business logic in Java.  • Developed custom components related to parsys using CRXDE lite for the component structure ad used CRXDE.  • Developing templates/components using CRXDE.  • Maintenance and packaging of content, delivery and installation across all environments.  • Performed AEM 5.6.1customization on foundation components, core CMS and work flows to extend functionalities, improve performance as per the requirements.  • Developed digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe AEM product suite, including AEM, CRX, WCM and DAM.  • Testing of AEM 5.6.1components and templates. Also involved in writing Junit test cases for all the java services.  • Responsible for defining the Project setup, defining the templates required and Components.  • Implemented REST, Apache Sling, AEM 5.6.1for Custom Coding.  • Involved with content management strategies, architecture and multichannel content delivery.  Environment: AEM 5.6.1, SVN, JSP, JSON, HP-Unix 11.23, CRX, PL-SQL, UNIX, MS Project, HTML, J-Query, AJAX, Apache Felix. Java/J2EE Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Montpelier, VT September 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the application development using Java platform. Model View Control (MVC) structure implementation.  • Responsible for providing the client side JavaScript validations and usage of HTML, JavaScript, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements to enhance the Portal UI.  • Used Spring Core for Dependency Injection.  • Mapping of ORM objects to tables using the Hibernate as the persistence framework.  • Involved in different service classes, used across the framework.  • Implementation of Web Services using Axis for the integration of different systems  • Developed applications using J2EE technologies like Spring Boot, Spring MVC on the business layer and the persistent layer using Hibernate as ORM tool.  • Testing of Web Services using the Postman.  • Used HTML, CSS, Spring MVC, JSP, and JQuery, JavaScript, Angular.js in the development and the designing the UI.  • Gradient effects through the development of the CSS style sheets. Developed navigation, icons and layouts.  • Code review and configuration build management for the application using Maven.  • Implementation of business logic, validation Frame Work using Spring Web flow and Spring MVC.  • Implemented Web tier of the application through the usage of Spring MVC framework.  • Implementation of clean separation of layers through the usage of different design patterns like Factory pattern, Singleton and DAO pattern.  • Serialization in the flattening of the objects.  • Used core java concepts like Collections while developing server-side services.  • Data storage using DB2 and used PL/SQL for queries.  • Worked with IBM Web Sphere Application Server Developer Tools for Eclipse by using lightweight set of tools to assemble, develop and deploy Java EE, Web 2.0, and mobile applications.  • Involved with GUI using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  • Involved in using continuous integration tool (CI/CD) Jenkins. Created builds using Maven and pulled the project code from GitHub repositories.  • Experience with Garbage collection and multithreading.  • Experience with Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Java Script, JSP, HTML, CSS, XML, SOAP, Hibernate, MySql DB, Spring Boot, PL/SQL, Log4j, JQuery, Angular JS, Eclipse, IBM Web Sphere Application server. Java/J2EE Developer Apollo Hospitals - IN February 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Designed and analyzed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML and used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Used Struts Framework in the application which is based on MVC design pattern and integration with ORM framework (Hibernate)  • Configured Hibernate Objects as Spring Beans in spring configuration file.  • Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Used Struts Validation and Tiles framework in the presentation layer.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS API) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, AOP, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using hibernate annotations.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  • Used DAO design pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Used SAX and DOM XML parsers in the application.  • Used UNIX commands and Shell scripting.  • Used Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using SOAP messages.  • Used CVS for version control.  • Used Hibernate to access Oracle 9i database for accessing customer information.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Deployed the application on IBM Web Sphere 7.0.    Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB 2.0, Struts2, Hibernate 2.0, Spring 2.5, JSP, Servlets, JMS API, XML, SOAP, JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, JNDI, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, IBM WebSphere 7.0, Tomcat, Eclipse 3.0, MySQL, Unix. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology in Information Technology IIT Bombay India - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills Drupal, NET, Java, C#, Angular Certifications/Licenses Driver's License