Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Amazon California, MD Work Experience Java Developer Amazon - Sunnyvale, CA May 2018 to Present • Involved in design and development as a J2SE and J2EE Software developer on an Agile platform to development processes on Software Development life cycle (SDLC).  • Implemented XML based protocol such as SOAP Web Services and Restful Web Services in software application development.  • Developed and worked on RESTful web services for the Downstream Systems and Building RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines. Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Loop back to mock a Restful API.  • Used JavaScript and PHP to create dynamic applications within websites. Used Node. js server as proxy to simulate API responses in front of client.  • Created the Application using React. JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Designed and developed a GraphQL and REST API using Node.js and DynamoDB.  • Used Node.js for server side code and Express.js as the framework. Written callback functions for the RestFul API.  • Used Node JS and Express framework to build server side logic and applied with middleware to handle http requests.  • Developed scalable front-end user interfaces using SCSS, Webpack, HTML, CSS, Backbone and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  • Configured and tested the application with database server MySQL  • Designed responsive web pages using the UI technologies using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Developed Single page application with using AngularJS with MVC Framework.  • Designed and developed a web site application using J2EE, XML, EJB, Servlets, JSP under the Apache Struts Framework, stateless Session EJBs, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, Connection Pools, IBM MQSeries and Sybase RDBMS.  • Configured Struts-config.XML, Tiles-def.XML and various properties files provided by Struts Framework for the implementation module.  • Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.)  • Developed web application using JSF Framework. Used JQuery and JSF validation framework for front end validations.  • Deployed microservices to Ansible Playbook in Docker containers, managed by Mesos/Marathon  • Used Core Java, Multithreading, Collections like List, Array List, Hash Table, and Map.  • Implemented EJBs (Stateless and Stateful session beans).  • Involved developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas, and JAXP.  • Used Spring Boot framework for building Micro Services and to develop Spring based application radically faster with very less configuration.  • Used Spring framework and J2EE components, Utilized Spring MVC, IoC, AOP and DAO modules. Developed controller classes, backend processes, complex services and database interaction Added security for service layer methods using Spring Security.  • Developed the application using J2EE Design Patterns like Business Delegate, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator and DAO.  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code  merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Worked on setting up Maven scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target WebLogic Application Servers and worked on continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Logging framework Log4J is used for log messages. Implemented log4j for application logging and to troubleshoot issues in debug mode.  • Used Jenkins for continuous build system and Git as version control.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and used Log4J for logging and debugging.  • Involved in implementing the changes in user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, and AJAX.  • Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Worked with version control GIT to manage the code repository. Merging and branching using push pull commands through git.  • Used JUnit and Mockito for unit testing, integration testing.  • Configured Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, Maven tool and created Selenium automation scripts in java using TestNG prior to agile release.  • Followed TDD approach and creating environment for unit testing, user-acceptance testing and facilitating Integration tests with JUNIT, TESTNG, Selenium tests and Swagger-UI.  • Used JSF, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Configured AWS EC2 instances, domain mapping via Route53. Developed and designed the UI using spring view component Angular 6, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, Ajax.  • Developed front end UI screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap, CSS3, Angular-UI and Angular 6.  • Created AWS EBS volumes for storing application files for use with AWS EC2 instances whenever they are mounted to them.  • Installed Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository and Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven Repository and used web hooks to ensure Jenkins is listening to a branch  • Designed and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS stack which Includes EC2, MongoDB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Worked on DevOps essential tools like Docker, Kubernetes, Subversion (SVN), GIT, Jenkins, Ant, Maven and migrated VMWAREVMs to AWS and Managed Services like EC2, S3, Route53, ELB, EBS.  • Configured module wide routing in the application using angular 6 router and created various route guards. Improved the performance of application by configuring Mem Cache and scaling the Kubernetes Pod instances.  • Worked on DevOps in monitoring team Development operations of monitoring systems customer communications platform (CCP) infrastructure.  • Worked on containerization using tools like Docker and Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS along with GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development. Java Developer Costco - Hackensack, NJ September 2017 to April 2018 • Worked in developing front end technologies such as JavaScript, Angular 4, jQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, JSP and Struts.  • Involved in creating tables and worked on My SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions in the application and packages for complex Inserts and updates in the database.  • Developed server-side application to interact with database using Spring boot and Hibernate.  • Worked with third party database tool TOAD to write/fine-tune the SQL queries.  • Developed simulator applications using servlets and jsp to test the back-end jobs.  • Worked in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Built REST web service by building Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Working closely with Build & Release teams to migrate projects to test and production servers  using GitHub as source control repository & Maven as build & release tool.  • Used Maven as the build tool, GIT, SVN for version control, Jenkins for Continuous Integration and JIRA as a defect tracking tool.  • Integrated GitHub repository with Eclipse to check-in the code.  • Implemented Spring MVC to achieve Model View Controller design pattern. Configured spring to manage actions as beans and set their dependencies in a spring context file and integrated middle tire with spring web layer  • Created JSP, JavaScript, JQUERY & HTML, extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table and Hash Set.  • Implemented forms and action classes for the application using EJB and Struts Framework and developed EJB deployment descriptor using XML and used JAXB components for transferring the objects between the application and the database.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, and JSP, and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  • Implemented Java 1.8 features for the existing application where ever required.  • Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JPA.  • Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, factory patterns.  • Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, JMeter and Jenkins Jobs.  • Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Used Express JS which is fast, assertive, essential and moderate web framework of Node JS that helps manage a sever and routes.  • Configuration file and Node JS is used at back end to interact with MongoDB using Mongoose connector.  • Testing for Node JS is done using mocha and chai for spring boot used Mockito, Junit, JMeter, and Mock MVC and achieved Test Driven Development.  • Developed Automated selenium tests using testing and executor service where 2 actors can sign documents in parallel.  • Converted commercial QTP Scripts to open source Selenium WebDriver scripts to maximize the profits of the company without compromising Quality.  • Configured Spring Cloud Config Server for externalized configuration.  • Installed WebSphere Server for handling HTTP Request/Response. The request and response from the client are controlled using Session Tracking in JSP.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript, codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Developed the message listener beans and session beans to read and process queue messages. Configured JMS queues and activation specifications on the application server.  • Used code version controlling using SVN. Java Developer Flipkart - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed a Monolithic application and generated UI screens using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Involved in the analysis, design and development phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Prepared the documentation for High Level design, Low Level design of the application and Process Flow of control for the entire application.  • Design of application components using Java Collections and providing concurrent database access using multithreading.  • Received back-end data in JSON format through an API to developed mobile friendly prototypes using production data.  • Implemented the logic layer using Java features like Collections, Interfaces, Polymorphism and Exception Handling.  • Worked on designing single page application using Vue Js components such as Router and Vuex core components.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection (DI) and integrated and used DAO design pattern to retrieve the data from database.  • Written and modified SQL queries and stored procedures for the application to communicate with Database. Oracle used as backend, Worked on SQL queries for persistence of Business Objects.  • Java Servlets and JSP pages were deployed on the Web Logic Application Server for retrieving user information and posting related data.  • Developing new endpoints to fetch data from various sources like SQL Server, Netezza / AWS and designing its output response in JSON.  • Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS and Eclipse.  • Handling form requests using Servlets and JSP responses for interacting with the formal Business Logic Layer that contained the Back-End business rules for handling the data in and out of the system.  • Done the Setup of Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated during the day and periodic scheduled builds overnight to support development needs using Jenkins, JUnit and Maven.  • Generated UML artifacts such as use cases, sequence diagrams, class diagrams using Rational Application Developer.  • Created UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process, to perform regular jobs like file transfers between different hosts.  • Written SQL queries in PL/SQL wrote new stored procedures and modified existing ones depending on requirements in Oracle database.  • Developed iterations, including planning, requirements analysis, design, writing unit tests throughout the life-cycle of the project using Agile (Scrum) Methodology. Skills CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVA (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), jQuery (3 years) Additional Information Skills  Technical Skills: Languages C, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL. Operating Systems Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, Unix, MS-DOS.  Java Technologies J2SE, J2EE, Swing, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JMS, ASP, MDB, JNDI, RMI, UML, Web Services (REST, SOAP), WSDL, JAXB, JAX RS, Design Patterns. Web/App. Server Tomcat 7.0/8.0/8.5, WebSphere 7.0/8.5/8.5.5, WebLogic10.x/11.x/12.x  Frameworks& Developer Tools  Struts 2.x, JPA, Spring 2.0/2.5/3.0/4.x/5.x, Spring Boot 2.1.3, Security 3.x, 4.x, 5.x, Spring-web flow 2.x, Hibernate 4.x/5.x, AJAX, Log4J, Android Studio, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA 2018.x, Visual Studio Code, SOAPUI, Postman.    Web-Development Technologies JSP, XML, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery Validation, AngularJS, CSS, Servlets, jQuery, JSTL (Tag Libraries), JUnit 4.x/5.x, RMI RDBMS ORACLE 10g/11g,  SQL Server 2008 R2/2012/2014/2016 Oracle SQL Developer, MYSQL 5.5/5.6/5.7, TOAD Version Control Systems SVN (Tortoise, IDE plugins), GIT (Atlassian SourceTree, Bitbucket, GitHub, IDE tools) Build & Repository Management Ant, Maven 2.x/3.x/3.5.3, Nexus Quality.