Lead/ Sr JAVA Developer Lead/ Sr <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead/ Sr JAVA Developer - Missouri State Wichita, KS • 15+ years of IT experience with expertise in Java, J2EE, Spring (core, boot), JPA, Hibernate, AJAX, JSF, Oracle (SQL and PL/SQL), Crystal reports, Visual Basic, SOAP, Perl, Servlets, UNIX Shell scripts, JSTL, ..XML, Angular JS, Java Design Patterns, Web Services and IBM MQ Serie.  • Extensive experience in Server-side programming (creating Business objects classes and DAO layer), Database SQL queries & Oracle PL/SQL (Stored Procedures, Functions and Packages).  • Experience in Big Data Technologies using Hadoop (HDFS & MapReduce), PIG, Java UDF, SQOOP.  • Designed & developed web based components using JSP, Servlets, JSF, JavaScript, AJAX, DHTML.  • RDBMS / SQL (Oracle 10i/11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2, MS-ACCESS), MongoDB.  • Extensively worked Web/Application servers - WebLogic, WebSphere & Tomcat and created clustering, connection pools, load balancing and involved in building & deploying application codes..  • Experience in developing two-tier, three-tier and multi-tier Client-Server, Distributed Object Systems and Object-Oriented Technologies in an Internet/Intranet Environment.  • Extensively used tools like Visio for UML Modeling, JUNIT and IDEs like Eclipse, RAD, STS.  • Experience in Perl Programming, Ant and UNIX scripting.  • Hand on experience on CVS, Subversion, ClearCase, Salesforce, Jira for version control.  • Gained experience in developing Web services using RMI, JMS, WSDL, SOAP, REST, XML and MQ series using WebSphere Application server.  • Experience in Code deployment using Jenkins and Maven, version control tools like SVN and GIT.  • Strong development experience using Service Oriented Architecture, MVC architectures and programming methodologies like Agile, Scrum, RAD and RUP.  • Experience in Full Software Development life cycle experience using Water Fall, Agile(Scrum) and combined waterfall and Scrum methodologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead/ Sr JAVA Developer Missouri State October 2015 to Present Description: The project involves development of the MEDES project which is intended to result in a Medicaid Modified Adjusted Gross Income (MAGI) system module for purposes of Enrollment and  Adjudication of Missouri Medicaid applications. Followed Agile practice.    Responsibilities  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java.  • Implemented service layer using Spring IOC and annotations and Controllers using Spring MVC.  • Gained experience in implementing, by using Spring IO / Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions security modules.  • Developed data components that include Hibernate Entities, Spring-Hibernate DAO.  • Extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table and Hash Set.  • Implemented design patterns like Factory, DTO, Business Delegates and DAO.  • Developed Data Access Module using DAO patterns, to handle all the transaction with the database.  • Created SQL Queries, Stored procedures and packages using Oracle PL/SQL for data storage and reports.  • Used Spring MVC framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Developed Web services (SOAP) to interact with other components.  • Involved in developing (WSDL) and interfaces objects that are required for webservices transactions.  • Responsible for creating shell scripts to automate java process.  • Involved in creating schemas, tables, views, stored procedures, alter tables and columns, table indexes, data de-duplication, data cleansing/conversion, ETL Automations.  • Design and develop Hadoop project in building an Audit reporting using Big data, Pig Scripts and Java UDF, Oozie, Splunk/Hunk technologies  Environment: JAVA8, J2EE, Spring Framework, Core, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Collection classes, SQL, PL/SQL (ETL), SOAP, REST, Hadoop, Pig Scripts, Shell Scripts, Jenkins, Git, Maven, Splunk, Technical Lead/ ( JAVA) AT&T, NJ May 2012 to September 2015 Description: EFMS (End to End Flow through Management System) tracks, schedules, and manages this  order flows through all the different AT&T Ordering, Provisioning, and Billing Systems. EFMS also provides  exception handling services. Followed agile methodology    Responsibilities  • Review work products solution proposal, design document, work inspection log and test strategies.  • Working in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  • Design and develop Business objects classes for various functionalities.  • Involved in design and develop database layer implementing DAO layer.  • Involved in compiling SQL queries, PL/SQL (Procedures, Functions and Packages and Database triggers).  • Involved in implementing Spring technologies for recent enhancements.  • Design and develop (WSDL) and interfaces objects that are required for webservices transactions.  • Responsible for creating shell scripts to automate few java processes.  Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JNDI, SOA, Webservice, IBM MQ, WebSphere App Sever 7.0, Oracle database, Spring-Core, Perl, Unix shell Scripts. Technical Lead ( JAVA) Lincoln Financial Group April 2010 to April 2012 Description: The project provides services for both real-time processing, as well batch processing of the application in various technology like mainframes, UNIX AIX, SOAPLite, WSAD, WESB, Java J2EE and Web services. The project handles insurance annuity enrolment, contribution processing, unit-value processing, compensation processing, Reporting, Vantage interface and Client Communication.    Responsibilities  • Delivering technical solutions and IT work products, inclusive of leading the team, design document, code, testing strategy and implementation plan.  • Producing High Level Design and Application Level Designs.  • Develop server-side code - Business objects, database layer and Oracle SQL/PL SQL.  • Involved in implementing UI interface functionalities using JSF.  • Design and develop web services using SOAP and WSDL.  • Planned and executed workflow of various production issues for 10 Lincoln internal and external applications.  • Mentor, Monitor and involved in WAS 7.0 migrations to fix around 500+ issues, testing and migrating 10 internal and external Lincoln applications following combined Scrum-Waterfall project lifecycle.  • Used Fishbone analysis to identify cause of critical production issues that helped as guidelines for upcoming enhancements and projects.  • Introduced extreme prototyping development process, segregates POC into HTML, functional and implementation stages.  Mentor and lead group of 3 teams (16 team members).  Environment: H/w: O/s: Win XP, Linux, Unix. S/w: Java 6, J2EE, JDBC, JNDI, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, XML, Web Service, Web Sphere 7.0, Unix Shell Scripting, Perl, Crystal Reports. Database: Oracle 10g  Tools: SVN, Magic Draw IDE: RAD 7.5 Lead JAVA Developer Lufthansa Airlines, UK September 2009 to March 2010 Description: This project provides the future marketer workplace for Lufthansa Miles & More as well as a portal for current and future program partners. This develops and implement the required CC GUI, Native GUI (a thin-client (i.e. browser-based) UI), Service and Data Layers using Java 6, JSF, EJB3, JPA with Hibernate and Web logic.    Responsibilities  • Lead the team technically, gives technical guidance and support development of system on Java Technologies & Oracle SQL/PL SQL.  • Translate customer requirements into formal requirements, design documents, leading the efforts including programming and testing.  • Created various robust common components for service and DAO layers that helped team to reuse extensively without many changes.  • Design and developed data layer using JPA with Hibernate.  • Deliver high quality solutions to the client in response to varying business requirements.  • Prepared Design includes workflow, business logic, application and database objects, data flow (UML) and sequence diagrams.  • Leading a Team of 10 developers.  Environment: H/w: O/s: Win XP, Unix. S/w: Java 6, J2EE, JSF, EJB 3.0, JPA with Hibernate, XML, Web Service, Web logic Platform 10.3 Database: Oracle 10g  Tools: SVN, Maven, Magic Draw IDE: Eclipse 3.0 Technical Team Lead Emirates Airlines - Dubai, AE August 2006 to August 2009 Description: This system used for all the ground handling functions for DNATA and Emirates. Supports Thin Client Support ( Java Swing), RF Interface Support (RF HHTs), and Web Interface (JSP). Dedicated Web Server provides Web Service to application named CALOGI for their agent's transactions. Server side is based on J2EE 1.3 framework. Crystal Reports are used as a report template for printing. Where Inet Crystal Clear API is used for transformation of data to report format specified in .RPT file. Socket connections, messaging over MQ series, FTP, & E-Mail are used for external messaging.    Responsibilities  • Improved performance of feed file generation system which process huge volume data from 1 hour to half an hour.  • Develop prototype, demonstrate users in finalize scope & design documents.  • Developed JSP& Servlets programming implement GUI and Front controller.  • Involved in writing EJB (Session bean, Entity bean and Message bean).  • Conducted user training demonstrates various functions, navigation, data entry, user definable configuration and online help.  • Identify the risks, dependencies, assumptions based on the current environment and historical data.  • Maintain Interface Listeners, Report Server and Weblogic Server/Clusters.  • Sole responsible to analyze the requirements and prepare the Specifications of the reports to develop in Crystal reports.  • Involved in writing Unix Shell Scripts for automation.  Leading Team of 8 developers and coordinate with a business analyst and a DBA.  Environment: O/s: Win 2000, Unix S/w: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, SWING, J2EE, EJB, JMS, XML, WebLogic 8.1 (SP5) Database: Oracle 9.2.0.3  Tools: Crystal Reports, Harvest, TOAD IDE: Eclipse 3.0 Sr JAVA Developer/ Lead Sabre March 2005 to July 2006 Description: This project provides Capturing Agent Details (TN Camry) Agency Earnings deals with capturing the agent/agency details while he/she is booking on behalf of the customer. Module - Savings Calculator and Re-branding involves Savings Calculator concept for total trip LOB. This displays savings gained for customers, who books a package instead booking Air and Hotel products separately.    Responsibilities  • Involved in gathering business requirements from the client.  • Co-ordinate with users gathering functional & technical requirements.  • Developed key business classes for Savings calculator using Java/J2EE.  • Lead team of 4 associate engineers and provide immediate direction & guidance.  • Involved in Code Review, Unit Test case & Integrated Testing.  • Design and developed a new component (Savings Calculator).  Environment: O/s: Win 2000 S/w: Java, JSP, MVC (Struts1.2, Avalon F/W), XML. Database: Oracle 8.1.5 Tools: CVS, TOAD IDE: Eclipse 3.0 Sr JAVA Developer/ Lead DHL September 2004 to February 2005 Description: DHL Interactive is an IT initiative to create a portal, for web enabling important business services of DHL like Booking, Query of time tables, Quote, Reporting, Exception Mgmt, Track and Trace. Rebranding the application and migrating LR2 database (Sql Server) to Dzi database (oracle).    Responsibilities  • Involved in Technical study of requirements and required EJB's.  • Applied J2EE Patterns (Front Controller, Delegates, Service Locator & DAO).  • Involved in Query tuning to generate reports and prepare business logic, application and database object specifications.  • Conduct UAT - coordinating users to test and accept solution in a timely manner.  • Provide technical recommendation, helps solving business problems.  Environment: H/w: O/s: Windows 2000 S/w: Java, Servlets, JSP, EJB, HTML, Oracle 8, XML, WebLogic 8.1 Tools: Rational Rose, Eclipse and VSS. JAVA Developer Citi Bank - JP November 2002 to September 2004 Description: ASMS takes care of Bilingual Advice & Statement generation in English  & Japanese based on customer preference. Multiple copies of customers Advice/Statement are generated for different or same addresses. Transaction edits to suppress error transactions & their reversals. Facility to insert transaction will be provided, to accommodate errors traced after EOM completion.    Responsibilities  • Preparation of Program plan and tracking to the plan.  • Understand business functions & developed screen navigation doc.  • Creating Servlet that handles business logic and session handling.  • Design and develop screens using JSP, HTML, DHTML & Javascript.  • Developed/Modified reports using JSP and Database Queries for reports.  • Developed Native Calls from the 'C' Programming Language.  • Involved in writing Unix Shell Scripts for automation.  Environment: O/s: SUN Solaris S/w: Java, Servlets, JSP, EJB, HTML, Oracle 9i, Pro*C, C, Weblogic6.1.  Tools: Java script 1.2, DHTML. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), shell scripts (10+ years), Unix (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA, Java script, J2EE, Visual Basic, Crystal Reports.  Java/J2EE technologies: JDBC, RMI, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JNDI, JS.  Framework/ Libraries: Spring 3, Hibernate, JPA, JWS, JQuery, Spring Boot, Struts2  Web Services: SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, REST, SOA, Apache Axis.  Scripting/Parser: DOM, DTD, JAXP, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Unix Shell Scripts  Application/Web Servers: IBM Web Sphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Designing Tools: Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose, UML  IDE/Tools: Ant, Maven, Net Beans, Eclipse, RAD, STS, Sublime Text.  Change Control: CVS, SVN, Subversion, Salesforce, Jira, ClearCase.  Big Data: Hadoop (HDFS), Java UDF, Pig Scripts, Map Reduce, Python, R.    Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux. Windows 9X, 2K, XP  Databases: Oracle (SQL/ PL/SQL), DB2, SQL Server. MongoDB.