Implementation Partner Implementation Partner Implementation Partner - Georgia Department of Community Health Reston, VA • Over 14+ years of IT experience with special emphasis on System Analysis, Design, Development and Testing as an MDM hub, Data Quality and ETL specialist  • Designing, Installing, Configuring core Informatica MDM Hub components such as Informatica Hub Store, Hub Server, Cleanse Match Server, Cleanse Adapter, Address Doctor  • Defining and configuring landing tables, staging tables, base objects, hierarchies, foreign-key relationships, lookups, query groups, queries/custom queries and packages  • Designed & developed multiple cleansing and standardization scenarios using Address Doctor  • Helping business to understand the Match rules configuration and decide the trust factor and Configure match/merge rules  • Addressing issues of master data definition, metadata acquisition and data migration including data profiling, validation, clean-up and remediation, and source to target mapping  • Performed cleansing and mapped business requirements to available features in IDD  • Implementing IDD applications to maintain/manage data, access relationship hierarchies and configured task management to route tasks to the Data stewards  • Implementing SIF API's on Real-time to update, insert and delete data in the MDM Hub  • Configuring charts on the dashboard according to business requirements in IDD and user exits in IDD for selective validation alert pop ups  • Configured Informatica Hierarchy Manager and its components entity types, hierarchical, relationships types, packages and profiles  • Extensive experience in creation of ETL Mappings and Transformations using Informatica Power Center to move data from multiple sources into target area using complex transformations like Expressions, Routers, Lookups, ERP Source Qualifiers, Aggregators, Filters, Joiners  • Excellent with PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Packages, Database Triggers and SQL * Loader  • Highly proficient in creating transformations and mappings, processing tasks, scheduling sessions, importing/exporting repositories, managing users, groups, associated privileges and folders.  • Experience with Relational and Non-Relational databases i.e. Oracle 11g/11i/10g/9i, SQL Server, DB2, and flat files  • Proficient with Informatica Data Quality (IDQ) for cleanup and massaging at staging area  • Experienced Data Management Analyst self-driven to quickly deep dive, learn, develop, commit and extend support to the delivery of project and organization goals.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and an attitude to learn the new cutting-edge technologies.  • Ability to quickly analyze and come-up with an efficient industry standard solution for a given problem  • Responsible for developing Mappings, Mapplets and Rules using different types of transformations like Parser, Address Validator, Key Gen, Match etc. transformations, created PDOs and LDOs  • Analyzed Data Profiling Results and Performed Various Transformations  • Experienced in developing scorecards by using the rules developed.  • Experienced in web technologies like HTML, CSS, OO JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, JS Frameworks (Angular & React) and CMS tools (WordPress, Joomla, OpenCart) Work Experience Implementation Partner Georgia Department of Community Health - Reston, VA February 2018 to Present Project: Georgia Enterprise Data Solution (EDS)  The Department's Decision Support Services (DSS) Team, housed within theDivision of Information Technology is responsible for data reporting and analytics.The team uses multiple systems, which include the MMIS reporting repositoryadministered by HP and a Decision Support System and Data Warehouse (DSS/DW) supported by Truven Health Analytics. All reporting systems includeaccess to Medicaid enrollment, medical and pharmacy data for both Fee-For-Service and Managed Care populations.With an objective to provide data to assist with improved business performanceand to make better informed decisions, the DSS has started an initiative to procurean enterprise data warehouse solution (EDS) with business intelligence (BI) and predictive analytic capabilities. Implementation of the data warehouse withalignment to the EDMS is expected to enable business processes which create anintelligence strategy driven by business objectives and prospective outlooks whichwill support better decision-making capabilities and assist DCH in achieving its  desired goals  Responsibilities:  • Designed DFD's to understand the overall data flow.  • Review business and technical requirements and ensure the data integration platform meets requirements.  • Apply industry best practices for MDM design and development.  • Assists in design, development and implementation of end-to-end complex MDM system using Informatica tools.  • Plan and contribute to MDM development efforts for team utilizing Informatica tools.  • Produce written deliverables for technical design, system testing and implementation activities.  • Installation of Informatica MDM on databases Oracle, SQL Server and on Application server.  • Design Data Model and build the relationships among the tables.  • Analyze the Source Data and come with Match Columns, Match rules, Match rule sets.  • Create Landing, Base, staging tables and mappings to move the data from landing to staging tales.  • Define Match Rules and Match Rule sets by defining match columns.  • Define hierarchies using Hierarchy Manager tool.  • Create IDD/e360 application and customize as per the business requirements.  • Design SIF integration framework for MDM using Programming experience for pre-load, post-load, match and merge process.  • Involve in the ETL process in getting the data loaded from the source systems to the landing tables.  • Deploying MDM application to WAS Server and perform pre and post code migration tasks whenever the code is deployed.  Environment: Informatica Multidomain MDM 10.2 HF2, Informatica RDM 10.1, ActiveVOS, IDD, Informatica Data Quality 10.2,UNIX, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer 4.1.5.21.78, WebLogic: 11g, IBM Cognos, SAS, Informatica PowerCenter,WebSphere 15.10.01, WinSCP 5.9.4, Teradata 15.10.1.4, PuTTY 0.69, Waterfall. Implementation Partner Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC October 2016 to February 2018 Infosys  Position: Informatica MDM Consultant    Project: Reference Data Management (RDM)  The initial phase of the project was migrating from Collibra to Informatica RDM working mainly on the reference data. The existing system was using Abinitio for ETL and Teredata at the backend. The plan was to keep both the systems running parallel even after migrating until the Collibra gets decommissioned.  Responsibilities:  • Designed DFD's to understand the overall data flow.  • Developed an enterprise level architectural solution and a structure that is stable, resilient and performant.  • Involved in documenting source to target mappings.  • Proposed many current to to-be state Architectural designs for the Informatica RDM.  • Involved in preparing Technical requirement document and Functional requirement specification.  • RDM come with the basic Data Model from the Informatica when you configure it. Made changes to the Data Model according to the business requirements.  • Configured Informatica Data Director (IDD)asitisa part of RDMA configuration which is used as Data governance application for Informatica MDM Hub that enables business users to effectively create, manage, consume and monitor master data using IDD. (Informatica Data Director).  • Created Base objects, staging tables, landing tables and defined foreign key relationships among the base objects and Hierarchy setup for all the Well data.  • Configured ActiveVOS for workflow management.  • Used IDQ for profiling the data and used different transformations before moving the data into landing layer.  • Configuration and creation of landing and staging tables for newly added sources.  • Build the cleanse functions based on the requirements for the mappings.  • Defined the Foreign Key relationships and provided lookup information for the columns in the staging tables.  • Configured the Hierarchies using Hierarchy Manager to identify hierarchical relationships between the Reference Data Elements.  Environment: Informatica Multidomain MDM 10.2 HF2, Informatica RDM 10.1, ActiveVOS, IDD, Informatica Data Quality10.2,UNIX, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer 4.1.5.21.78, WebLogic: 11g, Ab Initio GDE 3.2.7.2, WebSphere 15.10.01, WinSCP 5.9.4, Teredata 15.10.1.4, PuTTY 0.69, Waterfall. Informatica MDM Consultant Teva Pharmaceuticals, PA July 2014 to October 2016 Project: Customer Master  The US Specialties Business has decided to invest in improving Customer Master Data Management capabilities in order to provide a single trusted view of Teva Customers to better execute on Teva's obligation to patients, customers and government agencies. This Customer Master Phase 2 project is intended to support tactical master data goals and enable progress against broader Customer Centric goals.  Responsibilities:  • Configuration and creation of landing and staging tables for newly added sources.  • Added new sources to the existing MDM implementation.  • Create mappings to load data in to the staging tables.  • Build the cleanse functions based on the requirements for the mappings.  • Defined the Foreign Key relationships and provided lookup information for the columns in the staging tables.  • Tested already existing match rules and performed match tuning by determining over and under matches.  • Modified few match rules based on performance.  • Created mapping documents, functions speciation's document and technical specification documents.  • Defined Trust and Validation rules and Configured Match Set Rules for getting the matches in order to eliminate the duplicate records.  • Migration of Siperian objects from Dev to QA and to Production environments.  • Configured Informatica MDM hub on WebLogic application server.  • Loaded the data into the landing tables using SQL scripts and used the batch viewer to run the Stage and Load process.  • Data governance application for Informatica MDM Hub that enables business users to effectively create, manage, consume and monitor master data using IDD. (Informatica Data Director).  • Configured the Hierarchies using Hierarchy Manager to identify hierarchical relationships.  Environment: Informatica Multidomain MDM 10.1, Informatica Power Center 9.6, UNIX, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, WebLogic: 11g Informatica MDM Developer American Credit Acceptance, South Carolina March 2012 to July 2014 Project:American Credit Acceptance is an emerging credit consumer auto finance company providing financial solutions from coast-to-cost, working with various auto dealers providing service. My role here is to work on MDM to analyze the data, build Match and Merge rules and get golden records.  Responsibilities:  • Configured and installed Informatica MDM Hub server, cleanse, resource kit, and Address Doctor5 in Dev, QA, Pre-prod and Prod Environments.  • Led effort for gathering business requirements for the data-warehouse as well as business-intelligence reports to be used by the management.  • Involved in implementing the Land Process of loading the customer/product Data Set into Informatica MDM Hub using ETL tool.  • Defined the Base objects, Staging tables, foreign key relationships, static lookups, dynamic lookups, queries, packages and query groups.  • Configured Address Doctor which can cleanse whole world address Data and enhanced by making some modifications during installation  • Worked on data cleansing and standardization using the cleanse functions in Informatica MDM.  • Defined the Trust and Validation rules and setting up the match/merge rule sets to get the right master records.  • Configured match rule set property by enabling search by rules in MDM according to Business Rules.  • Performed match/merge and ran match rules to check the effectiveness of MDM process on data.  • Created and documented the secure resources, roles, users for roles, and assigned privileges to roles using Security Access Manager in Dev, QA, Pre-prod and Prod environment.  Environment: Informatica Multidomain MDM 10.1.0, Informatica Power Center 9.6.0, JBoss 6.4, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, Address Doctor, IDD, SIF, Toad, SQL*Loader, Client: Fusionex International, Malaysia. (Nov 2010 - Mar 2012)  Position: ETL Developer    Project:Fusionex is a built-up multi-grant winning IT software firm that has practical experience in Analytics and Big Data. Our business is to enable customers to oversee, understand and infer valuable bits of knowledge and data from the immense measures of organized and unstructured information available to them. We are centered around conquering any hindrance amongst business and innovation, and in doing as such, giving an outstanding and positive experience to clients of different markets.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with Business Analyst and application users to finalize Data Model, functional and detailed technical requirements.  • Extracted data from heterogeneous sources like Oracle, SQL Server.  • Conducted a series of discussions with team members to convert Business rules into Informatica mappings.  • Used Transformations like Look up, Router, Filter, Joiner, Stored Procedure, Source Qualifier, Aggregator and Update Strategy extensively.  • Tuned performance of Informatica session for large data files by increasing block size, data cache size, sequence buffer length and target-based commit interval.  • CreatedMapplets and used them in different Mappings.  • Involved in doing error handling, debugging and troubleshooting Sessions using the Session logs, Debugger and Workflow Monitor.  • Monitoring the Data Quality, generating weekly/monthly/yearly statistics reports on production processes - success / failure rates for causal analysis as maintenance part and Enhancing exiting production ETL scripts.  • Worked with SAP and Oracle sources to process the data.  • Worked on SAP for data migration Human Resources and Finance and converted various objects on Organizational Structure, Addresses, Time, Basic Pay, Bank Details, Recurring Payments, Tax assignment, Insurance Plans, Payroll etc., to generate report from SAP BI system.  • Worked with Pre-and Post-Session SQL commands to drop and recreate the indexes on data warehouse using Source Qualifier Transformation of Informatica Power center.  • Created Unix Shell Scripts to automate sessions and cleansing the source data.  • Implemented pipeline partitioning concepts like Round-Robin, Key-Range and Pass Through techniques in mapping transformations.  • Involved in Debugging and Performance tuning of targets, sources, mappings and sessions.    Environment: Informatica Power Center 9.1, Oracle11g, SQL Developer. Java Developer Exceed Management August 2008 to November 2010 Project: BSNL is one among the largest telecommunications companies in India. BSNL operates the largest wireless and Landline network in the India based on total wireless customers. Assisted in the design of the Data Warehouse. Gathered data from multiple source systems. The project deals with the automated provision of the telephone systems. The system is developed to provision various telephone systems and allocate different services to the line as per the plans selected by the user. It is developed in Java/J2EE with the spring framework and the flow decision had been implemented with the flux flowcharts which in turn call the various java actions and web services with the backend database as oracle and hosted on to tomcat web server.  Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Java Spring Framework and used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE), SVN and Ant.  • Developed the UI layer using struts, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, XML and XPath.  • Developed the presentation layer using struts MVC.  • Developed various SOAP based Web Services using apache axis2 implementation.  • Developed various service codes to provision the lines and configured them with iBatis and REST web services.  • Used spring framework for wining and managing business objects.  • Developed PL/SQL programming on Oracle Database using Oracle SQL Developer and Java JDBC technologies.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects for Addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Managed service dependencies using spring dependency injection.  • Written Junit test cases for unit testing and load testing for various service codes.  • Used SVN for version and source control.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring 3.0, SOAP Web Services, RESTful Web Services, JMS, IBATIS 2.0, Oracle, WebLogic, Junit 3.0, Ant, SVN, Apache axis2 and CXF, Log4j, SQLite SQL Developer Exceed Management May 2006 to August 2008 Project: Apollo Health Care is a global healthcare services company offering Business Process Outsourcing and IT Solutions and Services to global clientele with its principle place of business in the city of Hyderabad, India. This project involved working with a financial data mart that was periodically fed from various sources. I was working on the databases to support the needs.  Responsibilities:  • Designed, created and maintained the database.  • Used tools like SQL *Loader to load the data into the database tables from flat files and excel sheets.  • Created control files for fixed length data, variable length data and for data that has to be inserted in multiple tables within a database at a time.  • Used SQL*Plus to perform DML operations for small updates.  • Created number of database Triggers using PL/SQL.  • Created indexes for faster retrieval and improved query performance.  • Customized different modules of reports after upgrade process using MS Access.  • Developed Data entry, query and reports request screens and tuned the SQL queries.  • Involved in programming, debugging, and unit and system integration testing of modules.  Environment: Oracle 9i, SQL*Plus, SQL*Loader, MS Word, MS Excel, MS SQL Server 8.0, Erwin, MS Visio, MS Access Education Bachelor's Skills Data modeling, Database, Db2, Ms access, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 8, Sql, Etl, Informatica, Jboss, Mdm, Mongodb, Teradata, Solaris, Unix, Sun, Css, Web logic, Websphere Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  EIM Tools Informatica MDM Multi-DomainEdition 10.x/9.x, IDD, SIF  Cleanse Adapters Address Doctor  Databases Oracle 8.x/9.x/10g/11g, DB2, MySQL, MS-Access. Editors (SQL Navigator, Toad), Teradata, MongoDB  Database Client Tools TOAD, SQL*PLUS, SQL*Loader SQL Navigator Export/Import  ETL Tools Informatica Power Center 8.6/9.X/10.X  Data Modeling MS Visio 2000  Programming Skills C, C++, JAVA,PHP, SQL, HTML, UNIX Scripting, Angular JS, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery  Application Servers Web Logic 11.x, JBoss 6.x, WebSphere 8.x  Package MS Office (MS Access, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Word), Visual Studio  Environment Windows SERVER, Sun Solaris, Unix, RHEL