Sr. Django Developer Sr. Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Django Developer Reston, VA • More than 10 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Java and Python  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  • Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL  • Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  • Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Django Developer Pimco, Newport Beach, CS August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM,  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on several python packages  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  • Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Security, Route 53, Direct Connect, IAM, Cloud Formation, AWS OpsWorks (Automate operations), Elastic Beanstalk, AWS S3, Glacier and Cloud Watch Monitoring Management.  • Worked with search business and search team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using elasticsearch.  • Used Vagrant tool in puppet and chef for testing infrastructure scripts.  • Used Vagrant tool to test chef cookbooks, puppet modules in different virtual environments like VMware or AWS.  • Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elasticsearch.  • Development of infrastructure automation in AWS (EC2, DynamoDb, Lambda, EBS, RDS, Dynamo, ELB, EIP etc) with AWS CloudFormation.  • Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Config, Auto scaling, CloudFront, IAM and DynamoDB  • Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  • Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  • Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  • Implemented system logging solution using Logstash, Elasticsearch and Kibana.  • Implemented CI/CD process, CIT automated testing, deployment using Hg/GIT, REST API, Ansible & Puppet.  • Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  • Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environments using Docker and Vagrant Script.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  • Created mockups using web technologies like HTML 5, CSS3, SASS, JQuery & JavaScript, Git, GitHub.  • Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  • Configuring, automation and maintaining build and deployment CI/CD tools Git/GitLab, Docke  • Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  • Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to using Git for source control  • Used Github repository for version control.  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  • Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  • Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, jQuery, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Elasticsearch, Oracle, DynamoDB, Vagrant, PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, S3, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Git, GitHub, Linux Sr. Django Developer Goldman Sachs - New York, NY March 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with Dynamodb.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed a Spark job in Java which indexes data into ElasticSearch from external Hive tables which are in HDFS.  • Developed code in Java which creates mapping in ElasticSearch even before data is indexed into.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python library.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST service hosted on AWS using API Gateway and used DynamoDB.  • Used Dynamodb to store data on AWS server.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jerkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, RDS in Cloud Formation Json templates.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  • Worked with GIT version control, vagrant environment using node.js, Gulp for compiling, and the JIRA ticketing system.  • Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Created real-time dashboard for Executives, utilizing Logstash, ElasticSearch, Kibana & Redis.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  • Developed app on Vagrant local machine coding tool.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Deployed applications using WeBrick server, Apache Tomcat Server and also maintained the application using Git, GitHub and Heroku.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  • Used Webservices - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked closely with Devops team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Maven and GIT.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  • Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  • Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional qualityDeveloped framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, jQuery, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, DynamoDB, MySQL, Vagrant, Elasticsearch, S3, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven. Python Developer American Express - San Francisco, CA March 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • sed Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  • Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization. and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  • Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  • Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Web Developer Bank of America - Dallas, TX September 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Made the application responsive using Bootstrap.  • Involved in web designing using HTML , CSS, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • After making the applications to be responsive, worked on different mobile devices bugs (like ios and android).  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Jquery.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Used Adobe Experience manager for building websites, mobile apps and forms.  Environment:    HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos Java Developer T-Mobile - Dallas, TX April 2009 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Design and implementation for the concept for the frameworks using Struts, Spring and Hibernate Frameworks and assisting with development environment configuration.  • Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, Hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  • Developed the Frontend application with AngularJS.  • Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML (Unified Modeling Language) - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development.  • Used Spring MVC framework & Integration for Server side programming.  • Developed UI based on struts framework, using JSF, JSP, JSTL, Servlets and Back Bone JS DHTML with extensive java scripts to reduce Server hits, improving performance.  • Developed Servlets and JSP to interact with EnterpriseJava Beans (EJB) containing all the Business Logic.  • Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB.  • Wrote complex SQL, Stored Procedure, HSQL & Criteria queries and reviewed the same with peers.  • Responsible to resolve design issues and develop strategies to make ongoing improvements that support system flexibility and performance.  • JProfiler bridges the gap between a code profiler and a high-level JEE monitoring tool.  • Responsible to approve "Test Cases" created by Testing Team. Provide technical support to testing team to fix any issues in Functional Testing.  • Assess the technical feasibility of new technologies to enable integration into existing processes.  • Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller to make calls to EJB as model.  • Worked on JBOSS Application Server to deploy application.  • Consumed and developed Restful Services with JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Used Soap UI Pro for Testing Web services.  • Used Apache Camel with URIs to work directly with any kind of Transport or messaging model such as HTTP, ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ and JMS.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Functions and created database tables.  • Used ClearCase for Source Control Management.  • Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests.    Environment:  Spring, Hibernate, Jprofiler, Angular JS, DHTML, CSS, Servlets, UML, J2EE, JSP, JSF2.0, EJB, Struts Framework Taglibs, SQL, JavaScript, Oracle, JBoss, Websphere Application Server, Eclipse, JUnit, JMock, WSDL, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSD (Schema Designs), SOAP, RestFul Services, JSON, UNIX, UML, JNDI, JDBC, JMS. Software Developer Cigna - Bloomfield, CT October 2007 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  • Developed the key modules Java, spring and Ibatis.  • Extensive Application of HTML, XHTML, CSS for design and styling of web pages.  • Implemented reusable services using Spring.  • Involved in developing Database access components using Spring DAO integrated with Hibernate/JPA for accessing the data.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate. Leveraged the AOP features of spring framework to handle exceptions.  • Implemented webservices using Rest API.  • Implementation of AJAX, JSON, JQuery for create interactive Web Applications.  • Involved in developing and modifying UNIX shell scripts using VI editor.  • Implemented Ejb for maintaining the business logic.  • Written complex SQL queries and stored procedures.    Environment:  Java, J2ee, JSR, XML, Ejbs, Spring, webservices, Hibernate, Oracle, Websphere Application Server. Education Bachelor's Skills Python (8 years), Django (4 years), Java (9 years), Javascript (8 years), HTML 5 (3 years), html (7 years), CSS (7 years), CSS3 (3 years), Angular (7 years), React.js (4 years), Vue.js (2 years), Spring (6 years), Hibernate (6 years)