Mobile Developer Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Maple Grove, MN Work Experience Mobile Developer Express Image Digital - Little Canada, MN February 2018 to Present Primary role is a developer for building, testing, debugging and releasing mobile applications. Applications ranged from using Java, Swift and Cordova. Also working on various projects ranging from website building with Drupal to creating Chrome Apps for kiosks.    • Developing mobile applications for clients using Java, Swift and Cordova for wayfinding applications for users to navigate through a building. The user could favorite stores in a mall and tap to navigate to using beacons set up throughout the building.  • Managing releases for mobile applications with ITunes and Google Play for clients to release after their approval process.  • Providing builds to customers by request and giving them information on the changes from the previous version to the current version and the testing steps.  • Communicating with customers to ensure desires and limitations are clear for work on the mobile applications and to answer any questions they have on the apps.  • Setting up and managing certificates for iOS development and releasing. Also ensuring that certificates were replaced if needed to other services like Firebase or Salesforce.   • Programming using Mithril to create kiosk applications to search through tenants in a building, navigate from where the kiosk is to the desired tenant, and various other tasks   • Creating Drupal modules using TWIG and PHP for customer customization on their pages for reusability and simplicity.  • Converted Chrome app to mobile application using Cordova and restyled to match client’s approved mockups.  • Pair programming with newer developers to train them on the various projects and their technologies  • Writing documentation on various projects from how to release mobile applications to how SDKs were implemented in the application.  • Creating and editing API calls for more customer customization of data on mobile applications, websites and kiosks.  • Styling websites and applications using Sass communicating with a graphic designer to create the greatest user experience according to the customer’s request  • Presenting to the team on new topics with the purpose of teaching them new tools or processes like Chomes debugging tools and how to take advantage of them when programming or how to set up a pull request on Bitbucket that links up with a story on Jira. Junior Software Developer Best Buy - Richfield, MN November 2017 to February 2018 Primary role was as a developer for data ingestion methods from external sources. The data consisted of videos, reviews or a sponsorship on the various products for the Best Buy website. The data was then distributed to other internal teams  programs to display on their own features.    ? Developed Java programs, using a Spring framework, to take in data from external sources and convert the data to save in the Cassandra tables  ? Written A/B tests in JUnit for a proof-of-concept project. Tests would write to Excel files for business users to better understand the output of data from the program or a JSON file for further testing.  ? Programmed in pairs for learning purposes and for collaboration on new solutions.  ? Configured RabbitMQ to queue data to keep the database up-to-date using routing keys from another team's  design from their documentation on Confluence.  ? Set up admin tools on a server to configure testing environments. The tools can be used by developers or QA or for demonstrations to business users  ? Used Jenkins to deploy code into different environments and to monitor builds in case of failures to respond  promptly to correct the issue  ? Created a new process for the team on how to indicate blocked tickets on Jira for better and easier communication during Agile events such as sprint planning or daily scrum.  ? Implemented additional fields of data according to requests of the other teams, new sources, or new team  requirements for new functions Mobile Software Developer PeopleNet - Minnetonka, MN October 2016 to September 2017 Primary role was as a developer on one PeopleNet's core products, PMobile. PMobile is a user facing mobile application  that records important aspects of the driver's workday, send messages and inspection reports, and plan routes from destination to destination. Helped the team to help deliver new features and client customizations.    ? Developed mobile applications using C# code and Xamarin for deployment on Windows Tablet, Windows CE, and Android platforms  ? Delivered mobile applications for the IoT Fleet Management market. Apps were used by over the road operators to track their progress. Users are able to calculate their routes considering regulations and weather, log their time and report them with ease, and have training videos available to them on the job.  ? Designed front-end UX to display data received from the device and other hardware in an intuitive and user-friendly manner  ? Collaborated with external customers to define new features and customizations to the core product  ? Worked in an Agile environment to deliver software products. This included assisting with sprint planning,  participating in daily scrums and reviews and retrospectives.  ? Familiar with common Agile toolsets such as Jira, Crucible and Confluence. Jira tickets were used to track sprint  progress. Crucible was used to review teammates' code and create reviews. Confluence was the central storage  location for all documentation.  ? Participated in the integration of the core product with other communication solutions to enhance the capabilities of the core product. Java and C# were used to integrate with the public API's of the communication packages.  ? Helped maintain the core product by refactoring older code to run on newer platforms and fixing bugs identified by the QA team  ? Assisted the QA team to complete testing of major releases. Acted as a liaison between the QA team and the development team to clarify test cases. Also helped the QA team by more thoroughly inspection of the code.  ? Was a member of an internal group that helped refine the internal development processes. All aspects of the development process were reviewed and changes were suggested to enhance the quality of the final software  product Java Apprentice JSON and Tomcat - Minneapolis, MN June 2016 to August 2016 Collaborated with other apprentices on projects as well as individual projects  ? Created full stack object oriented programs from simple calculators to library of information where one could add,  subtract and edit information in the data  ? Restructured basic Java programs into websites using Spring, JSON and Tomcat  ? Maintained SQL databases for Java and Javascript programs to reference  ? Upgraded older Java projects using Spring and SQL to integrate them into more efficient web programs  ? Designed front end programs using Jquery, Javascript, Bootstrap and CSS to work with the user for easier use  ? Worked in Agile environments, with daily stand ups  ? Completed over 750 hours of hands on coding in Java Product Builder Boston Scientific - Plymouth, MN 2014 to 2016 Improved working conditions by observing issues and suggesting a solution  - Recognized and awarded for suggestions to improve employment safety  ? Observed situations and allocate myself as needed  ? Inspected products via a microscope for defects ensuring the quality of the product that passes on Operated  machinery and software to polish and inspect the product Education Associate's in Computer Science North Hennepin Community College - Brooklyn Park, MN 2014 to 2016 Skills JAVA (3 years), C# (2 years), Git (4 years), HTML5 (5 years), MYSQL (2 years), PHP (1 year), Swift (1 year), JQuery (2 years), Javascript (4 years), Drup (1 year), Mithril (1 year), Android (3 years), Xcode (1 year), Xamarin (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/daisy-poehler Additional Information Technical Skills    • Java  • C#  • Javascript  • Swift  • Xamarin  • Jquery  • PHP  • Cassandra  • Drupal  • RabbitMQ  • Cordova  • Mithril  • SQL/MySQL  • Gradle  • Maven  • TWIG  • Spring  • JUnit  • SVN  • Git  • JSON  • Sass  • Tomcat  • Docker  • Bootstrap  • HTML5/CSS  • Jenkins  • Firebase  • Bitbucket  • Jira