AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Infosys Limited San Jose, CA • Around 2 years of experience in Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts like Objects, Functions, Methods, Constructors, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, and Encapsulation.  • Experience in developing applications using Java technologies include Core Java, J2EE, Java Server Pages (JSP), Servlets, Java Script and JDBC.  • Experience in using spring framework features like Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot.  • Experience in Object relational Mapping frameworks such as Hibernate.  • Implemented Web Services based in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP, Restful Web Services.  • Experience in developing SQL Queries for creating and retrieving data from database.  • Expertise in developing Web Pages using AEM 6.3, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Extensively used Bitbucket version control system for committing the code.  • Expertise in using Bamboo for continuous integration and deployment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Developer Infosys Limited March 2018 to Present Project: BAU.    Development of components for a Japan webpage and to look into issues that arouse due to the introduction of new components. Enhancing the old components of American Funds page into new components and migrating entire page into Capital group page.    Responsibilities:  • Creating NextGen components that are to be part of Capital Group Page using AEM Site Admin.  • Creating Investor and Advisor pages using CRXDE Lite.  • Used Bitbucket as a version control system to compare, retrieve and to commit the code.  • Expertise in using Bamboo continuous integration tool for retrieving all the packages required for the deployment.  • Experience in using ServiceNow to raise PRB requests, manage incidents and to create CRQ's.  • Used STS to develop the backend code required to render the data coming from an authored component.  • Expertise in using XL Deploy to deploy all the packages into its respective required environments.  • Extensively used XL Release to create the release plan and to deploy the packages into production.  • Used Ansible Tower web console to bounce all the Author, publish and local environment servers.  • Expertise in using JIRA for tracking all the user stories as a part of project management.    Environment:  Java 1.7, JIRA 7.12.3, STS 3, AEM 6.3, Bitbucket, Ansible Tower 3.2.4, XL Deploy 7.5x, XL Release, Bamboo 6.3, ServiceNow. Full Stack Java Developer MarQ Research Solutions, Hyd September 2016 to July 2017 Project: First Shop.    An E-commerce Application to support different service layers like Administration System, Order Management, Product catalog, and other E-Commerce functionalities. The shopping cart API is called to add new products to the cart when the button is clicked. When the customer is ready to checkout, the shopping cart page allow users to review the products and track user session.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the business domain layer using Java, JAVA EE, JDBC and used DAO, Singleton.  • Used and implemented design patterns like MVC (Model-View -Controller) using the Spring Framework.  • Used Hibernate to achieve Object Relational Mapping using JPA Standards.  • Implemented RESTful web services, by using JERSEY framework.  • Extensively used the JDBC Prepared Statement to embed the SQL queries into the java code.  • Involved coding SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers and invoked them using the callable statements of the JDBC API.  • Develop UI related changes using JSP, HTML and client validations using Java script to reduce errors.  • Used HTTP Servlet to track sessions of the users visiting the web pages.  • Implemented JMS to keep track of the products having issues or coming for repair.    Environment:  Java 1.7, Servlets, JSP, JAVA EE 1.4, Spring, REST, RabbitMQ, JDBC API, HTML, XML, XSLT, Java Script, Oracle 10g, SQL, Apache Tomcat 7.0, Eclipse. Education Master's Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Amazon elastic compute cloud (Less than 1 year), Aws (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Ec2 (Less than 1 year), Eclipse. (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), Html5 (Less than 1 year), integration (1 year), Integrator (1 year), Java (2 years), Jira (1 year), Load balancing. (Less than 1 year), Model view controller (Less than 1 year), Model-view-controller (Less than 1 year), Mvc (Less than 1 year), Rest (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Tomcat (Less than 1 year), web services (Less than 1 year), HTML, Javascript, Jquery, XML