Sr. JAVA /J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">JAVA</span> /J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. JAVA /J2EE Developer - Liberty Mutual Minneapolis, MN • 8+ years of successful experience in Analysis, Design and Implementation of System Integration Solutions, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, Client-Server applications, Web-based applications and distributed applications usingJAVA, J2EE, Web services and Middleware SOA Integration Technologies.  • Experienced in all phases of SDLC using JAVA, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, EJB), MVC Framework, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, XML, JDBC, Webservices, SOAP, REST, WSDL, XML, XSD, JIBX, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, UNIX, Linux&AIX technologies.  • Sound knowledge and experience in database technologies Oracle, SQL, MySQL, DB2, TeradataSQL Assistant; IDE tools NetBeans, WSAD, MEB (Eclipse); Utilitytools/packages UML, RAD, MSVisio, ApacheAnt, ApacheMaven, Junit, JIRA, Splunk, Bamboo, AltovaXML Spy, Win CVS, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, FTP; DesignPatterns Singleton, MVC, Front Servlet, Service Locator, DAO, Session Façade, etc  • Expertise in various open source frameworks such as Struts 1.x/2.0, Spring, Hibernate.  • Good experience in Spring like Spring Core, IOC, AOP, Spring MVC.  • Suncertified professional in Java Programmer and Web Component Developer.  • Experience with build and development tools like Gradle, Ant and Maven.  • Experience in object oriented design patterns such as Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks, Business Delegate, ServiceLocator, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), Singleton, ObjectFactory.  • Experience in developing Web Applications with various Open Source frameworks: Spring 3.5/4.0, Java Server Pages, Hibernate 3.0 ORM, JPA, Spring MVC  • Created robust user Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript  • Experience in HTML5/CSS3, Angular.js, Gulp, Bower, Responsive design  • Strong experience on agile methodologies like SCRUM  • Extensive knowledge on Core Java technologies such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Reflection, Collections, Streams & File I/O.  • Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Criteria API and Hibernate query language (HQL).  • Expertise in implementing various well-known Object-Oriented/J2EE Design Patterns and Session, Entity, Message Driven Enterprise Java Beans (EJB).  • Handled Apache Tomcat, Jboss and WebSphere Application for deployments  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using JUnit  • Good working knowledge on SVN, VSS or CVS for code management and version control  • Experience with messagingmiddle-ware (ActiveMQ), distribution systems, scalable architectures and caching techniques.  • Experience designing and implementing REST and XML-based web-services Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. JAVA /J2EE Developer Liberty Mutual - Minneapolis, MN February 2015 to Present Liberty Mutual Group, more commonly known by the name of its primary line of business, Liberty Mutual Insurance, is an American diversified global insurer. The project scope was to develop broad portfolio management portal for managing products like retirement, life insurance and property casualty offered through multiple distribution networks, and micro-services based REST API's with interdependent services and Edge Services, building reporting dashboards based on lookups, RestTemplates and AbstractCloudConfig extensions to consume REST data.    • Developed application using Spring Framework that leverages classical ModelViewController (MVC) architecture, and Hibernate as the ORM.  • Developed Chart Web Services controllers, with generic interfaces, and default implementations, exposed as Java Spring RESTful Web services, with Chart Specific parameters passed as query string.  • Created BI Controllers based Java classes working together with XMLtransformation layer, to transform data received from the data providers.  • Developed SummarizationWebServices for synchronization of Transactionaldata with archived data, the Java layer services used to intercept the main transactional classes were re-factored to provide a general interception layer for any kind of transactional data in the system.  • Implemented design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  • Created custom directives utilizing AngularJS  • Created REST based web services using JAX-RS  • Extensively used Hibernate Criteria API in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Responsible for Continousintegration and buildautomation processes  • Utilized multi-threading, concurrency, memorymanagement and NIO and concurrentpackage in extensively.  • Written complex SQL statements/Joins and procedures to fetch the data from the database  • Designed and developed persistence layer build on ORM framework and developed it using Hibernate.  • Followed AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies, had sprint planning every two weeks and setup daily meetings to monitor the status.  • Developed applicationservicecomponents and configured beans using SpringIOC.  • Springroo was used to create and manage entities, repositories and service classes.  • Implemented multi input/output SpringAOP for various requirements.  • Involved in creating MicroStrategy objects like Metrics (Conditional, Transformational, Dimensional, and Compound), Filters, Prompts (Filter, Object), Templates and Reports  Environment:  Spring roo, Spring Framework 4, Spring Integrations, Spring Data, Message Queue architecture , hibernate 4.0, jquery, javascript, Solr, MapReduce, Hive, Pig, HBase, Hadoop, HDFS, Python, MongoDB, Map/Reduce, Web storm, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Eclipse, Junit Sr. JAVA /J2EE Developer PNC Financial Services, PA January 2014 to January 2015 PNC is the fifth largest bank in the United States, sixth largest bank by deposits in the United States. The project scope was to develop a customer-oriented Internet banking solution that integrates the flexibility of online services with the security necessary for critical banking transactions. It offers customers basic transactions including transferring money, paying bills, ordering statements and changing standing orders. Created UI based on Angular and Spring Boot CLI backend, supporting various entity types like Immovable asset (Property), Cash At Bank (Savings), Fixed Deposits, Mutual Funds, Insurance Policies, Appliances, Provident Fund.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Requirements gathering and analysis, Use case development, business requirement documentation  • Custom frontend development with GWT, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and wrote Java code to interact with third party JSON services.  • Build Web pages that are more user interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap and Angular JS  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Twitter Bootstrap(HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript).  • Extensive usage of BOOTSTRAP and LESSCSS for Responsivedesign  • Translated designs and style guides into functional user interfaces, ensuring cross browser compatibility, performance and robustness  • Designing, debugging, and optimizing T-SQL stored procedures, functions, views and dynamic queries for SQL Server, OLAP Server  • Designed and developed persistence layer build on ORM framework and developed it using Hibernate.  • Implemented design patterns like FrontController, MVC, DataTransferObjects and DataAccessObjects.  • Followed AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies, had sprint planning every two weeks and setup daily meetings to monitor the status.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using SpringIOC.  • SpringAOP was used for intercepting the SOAP requests and for logging requests and also for transactionmanagement.  • Implemented various Design Patterns like BusinessDelegate, SessionFacade and Data Access Objects [DAO] patterns.  • Developed and implemented the business logic component in middle tier using JDBC andEJB framework including stateless session classes and Entitybean classes.  • Used ApacheAxis to generate stub for generating SOAP requests to interact with billing schedule system.  • Used Web Services(SOAP&WSDL) to exchangedata between portal and othermodules  Environment:  JDK 1.6, JSP, HTML, javascript, AngularJS, EJB 3.0, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring roo 1.2.4, spring 3.2.5, PL/SQL, Web Services, JBPM, XML, JSF 2.0, Oracle 11g, JUnit, CVS, Log4J, Ant 1.7.0, Websphere 7.0, Eclipse, Unix/Solaris, JDBC, TestNG, Ajax, Maven, MongoDB, Chef, Kafka Sr. Java /J2EE Developer Level 3 Communications, Colorado April 2012 to December 2013 Level 3 Communications is an American multinational telecommunications and Internet service Provider Company headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado. The project scope was to develop a performance reporting suite(PRS) of tools to ensure quality-of-service (QoS) reporting, creating management reports, and generating regulatory reports. PRS supported billing enquiries, bill generation, process deposits, account administration, and maintain tax and fee information, with an overall objective of improving response time.    Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering and analysis, Use case development, business requirement documentation  • Actively involved in analysis, detail design, development, bug fixing and enhancement in Agilemethodology. Involved in daily scrum and sprint planning meetings.  • Implementation of RESTfulJSONAPIs using Ruby on Rails, which were consumed by a frontend Ember.js app.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Configured different layer (presentation layer, server layer, persistence layer) of application using SpringIoC and maintained the Spring Application Framework's IoC container  • Configured message queue in weblogic and Worked with JMS and messageDrivenBeans  • Performed White Box Software Testing: Using ANT, Java, JDBC and OracleSql  • Created list of Testcases and Asserts and performed UnitTesting.  • Developed Action classes using SpringMVC Framework  • Created dynamic pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript for client-sidevalidation.  • Used SessionBeans for businesslogic and EntityBeans for databasepersistence.  • Developed server-side services using Java multithreading, Spring, WebServices(SOAP, AXIS).  • Wrote application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax/JQuery. Wrote customJSPtags for role-based sorting and filtering.  • Implementeddesignpatternslike FrontController, MVC, BusinessDelegate, DataTransferObjects and DataAccessObjects.  • Develop and execute UnitTestplans using Junit ensuring that results are documented and reviewed with QualityAssuranceteams responsible for integrated testing.  • Developed various helper classes using core Java multi-threaded programming and collection classes.  Environment:  Java/J2EE,Spring, Hibernate, Servlets,JSP, Jquery, SQL, JUNIT, XML, Eclipse,ANT, JBOSS, SOAP,WSDL, OpenJPA, Web Services, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MVC 3.5, SOAP UI, Google App Engine SDK, Apache Jmeter, Tomcat, Jenkins, Quartz Scheduler, PMD, Jasmine, ActiveMQ Java /J2EE Developer Georgia Power, Atlanta - Atlanta, GA January 2011 to March 2012 Georgia Power is an electric utility headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, United States. The project scope was to develop a collection and processing system for propane related data, which would allow control over the company fleet andpricing.The application consisted of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) architecture, Spring, Hibernate technology, REST libraries, that build the services.    Responsibilities:  • Implementing MVC Architecture using Spring Framework, customized user interfaces. Used Spring Aspect Oriented programming concepts for logging, security, error handling mechanism.  • Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, XLTS, DHTML, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Worked with stateless sessionbeans on the middletier  • Worked with Unix Shell scripts  • Developed and implementedsearch feature using Ajax.  • Hibernate framework is deployed for persisting data. It maps between ObjectOriented Javaclasses and Oracle 10gRelationalDatabase tables.  • Involved in the analysis and implementation of IBMIdentity Manager and IBMAccessManager.  • Developedvarious Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO patterns and used JDBC as Model Component.  • Used ANTautomatedbuildscripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  • Created REST based controllers to handle the incoming request and output the response  • Oracle database was used, wrote stored procedures for common queries  • Used Eclipse as the Java IDE in the development of the application.  • Involved in ServerSide and Front End validation using SpringMVCAnnotation and JavaScript.  • Involved in UnitTesting and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using Junit test cases.  Environment:  JDK1.5, Spring , Hibernate, JPA, Apache Tomcat, Servlet, JSP , AJAX, DHTML, HTML,PHP, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, Oracle Database 10g, SQL, UML, Eclipse, Web Services, REST, JSON, Log4j, SVN, JUnit, Ant, Cassandra, Grizzly, Havana, Selenium, Apache CXF, APACHE, CAMEL, cucumber, Quartz,Python,lambda (AWS), Splunk, ANT, GIT, Jersey, Jenkins, DropWizard, iBatis, RabbitMQ Java /J2EE Developer McKesson Corporation February 2008 to December 2010 McKesson Corporation is an American company distributing pharmaceuticals at a retail sale level and providing health information technology, medical supplies, and care management tools. The project was to develop Healthcare Agent module to support new account details, policy details, payment's details scheduling, eligibility verification, pre-Authorization, and Profile's details toimplement a national repository of health records.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Used Strutsframeworktoadd a module that would capture progress notes entered into the system.  • Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Strutsaction classes  • Implemented Exception mechanism and used Struts error message mechanism.  • Server side validation was performed using StrutsValidationFramework  • Developed and implemented intranet website using JSPs, Servlets, HTML and JavaScript to provide information about the application.  • Used parsers like SAX and DOM for parsing xml documents and used XML transformations using XSLT.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Used JSTL and developed required tiles and tile definitions for Templating and defined configuration in the struts configuration.xml.  • Implemented MVCArchitecture to separate the presentation, business and database logic in the application.  • Front-end development using HTML, CSS, JSP and clientsidevalidations performed by using JavaScript.  • Developed JSP pages using Custom tags and Tiles frame work and Struts frame work.  Environment:  J2EE, JDK, Weblogic, Apache Tomcat, JDBC, JNDI, JSP, Struts, EJB, SOAP, AJAX, JUnit, Swing, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Apache Ant, Oracle Education Bachelor's