Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Salesforce Developer - Berry Co Cincinnati, OH • Over 8+ years of experience as an IT professional, committed to maintain cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge including 7 years of experience as a Salesforce CRM Administrator, Developer and Consultant.  • Hands on experience in SFDC development using the APEX classes, Triggers, S-Controls, Components, Reports, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Force.com plug-in.  • Configured, Implemented administrated and maintained the salesforce.com platform.  • Pervasive experience in performing the administrative and development related tasks like consigning Roles, creating Profiles, Visual Force pages, Validation Rules, Users, Custom Reports, Workflows, Email Alerts and Page Layouts.  • Proficient in dealing with the functionalities related to the Service cloud and Sales Cloud.  • Thorough knowledge in the security and sharing model which is used to finely control the user's access to different data.  • Effective employment of Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language for data migration and management in bulk.  • Developed and worked on different Salesforce.com environments such as sandbox and production environments.  • Responsible for deploying between the Production and Sandboxes by employing the Force.com Migration Tool and Eclipse.  • Expertise in working on APEX Web Services API, Scheduled jobs and APEX Batch jobs and executed approval processes, e-mail services and workflows via customization.  • Built lighting app on the existing salesforce1 mobile application  • Created and maintained logical entity relationship diagrams, transformed logical models into physical data models with an add-on experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming with DB2, Oracle and MySQL Server.  • A result-driven, analytical and coherent software developer with excellent skills in programming languages like Java, C#, C++, J2EEE and web technologies like HTML, XML, JSP and JavaScript.  • Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Scrum Methodologies.  • Work well alone and as part of a team with excellent troubleshooting mechanisms and highly adaptable to different work environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer Berry Co - Cincinnati, OH February 2016 to Present The Berry Company is the fifth-largest Yellow Pages Company in the United States, serving more than 170,000 advertisers in over 700 print directory titles in 41 states. Their current products include print display ads and digital advertising services. The key business goals for The Berry Company for implementing Salesforce were to gain the ability to quickly add and bill subscription based digital advertising services, to track cost of sales and production, and to streamline their current production processes to eliminate re-keying of data and improve operational efficiency.  Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of Business and technical requirements and designed the solution.  • Developed Apex Classes for Visualforce pages.  • Developed Triggers required for the application  • Have written Batch Apex for the asynchronous data updates.  • Created E-Mail Templates for the email alerts created.  • Used analytic snapshots for bi-weekly reports.  • Used SOQL & SOSL considering the Governor Limits for data manipulation using the apex code.  • Created case escalation rules to escalate cases automatically if they are not resolved within a certain period of time, also worked on app-exchange tools for tracking orders.  • Developed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes and Test Methods.  • Customized standard Salesforce objects like Accounts, Contacts, case management and solutions.  • Developed Test classes for all the Apex classes and Triggers with minimum 95% code coverage for triggers and classes  • Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Salesforce web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Exported data from legacy system and imported into SFDC through Apex data loader for data migration.  Environment: Saleforce.com, Security Controls, Escalation rules, Assignment rules, Record types, Custom objects and Fields, Apex Classes, Visual Force(Pages & Components), Workflows, Rules, Eclipse, Force.com Explorer, Apex Data Loader. Salesforce Developer Ritter Communications - Jonesboro, AR March 2014 to January 2016 Ritter Communications is a subsidiary of E. Ritter & Co., which began providing phone service in Northeast Arkansas in 1906. Ritter's residential and business services include local phone service, long distance, cable television and high speed Internet, as well as customized business communications systems and services. Ritter Communications is a full-service communications provider with decades of experience.  Responsibilities:  • Gathering the business requirements from business team and users. Writing the functional specification document based on the business requirement document.  • Leading a team of six people that includes three developers off-shore.  • Conducting daily support calls and enhancement planning calls.  • Writing Apex triggers, apex classes, developing Visual force pages, batch classes, scheduled apex, and test classes.  • Highly used data loader and informtica on demand tool to integrate Salesforce with other legacy systems.  • Hands on experience in migrating the data into the application from other merged companies and facilitating the application usage for new users.  • Solely responsible for deploying the components from staging environment to production.  • Constant involvement in exploring apex change apps and using the apps wherever necessary. Used apps like Apttus, Exact target, Marketo, Dupe Catcher, Cloud Converter, Chatter un-follow rules, Field Trip, Conga Composer, AKARD, Docusign etc.,  • Highly involved in interacting with the end users directly and conducted training sessions around the globe.  • Highly involved in customizing the Salesforce functionalities like workflows, approval process, setting up roles, creating profiles, security controls, data management.  • Solely designed and documented the application enhancements post go live.  • Involved in integrating Salesforce with other in house data bases using informatics cloud.  • Implemented single-sign on for the organization.  • Keeping track of all Salesforce releases throughout the year and implementing latest enhancements immediately in the application.  • Raising cases with Salesforce support team in solving the product bugs.  • Solely implemented Ideas and Case Management and Lead management for the organization using web to lead, web to case, e-mail to case, lead and case assignment rules etc.,  • Developed complex visualforce pages using standard, custom controllers and components.  • Responsible for refreshing the Full copy and training sandbox environments regularly.  Environment: Force.com IDE, Custom objects, Triggers, Batch Jobs, Validation Rules, Formula Fields, Data Loader,  Reports and Dashboards, SQL Server 2008, Workflow & Approvals, Apex Classes, Conga App Extremes and Visualforce Pages, HTML , CSS And BootStrap. Salesforce consultant CVS Specialty Health - Richardson, TX October 2012 to February 2014 CVS Speciality health caters to patients with specialized drug needs that require compounding, special handling, delivery and infusion. I worked on Service cloud and customer community.  Responsibilities:  • Patient portal - This a lightning application that allows customers to view, refill, track  • prescriptions. I worked on web services for prescription tracking, integration with Hadoop for shipping time estimates, Drug and prescription DB for getting medicine  • schedules. I also did ServiceMax integration for home infusion services for setting appointment with medical providers.  • Benefits integration - I built integration with TriZetto Facets where benefits and claim  • data is maintained. I worked on integration code interfacing with TIBCO middleware and built UI to display this information in the customer portal.  • Marketo Implementation - I implemented Marketo and integrated with Salesforce Lead,  • Accounts, Contacts, implemented Marketo Lead fields and lead conversion mapping and setup Salesforce sync in Marketo.  • Involved in business requirements gathering and translating them into system requirements.  • Writing code, test cases, review code, checkin to source control, fix issues and enhancement, write technical and functional documentation.  • Migrating the code to the deployment instance after testing and provide support for post production. Salesforce Developer ADP - Santa Clara, CA January 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked as Senior Salesforce Developer includes monitoring the team activities and experience in offshore onsite model.  • Involved in Administration, Development and Deployment of Salesforce.com  • Worked on Apex Data Loader for doing various bulk activities.  • Worked on Configuration like creation Objects, Page Layouts, Record Types, Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Process.  • Involved in creating Custom Settings.  • Responsible for writing Visual Force Pages for building the wizard.  • Involved in writing Apex Triggers.  • Worked on migrating Metadata from one Sandbox to another sandbox by using Change Sets and Force.com IDE tool.  • Worked on Data.com to get the correct data for Lead by using REST API.  • Worked on Geo Coding for getting Latitude and Longitude of a given address by using REST API.  • Worked on Schedule Apex and Batch Apex.  • Involved in Salesforce1 mobile Administration.  • Worked on generating PDF Files by using AppExchange applications.  • Worked on Custom Settings, Field Sets.  • Developed Custom business logic using Apex (Classes, Triggers, Components, JavaScript's, CSS3, and HTML5), Visualforce Pages and Controller Classes for various functional needs.  • Implemented advanced search functionality by using VF pages.  • Worked on writing Test Classes for Triggers and Controller Classes.  • Worked on Dupe Blocker Application to restrict the duplicates.  • Worked in View Account Hierarchy and Account Look up functionality for restricting the duplicates.  • Involvement in SFDC release management including Sandbox management, change set tracking, and requirement collaboration with architecture & quality team  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Data Loader, Apex Classes, Controllers, Apex Triggers, Visualforce, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Reports, Dashboards, REST API, Geocoding, AppExchange, Custom Settings, Field Sets, Schedule Apex, Batch Apex Java Developer Intergraph IN April 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed Front-end using HTML and performed validations using Java Script.  • Used Struts Framework for configuration of action mappings and presentation logic in JSPs.  • Implemented the struts authentication and Authorization for Certification Process.  • Created SQL Queries for data manipulation using JDBC.  • Used Apache Web Server for deployment.  • Used CVS for Source Control and Version Management.  • Implemented ANT as the build system.  • Developed client request validations and Processing using JavaScript.  • Developed application code using Core Java and J2EE (Servlets, XML) in Eclipse tool.  • Used JNDI realms to authenticate users in a web application.  • Solely responsible for Writing the Automation Tool in java for manipulating the dates.  • Used JSTL in struts based JSPs.  • Worked with Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)  • Involved in Writing Unit Test Scripts to check the functionality of the Middle Tier and aid in Debugging Phases.  • Worked on XML conversions and validations.  • Worked in J2EE/ java, HTML, JavaScript and Web Application  Environment:- XML, J2EE, WebSphere, EJB, ANT, Eclipse, JUnit, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Struts. Java, JRun Application server, Apache Web Server , UML, TogetherJ, Visual Caf, Web Logic, Apache-SOAP. Education Bachelor's Skills APEX (5 years), SECURITY (3 years), HTML (3 years), SQL (3 years), WORKFLOW (3 years), Salesforce, Visualforce, SFDC, Soql, COM, Java, Certification Additional Information Technical Skills:  Salesforce.com: Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Scheduler, Batch Apex, Apex Class & Apex, Visual force (Page, Component & Controllers)  Custom Integration: Outbound Messages, Workflow & Approvals, Field updates, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Settings, Custom Labels and Tabs, Account Management, Contact Management, Email Services, Security Controls, AppExchange Package & Custom Application and Sandbox Data Loading.  Platforms: Windows 2000, XP, 7, Windows Server 2003 / 2008.    Technologies: C, C++, Java, HTML, XML, XHTML, DHTML.  Web Design Tools: VisualStudio,SQL Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, MS Office, Visio 5.0, Adobe Acrobat Pro, Adobe Flex Builder.  Databases: MS SQL Server.