Sr. Salesforce Consultant Sr. Salesforce Consultant Sr. Salesforce Consultant - Everfi Washington, DC • 9+years of IT experience in Design, Development, Testing and Administration spanning all facets of package software and SAAS application implementation.  • salesforce.com Administration/Development on force.com platform including analysis, modeling, design, coding, testing and implementation on various business domains like Financial, Insurance and Manufacturing.  • Excellent collaboration skills working with customers, cross functional teams and business stake holders. Ability to work in a dynamic environment and adapt to rapidly changing priorities.  • Strong Experience working with Apex classes, Triggers, Controllers & Controller Extensions, Components, Test Methods, Application Design and Development on Multitenant Force.com platform.  • Analyzed Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Customer Support business processes used by salesforce.com customers and recommended ways to improve their processes using salesforce.com.  • Hands on experience in salesforce.com CRM integration, developing and deploying custom integration solutions. Excellent skills in creating/troubleshooting/modifying Apex code and Visualforce pages.  • Strong knowledge on Administration setup, Apex, Visualforce and experience with different SFDC development tools like Force.com Eclipse IDE and integration tools like Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language for data migration and management in bulk.  • Experience in Apex coding to implement the complex business logic with in Governor Limits.  • Developed test classes and test methods to ensure maximum code coverage in production instance.  • Implemented and executed Debug Logs and System Logs.  • Experience in developing client-specific solutions on force.com platform using Apex classes and Triggers, Visualforce, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL  • Experience in working with Marketing Tools Apttus, DocuSign and Draw loop.  • Experience in integration of Salesforce.com applications with other applications with an emphasis of the Web Services/XML.  • Extensive experience in designing of Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Pick List, Role based Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, Custom Tabs, Custom Reports, Report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visualforce Pages, Record Types, Dashboards, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Worked with team members for full-cycle projects, such as developers, to complete consulting projects on time, and deliver outstanding consulting services to salesforce.com clients.  • Having Administration experience on CRM applications like data exports & imports, application support, Security Administration, Maintenance, and user & security management.  • Strong experience in Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Good understanding of SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and App-exchange applications  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Excellent Troubleshooting Skills and Problem Solving Capabilities.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills to keep executive staff and team members apprised of goals, project status, and resolving issues and conflicts. Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Consultant Everfi - Washington, DC April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with the user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation.  • Analyzing the current requirement process, identifying problems and making recommendations to improve the process.  • Interacted with various Business User Groups (Sales and Ops) to gather the document requirements.  • Responsible for automating the processes, development using Apex, Visualforce following the apex best practices  • Experience working across various SFDC implementations that are covering Sales cloud, Service Cloud and Apttus CPQ.  • Customizing the Apttus product configurator and quote application according to business needs  • Resolve the Cases and support the team on urgent bases, implementation and working with real-time troubleshooting  • Customized the Dashboards and Report to track usage of productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Used Apex Data Loader to migrate data such as accounts, Products, Quotes and Forecast from different legacy systems.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes  • Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Migration Tool - ANT.  • Contract life cycle management: configuring Agreements, Templates, Query Templates, Agreement Output formats, Agreement Protection, Agreement Rules, Configuring Wizard and Approval Management.  • Quote to Cash: configuring Bundles, Configuration Attributes, Product Rules, Price Rules, Summary Variables, Discount Schedules, Approval Process Management and Rebate Management.  • Designed UI for the Quoting and Pricing functionality.  • Experience in complete Quote-to-Cash process Opportunity to DocuSign (Opportunity, agreement, DocuSign e-signature completeness).  • I configured product and pricing setup using CPQ/Product consoles which include price ramps, Price Matrix, Price Rulesets, price list items, tiered pricing and asset pricing.  • I also worked on Apttus Advanced Workflow approvals, Apttus order management, created agreement wizards, validation rules, contract templates  • Provide training and coaching in the use of CPQ CRM systems. Identify training and development gaps and create plans to address.  • Worked on Apttus support project to solve ongoing bugs/issues/enhancement on another project.  • Worked on Various objects Related to APTTUS Configuration & Pricing management, like: Agreement, Incentive, Price Rule, Price Rule entry, Price Rule Set.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Apttus CPQ, Web services, DocuSign, Visual Force, SalesForce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Dashboards, Data Migration Tool ,ANT. Salesforce Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA November 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages.  • Designed various Webpages in VisualForce for capturing various customer enquiries and Implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer enquiry.  • Synchronized with the business process review meetings and multiple teams for ascertaining standardized workflow processes.  • Responsible for creating various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages and Controllers.  • Created Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Workflow and approvals for the flexibility and functionality of force platform application.  • Implemented Case Management Automation to track and solve Customer's Issues.  • Worked on Service Cloud communities for sharing business process.  • Experience working across various SFDC implementations that are covering Sales cloud, Service Cloud and Apttus CPQ.  • Written SOQL queries against force.com API.  • Used AJAX to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON objects.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with in Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using Force.com Explorer.  • Implemented CPQ System to improve user experience in the Quoting process using Salesforce.  • Customize Salesforce, Page layouts, Custom objects, and Lightning components.  • Worked with the Salesforce Lightning using lightning pages.  • Customizations of Reports, Dashboards, Workflows, Approval Process.  • Worked on multiple Test class components to fulfill the code coverage. Extensively worked on apex data loader.  • Worked with Business on Design and Implementation of Product catalog and product attributes to expose on CPQ application.  • Migrated data from MS Excel / CSV files to SFDC using Data Loader.  • Proficient in creating record-types, page-layouts and profiles to hide/show visibility to various fields.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Developed Apex Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects, Web to case, Email to case.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component and Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, S-Controls, HTML, Java Script, Apex Triggers, Apttus CPQ, Web Services, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer TD Ameritrade - New York, NY June 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities  • Involved in entire life cycle of Salesforce implementation including business requirements gathering; documenting the business requirements; analyzing and proposing business process compliant solutions.  • Designed the user group and role hierarchy tree.  • Worked on Apttus CPQ configuration and integration.  • Identified and implemented the lookup and master-detail relationships between objects and created junction objects.  • Expertise in writing the batch process using batch Apex process.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Maintaining test coverage for all the classes and triggers and supporting deployment activities.  • Developed and deployed complex workflows and approval processes relating to all recruiting activities - Record status alerts, Email alerts, High priority approvals, Task delegation, time based workflow triggers, workload queues.  • Simulating and debugging possible data migration and integration issues.  • Worked Mainly on Sales Cloud implementation  • Created a new login to identify any MARKETO modifications to Lead and Contact records within Salesforce.  • Responsible for Sprint deployments from DEV Instance to QA and DEMO Sandboxes and worked on Continuous Integrations and Deployment flows using Changesets and Copado.  • Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Cases Tab.  • Defects fix, reporting and defect management in Jira.  • Used Change Sets to deploy code from sandbox to sandbox and production environment.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Enhanced Apex Class and Visualforce Page to create a custom Related List, showing activities for selected contacts or clients.  • Designed and developed Test utility framework and used annotations @isTest, @testSetup and ensured to meet 75% of code coverage.  • Responsible for implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured permissions/settings based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules and custom formulas.  • Provide software solutions that meet client and business deadlines  • Utilize teamwork to select the most cost effective and resilient solution    Environment: Saleforce.com platform,Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component &Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Lightning Component, MARKETO, Wave analytics DocuSign, Service Cloud, Integration, Apttus CPQ, HTML 5, CSS, Bootstrap, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP/REST, Agile, Sandbox and Production environment. Salesforce Developer,Administrator Dex Media - Dallas, TX March 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Worked as enhancement team member and performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer in the organization.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Developed Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows developed in the system.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application.  • Created supporting documentation for application development tasks that includes Salesforce.com customizations.  • Designed and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Wrote SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions and triggers.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like VisualForce, Force.com IDE.  • Used the Java Ant for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Code review and test case reviews.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE.  • Develop Visual Force Pages, Visual Force Custom Controllers Components, Advanced Search Functionality, Custom Objects, Analytic Snapshots, Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects. Also created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created mash up between sales force CRM and Gmail through Force.com AppExchange's Email integration engine.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Proficient in using Eclipse based Salesforce.com IDE to develop and deploy force.com software.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Visual force (Pages, Component, & Controllers), Security Controls, Escalation rules, Assignment rules, Record types, Custom objects and Fields, Time based triggers, Triggers, Workflow Rules, Data loader, SOQL, SOSL, Apex Schema Builders, and Custom Tabs, Advanced use of Microsoft Excel. Salesforce Developer,Administrator JP Morgan Chase - Dallas, TX November 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Involved in data mapping and data migration from Oracle database to SalesForce.com objects.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages and Controllers  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the needs in the organization.  • Worked on GeoPointe application, took part in designing and developing the functionality in order to generate maps for Standard and Custom objects.  • Created and deployed several Reports and Dashboards using salesforce.com platform.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers in accordance with the governor limits for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home grown applications by using the home grown web services.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  • Developed ETL mappings in Informatica for Integration between Salesforce and Oracle.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, GeoPointe map Application, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Workbench, HTML, Java Script, CSS, WSDL, SOAP, AJAX, MVC Design Patterns. Salesforce Administrator AMDOCS - Chesterfield, MO July 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities  • Involved in User Management - Creating users, Roles, Profiles.  • Involved in SFDC application support for end users.  • Designed System Configuration Enhancements (Dashboards, Reporting, Page Layouts, Sharing Rules, Hierarchy etc.)  • Develop and Deploy Apex classes and Apex Triggers from test environment to production using eclipse migration tool.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Formula fields, Master-Detail, Lookup relationships, Tabs, validation rules.  • Created Sharing rules, Assignment Rules and Escalation Rules for Cases.  • Involved in reports development.  • Customize Work.com page layouts, fields.  • Develop Validation rules and workflows.    Environment: SalesForce.com, CRM Application Platform, Apex Language, Visual Force, S-Controls, Custom Objects, Tabs, Page Layouts, Workflows, Approval Processes, Email, Messaging, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse. JAVA Developer Geolink Partners - Washington, DC August 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities  • Worked closely with the Requirements team and analyzed the Use cases  • Elaborated on the Use cases based on business requirements and was responsible for creation of class diagrams, sequence diagrams.  • Adopted J2EE best Practices, using Core J2EE patterns.  • Developed in Eclipse environment using Struts based MVC framework.  • Designed and developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Created JSPs using JSTL and Struts tag libraries.  • Developed Struts Action and Action Form classes. Created the Tile definitions as required.  • User Input Validation is done using the JavaScript and Action Form.  • Performed SQL operations using Oracle Database.  • Used Session Beans for business logic and Entity Beans for database persistence.  • Deployed J2EE components (EJB, Servlets) in WebLogic Application server.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit framework.  • Participated in Functional Design Document and Technical Design Document reviews.  • Actively participated and contributed to establishing Standards and Guidelines.  • Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality as per the requirement and execute the same.  • Involved in the Integration testing support and involved in bug fixing.  • Deployed application in Web Sphere Application Server and developed using WSAD.    Environment: WebSphere Server, Struts 1.x, JSTL, CSS, DB2, JSP, JDBC, Tag-libs, EJB, RAD,J2EE, Java, UML, HTML, JUnit, Log4j, JavaScript, J2EE Patterns, SQL, MVC, CVS. Education Bachelor's Links http://salesforce.com