Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Hadoolytics ? Software Engineer 10 + years of experience, skilled developer using Object Oriented Programming, J2EE, and JSE. A good analytical engineer with flair of learning new technologies and new ways for solving problems. Worked with Linux Console using the different tools example putty dash or solved incident like Jira.  ? Played key role in architecting, coding and deploying Mule ESB services and REST API application. And worked on business logic for Communications and Insurance enterprises.  ? Hands on experience on front-end technologies such as HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular4, JQuery, React.js and Bootstrap frameworks.  ? Responsible to develop SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  ? Developed application using Mule ESB, built and deployed the services in development and production environments.  ? Experienced in developing applications using MVC model, Struts, spring, Spring Batch, Spring Restful, Spring Security, Spring Web Flow, Hibernate and JPA.  ? Experienced in developing and implementing SOAP and REST web services using JAX-WS and framework.  ? Experienced in XML parsing using XQuery with XPath, binding using JAXB.  ? Experienced in using front end debugging tools like Firebug, Developer tools.  ? Experienced in using build and deployment tools like Maven and Jenkins for continuos integration.  ? Experienced in UNIX, Linux shell scripting to set and run some jobs.  ? Implemented Agile Scrum and TDD development methodologies on Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Hands on experience on Operating Systems like Ubuntu, Linux, and Windows.  ? Experienced with SQL databases like Postgres, Oracle, SQL Server, and MySQL.  ? Skilled in using version control and branch repository tools like Subversion, SVN, Hg Mercurial.  ? Experienced in using HP Quality Center, RTC, JIRA, and Red Mind as bug tracking tools.  ? Experienced in using IDE tools, Eclipse, NetBeans.  ? Experienced in visualizing table relationships in a database using free license DB Visualizer tool.  ? Experienced in using test frameworks like Junit/Junit5, Selenium, Robot framework, Parasoft. Also tested web services using tools like POST Man, Soap UI.  ? Experienced in writing user manuals and documentation of web application flows and creating backup scripts in Oracle Xpress and db visualizer for delivery of projects.  ? Basic understanding on AWS (EC2, AWS CLI, IAM) and Lambda workflow.  ? Excellent communication skills, interpersonal, hardworking, mentoring and team player. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Hadoolytics - Pleasanton, CA November 2017 to Present Description:  Hadoolytics is a global software company with primary focus on Cloud & Big Data services and solutions. Hadoolytics brings unparalleled experience in architecting and implementing both transactional and analytical use of cases associated with Big Data. They use the leading Cloud platforms, NoSql databases, and Hadoop to solve exceptionally challenging business problems and deliver real value to customers.  Full Spectrum Analytics is Hadoolytics Project, which is a leading support provider that has been contracted with such a wide variety of well-established instrument manufacturers, capable of assisting them with field support services.    Project: 1 Full Spectrum Analytics  Environment: Java 1.7, Spring MVC, JMS, JPA-Hibernate, EJB 3.1, Jersey, Eclipse, UML, HTML, NodeJs, JavaScript, XML, Weblogic 12c, Log4j, Oracle, JNDI, Maven, log4j, Git, AGILE, jMeter, Jenkins, micro-services.    Responsibilities:  ? Performed requirement gathering & analysis by actively soliciting, analyzing and negotiating customer requirements and prepared the requirements specification document for the application using Microsoft Word.  ? Involved in development of the applications using Spring WebMVC and other components of the Spring Framework, the controller being Spring Core (Dispatcher Servlet).  ? Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5 and CSS3, JQuery.  ? Developed persistence layer using ORM Hibernate for transparently store objects into database.  ? Configuring Hibernate and Tiles related XML files.  ? Deployed applications on UNIX machines.  ? Deployed the application on JBoss application server.  ? Developed Use Case diagrams, business flow diagrams, Activity/State diagrams.  ? Adopted J2EE design patterns like Adapter, Factory and Singleton.  ? Configuration of application using spring, Hibernate, DAO's, Actions Classes, Java Server Pages.  ? Used the Inversion of Control module of spring framework.  ? Jersey implementation of JAX-RS is utilized to develop RESTful service.  ? Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  ? Used Enterprise Java Services for developing web services.  ? Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection.  ? Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information using Session Facade, Service Locator (design pattern).  ? Developed J2EE components on Eclipse IDE.  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity to SQL.  ? Used Oracle11g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries.  ? Worked with QA team to automate testing by writing test scripts using JMeter.  ? Communicated with QA team members and Participated in regular QA Team meetings and discussions.  ? Connecting Cassandra database with Java using spring framework.    Project: 2 Full Spectrum Analytics  Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring 3.0, Spring Webflow, Oracle 10g, JMS, JSP, Java Beans, Hibernate 3.x, RAD, XML, Log4j, Web Services, Micro-services.    Responsibilities:  ? Analysis, design, development, testing, and implementation for buying control and inventory management business.  ? Analysis, design, development, testing and implementation derived by changed requirement from client.  ? Developed web application using Spring framework.  ? Implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Front-End Framework.  ? Developed persistence layer using ORM Hibernate for transparently store objects into database.  ? Project deployed on WebLogic server technology.  ? Diagnosing and performing resolutions on Develop problems.  ? Involved in providing Test Plans and Test Cases for Tester.  ? Handled many different types of issues.  ? Fixed high level and critical bugs in the application.  ? Developed new pipeline processors assisting in commerce checkout and fulfillment extensions.  ? Developed Custom Droplets and new search pages.  ? Used dynamo components including Form Handlers and DSP tags in Java Server Pages.  ? Worked with DevOps tools such as TeamCity.  ? Used SVN version controls to check in/out files, etc. Also responsible for branching and merging the branch to mainly using Tortoise SVN tool.  ? Used data modeling for creating a data model by applying formal data modeling techniques.  ? New version upgrades.  ? Writing complex SQL queries for demanding complex business logic.  ? Developed the UI Layer using Struts MVC, JSP, JavaScript and Jquery, JSTL, XML.  ? Developed User Interface validation framework in combination with custom validation built on top of validation framework from the form bean.  ? Implemented JAVA design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Command patterns.  ? Analyzed and fine Tuned RDBMS/SQL queries to improve performance of the application with the database.  ? Creating XML based configuration.  ? Connecting Cassandra database with Java to get information provide all the CRUD capabilities.    Client: Dish Network  Role: Sr. Java Developer Full Stack Disney November 2015 to November 2017 Description:  Dish Network is a web site where you can find different package of the programs also like sport tv, Disney tv programs and all your favorites programs by packages sling belongs Dish TV. Worked as a lead developer in an agile team of a Java cloud system designed to handle favorite shows and watched shows. Java cloud system designed to handle media metadata information.    Environment: Spring (Core, Dao, MVC) or MongoDB, Elastic search or Maven configuration also with eclipse and, update the DB with Mongo DB connection, unit or Git, Apache, Tomcat, Services, Incident, Manager with dashboard, QA Testing, RITM (is like task that we need to complete).    Responsibilities:  ? Discuss design and implementation details with architects. Provide guidance and propose solutions with the team. Used SCRUM methodology for project management. Worked onsite with the client and testing some parts of the bench or in that case check the structure.  ? Discuss the best option to configure or using the best code for not using a big code, and using minimal resources for adapting the new server or in this case if the application is migrated by the customer, try to adapt all the code with the new versions of Java and the implementations.  ? Discussions with the teams to create a new method or interface, not duplicate the code and so that the code can be reused. Constant communication with the team. Sr. Java Developer Full Stack Southwest - Dallas, TX February 2015 to November 2015 Description:  Southwest carrier is a major United States airline headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and is the world's largest low-cost carrier.    Job Responsibilities:  • Responsible for complete design of a system with different J2EE technologies and Database.  • Improvement of performance using pool threads.  • Used Restful and SOAP Webservices for implementation of different modules across the application.  • Worked in all phases of Software Development including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Integrated Spring Dependency Injection among different layers of an application with spring and O/R mapping tool of Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Worked on Spring DAO, Spring MVC and Spring AOP Interceptors in Logging and Auditing  • Responsible to resolve tickets also with issue.  • Responsible to block IPS when we receive attack.  • Responsible to start a major incident in case that the web page is down for any attack.  • Restart the servers Apache and tomcats.  • Review the graphs of status the flights.    Environment: Java 7, GitHub, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Dependency injection with Google guice, Oracle database. Sr. Java Developer Full Stack Afirme Bank September 2014 to February 2015 Description:  Working more with Java trying to solve the code creation using DHTML JS, JQUERY, JSON, JPA, eclipse also web services like framework using html 5 DIVS IDS and ORACLE DB etc. Working with SVN to review some progress. When we edit some classes, if we find some issue, we review the progress.    Job Responsibilities:  • Responsible with development all the web page by 0% to 100%.  • Responsible to deliver the work at time.  • Responsible to deliver the percentage about of the work to the customer.  • Responsible with the issue about the DBA.  • Responsible to validate the code from another Employee.  • Responsible to the pass all unit testing.  • We did everything until we could create from the interface to the communication with some database.  • Responsible to create new Script to get more quickly all the information from the database.  • Working with selenium and DevOps, performing unit tests. Also having access to servers in which everything was handled by scripts and using Maven to obtain our libraries more easily than in reality.  • Help to solve errors as if they were some utilities to be able to do some tests.  • We did everything until we could create from the interface to the communication with some database.    Environment: Java 7/6, HTML5, CSS3, JPA, Struts 1, JQUERY, JSON, SVN, JPA, DHTML, JS Sr. Java Developer Full Stack Disney January 2014 to September 2014 Description:  Working with the account Disney, working with some software as (WINSCP, PUTTY) Dreamweaver, Eclipse, DHTML, JPA, STRUST 1 and STRUST 2 working with hibernate and SPRIGN MVC. Working with different DB SQL SUITE, PLS SQL connectivity is with Putty to PLSQL DB. Working with dependencies injection etc. Views and database to allow admin and viewer roles in application using Spring Access Control List security framework.    Job Responsibilities:  • Responsible to review the spring framework and review some services from web services.  • Fixed the code.  • Automation and reduce the code in case that the code is very long.  • Add new lines and create new methods in case that we need to dedicate only a special method.  • Responsible to add on the DB new information in case that we need to add a new customer.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 4, WINSCP, Hibernate, JPA, Spring core, Spring Web Flow, Spring Security, Prime-faces, Maven, SQL SUITE, PLSQL.  Application Servers: WebSphere Application Server 8.5 IBM.  IDEs: Rational Application Server basado en eclipse.  Databases: Oracle. Java Programmer Hotel El Cid June 2012 to January 2014 Description:  Working as a developer, using different tools looking for information about some clients, reviewing payment information, changing some states in your accounts, and registering a new clients using DB Oracle.    Job Responsibilities:  • Responsible to add new customer.  • Responsible to repair the entire machine that is not working.  • Responsible to the transaction with the credit cards code.    Environment: Oracle DB, Java JEE-SE, Web Service. Software Developer Accenture March 2009 to June 2012 Job Responsibilities:  • Working on web development using different tools.  • Dreamweaver, Notepad ++ and Photoshop tools to design some image in case of adjusting it to the web and some connections with PHP.  • Discuss design and implementation details with architects. Provide guidance and propose solutions with the team.  • Currently using SCRUM methodology for project management. Worked onsite with the client and testing some parts of the bench or in that case check the structure. Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-ws, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Informix, Jdbc, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Stored procedures, Application server, Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Tools:    Programming Languages Java 8/7/6, JEE, JavaScript, XML, PL/SQL, Python  Java/JEE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSF2, Struts, XML (DOM, SAX), Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP), Web Services (Restful)  Client-Side Programming JavaScript, JSON, CSS, HTML, Ajax, Angular4, Jquery, Bootstrap  Frameworks  Struts, Struts2, Spring Core, JDBC, Spring RESTful, Spring Security, Hibernate, Apache CXF, Jersey, Mule Enterprise Service Bus, Sales force, Primefaces, Informix, JAX-WS, Android, Cygwin configuration, Spring Quartz    ORM Technologies Hibernate  Web Services SOAP, REST  XML Technologies XML  RDBMS Oracle (7.1 /8.x /9.1/10/10g/12c), MS-SQL Server 2008 SP1, SQL Server, (SQL, stored procedures), MySQL  Tools  SOAP UI, Db Visualizer, JIRA, HP ALM Quality Center, XML Spy, , IntelliJ 3.0, Jasper Reports, Microsoft Visual Paradigm, SQL Developer, TOAD, Selenium, Robot framework, Jenkins    Web/Application Server WebLogic Application Server 11g/12c, Tomcat 6.x, Wildfly  Version Control GIT, SVN Repository Configuration (Dish Services),  Bug Tracking Tools Jira  Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8, Linux, UNIX  Methodologies Scrum and Agile