Sr Hybris Developer Sr Hybris <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Hybris Developer - Wimmer Solutions Richardson, TX • 9+ Years of Professional experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE on Windows platforms.  • Experience in designing and development of E-Commerce applications using Hybris framework.  • Have been part of Agile SCRUM methodology based project and involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in E-commerce solution using Hybris E-Commerce in configuring product list, order management, store locator, web store, Cron jobs, promotions, shopping cart, checkout flow and payment methods.  • Experience in integrating and implementing third party components (Taxation applications, Payment Gateways) into ecommerce application.  • Experience in HMC (Hybris Management Console), WCMS content catalog components, content slots and content pages.  • Extensive knowledge in creating IMPEX files and validating in HAC (Hybris Administration Console).  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Restful and SOAP Web Services, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, JavaBeans, JQuery, AJAX, JDBC, XSD, XML, SQL, JUnit.  • Expertise in using object oriented principals and features, Java Collection framework of Core Java for developing and maintenance of Web Applications.  • Proficiency with WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic Application Server and Apache Tomcat.  • Expertise in HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JSP for developing web based GUI components.  • Strong knowledge of design including J2EE design patterns, MVC, DAO, Business and Delegate.  • Strong working experience in Design, Development and implementation of using several J2EE frameworks like Spring MVC and Hibernate Annotations with multi-tier architecture.  • Excellent understanding of relational databases involved in analysis of using RDBMS likes MySQL and Oracle.  • Experience in using tools like Eclipse IDE and build tools Apache Maven and Apache ANT.  • Familiar with JDBC API in communicating with Database to access the information.  • Experience in various components in Spring such as IOC, MVC, AOP.  • Experienced in identifying various Test Cases and implementation using JUnit.  • Experience in working with QA team during QA phase to understand, analyze and resolve defects.  • Very good experience working in projects based on Agile SCRUM methodology and waterfall model.  • Consistently received appreciations and feedback from higher management and clients.  • Excellent analytical and verbal communication skills, coordinating skills and have the ability to learn new concepts fast and as well a good team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Hybris Developer Wimmer Solutions - Olympia, WA December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of website which included functionalities like product browsing and search, customer login, customer profile, cart, order placement, payment, data extraction, SAP Price feeds, Order management, Order export to SAP systems.  • Implemented Dynamic Promotions display, Mail-in rebate functionality, Special Customer pricing, Remember Me functionality, support products drivers and downloads display, printer ink replenishment, Recently viewed FAQ's, Price list management and integration with Orbeon yforms.  • Development of Cronjobs for special customers orders, warranty orders and orders placed by customer service agents.  • Worked on different aspects of HMC (Hybris Management Console), WCMS (Web Content Management System) and HAC (Hybris Administration Console).  • Involved in implementing the Promotion module. Developed custom promotions and restrictions.  • Integration with Apache Solr and configured Boost rules for search and faceted navigation on website.  • Worked on Flexi search queries and Impex scripts.  • Worked on HMC customizations and items.xml to do the data modeling.  • Experience in using HTML and CSS to create web pages and developing the required JSPs and tag files.  • Developed High level and Low level design documents for the E-Commerce application.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations and JSP, Servlets for server side validations.  • Used Jenkins to deploy the code into Tomcat web server.    Environment: Java 1.8, Hybris commerce suite 5.6, Paymetric payment processing, Kount fraud detection, Sabrix Tax, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Jenkins, Spring, Tomcat, SVN. Hybris Developer RalphLauren - New York, NY October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities  • Responsible for requirements gathering and analysis, understanding Organizational goals and objectives, blue printing and designing e-Comm. solutions for the end users using Hybris Product.  • Worked on Web content Management system (WCMS)  • Implemented Service layer Coding and spring configuration files  • Worked on building codes for Storefront, facade , Service and core layers  • Worked on core, web and hmc modules of an extension  • Worked on OCC Addon. To create Restfull webservices  • Worked on Admin Cockpit & import Cockpit  • Created Interceptors and Validator constraints at service layer  • Creating required items, writing jobs business logic and configuring at hMC extension.  • Writing test cases using J-Unit  • Creating and updating data in the platform using ImpEx files. Importing and Exporting data using ImpEx with the help of out-of-box import/export tool in Hybris Commerce Suite  • Integrated with Spring MVC for front end screens and controllers  • Involved in resolving the issue during regression, Integration, SIT.    Environment: Java1.6, J2EE, Hybris, HMC, HAC, Web Services with REST API, Oracle 11g, Cyber Source Payment Gateway, Vertex Tax Services, Git, HTML, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, JQuery, Tomcat 6.x Technical Lead Tria Beauty - Dublin, CA August 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities  • Responsible for requirements gathering and analysis, understanding Organizational goals and objectives, blue printing and designing e-Comm. solutions for the end users using Hybris Product.  • Responsible for building product data model.  • Responsible for designing the independent services.  • Involve in presenting demo's to Client on critical implementations like Promotions etc.  • Responsible for implementing the Promotion module.  • Involved in writing various IMPEX scripts to import data in to the type system.  • Developed Flexible Search Queries to interact with database.  • Managing source code using SubVersion(SVN) Source Code control.  • Worked on Web Content Management System (WCMS), Hybris Management Console (HMC), Hybris Admin Console (HAC), Validations, cockpit customization, and Business processes.  • Worked on HMC customizations and localization and items.xml to do the modeling.  • Responsible for metadata management & customization of different layers of Hybris E-Commerce product.  • Responsible for integrating ERP, Payment gateway, Tax System to Hybris as a part of ecommerce systems.  • Overall application has been developed using Hybris Multichannel Suite along with Spring MVC to improve sales and customer service.  • Responsible for developing the required JSPs.  • Responsible for developing client side validations using JavaScript & JQuery.  • Involved in developing RESTFUL web services.  • Created custom services in façade and service layer.  • Perform peer reviews of code  • Designed and developed the requirement documents.  • Used Hybris Management Console (HMC) to save users information.  • Used Hybris Administrative Console (HAC) for initialization and updating system.  • Developed High level and Low level design documents for the E-Commerce application.  • Developed High level application designing for the Internalization support.  • Designed Independent services like Payment Gateway, AVA Tax, ERP Integration systems.  • Configured the Production & staging environments for the Hybris System Deployment.  • Involved in resolving the issue during regression, Integration, UAT and PROD.    Environment: Java1.6, J2EE, Hybris, HMC, HAC, ibatis, SQL Server 2008, Authrize.net, Cyber Source Payment Gateway, Avalara Tax Services, Kount, GMO Payment Gateway, SVN, SQL, HTML, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, JQuery, Tomcat 6.x, Apache 2.2 Sr. Software Engineer Riccione Resources - Dallas, TX June 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities  • Responsible for developing front controller using servlets in the application.  • Involved in designing the data model.  • Involved in development of business logic in the Middle tier using Java Technologies  • Extensively used the Adobe Flex charting components for presenting the business data in more interactively  • Involved in developing different graph types like Bubble, Line, and Pie for data analysis etc using Flex  • Involved in developing dashboard admin module to rearrange the order of saved graphs.  • Responsible for implementing designer module.  • Responsible for implementing graphical components like Data grid, Gauge using Flex.    Environment: Servlets, JSP, SQL Server, Eclipse3.2, Blazeds, Flex, HTML, My SQL. Sr Hybris developer EMC - Boston, MA April 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirements gathering and analysis, understanding Organizational goals and objectives, blue printing and designing e-Commerce solutions for the end users using Hybris Product.  • Involved in development of Shopping Cart functionalities like displaying all the products in the catalog, adding products to the cart, editing the cart, displaying items in the cart functionalities.  • Developed various IMPEX scripts to import data in to the type system.  • Involved in writing Flexible Search Queries to interact with items.  • Implementing the change requests and new enhancements for the website.  • Implemented the Cron jobs using Hybris to pass over the orders, received from the web, to the ERP Intuitive systems for the order fulfillment process.  • Involved in the development of Customer Management module functionalities: Forgot your password, Change Password, Add Address Book, Edit Address Book, View Order History functionalities.  • Customized a Page Template to define number and name of slots of a page and positioning of the slots on the page using JSP.  • Assisted in giving demo and documentation of e-mail template changes from the CMS for the Digital Marketing Team.  • Responsible for identifying design and implementation in Hybris.  • Involved in creating Restful web services for in house applications for data exchange w.r.t Orders, Auto shipments and other vital information.  • Responsible for End to End UAT support in the Hybris E-Comm. implementations & customizations.  • Managing source code using SubVersion(SVN) Source Code control.  • Application has been developed using Hybris Multichannel Suite with Spring MVC.  • Responsible for implementation of application for multiple countries.  • Extensively used Spring IOC container for setting up the object's dependencies to make application components loosely coupled.  • Actively participated in daily and weekly status meeting calls.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hybris, SQL Server 2008, Cyber Source Payment Gateway, Avalara Tax Services, SVN, SQL, JSP, HTML, Jenkins, JavaScript, JQuery, Tomcat. Sr Java Developer Ace Info Solutions - Reston, VA February 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Used Agile-SCRUM software development methodology which helps to develop project plans.  • Participated in project planning sessions in analysis of business requirements and implement working model.  • Components of presentation layer in the application is built using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Project is built using Spring MVC framework and have integrated by using Spring's dependency injection at different layers of application.  • Designed and developed RESTful services in application using Spring framework.  • Worked on implementation of business layer using Lists and Sets interfaces of Java.  • Involved in design, development of the persistence layer using Object relational mapping-Hibernate.  • Used Hibernate Criteria API to query the database.  • Sorting, Pagination and Search has been implemented through jQuery.  • Application is implemented, developed and tested using Apache Maven as build tool, Tomcat v7.0.x.  • GIT is used as a version control system, to maintain a proper code base in the team.  • Involved in preparation of technical documentation.  • As a responsible team member, completed various code reviews and provided my input to make system more agile and easily maintainable.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery Tomcat v7.0.x, Junit, GIT, RESTful, Oracle database, Maven, Eclipse Kepler. Java Developer Capgemini - Charlotte, NC August 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed artifacts including high-level object and data models, interaction diagrams and code the solution.  • Involved in designing the architecture and coding using Java/J2EE and spring.  • Implemented java code for all layers of the application using Springs and Hibernate Framework (which includes JSP pages and DAO).  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and Spring DAO.  • Implemented Model View Controller architecture and developed Controller classes for the entire application using Spring Framework.  • Coded J2EE Deployment Descriptor in XML and packaged that into application WAR file.  • Used ANT script to build and deploy application onto the weblogic server.  • Implemented Log4J for debug, info and error messages.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations and JSP, Servlets for server side validations.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Interacted with the business and updated them about the progress of the enhancements.  • Responsible for prioritizing defects with the business users and ensured that they are fixed on time. Build and release coordination for different simultaneous phases.  • Analyzed the system requirement by researching into the system development process and brought out the design document.  Environment: JAVA J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, WebLogic, HTML, JavaScript, ANT, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN). Jr Java Developer Questa Technology, Inc - Lumberton, NJ June 2008 to August 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Project requirement analysis and in the development of server side components such as Servlets, Service Classes and persist Oracle Database.  • Involved in the development of components using Java Swings.  • Interacted with the end-users and gathered requirements.  • Worked on Java technologies including JavaBeans, Swing API.  • Created several tables using JDBC and connected with the database.  • Developed JSPs, Java Beans pages to retrieve the data to be displayed in the pages and generated the output.  • Involved in the development of forms for User Interface.  • Involved in Design and Development of the System using java 2.0 and J2EE.  • Worked in the development of user interface using JSP, Javascript and CSS.  • Implemented the business logic and developed the Database and Application server Independent components.  • Deployed the application and performed the system testing.  • Developed the code for classifieds Module.  • Reviewed the code as per project coding standards.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Swing, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, WebLogic, Oracle (SQL and PL/SQL), Javascript and CSS. Education Bachelors in Engineering Texas A&M University Skills JSP (9 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JAVA (7 years), TOMCAT (6 years), Drupal, NET, C#, Angular, MVC Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Ecommerce: Hybris, HMC, HAC, WCMS, Product Cockpit  Web Technologies: Servlets, JSP, EJB, Ajax,JDBC, JNDI, JMS, WebServices(SOAP and Restful)  Web Developer Skills: HTML/5, DHTML, CSS, WSDL, XML, XSL, JavaScript, jQuery, JSTL  Scripts: Shell Scripting, Maven  Servers: Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere  Distributed Technologies: RMI and EJB  IDE Tools: Eclipse, My Eclipse, WSAD  Defect Tracking Tools: JIRA, Bugzilla, Quality Center  Framework: Spring, Hibernate, iBatis  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server    Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows XP/2000/NT/7, Mac OS X  Version Control: GIT, SVN, CVS    Other Technologies: Testing Tools, Jenkins tool, JSON, ANT and Maven build tools