Data center technician Tier 2 Data center technician Tier 2 Data center technician Tier 2 - IBM, Softlayer Clifton, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data center technician Tier 2 IBM, Softlayer - Ashburn, VA February 2018 to Present • Rack, build, cable, configure, and provision Intel and Advanced Micro Devices (AMD).  • Troubleshoot, test, quality assurance of server hardware.  • Professionally resolve hardware issue via trouble ticket.  • Create tickets within the ticketing system to address problems, incidents and changes of hardware.  • Provide accurate and detailed logs within the ticketing and messaging systems for callouts and system alerts, as well as for communication and escalation steps taken to ensure prompt resolution of supported equipment, processes and teams. Freelancer / Network Field Technician June 2015 to January 2018 • Install and maintain various network services and devices.  • Configure and troubleshoot IP routing and IP addresses.  • Configure Cisco routers to comply with routing protocols such as OSPF, EIGRP, and BGP.  • Familiar with Cisco switching protocols.  • Support network and computing infrastructures.  • Troubleshoot, Install & Configure Cisco Switches, Cisco Routers & Access Points. Freelancer Datacenter installation Technician CenturyLink datacenter (Cyxtera) - Sterling, VA June 2017 to June 2017 - June 2017  • Rack and Stack Chassis (Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches and Servers).  • Install power cables.  • Run and label CAT6 and Fiber cables.  • Test all cabling runs and store results. Senior Java Developer Qatar National Bank January 2011 to May 2015 • Documented the technical specification of web insurance application  • Worked in a team and Participated in the development the work flow of the web insurance applications.  • Contributed to the testing of the web application with the team members.  • Managed the timely development of the web applications according to the set schedule. Junior Java Developer April 2008 to December 2010 • Participated in the developing of web applications.  • Participated in testing the web applications and fixing the bugs.    Programming Languages  Java, C# and Python.    Technologies  JavaServlets, JSP, JSF, Spring, RichFaces, PrimeFaces, Hibernate, JPA, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, Jasper report, PL-SQL, Oracle, MySQL and sql server database.    Development Tools & IDEs  NetBeans, Eclipse, IBM Rational 6 and 7.5, Visual Studio, Crystal Reports, IReport and JasperSoft Studio.    Courses & Training  • Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA).  • Linux.  • AWS Concepts.  • Java.  • C#.  • Project Management Professional (PMP). Education and Certificates June 2006 to June 2006 Ain Shams University, Faculty of Engineering.  Work Authorization  • Authorized to work in the USA for any Employer. Education Bachelor's Skills Cisco, Networking, Software development, Microsoft access, Linux, Red hat, Microsoft project, Microsoft office, Problem-solving, Punctual, Career development, Data Center, Datacenter, Stacking, Hardware Certifications/Licenses CCENT July 2017 to July 2020 Red Hat Certified System Administrator August 2019 to Present Based on RHEL 8 LPI Linux Essentials Exam 010 September 2017 to Present Additional Information Key Skills  • Started my career in the web software development but found that Networking is more interesting to my career development.  • Ability to work co-operatively in a team setting.  • Capable of providing Network support any time of the day based on the business situation.  • Self-motivated, Dynamic, Committed, punctual and willing to learn.  • Multi-tasking, quick learning and excellent problem-solving skills.  • Experienced in working, installing, maintaining various CISCO network services equipment and devices.  • Experienced in installing, configuring and troubleshooting CISCO routers and switches.  • Worked with a different operating system including Microsoft Server 2008, Red Hat Linux, CentOS, and Ubuntu.  • Worked with Microsoft Office Suites such as Microsoft Project and Microsoft Access.