Volunteer Web Developer- Donnelly Accounting and Real Estate Volunteer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span>- Donnelly Accounting and Real Estate Volunteer Web Developer- Donnelly Accounting and Real Estate - LaSalle, IL Bloomington, IL I am seeking a job in the IT industry to acquire new skills, build new relationships, take on new  challenges, and continue my growth as a strong, hardworking, and ambitious individual. I love meeting new  people and gaining new friendships. I feel and have been told that I am a very understanding person, who can  relate and get along with just about anyone. I am extremely passionate about problem solving, software  development, learning new technologies, and growing as an individual. My strongest attributes are my  communication skills, work ethic, and problem-solving skills.  Career & Life Goals  My goals in life are to finish my college education, obtain a career as a full stack developer, become  a leader in my industry, and most importantly I want to inspire others and make a difference in this world before  I leave. My long-term dream is to gain financial freedom, travel the world, and give back to my community. Work Experience Volunteer Web Developer- Donnelly Accounting and Real Estate LaSalle, IL May 2018 to Present Link: http://www.donnellyaccounting.com/  Responsibilities:  o Working with owner of Donnelly Accounting to develop companies first web site  o HTML/CSS/JavaScript/JQuery/Bootstrap  o Front End Web Development  o Meeting with owner and collecting Requirements  o Practicing SDLC Retail Sales Consultant AT&T - Peoria, IL April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  o Help Clients understand the power of new innovative technologies  o Exceed monthly sales goals  o Help clients understand billing and contracts for AT&T services  o Troubleshoot mobile devices and other technology  o Uncover needs of clients and find integrated solutions    o Teach clients how to use Android and iOS Operating Systems Consultant Agent Best Buy - Bloomington, IL May 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  o Help clients understand and operate new technologies.  o Troubleshoot issues with operating systems, networking, hardware, and software.  o Computer Repair (hardware replacement and software fix)  o Setup iOS, Android, Windows, Mac OSX and other electronic devices for clients.  o Setup Cloud accounts for clients.    Skills Developed:  ? Team work ? Virus, malware, & spyware removal  ? Operating System repair ? Help clients understand software and  ? Software/driver repairs & installs technology  ? Network Troubleshooting ? Android  ? Windows ? iOS  ? Mac OS Java Programming & Mathematics Tutor Illinois Valley Community College - Oglesby, IL August 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  o Review students Java code.  o Help students debug code and find best and most efficient solutions.  o Help students understand logical concepts and algorithms.  o Write code out for students to learn and understand.  o Help students with mathematics subjects such as algebra, trigonometry, and calculus.    Skills Developed:  ? Communication ? Leadership  ? Teaching ? Java  ? Interpersonal ? Debugging Education Bachelor of Science degree in General Computer Science Illinois State University - Normal, IL December 2019 Associate of Science degree Illinois Valley Community College - Oglesby, IL December 2016 Skills MYSQL, Git, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshdfoster https://github.com/jdfost1