Senior Pega PRPC Developer Senior Pega PRPC <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Pega PRPC Developer Washington, DC ? A PEGA PRPC system architect with around 10 years' experience in the IT industry that includes 6years' experience in application development using Pega systems PRPC in various domains such as Banking, insurance and Health care. I am looking for a challenging career and to be a part of the team where  ? Developed Activities, Properties, Decision Rules, Declarative Rules, When Condition, Process Flow and User Interfaces like Harness, Sections and Flow Actions.  ? Experience in creating List View, Report definition and Summary View reports in Pega  ? Extensive debugging skills in PRPC using Tracer, Clipboard and Rules Inspector.  ? Involved in interaction with the end users along with Business Analysts and the team members for better understanding of the business requirements.  ? Proficient in Pega Implementation cycle including modeling of business process, PRPC tool installation, development, testing, and deployment.  ? Designed and implemented Decision Rules, Declarative Rules, Validation Rules to implement business rules and also to take decisions and route the workflow  ? Good technical and presentation skills.  ? Ability to coordinate as a good team player and to work as self-motivated individual. Work Experience Senior Pega PRPC Developer World Bank - Washington, DC February 2016 to Present Description: We were involved in portal development (iPortal) for employees and customers at World Bank Group, which involves mostly investment banking. Involved in complete life cycle of software development including designing, developing, testing, and deployment of application.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the Business Requirements and Technical Requirements  • Interacting with the Business Team.  • Creation of flows, activities Decision rules for core business logic.  • Created/modified UI using sections, harness and flow actions.  • Creation of flows, Decision rules for core business logic.  • Involved in Creation of validation rules to implement business logic validation.  • Performed Unit testing.  • Implemented the design approach for Pega PRPC applications by using Pega Guardrails rules.    Environment: Pega PRPC 7, IBM Web Sphere, Oracle, HTML, JIRA, Windows XP. Senior Pega PRPC Developer American Express - Fort Lauderdale, FL September 2014 to February 2016 Fort Lauderdale, FL Sep'14 to Feb'16  Description:American Express Premium card members are individuals that have a Platinum and/or Centurion Card, Corporate and Delta Reserve(s). In PSC (Premium Servicing Capabilities) application, these high profile customers are serviced by CCP (Customer Care Personal) through three separate Servicing arms: Concierge, Travel and Member Service. PSC application is used to capture, track and recording of fulfillment requests to these servicing arms.  CCP can create an Event for card member, card member provide the Event details via. One of the following communication channels: Fax, Email, Call, SMS, Outgoing Call and Face to face. Every Servicing Arm has different Event Types. Depending on serving Arm, Events are routed to respective CCP/dedicate CCP/ workGroups. CCP/ workGroups works on the Event until the Event is resolved.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the Business Requirements and Technical Requirements  • Interacting with the Business Team.  • Creation of flows, activities Decision rules for core business logic.  • Created/modified UI using sections, harness and flow actions.  • Involved in developing SOAP connectors.  • Expertise in using Tracer, Clipboard and Rules Inspector  • Conducted Demos and Presentations for Business users  • Interaction with client to understand expectations and requirements  • Worked with different tools like Tracer/Rule Inspector for troubleshooting the issues    Environment: Pega PRPC 7, CPM, IBM Web Sphere, Oracle, Java script, HTML, Quality Center, Windows XP.    Project: Profile and Preferences Senior Pega PRPC Developer American Express - Fort Lauderdale, FL January 2013 to August 2014 Description:The Project Phoenix is to capture/modify customer's profile and preferences in the Premium Servicing Capability (PSC). This project will replace the existing profile and preferences capability and will enhance the usability of PSC making it an entry point to service, and our ability to better know our customer and to fulfill their servicing needs.  When the user selects Profile and Preferences from the AESP Page, IAC will invoke PRPC work flow which will create a Work Object and will drive the user to capture the Preferences using UI screens built on harness. Work object will be resolved when user exits out of IAC.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the Business Requirements and Technical Requirements  • Fixing high level issues as part of development.  • Implemented the design approach for Pega PRPC applications by using Pega Guardrails rules.  • Worked with Clipboard and Tracer for troubleshooting the issues.  • Involved in bug Fixing Activities with Lead and System Architects for Harness, Declare Expressions and When Rules.  • Had Troubleshoot technical problems and conducted analyses for efficient program/application solutions which support client business processes and functional requirements.  • Involved in Creation of validation rules to implement business logic validation.  • Performed Unit testing.  • Interacting with the Business Team.  • Creation of flows, Decision rules for core business logic.  • Created/modified UI using sections, harness and flow actions.  • Involved in developing SOAP connectors.  • Worked with different tools like Tracer/Rule Inspector for troubleshooting the issues.    Environment: Pega PRPC 6.3, CPM, Websphere and SQL Server, java, JSP, J2EE Pega Developer American Express - Fort Lauderdale, FL April 2012 to December 2012 Description: World Service Portal is a CPM application built on Pega Card CPM FW for servicing end customers via multi-channel throughout the globe. World Service will deliver all the capabilities starting from customer information, payments, account information and other high level credit card related to services. World Service Portal uses CPM Interaction capability to execute service related process via Pega CALL.    Responsibilities:  • Develop User Interfaces using Repeating grid and tabbed sections using multiple when conditions.  • Worked on Integrating to the external database using Soap Services protocol.  • Developed service rules for external system to talk to Pega.  • Worked on Agents and customizing them to fulfill the application requirements.  • Developed decision tables which involve in complex business logic.  • Involved in bug fixing and deployments of fixes into different environments by migrating the application.  • Developed activities, Sections, Harness, flow actions and flows.  • Worked on list view report and Summary view.    Environment: Pega PRPC 6.3, CPM, Websphere and SQL Server, java, JSP, J2EE Pega Developer JPMorgan Chase - Tampa, FL March 2010 to March 2012 Description: Automate the Global Fund Transfer Investigation with the use of Smart Investigate (SI) framework provided by PegaSystems. The payment investigation would be initiated through messages for automated or via mail, fax, letter, etc for manual process. The process involve auto & manual processing of payment investigation for Dollar Clearing Line of Business(Ex: Amendment, Beneficiary Claims Non Receipt - BCNR, Recall, Cancel, Return of Funds, UTACr, UTADr, Unable to Execute - UTE) and automation of some business processes (Ex: UTACr, UTADr, UTE, Return of Funds).  Responsibilities  • Involved in creating Activities.  • Involved in creating Declarative Rules.  • Involved in updating flows.  • Involved in creating Decision Rules  • Involved in analyzing Logs using PLA.  • Involved in designing and implementing modules.  • Involved in Unit testing the system for the intended functionality.  • Involved in Defect fixing and updating the project tracking documents.  • Involved in reporting status to client.    Environment: Pega Rules Process Commander, WebSphere, HTML, Java java developer Mphasis, BangaloreJune 2009 to January 2010 Description:  The Project is aimed at providing the Users of AIG, an AIG subsidiary, spanned across 13 countries in Europe with automated processing of the Insurance Business. The process involves 4 main stages viz, Creation of Case File, Routing & Rating, Generation of Quote, Documents & Binding and Booking. Interacting with various external systems viz., DocuCorp, eStart, BIS, GOALD(Sybase DB) and Oracle Database, the application provides a robust service in Insurance for both New Business and Renewals as well for various lines of business including Financial Lines, Casualty & A&H.  The AIG eXtra application will interact with eStart interface, a java application, which acts as a mediator between eStart, a centralized submission tracking application and the AIGeXtra. It will take input from AIGeXtra in the form of a java object and will convert it into XML and will sent to eStart. Also, will receive output from eStart in the form of XML and convert the same into a Java object and will send back to AIGeXtra application.  DocuCorp is a Document generation engine maintained by another subsidary of AIG called AIGSS. The AIGeXtra application interacts with DocuCorp in generating the policy Documents. It sends the out the data as an XML file and fetches the documents in either rtf or pdf formats as needed.  BIS is a Booking Information System, an interfacing application between AIGeXtra& ALPS, helping the AIGeXtra application submissions to get booked in GOALD, a sysbaseDatabase.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of the various Business Requirements and coordinating with onsite in the interpretation of client requirements.  • Designing appropriate strategies for converting those requirements into technical functionalities.  • played different roles in Analysis, Design, Coding, Operating, Maintaining and improving the business processes.  • Played major role in Unit testing and Defect fixing.    Environment: Pega Rules Process Commander (PRPC v5.2 SP4), WebSphere 6.0, Oracle, HTML, JavaScript, Java java developer Mphasis - Bangalore, Karnataka May 2007 to April 2009 Bangalore May'07 to Apr'09    Description: MEIDAS (Manager Employee Information Data Administration System) is a web-based application created to simplify H.R. processes and provide easy access and up-to-date H.R. information to both managers and employees. MEIDAS encompasses a set of functions that enable employees to read as well as update selected personal data. In addition, it allows managers to perform Performance Evaluation and Other updates with Active Approval. Managers also have access to various reports showing information about employees in their department.  Responsibilities:  • Creating the promotion and discounts and testing the backend work.  • Worked on the Soap UI, to generate and modify the Coupon Codes  • Employed a "test-to-break" approach on testing initiatives and clarified ambiguous requirements to ensure the effectiveness of all test plans.  • Improved the documentation of QA testing practices to enhance their repeatability, saving time and money and encouraging testing standardization and best practices.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Oracle and Apache Tomcat. java developer Mphasis - Bangalore, Karnataka December 2005 to June 2007 Description:Insurance Policy Administration Prototype is an application providing an end to end BPM solution for Insurance Policy Administration. The process flow includes multiple levels of approvals and checks including checks for express and non-express cases and the need of any additional medical tests. In the event of any medical tests required the system interacts with an external system where from the reports of medical tests are fetched. Towards the end of the process flow if the case is valid an insurance policy gets generated and the Policy database is accordingly updated else a flow for re-quote process is initiated. External Applications will be integrated with the system.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the requirements  • Executing test cases  • Report pulling of test cases execution    Environment: Java, Servlets, and Apache Tomcat. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows 95, 98, 2000, XP  Languages Java  Databases Oracle, and SQL  Web Related JSP, JavaScript, XML, HTML,  Tools & Utilities Pega (PRPC) 7.1,postman, JIRA  PRPC Skill Set  Activities and Flow building, Report creation and generation, Decision and Declare rules, UI, Administration Tools, Debugging Tools, Security, Clipboard, Tracer, Rule inspector, PAL, SMA's Log Analyzers    Frameworks: Smart Investigate, Customer Process Manager (CPM).  Domain Knowledge Business Process Management  Methodologies: Waterfall and Agile  Application servers Websphere and tomcat