Salesforce Consultant Salesforce Consultant Salesforce Consultant - Huntington Bank Columbus, OH • Over 9+ Years of IT experience that includes 5+ years experience in Salesforce CRM Platform and 2 years of experience with Java technologies.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), quality management systems and project life cycle processes.  • Experience in Salesforce responsibilities such as Customization, Security Access, Creating Visualforce pages, Controllers, Apex Classes, and Apex Triggers.  • Experience working across various SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and Chatter & App-exchange.  • Hands on experience to manage multiple projects and iterations within the CRM application.  • In depth understanding of CRM business processes like Forecasting, Campaign Management, Lead Management, Account Management, Case Management.  • Extensive experience in development of Salesfore.com applications, designed Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates and Email generation according to application requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Consultant Huntington Bank - Columbus, OH March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved with developers, involved in enhancement of business modules using Standard and Custom Objects, formula logic, APEX classes, Triggers, Test Methods and writing SOSL and SOQL queries.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked on enhancements to SFDC application required by business users from time to time.  • Designed and developed Apex triggers, Apex classes, custom objects, custom layouts, workflows, approval processes, tasks, email alerts, and record types in Salesforce.com.  • Worked on Salesforce implementations from inception to delivery.  • Hands on experience on Roles, Profiles, Security and Sharing settings.  • Developed and tested SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visualforce pages as user interface.  • Involved in Accounts & Opportunities and the Visualforce Controllers. Actively participated in the design and development of custom Visualforce search pages.  • Well versed with the process of detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various objects of Salesforce and using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com and Web Services.  • Designed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Test Classes for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked effectively to ensure that the data is protected and is made available to the authorized users by customizing the user Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings.  • Worked in Salesforce.com Customization, Creation and maintenance of Record Types, Page Layouts, Objects, Tabs, and Fields.  • Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Worked on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and Apex Programming On Force.com Platform.  • Used Cast Iron integration tool for synchronizing master list of customers such as leads, accounts, opportunities and forecasts. It is used for data configuration.  • Extracted the data from Salesforce.com application into the external databases (Oracle 10g) for generating large data reports using the Informatica on Demand.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created custom buttons and links on Account and Relationship Group object for generating auto Reports.  • Created business processes, best practices, standards, templates and operating procedures to optimize IT project development.  • Worked closely with UAT team and SIT team in clarifying and resolving any issues while implementing projects.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Force.com Explorer, Apex Triggers, Visualforce Pages & Apex Controllers, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Cast Iron, Data Migration, Data Loader, Siebel, Eclipse IDE, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs. Salesforce Consultant Well Care Health Plans Inc May 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Documented and shared the requirements with other Salesforce.com consultants for further implementation.  • Closely worked with Salesforce.com consultants while implementing the solutions for the needs of organization.  • Worked with Solution Architecture and product teams to identify and define the business needs and find the solutions to fulfill business requirements.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Migrated data from external sources and performed insert, delete, upset, export operations on millions of records.  • Worked on marketing campaign that focused on merging sales, marketing, and customer service and support databases within Salesforce platform.  • Customized tabs for among different business users groups and business centers.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Created the workflows for automated case routing, entitlement managements, alerts and other processes.  • Supported in developing Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows developed in the system.  • Designed and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, Validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Developed various Custom Reports and deployed them for different business user levels.  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Provided the training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom reports.  • Supported the data migration activities for migrating the data from various business centers and business center users with the support of Salesforce.com.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help Salesforce.com support.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Extensively involved in Data Migration from three legacy systems to Salesforce.  • Developed Cast Iron orchestrations that are used to synchronize data between Salesforce.com and web service endpoints.  • Administrated and monitored the company's Salesforce CRM application using Business Process Management especially workflow management.  • Responsible for Unit testing and performance testing of SFDC API/Web Service.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment and used Force.com Component Deployment Wizard for migrating data between Force.com IDE and Sandbox environment.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, and graphics) and Report Folders to assist Service managers to better utilize Salesforce and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created Customized dashboards for the service representatives and case team members to keep track of the cases assigned to them and to share insight across the company.  • Used Informatica on Demand to automate bulk data loading.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help Salesforce.com support.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex Classes, Triggers, Controllers, Visualforce, Force.com, SOSL, SOQL, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Page layout, custom links, Roles, Cast Iron, Data Loader, Data Migration, Dashboard, Informatica, Oracle, Windows. Salesforce Admin/ Developer Meridian Enterprises - St. Louis, MO March 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation in the sales cloud based environment.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, contacts, Solutions and Custom Objects.  • Developed various Custom Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Implemented Salesforce for Outlook functionality and installed outlook integration with different user systems.  • Worked with Validation Rules, Workflows, Approval Process and Reports & Dashboards.  • Worked with Data Loader and App Exchange Applications.  • Worked with different Deployment Plans for each release and Sandbox Refreshing.  • Worked with different Record types to setup for different Page layouts based on profiles.  • Involved in setting up Profiles and assigning the Profiles to the Users.  • Involved in setting up the Role Hierarchy and assigning the Users as per the role.  • Created different profiles and setup the permissions based on the roles in the organization.  • Involved in Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked with SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions and triggers.  • Involved in the Web Services Integration to connect with the different Applications  • Demonstrated knowledge of XML, SQL, HTTP/HTTPS and EAS processes and understood the different SAAS development processes and methodologies.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Apex language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Salesforce Developer/Admin Cvent Inc - McLean, VA November 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Documented the Software Requirement Specification (SRS) and assisted in Technical Design Document.  • Conducted the Client Business Process Discovery by working across cross-functional business departments.  • Assessment of business needs and identification and prioritization of requirements.  • Worked on Customer Service & Support Processes, by defining Cases & Solutions Objects.  • Played the role of Salesforce.com Administrator and Developer.  • Involved in gathering and documenting requirements from users, designed UML and use-case diagrams.  • Led discussions with the team about feasibility and effective way of leveraging Salesforce.com CRM features to best serve the purpose of the requirement.  • Developed Salesforce.com custom application using Apex, Visualforce and AppExchange.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Reports, Tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages and Controllers for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Creating and managing profiles, roles, visibility settings.  • Implemented and used Salesforce.com web services to transfer data.  • Implemented data migration using Informatica on demand and data loading using Data loader, import wizard.  • Provide training and support to users on how to login, access and effectively use the System.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Custom Objects, Validation rules, Workflow & Approvals, Record types, Reports, Apex, Visualforce Web Services, Data Loader, HTML, Custom Tabs, , Force.com IDE, record type, Customer Services and Support, UAT. Software Engineer (Salesforce) Appnetix Techno Pvt. Ltd May 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Developed Visualforce Pages to include extra functionality.  • Designed, and developed the Custom objects, validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Imported data from excel sheets in to Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader and Import Wizard.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE.  • Used field level security along with page layout to manage the visibility and accessibility of fields for different profiles.  • Developed Assignment rules, Escalation rules to enable proper routing of cases to the case team members  • Developed workflow rules, tasks, emails and alerts to track customer related tasks and activities  • Designed various types Email templates for auto response to customers.  • Developed several custom reports to better assist managers and also report folders to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.  • Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforce team and support end users.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Force.com IDE, Apex Pages, Visualforce, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Reports, Dashboards. Java/ J2EE Developer Frontier Technologies Ltd January 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Responsible for development of various GUI Screens using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JSP.  • Responsible for Coding using JSP, Java Servers, Struts and XML.  • Implemented Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Struts Framework.  • Responsible in writing Data Access codes using JDBC and Oracle database as backend as Model Component.  • Responsible writing JSPs, Data Beans.  • Involved in writing procedures and Packages for Report Generation using Oracle as Database.  • Involved in writing code for printing of Report pages in HTML format and Microsoft Excel files.  • Responsible for Testing - unit testing & integration testing using JUNIT.  • Used Ant tool to build and deploy application on Tomcat Server.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts, JDBC, PL/SQL, JUNIT, ANT, HTML, DHTML, JSP, JavaScript, XML, Oracle, Apache Tomcat, MS Excel. Education Bachelor's Skills APEX (7 years), FORCE.COM (7 years), LOADER (7 years), SALESFORCE.COM (7 years), INTEGRATION (6 years), Salesforce.com, Force.com Explorer, Apex Triggers, Visualforce Pages & Apex Controllers, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Cast Iron, Data Migration, Data Loader, Siebel, Eclipse IDE, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Salesforce.Com Technologies  Apex Language, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, AJAX Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Reports, Custom Objects, Validation Rules, Visualforce (Pages, Components and Controllers), Import Wizard and Data Loader    ETL/ Integration Tools Force.com Data Loader, Force.com IDE Plug-in  Web Technologies/ Tools  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, WSDL, Adobe Photoshop, AJAX, Dream weaver, XML, Visual Studio, MS Project, MS Visio, Rational Rose, SharePoint.    Languages Apex, C, C++, Java, PL/SQL, VB, UML  Database Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access    Operating Systems Windows Variants, UNIX, LINUX