Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - State of Colorado Denver, CO ? 9+ years of software development experience with 6+ years as a senior Salesforce Platform Developer & Administrator and also having experience as Java/J2EE developer.  ? Well versed with CRM processes like Sales, Marketing, Customer service, Customer support, Business processes and recommended solutions to improve using SFDC.  ? Having good experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development and Testing.  ? Proficient in designing the components using Objects and Fields, Page Layouts, Visualforce pages, Apex classes, Controllers & Triggers.  ? Well experienced with Approvals & Workflows for automating different business processes and other components as per the client requirements.  ? Experience in SFDC development in implementing Apex classes, Apex triggers, Visualforce and working on Force.com IDE, Change Sets and ANT Migration Tool.  ? Worked on salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, and Reports.  ? Worked on different CRM modules like sales cloud, and service cloud; working knowledge on Apttus CPQ, Apttus CLM, ERP applications.  ? Expertise in working with SOAP and REST API's.  ? Experience in Sales cloud, Service cloud, Custom cloud, Chatter and App Exchange applications.  ? Technical Knowledge about Salesforce lightning schema builder, process builder, app builder, components and lightning connect.  ? Experience in building re-usable Lightning components and using Lightning Framework.  ? Experience in using client side and server-side controllers in Lightning Design.  ? Worked on designing and developed Lightning Components using Lightning Design System.  ? Worked on creating Lightening pages inside Lightning Community Builder.  ? Effective hands on experience in using Salesforce Lightning Framework to drive the client server management and Lightning APP builder to using Visualforce pages for Lightning experience  ? Technical Knowledge about Salesforce lightning schema builder, process builder, app builder, components and lightning connect.  ? Experienced in Object Oriented Analysis and Design and Object-Oriented Programming and Design Patterns under MVC (Model View Controller) Architecture.  ? Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects in lightning experience.  ? Hands on experience in Java, JSP, Servlets, REST Web services, Struts for design, coding, performance tuning, testing and maintenance of software applications.  ? Work experience on various languages like SQL, Oracle, XML, and JSON.  ? Hands-on experience in designing the front-end pages using scripting languages like HTML, CSS,jQuery, JavaScript and AJAX.  ? Experienced in Java&J2EE Design patterns like MVC.  ? Expert in using version control systems like GIT and SVN.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills to keep executive staff and team members apprised of goals, project status, and resolving issues and conflicts.  ? Expert in customizing and implementing with Validation Rules, Workflows Rules, Process Builder, Approval process, Record Types, Assignment/Sharing Rules, Reports and Dashboards.  ? Experience in Salesforce.com Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Visual force, Force.com API, complex SOQL&SOSL queries, DML statements and S objects.  ? Self-motivated and capable of rapidly learning new technologies and processes and applying them to projects and operations.  ? Working as a part of UAT team to test the Apttus implementation Project before going live.  Executed Wave Analytics, created datasets, dashboards and apps for Opportunity, Accounts and Cases.  ? Responsible for the data maintenance and data integrity within the Force.com platform.  Accounts and Cases. Work Experience Salesforce Developer State of Colorado - Denver, CO September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked on various scenarios of Salesforce.com APIs like SOAP, REST.  ? Involved in various activities of the project, like development meeting, requirement gathering, and analyzing requirements, documenting the functional and nonfunctional requirements.  ? Worked with the user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation and designed the data model to transform the existing business process to Salesforce.  ? Worked on Data Management including data integration from external data sources using API's, Web services, importing and exporting large volumes of data  ? Hands on Experience with sales cloud and service cloud functionalities development  ? Key role in gradual transition of company's application form apttus classic to lightning experience  ? Have used lightning components to create stand-alone apps that are hosted in salesforce  ? Implemented CPQ solution using Apttus CPQ & Contract.  ? Implemented salesforce lightning components for small set of users within the organization  ? Worked on Lightning process builder to consolidate existing workflow rules  ? Worked with diverse Objects such as Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  ? Created Workflow Rules, Workflows Page Layouts, Approval process, Tasks, Email Alerts, Field Updates and Outbound Messages to manage the Workflow & Approvals.  ? Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects in lightning experience.  ? Used the Aura framework and Salesforce lightning Design System (SLDS).  ? Used Sales Cloud integration solution between Inforce ERP applications and the Sales Cloud of force.com.  ? Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Search Layouts, App Customization, Custom and Related Links, Migration Tool, Reports and Dashboards.  ? Design, develop and implement solutions for the Apttus system deployed on the Salesforce platform  ? Worked Service cloud console applications.  ? Experience in Salesforce Lightning - upgrade, migration, setup, and development. Worked on Lightning Experience, Lightning Connect and Lightning Component.  ? Created Lightning apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features  ? Deployed many applications on sales cloud, service cloud which includes the call center and marketing applications.  ? Configured the Contract management and revenue management with using of Apttus CPQ.  ? Experience in using Dynamic SOQL, SOSL, SOQL testing and DMLs.  ? Designed, developed and deployed the Custom Apps, Configuration, Custom objects, Custom Fields, Custom buttons, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, class Force Pages, Apex classes to suit to the needs of the application.  ? Managed apttus application, releases, and future upgrades  ? Good with Product configuration, Price Rules, Constraint Rules, Categories and few more complex pricing functionality using Workflow, Approval Process, APEX, Visual Force and Apttus Pricing Callback Class  ? Worked on Wave Analytics cloud for uploading Large Data sets and Lenses.  ? Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Visual force Pages and Custom Controller classes for various functional needs in the application. Adhering to the best Practices while creating Triggers.  ? Implemented Salesforce automation for Campaign management, opportunity management and lead management.  ? Customization and Development with Salesforce.com on Service Cloud and Sales Cloud.  ? Performed Apttus CPQ related configuration for product setup, approval matrices, approval rules, process builders and flows.  ? Used Salesforce Lightning Inspector to debug the lightning components during the development process.  ? Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications  ? Worked on standard Salesforce Chatter and customizing it by including Custom Logics on chatter objects using triggers, Classes and Visualforce pages.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Role Hierarchies, Service cloud, Sharing Rules, Email Templates, Lightning (Design system and Components),Reports, Dashboards, Apttus, Sales cloud, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Approval process. Salesforce Developer/Admin Western Union - New York, NY July 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Designed, developed and deployed Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Trigger for various functional needs in the application.  ? Schedules retrieval of report data with analytic snapshots to dump the data on a daily basis.  ? Designed Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports on Opportunity, Pipeline, Cases generated, Sales cycles and Accounts.  ? Maintained and developed Custom objects, Custom fields, Custom Tabs, Validation Rules and S-controls HTML & JavaScript.  ? Added Lightning component to Lightning Pages and Record Pages.  ? Implemented service cloud functionality like case management, field service management  ? Made new feature enhancements on Service cloud console view and developed some Visual force components.  ? Involved in analyzing implementation gap between Salesforce classic and Lightning.  ? Built custom Salesforce1 Lightning Apps for different business groups in the organization and used Salesforce Lightning design system analysis.  ? Experience on working with force.com service cloud, sales cloud, marketing cloud  ? Worked on sales cloud and service cloud to process business logic in the organization  ? Made use of Aura attributes and Aura Handlers for enabling Aura Framework event in order to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning applications.  ? Created User Interfaces in Lightning using Aura components to enter case details and submit into Salesforce  ? Worked on version control of metadata using GIT (GitHub and GitLab) and SVN  ? Developed Lightning components and Lightning apps to provide better and more interactive interface to end users to help in Sales enhancements.  ? Implemented Users, Roles (hierarchy), Profiles, Permission sets to deny/grant access to Platform features  ? Experienced in deployment/packaging effectively using Metadata API, ChangeSet and Jenkins.  ? Created many Email templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the Mail merge for different standard and custom objects.  ? Created a sync of contacts, email alerts, events and tasks between Salesforce to Outlook and Outlook to Salesforce.  ? Developed JavaScript methods to do two actions on a single button click to overcome the Salesforce limitations.  ? Gathered user and functional requirements via workshops, interviews and workflow storyboards. Worked with Stakeholders and projects teams to prioritize collected requirements.  ? Designed the custom Visualforce pages for Lead conversion and merging duplicates.  ? Created email templated and applied logic for outbound and inbound emails using Visualforce for clients and customers.  ? Established constant communication with the Project Manager and the development team during different stages of the agile life cycle.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex language, Apex classes, Service cloud, Sales Cloud, Apex Triggers, Validation rules, S-controls, Sharing and security settings, Chatter, Reports & Dashboards, Visualforce (Components & pages), Email services, DataLoader, Import wizard, Custom objects, JavaScript, Lightning (Design system and Components),Aura(Framework, Handlers, Attributes), CSS, HTML, MS Outlook,GIT, SVN, Jenkins Salesforce Developer/Administrator Willis Tower Watson - Philadelphia, PA April 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business needs, distinguish between needs and wants, identify gaps between business needs and standard application functionality.  ? Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com CRM implementation.  ? Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex triggers, API integration for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE.  ? Created the Marketing platform with customized APEX based business logic, Visualforce pages to capture leads via customized Web-to-Lead approaches  ? Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  ? Configured and customized sales cloud, service cloud Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaign, Events, Tasks, Cases.  ? Developed API Callouts & WSDL'S which host Client's services and developed the functionality to accept the request from other system and process the request.  ? Extracted API Callouts & WSDL'S services, hosted by third party companies to perform an action by connecting to their respective repositories and sending the request on demand.  ? Developed and used JavaScript, CSS for performing validation and assigning style sheet to the visual force page and developed HTML to create Custom Email Templates inside Visual force page and under Communication templates section.  ? Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages  ? Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home-grown applications by using the home-grown web services.  ? Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  ? Integration of Application with Salesforce.com by using SOAP web services API and WebSphere Cast iron, SAP.  ? Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic  ? In-depth understanding of Salesforce.com's Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and Force.com product.  ? Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  ? Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.    Environment: SaleForce.com platform, Sales cloud, Service cloud, JavaScript, HTML, Apex, Visual Force, Apex Explorer, SOQL, SOSL, Triggers, Apex Data Loader, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Reports, Visualforce Controllers, Workflow and Approvals and Eclipse IDE, Git, Bit Bucket. Salesforce Developer Sterling IT Services - Greenville, SC November 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Creating application to maintain the details of the product from demand phase to production phase.  ? Developed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes, Controllers and Test Classes within Governor Limits.  ? Developed various Batch Apex Classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable Classes.  ? Designed Visualforce pages using Visualforce Components, Style Sheets, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Created SFDC sites to provide public access to VisualForce pages.  ? Proficient in administering, configuring User Profiles, Roles, Permissions, Validation Rules, Security Controls, Public Groups, Permission Sets, Workflow Rules, Approval Processes.  ? Experience with Service Cloud and Sales Cloud Functionalities.  ? Generated different Reports like standard, custom, tabular, summary, matrix and Joint to meet business requirements.  ? Developed Assignment rules, Escalation rules to enable proper routing of cases to the case team members.  ? Sound experience in integration of Salesforce.com applications using SOAP and REST Web Services.  ? Hands on experience in writing/manipulating the Salesforce.com platform data queries using SOQL, SOSL queries and worked with large volume data manipulation.    Environment: Saleforce.com Visual Force (Component & Controllers) Pages, Security Controls, Time Based Triggers,Apex Language, WSDL, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow& Approvals, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in and Windows 7/XP Pro. Java Developer Visual Soft July 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the User Interactive web pages professionally with using web technologies like HTML, and CSS as per company's standards.  ? Extensively involved in redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for the consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  ? Worked on Web/User Interface development using HTML, CSS, Java Script.  ? Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  ? Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role-based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  ? Used the JavaScript and high charts in the development of the web applications.  ? Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.    Environment: XML, J2EE, WebSphere, EJB, ANT, Eclipse, JUnit, JDBC, Hibernate, spring, Struts. Java, JRun Application server, Apache Web Server, UML, Together, Visual Caf, Web Logic, Apache-SOAP. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), SALESFORCE.COM (8 years), WORKFLOW (8 years), APEX (8 years), Soql, COM, Visualforce, Salesforce Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce.com CRM, Apex Language, Apex Classes& Controllers, Apex Triggers, Apex Scheduler, Salesforce1, Lightning (components, apps and system designs), Aura (Framework Handlers, Attributes),Service cloud,Visualforce (Pages, Components & Controllers), Apex Web Services, Sales cloud, Batch & Schedule classes, SOAP API, REST API, Bulk API, Metadata API, AJAX    Custom Integration  Outbound messages, Workflow & Approvals, Field updates, Reports & Dashboards, Custom objects, Standard objects, Integration, Migration, Email Services, Security controls, Force.com Sandbox, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL, WSDL.    Salesforce Tools Force.com platform, Force.com DataLoader, Force.com Workbench, Eclipse IDE, Developer Console, AppExchange  Languages C, C++, Java/J2EE, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Shell  Web Technologies XML, HTML, GITHUB, JavaScript, jQuery, GIT, SVN, Jenkins, SOAP/REST  Database SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i/10g  Operating Systems LINUX, UNIX, Windows XP/7/10.