Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">JAVA</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer - Staples Framingham, MA • Over 8 years of experience in delivering the Integration Solutions and involved in developing and implemented web applications, multitier applications with Core Java, J2EE Technologies.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Exposure to Prototype, Agile, Water Fall methodologies.  • Expertise in designing Java, J2EE applications using Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Scala, Web services (SOAP, RESTful), Amazon Web Services and AWS Elastic Compute Cloud EC2.  • Worked as a full stack senior Java developer by extensively working through Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using Java, J2EE design patterns and Data Structures.  • Extensive experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AJAX, ReactJS.  • Followed the overall application MVVM architecture to create MVC layers AngularJS layers.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, and DOM.  • Worked on implementing directives and scope values using JavaScript libraries using AngularJS for an existing webpage.  • Experience in JSF, Prime-Faces and Rich-Faces framework for Developing the User Interface.  • Extensive knowledge of MVC architecture and J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Service locator, DAO, DTO and Value Object in the development of web based and distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in building enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE Servlets, JSP, JSF, Java Swing, EJB, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JDBC, JMS, Active MQ, IBM MQ.  • Experience in Java messaging Service (JMS), and messaging technologies such as Message Driver Bean (MDB)  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like Spring boot, Spring quartz, Spring Security, SpringMVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes.  • Experienced in working Spring AOP for Logging, Transactions and Messaging.  • Strong Hands on experience with Struts, spring, Hibernate and JUnit frameworks.  • Expertise in database modeling, administration and development using MS SQL and Sybase, PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g/11g), SQL Server environments.  • Working knowledge on NOSQL databases like Mongo DB, Cassandra.  • Experience in managing Cassandra environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Implemented Messaging MQ dialog using CAMEL and JMS.  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL/REST) using Top down Approach and Bottom up Approach and Restful Web services.  • Produced and consumed web services using SOAP and REST.  • Experienced in building the application WAR for deploying on Web sphere, EA server, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat Application servers.  • Experience in using Maven and Ant builds.  • Experience in visualization tools like Tableau.  • Knowledge in designing and implementing AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), VPC and Cloud Formation.  • Familiarity with other MVC application frameworks like ASP.NET.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like CVS, GITHUB, ClearCase and Subversion.  • Experience in using ANT and Maven for build automation.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans6, MyEclipse 5.5, Rational Application Developer (RAD), IntelliJ for Java/J2EE application development.  • Proactive and self-starter with excellent analytical, communication and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer Staples - Framingham, MA January 2016 to Present Description: Staples mainly focuses on developing a Retail application for the Staples Incorporation for selling products such as printer, scanners, floppy, office accessories, sheets etc. The motive of Staplesis to provide quick service to the consumer who needs quick purchase of office accessories both in lesser and bulk quantities. Generation of internal feeds like Coupons, Rebates and Campaigns are additional challenges. It requires technical expertise as well as domain knowledge.  Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in mock screens development and project start-up phase.  • Efficiently managed the tasks and working and delivering features in a fast-paced scrum environment  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming for web application that matches requirements of the client.  • Developed UI Layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Involved in building a single page and cross browser compatible web application using Angular-JS (Angular routing) and bootstrap.  • Developed Single page applications (SPA) using AngularJS 2.0, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap3 for websites requiring data-rich and instant feedback on interaction.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up AngularJS 2.0 framework for UI development  • Followed Java & J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop the application.  • Worked with the key components of AWS (Amazon Web services) like EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) and S3 (Simple Storage Services)  • Used GWT and Amazon AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  • Worked with advanced MVC framework such as Spring-IOC, AOP, MVC and Batch which is used for implementing backend functionality.  • Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, Auto Wiring, Spring Security, and AOP.  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Participated in coding Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception handling and Transactional Model to handle many requests.  • Developed application using new features of Java 1.8 like Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums etc.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Involved in development of new functionality of WebSphere commerce, Java, J2EE and WebSphere MQ.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans.  • Used Design patterns and object oriented methodologies to design software for mobile phones (mobile application)  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot  • Used a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers  • Implemented Authentication & Authorization with Site Minder and spring security.  • Worked within SOA based enterprise framework to build web services for Middle Tier processing.  • Analysed current legacy infrastructure, established business case, and built consensus for virtualized IaaS / PaaS near term strategy with SaaS mobile cloud services end state.  • Produced as well as consumed RESTful web services using Jersey API's.  • Heavily used SOAP UI Pro version for testing the Web Services.  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Fixed defects identified during QA, UAT and Production.  • Written highly referenced blog posts on Error Handling in Scala and Problems Scala Fixes.  • Done with Web logic application server set up & deployed the application on it.  • Worked with GIT which is used as a version control tool in the project.  • Done with Unit testing using JUnit and Mockito.  • Ensured Agile, JDE & Oracle Databases are in sync.  • Looked and analyzed the splunklogs for hidden application errors and used Gemfire cache for loading data in to local cache server.  • Create & distribute weekly Reports and followed upon Change Activity; managed released documents and maintain server database.  Environment: Web Services, Spring 4.x, Hibernate 4.x, HTML5, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, GWT, CSS3, Angular JS 2.0, SOAP UI, XML, WSDL, Java1.8, J2EE, Scala, Kafka, Agile Methodology, JIRA processes, GIT, Design Patterns, PL/SQL, Junit, WebSphere MQ, Maven, Eclipse IDE, CVS and Oracle 11g. Sr.Full Stack Developer State Street Bank and Trust - Quincy, IL July 2014 to December 2015 Description:State Street Bank and Trust Company serves as the custodian for an investment company. It also provides the basic portfolio recordkeeping required by the investment company for regulatory and financial reporting purposes. State Street Bank and Trust Company serves mutual funds and other collective investment funds, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and other investment pools, and investment managers worldwide  Responsibilities:  Subversion tool)  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Defined MultiAction, AbstractWizardForm and SimpleForm Controllers using Spring MVC framework providing very clean division between controllers, flexibility with the use of interfaces and providing thin web layer over business layer.  • Developed screens using JSP, JavaScript, AJAX and Ext JS.  • Developed entire user interface using various Ext JS components like Form panels, Tab panels, View port and Editable grids.  • Used JENKINS to build and deploy the code in Dev and SIT environments.  • Deployed the application Code to various Remediation engines using JENKINS.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Implemented SOA to develop Web services using Apache Axis.  • Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Developed unit test cases using Mockito framework for testing accuracy of code and logging is done using SLF4j + Log4j.  • Managed and maintained NoSQL (MongoDB) databases in production domain.  • Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Extensively worked on TOAD for interacting with data base, developing the stored procedures and promoting SQL changes to QA and Production Environments.  • Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application  Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 4.x, Angular JS, HTML, XML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, SOAP UI, GIT, MAVEN, Mongo DB, Application Server 7.0, WID 6.1.2, Rational Application Developer 7.5, Web Services, Apache Axis, Scala, Agile Methodology, JAXB, JSP, RAD. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer JPMorgan Chase & Co 2012 to June 2014 Description: Language of Preference (LOP) - Chase offered a feature to the credit card customer to choose a language which they would like to be preference of communication  Balance Transfer: Transformation of the complete Balance Transfer business functionality in to a Web and Service based platforms.Fee Refund: Built a web-portal to manage the Fees and Refund functionalities across Credit and Debit card customers in various products.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and the project  • was developed using Agile based SCRUM Methodology.  • Implemented Struts Framework and Hibernate in the new version of the Application.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts and JavaScript.  • Used JSP, Struts and Java script libraries like Backbone and Jquery to develop the User Interface.  • Developed Action classes, Dyna Action Forms and used Validation framework.  • Developed XML application using XSLT transformations.  • Involved in developing the User interfaces using HTML, CSS3, JSP and java script.  • Created the view pages (UI) using JSP and JavaScript/ JQuery.  • Implemented Marionette which is a composite application library for Backbone.js in order to simplify the large  • scale JavaScript applications.  • Extensively used Java Scripts to enforce client side validations and also used JQuery for Ajax processing.  • Involved in development/ maintenance of various web services using IBM Websphere to interact with other  • applications.  • Implemented the XSLT templates to apply the access to the tabs (modules) based on the logged in user role.  • Developed multiple tools including Site Scanning tool, Report Analyzer tool used for site scanning and report  • generating.  • Wrote various select/update/insertSQL queries and stored procedures for Sql Server.  • Successfully executing offshore modeling by effective and on time knowledge sharing with offshore project  • groups through weekly team meetings and daily status update calls.  • Used collections interface to provide a dynamic user interface.  • Handled Java multi threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves  • that user.  • Gained hand-on development experience with Linux environment and Tomcat server  • Built single page application using Angular JS.  • Worked on EXT JS for Rich Web Application.  • Involved in unit testing, troubleshooting and debugging. Modifying programs with enhancements.  • Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.  • Developed the UNIX shell scripts to automate jobs.  • Used JMS for asynchronous communication between different modules.  • Involved in consuming, producing SOAP based web services using JAX-WS.  • Implemented SOAP over HTTP and SOAP over JMS communication.  • Worked as the part of a core team to monitor and enhance the performance of the application.  • Provide guidance and direction to team members in their day-to-day activities.  Environment: Jakarta Struts Framework 2.0, Core Java, Hibernate 3.0, Web Services, CSS, eclipse Helios, CVS, Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, Unix/Linux, AWS, JUnit, HTML 4, CSS, Angular JS, BackBone JS, JSON, UNIX, JavaScript, Servlets, Ext JS, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, PL/SQL Sr.Full Stack Developer Sports Endeavors - Hillsborough, NC May 2011 to September 2012 Description: WMS is a warehouse project which is providing services at SE warehouse. As part of services auto assignment of work to employees in the part of counts, creating counts, user management and skill management. Managing Skus, locations and location types. Differentiating counts with count-types on skill basis. Provided scanner functionality to count the Skus, differentiating type of sports.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Object analysis, design and documentation (OOAD) of the application model using UML.  • Involved in development of the application using Spring Web MVC and other components of the Spring Framework, the controller being Spring Core. Also implemented Dependency Injection using the Spring IOC framework.  • Designed and developed User Interface, application modules using Wicket pages, Spring, JavaBeans, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Designed and developed interactive static HTML screens as screen level prototype, JavaScript for client side validation.  • Designed Service Adapter using Adapter Service Interface (ASI) framework to interact with mobile devices.  • Developed Action controller, Action Forms, Tiles Structure, Validation Form Beans, AJAX code, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) for designing the web pages.  • Implementation and maintenance of a Java GUI application using JSF components.  • Extensive use of JSF Framework for Controller components and View components.  • Involved in transforming service response to JSON Response for the use of mobile device Apps.  • Used Spring Web component for support of web utilities.  • Used JSON Lint to validate JSON request and response parameters.  • Used XPath for selecting nodes from an XML document.  • Designed and built new SOAP web service interface implemented in Java using Apache SOAP  • Used AJAX to support dynamic page element rendering to enhance user experience.  • Used SVN as Version Control to check-in and checkout Data.  • Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade, Factory, and DAO.  • Involved in component development and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application.  • Used Spring Context for EJB Support and Spring DAO for enhanced JDBC and DAO support.  • Created Stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle.  • Used Spring ORM component for Hibernate support for manipulating data for Oracle 10g.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE 5, EJB 3.0, Spring Framework, Apache Wicket, Adapter Service Interface (ASI) framework, HTML, JavaScript, JSF, XHTML, DHTML, JSON, JSON Lint, UML, IBM WebSphere 6.5 application server, Rational Rose, IBM Rational Software Architect, SVN, ANT and Oracle. Java/J2EE Developer Travelers Insurance - Hunt Valley, MD November 2009 to April 2011 Description: Small Commercial Business Platform (SCBP) is major application catering the needs of the small commercial businesses. It is internet based system that allows Business Insurance Employees, Agents to rate and issue policies. The lines of business that the system supports are Masterpac (Property/Liability), Automobile, Workers Comp, Umbrella, Crime and Inland Marine. Currently, users can quote and issue new business in all lines and field reps can create and issue Masterpac subsequent functions. IE Net is used by select and National Programs.    Responsibilities:  • Designed Use Case and Sequence Diagrams according to UML standard using Rational Rose.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC-2) architecture and developed Form classes, Action Classes for the entire application using Struts Framework.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using in built Struts Validation  • Framework.  • Implemented the data persistence functionality of the application by using Hibernate to persist java objects to the relational database.  • Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer.  • Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT.  • Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms.  • Developed the view components using JSP, HTML, StrutsLogictags and Strutstaglibraries.  • Involved in designing and implementation of Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator patterns to delegate request to appropriate resources.  • Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.  • Creation of database objects like tables, views using oracle tools like Toad, and SQL* plus.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedure in using PL/SQL.  • Worked on Linux environment for jobs scheduling for Inbound data on monthly basis.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.  • Deployed application in WebSphereApplication Server and developed using Rational Application Developer RAD.  Environment: Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, RAD, JMS, CVS, JavaScript, , XSL, XSLT, Servlets 2.5, Websphere Application Server 6.1, Oracle 10g. Java Developer Symantec Corporation - Pune, Maharashtra August 2008 to October 2009 Description:Cross Console Search - VEA- Veritas Enterprise Application: for the management of different applications present in client side. We were responsible for to developer the search application for the product.  Responsibilities:  • Web based search console for all products  • Attractive common look & feel, components on IE, Firefox browsers  • Single query initiates search across all products. Searching is done very fast (in milliseconds) . Combines all results  • from all terminals and presented to user.  • Developed presentation screens by using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed Session beans for functionality as per the requirement.  • Prepared Unit test cases for existing functionality as per the requirement and execute the same.  • Created dynamic XSL to transform XML to target platform language, HTML.  • Involved in the Integration testing support and involved in bug fixing.  • Responsible for writing detail design documents and class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Used different Design patterns like MVC pattern, DAO pattern, and singleton to achieve clean separation of layers.  • Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling,  • Generics, Enumeration, and Java I/O to fulfill the implementation of business logic.  • Developed Custom tag libraries to separate presentation and processing logic.  • Deployment of .ear files in Tomcat server.  • Worked on Hibernate persistence tier. This involves developing mapping files and Hibernate (POJOs/ DAOs)  • Used Lo4j debugging tool to monitor the Error Logs.  • Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.  • Involved in tracking and resolving Production issues.  Environment: Servlets 2.5, JSP 2.1, Eclipse, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, Oracle, PL/SQL, SVN, Hibernate 3.0 and Apache Tomcat Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Angular, Node, Javascript