Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Fox Software Platte City, MO I have had the opportunity to use many tools, languages and configurations throughout my I/T career. Development / coding is where I seem to thrive. Most of my development experience has been on Windows and Unix operating systems. Primarily, I have worked with Java, Cobol, and numerous application servers and databases. I am currently working with Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, mySQL, Maven and Tomcat.  In addition to being a Software developer I also take an occasional listing as a land Realtor, which has helped me greatly in polishing my written and verbal communication. Work Experience Developer Fox Software January 2019 to Present • Wrote a java batch application that uses downloaded information on stock options and scans for potential credit spread prospects.  • Recently completed a course on Spring Boot and REST and built a proprietary MVC application for Farmers and Ranchers.  • Working on a physical asset tracking application for the local church that we attend.  Tech Stack: Spring Boot, Java (1.8), Eclipse, Hibernate, H2, MySQL, JSP, Tomcat and Maven, REST, JSON Java Developer - Remote Helzberg Diamonds April 2014 to July 2019 • When our inventory management software recently moved to a new database and server I was responsible for regression testing the Java batch jobs which feed inventory to helzberg.com. My ability to serve as the tester saved the on-site team time and effort, and reduced costs otherwise needed to hire a contract tester.  • When our as400 was replaced with a newer Iseries recently I was responsible for testing the Java batch jobs that feed financial data into and from the back end systems. My ability to serve as the tester saved the on-site team time and effort, and reduced costs otherwise needed to hire a contract tester.  • I continue support, maintain and enhance some of the java spring batch applications between KIBO the back end systems.  • My main responsibilities include supporting a large system that I wrote which scrubs, decrypts, tokenizes, marshalls and unmarshalls the XML files from the multiple POS registers from Helzberg's 250+- stores (see below).  • Made some minor changes to helzberg.com code    Tech Stack: Java, XML, Oracle, SQL Server, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring batch, Bouncy Castle, JSON, XMLBeans, SOLR, Jenkins, Tanuki Quartz, ANT, SVN Lead Java Developer Helzberg Diamonds February 2011 to April 2014 • Developed a critical Java spring batch application that processes all the xml files that are generated by the point of sale systems in the (250+) stores. The application standardizes the XML files, un-marshalls the XML, and deals with decryption and tokenization of various data. This system uses Java spring batch extensively as well as FTP and Java file level commands to work within the Windows operating system.  • Worked on numerous changes within the code for helzberg.com including SOLR tuning, a business day shipping calculator, an appointment making application and many others.  • Developed, supported and maintained many product related and order related feeds in the integration layer between helzberg.com and the back end system. This system utilizes Java, Spring, Quartz, XMLBeans, SFTP, Bouncy Castle and numerous other 3rd party software packages.  • Built a product feed which interacted with an imaging provider via Axis2 and fed the data in a proprietary format to a 3rd party vendor.  • Acted as the primary developer for the integration layer during upgrades of the 3rd party website. This involved a lot of testing and code remediation.  Tech Stack: Java, XML, Oracle, SQL Server, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring, Spring Batch, Bouncy Castle, JSON, XMLBeans, Tanuki Quartz, SOLR, TOAD, ANT, SVN, Axis, Axis2 Technical Lead JP Morgan Retirement Plan Services February 2008 to February 2011 • Implemented numerous enhancements considered BAU and RTE (Business as Usual, and Run The Engine) to their 401K website www.retireonline.com, the internal call center equivalent application (CCI), and the Plan Sponsor Portal site. The development work was done using Eclipse, J2EE, struts, MVC, tiles, Spring and DB2.  • Served as lead developer on a very complex 'chaining' project which saved the company a lot of money (by writing in-house) and aided in retaining one of largest plan sponsors at the time.  Tech Stack: Eclipse, J2EE, struts, JSP, MVC, tiles, Spring and DB2 Sr. Programmer/Analyst American Century April 2007 to January 2008 • Constructed a Java service that uses JAXB for XML marshalling and un-marshalling. Utilized Java Spring for the database-to-data bean transformations and Dozer for object-to-object transformations.  • Assisted in coordination and testing of an Oracle Upgrade for our internal browser based apps  • Implemented a Star Schema data warehouse and Cube that uses the star schema using Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and other Microsoft tool sets.  Tech Stack: Eclipse, JAXB, XML, J2EE, Oracle, SSIS, SQL Server and DB2 Lead Analyst Helzberg Diamonds June 2004 to April 2007 • SOAP based transactions and lookups  • Served as Technical Lead in converting several applications and servers to Unix 5.10. This was a very complex project.  • Ran many deploys from my desktop to both the e-commerce site and associate portal.  • Numerous enhancements to the associate portal and e-commerce sites.  • Implemented company's first use of Endeca search for keyword searches and guided navigation.  • Upgraded e-commerce and associate portal sites to a new version of Endeca search  • Built a custom Endeca pipeline to search and index the Radiant Star PDF's and implemented the search into the e-commerce site.  • Worked on converting IDE's to Eclipse with MyEclipse and Ant  • Implemented a new private label credit card authorization for www.helzberg.com.  • Converted the internet store over to a new printer, by using Java and Sun/Solaris drivers.  • Built a receipt reprint application for the associate portal using Java/Eclipse  • Worked on a new authentication process for the associate portal  • Implemented a $1 pre-authorization to the e-commerce site  • Assisted in launching a new employee portal/intranet.  • Performed builds, deploys, miscellaneous enhancements, queries and fixes for the e-commerce site.  Tech Stack: Eclipse, Broadvision, Java, J2EE, struts, Oracle, SOAP, ANT, SOAP, Scope, Toad, Unix Sr. Programmer/Analyst JP Morgan Retirement Plan Services June 2003 to June 2004 • Designed and implemented reusable Java controllers and Objects that render PDF's to the browser in new windows. This system was built using Java, JSP, HTML, WebSphere, XML, JDBC and DB2.  • Spent 4 months as the primary point of contact for support of the retireonline.com web site and call center browser based tool. I was able to find and play a part in fixing problems across many different platforms related to our internet sites.  • Worked as an integral part of a team to design, construct, test and implement a Personal Messaging project for the RPS web site. This project delivers personalized content to the user based upon their retirement data. This system was very I/O intensive and dependent on calculations and yet able to determine the messaging for the whole participant database in less than 1 hour. The system was built using Java, JSP, DB2, WebSphere, and Cobol.  Tech Stack: Eclipse, Java, Cobol, LDAP, RACF, JSP, XML, DB2 Sr. Programmer/Analyst American Century Services, Inc April 1996 to June 2003 • During the 7+ years I was employed by American Century, I worked in the direct/retail, third party and retirement I/T channels. The first 3 years I worked on mainframe processes, mainly CICS and DB2. The last 4 years were spent doing primarily internet development using Java, JSP, HTML, WebSphere, XML, JDBC and DB2. Some of the many projects I worked on include are below.  • Integration of a strategic alliance partner into the retirement web site. This project ended up being a total re-write of several parts of the retirement web site. The Java and JSP coding was very intensive, and error prone, yet we received no problem tickets upon implementation.  • Developed a browser based call center tool to be used by our strategic partners, and developed a browser based user administration tool that the help desk could use to administer authorities for the users. Both tools were constructed using Java, JSP, JDBC, WebSphere and DB2.  • Integration with a retirement advice provider via single sign on using XML and a custom data exchange framework. Constructed using Java, JSP, XML, JDBC, WebSphere and DB2.  • Retirement forecasting in which the retirement web site would perform a single sign-on to the advice provider and request an initial forecast for the plan participant. The user could then request a customized forecast if they desired. A subsequent phase used the same objects to also do batch retirement forecasting. Both systems were constructed in Java, JSP, JDBC, XML, WebSphere and DB2.  • Designed and constructed a site for new Learning Quest account requests and Individual Retirement Account requests on American Century's direct channel web site. Utilized Java, JSP, JDBC, WebSphere and DB2.  • Worked as a Developer on a project to enhance the American Century Investment Professional web site. Components deployed were Java, JSP, JDBC, WebSphere and DB2.  • Designed and developed a server based system that extracts data from an Oracle database on a Unix server using PL/SQL and uploads it to the mainframe for insertion to DB2 tables so that a legacy CICS system could access the data.  • Worked as a developer and area technical lead on a massive Cobol/CICS/DB2 New Account Set-up system doing design, development and support. This was a very visible, complex, multi-faceted, DB2 driven system. I continued to support and enhance this product until it was retired.  Tech Stack: Cobol II, CICS, MVS JCL, Java, DB2, XML, JSP, JDBC, WebSphere Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Computer Information Systems Central Missouri State University Skills Javascript, HTML, XML