Systems Analyst Systems Analyst Java/J2EE with Webservices Developer Bentonville, AR Work Experience Systems Analyst Walmart - Bentonville, AR November 2018 to Present provides development and support functionalities based on the requirements from the Walmart International Brazil business. This deals with enhancements to Walmart and Sam's Brazil applications to make a smooth transition of data from the existing legacy Item File to the new SAD system enabling a trusted and flexible product catalog with management interface and business process for the Wal-Mart enterprise. As this migration happens, this will simplify the business with an agreed upon plan to sunset legacy Item File applications.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specification for Online Item File enhancements and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Estimating time required for completion of the modules like Data Processing and Sync and preparing schedules.  • Create design documentation for the Data Sync, Enterprise Item History modules.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Java/J2EE, Spring, Camel and RESTful web services.  • Work closely with product owner in backlog management and continuous delivery of features.  • Creating user stories by breaking down the business requirements.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  • Taking the Builds and Deploying to the Test and QA Servers.  • Participated in Stakeholder meetings and contributed to the customer demonstrations.  • Coordinating with application deployment teams.  • Provide support to Business users during User Acceptance Testing.  Environment: Core Java, Apache Camel, Spring, Restful Web services, JSP, Java Script, CSS, JIRA, RSA, Websphere Application Server, Github, Db2, Informix, Fiddler, Maven, IBM MQ Systems Analyst Walmart - Bentonville, AR June 2018 to November 2018 for Sam's work stream is to provide enhancements for the Item File legacy applications based on the needs from Sam's business and deals with transforming common Item File into more common product level, enabling a trusted and flexible product catalog with management interface and business process for the Wal-Mart enterprise. As this migration happens, this will simplify the business with an agreed upon plan to sunset legacy Item File applications.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specification for Sams Online Item File enhancements and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Estimating time required for completion of the GDSN Datastore module and preparing schedules.  • Create design documentation for the GDSN Datastore module.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Camel and RESTful web services.  • Creating user stories by breaking down the business requirements.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  • Taking the Builds and Deploying to the Test and QA Servers.  • Participated in Stakeholder meetings and contributed to the customer demonstrations.  • Coordinating with application deployment teams.  Environment: Apache Camel, Spring Boot, Restful Web services, JIRA, Eclipse, MongoDb, Github, Postman, Maven. Walmart - Bentonville, AR July 2017 to June 2018 Company: UST Global, Bentonville, Arkansas    Item Catalog: Item Catalog provides a robust framework for all business functions of Walmart to interact seamlessly. The Item Catalog solution approach enables the business to group item information (attributes) into different concept levels. This framework is the foundation of the next generation item management solution. The Item Catalog application is built on 4 foundational concepts, namely Product, Offering, Trade Item and Supply Item. Item Catalog provides significant improvement in end user experience by automating and streamlining the current manual processes of gathering item data using spreadsheets and through different systems in different business categories.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specification for Item Catalog and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Estimating time required for completion of the modules like Trade Item and Supply Item and preparing schedules.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Java/J2EE, Spring, Camel and RESTful webservices.  • Work closely with product owner in backlog management and continuous delivery of features.  • Creating user stories by breaking down the business requirements.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  • Taking the Builds and Deploying to the Test and QA Servers.  • Participated in Stakeholder meetings and contributed to the customer demonstrations.  • Coordinating with application deployment teams and guiding the Offshore team with the daily tasks and progress.  • Provide support to Business users during User Acceptance Testing.  Environment: Core Java, Apache Camel, Guice, Restful Web services, AngularJS, Java Script, CSS, Spring, JIRA, Confluence, Apache Kafka, Eclipse, Tomcat, Github, Cassandra, Db2, Fiddler, Maven. Systems Analyst Walmart - Bentonville, AR August 2015 to July 2017 Company: UST Global, Bentonville, Arkansas    GLN Management & GDSN Reporting: The goal of this project is to provide the ability for a user to manage association of supplier numbers to GLN using a user interface and also to provide the ability for a user to view their own publication details in a report format. The GLN Management & GDSN Reporting project uses the Agile methodology Scrum for the software development and delivery. As part of the Trade Item Catalog (TIC) Modernization effort, all functionalities within TIC needs to be re-written. The project will focus on the modernization of Supplier GLN Association and provide the ability for a user to manage association of supplier numbers to GLN using a user interface. This project will also result in re-writing the logic to generate the reports that are part of Publication Enhancement within Enterprise Item project. This tool allows the user to generate the Publication Detail Report that shows the publication details, Item details, item hierarchy information and response (CIC) messages.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specification for Item Catalog GDSN enhancements and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Estimating time required for completion of the modules like GLN Management and GDSN Reporting and preparing schedules.  • Create design documentation for the GLN Management, GDSN Reporting modules.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Java/J2EE, Spring, Camel, AngularJS and RESTful webservices.  • Work closely with product owner in backlog management and continuous delivery of features.  • Creating user stories by breaking down the business requirements.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  • Taking the Builds and Deploying to the Test and QA Servers.  • Participated in Stakeholder meetings and contributed to the customer demonstrations.  • Coordinating with application deployment teams and guiding the Offshore team with the daily tasks and progress.  • Provide support to Business users during User Acceptance Testing.  Environment: Core Java, Apache Camel, Guice, Restful Web services, AngularJS, Java Script, CSS, Spring, JIRA, Eclipse, Tomcat, Github, Cassandra, Db2, Informix, Fiddler, Maven. Walmart - Bentonville, AR December 2014 to August 2015 Company: UST Global, Bentonville, Arkansas    Enterprise Master Item - GDSN Subscription  The EIM CAPOS Scrum Team Project has been defined as a result of market forces and compliance challenges that have identified the need for Walmart, Inc. to streamline business processes and consolidate the Walmart Merchandizing /Item File systems. The GDSN Subscription project used the Agile methodology Scrum for the software development. Item File software applications help Walmart associates to manage data simply and efficiently, enabling them to easily use it for internal functions, such as Supply Chain, Store Systems and Reporting. There are multiple software applications within the Item File portfolio catering to the needs of the Walmart and SAMS Club users .Applications are available via the EIM portal hosted on Retail Link to assist other Walmart partners to add item data and synchronize the Item data over the Global Data Synchronization (GDSN ) network. EIM CAPOS Scrum project intends to provide support and provide enhancements for building flexible, robust, scalable systems that meet the demanding needs of Walmart Merchandizing and Item File business such that the business can react quickly to a changing business environment, ISD can rapidly respond to the changing business needs as they arise and the costs associated with change can be kept to a minimum.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specification for Item Catalog GDSN enhancements and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Estimating time required for completion of the modules like GDSN Routing, GDSN Subscription and preparing schedules.  • Create design documentation for the GDSN Routing, GDSN Subscription modules.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Java/J2EE, Spring, Camel, and RESTful webservices.  • Work closely with product owner in backlog management and continuous delivery of features.  • Creating user stories by breaking down the business requirements.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  • Taking the Builds and Deploying to the Test and QA Servers.  • Participated in Stakeholder meetings and contributed to the customer demonstrations.  • Coordinating with application deployment teams and guiding the Offshore team with the daily tasks and progress.  • Provide support to Business users during User Acceptance Testing.  Environment: CoreJava, Apache Camel, Guice, RestFul Web services, Tomcat, Cassandra, Fiddler, Rest Client, GDSN, JSON, XML. Systems Analyst Walmart - Bentonville, AR August 2013 to December 2014 GDSN - Publication Enhancement  The GDSN is an automated, standards-based global environment that enables secure and continuous data synchronization. The Publication Enhancement project used the Agile methodology Scrum for the software development. This allows all trading partners to have consistent item data in their systems at the same time, ensuring that all parties in the supply chain are working with the same data. The GDSN helps to save time and money for all organizations by eliminating steps to correct inaccurate data. GDSN enables the GS1 Global Registry and a network of interoperable, certified data pools that enable data synchronization per GS1 System standards.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specification for Item Catalog GDSN enhancements and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Estimating time required for completion of the modules in GDSN Publication Enhancements and preparing schedules.  • Create design documentation for GDSN Publication Enhancement modules.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Java/J2EE, Spring, SOAP Webservices and Message Broker.  • Work closely with the onsite team members and product owner in backlog management and continuous delivery of features.  • Creating user stories by breaking down the business requirements.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Message Broker, Rational Software Architect, Hibernate3.2.3, WebSphere Application Server7.0, SQL, Ant, JIRA, Putty, WinScp, Junit, Maven, Jenkins, Db2, Informix. Walmart - Bentonville, AR March 2013 to August 2013 Walmart Transportation Management Systems  The Walmart Transportation Management Systems, Logistics-TRAN-WTMS-Dispatch System project focuses on the dispatch related activities for the Walmart truck drivers. This project used the Agile methodology Scrum for the software development. This project captures the different schedules of the Drivers and tracks their dispatches. The client is one of the leading retailer who was using a Legacy System named Visual Dispatching System (VDS) developed in Visual basic for the Transportation management for the last 20 years. WTMS is a modern web application incorporating all the legacy business requirements.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specification for WTMS enhancements and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Java/J2EE, Spring, Hiberanteand Tomcat server.  • Work closely with the onsite team members and product owner in backlog management and continuous delivery of features.  • Creating user stories by breaking down the business requirements.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Rational Software Architect, Silverlight, Putty, Winscp, Tomcat. Systems Analyst EMC Corporation July 2012 to February 2013 Company: EMC Corporation    VmaxSP: Client  MSAlert Service is being designed to be a System-wide logging mechanism to support "Alerts" across VMAX SP. This project was developed using the Agile methodology Scrum. Alerts could be of any type - Errors, Events or Notifications that need to be tracked in a logging format. This Notification System filters and compose meaningful events and present these events to subscribers. It also manages event logs and subscriber lists.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specifications and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Java/J2EE, EJB, JDO and jboss server.  • Work closely with the onsite team members and product owner in backlog management and continuous delivery of features.  • Creating user stories by breaking down the business requirements.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, EJB, JDO, jboss6, Junit, Eclipse. Associate Practice Consultant EMC Corporation - St. Louis, MO January 2012 to June 2012 Company: EMC Corporation    Lightspeed: Client - AT&T  This project caters the need of laying wired network for AT&T. This project was developed using the Agile methodology Scrum. There are number of applications which work together as well as some external systems which sends request and receive response from Lightspeed applications. As part of Lightspeed project, we develop a number of applications around Granite to provide intelligence to the inventory and to extract valuable information from inventory. Applications involve Core java applications, EJB applications & PL/SQL applications. These help the end user to extract valuable information from the inventory.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specifications and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Core Java, Spring, PL/SQL and Oracle.  • Work closely with the onsite team members and product owner in backlog management and continuous delivery of features.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  Environment: Core Java, Spring, PL/SQL, Putty, WinSCP, Oracle 10G, Eclipse. Associate Practice Consultant EMC Corporation - St. Louis, MO December 2010 to December 2011 Converged AT&T Network Operations Provisioning & Inventory (CANOPI)  CANOPI is a framework for developing inventory and provisioning related applications for AT&T Integrating existing applications. This project was developed using the Agile methodology Scrum. The benefits of CANOPI is that the application can be surfaced via a common portal making them interactive, user-friendly and consistent. It Provides infrastructure and tools to support rapid prototyping and accelerated time to develop new applications. The application integration becomes flexible enabling business to use common terminology and consistent view of data and also simplifies inclusion of business processes (work-flow) and rules.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Performing requirements gathering and analysis of the functional specifications and identifying the gaps with business requirements.  • Participate in Scrum meetings like Daily standup, Grooming sessions and Sprint Planning meetings.  • Develop user stories using Java/J2EE, JSF, jQuery, Hibernate and SOAP Webservices.  • Work closely with the onsite team members and product owner in backlog management and continuous delivery of features.  • Providing the weightage points to each user story based on the complexity of the requirement.  • Maintaining and tracking user stories using JIRA.  • Coordinating with other integration teams to get the required technical and domain level information required for the user stories.  • Perform Unit testing and Integration testing of the user stories developed.  • Perform Code Reviews and Walkthroughs for user stories developed by other team members.  Environment: Core Java, Java, J2EE, JSF, jQuery, Spring Webflow, Hibernate, SOAP WebServices, Granite 7.2., putty, WinSCP. Broker Portal and Invoice Portal Logica Pvt Ltd - Helsinki, FI December 2009 to November 2010 Broker Portal and Invoice Portal offers different kind of information logistics and integration services to large corporations in finnish scale. This project was executed in the Agile methodology of software development using Scrum. For example electronic invoicing, document management, records management, archiving etc. We are working in close cooperation with them to renew their existing user interfaces for both internal administration use and for customer services as well. Agent Portal is first of these customer interfaces being implemented and deployed. Invoice Portal (which they call Market Tool) is actually a small part of larger user interface implementation project. The goal of this project is to create invoice delivery portal service. The portal integrates to online banks. The portal is used to view invoice, invoice history and use added value services of the company who sent the invoice in question. Portal will also enable targeted market campaigns and linking to other online services. Portal will offer possibility of developing invoice real time modification functionality.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing the functional specifications.  • Designed and developed user interface using Vaadin Framework and Liferay.  • Responsible for executing the Scrum ceremonies like Daily standup and Retrospective meetings with Onsite counterparts.  • Participated and contributed to the Story Point estimation for the user stories.  • Participated and contributed to the Backlog grooming and Sprint planning sessions.  • Responsible for developing and executing unit test cases.  • Responsible for testing application  • Preparing the Proof of Concepts.  • Preparing and maintain the project artifacts.  • Working with Version Control System to maintain the Project Artifacts.  • Participating in Code Reviews and Walkthroughs.  • Taking the Builds and Deploying to the Servers  • Trouble shooting the issues in Test and Prod Environments.  • Preparing the unit test cases and answering the tester queries in case ambiguity on requirement.  Environment: Core Java, Vaadin Framework 6.2.4, Liferay 5.2.3, Tomcat server 6.0, webservices, oracle 10g. Senior Java Developer Responsibilities Logica Pvt Ltd - UK April 2009 to November 2009 TNT (Application Doorway R1.0)  The application Doorway R1.0 is a web-based system. It can be accessed by a number of users, each of which can be authorized for certain tasks and not authorized for other tasks. The goal of the system is to support the planning, preparation and execution of the distribution of door drop media(unaddressed mail) to households in the UK. The system allows to input quotations, contracts and briefs for door drop distributions; to link to schedules; to generate logistical instructions for the dispersal of leaflets to distributors and distributor instructions for the distribution of door drops to households and to handle financial matters, both payment by customers and payment to distributors.    Senior Java Developer Responsibilities:  • Come up with questions, issues, clarifications on specifications and resolve issues on Ambiguity.  • Preparing and maintain the project artifacts.  • Working with Version Control System to maintain the Project Artifacts.  • Participating in Code Reviews and Walkthroughs.  • Taking the Builds and Deploying to the Servers  • Trouble shooting the issues in Test and Prod Environments.  • Preparing the unit test cases and answering the tester queries in case ambiguity on requirement.  • Preparing the test data scripts  • Technical Support to Team  Environment: Core Java, Seam Framework, JSF, IBM Websphere, Hibernate, Oracle 10g.    Michelin, France Senior Java Developer Responsibilities Logica Pvt Ltd October 2008 to March 2009 Oct 08 - Mar 09    ASP (Annual Sales Plan) - Michelin  ASP stands for Annual Sales Plan. It is a project in CRM domain where the Java calculation engine plugged on Hyperion database to extract the data for the calculations. ASP master application allows us to elaborate an annual sales plan according to different approaches, elaborate a reforecast of that plan according also to different approaches and follow-up actual sales in comparison with elaborated plan and reforecast.    Senior Java Developer Responsibilities:  • Attending the onshore Meetings, Brain Storming the Requirements and propagating the knowledge to team.  • Come up with questions, issues, clarifications on specifications and resolve issues on Ambiguity.  • Preparing the Proof of Concepts.  • Designed and developed user interface using JSF  • Did the server side validations for the business requirements.  • Performed application deployment on IBM Websphere Server.  • Performed Unit testing  • Preparing and maintain the project artifacts.  • Working with Version Control System to maintain the Project Artifacts.  • Participating in Code Reviews and Walkthroughs.  • Taking the Builds and Deploying to the Servers  • Trouble shooting the issues in Test and Prod Environments.  • Preparing the unit test cases and answering the tester queries in case ambiguity on requirement.  Environment: Core Java, Xnet Framework, JSF, IBM Websphere, JUnit, Oracle, Eclipse, Oracle 10g. Senior Java Developer Responsibilities Logica Pvt Ltd January 2008 to September 2008 MIAP (Managing Information Across Partners)  The Managing Information Across Partners (MIAP) Group is a part of the Learner Registration Service and was set up to address the problems of information collection and sharing across the post-14 education sector. It now brings together 42 post-14 learning and skills sector organizations with the clear aim of turning the philosophy "collect once, use many times, used by all" into reality. MIAP arose from the post-16 reforms following the Learning and Skills Act 2000 and the legacy of disparate policies and systems, particularly in the FE sector. The purpose of MIAP is to enable single identifier across the whole England and Wales education sector and to provide easier and better sharing of learner data around the education sector. MIAP reduces the burden of bureaucracy on learners, data providers, and other organizations.    Senior Java Developer Responsibilities:  • Brain Storming the Requirements and Preparing the Design document.  • Involved in Low Level Design and preparing the UML diagrams (Use Case, Sequence).  • Designed and developed the code using JSF, JSR168 Portlets, Spring and Hibernate.  • Performed Unit testing using Junit framework.  • Preparing and maintain the project artifacts.  • Working with Version Control System to maintain source code.  • Participating in Code Reviews and Walkthroughs.  • Trouble shooting the issues in Test and Prod Environments.  • Preparing the unit test cases and answering the tester queries in case ambiguity on requirement.  • Preparing the test data scripts  • Verifying the Bug tracking tool like JIRA to track the bugs and changing the bug status by justifying the requirement.  Environment: Core Java, JSF, JSR168 Portlets, Spring, Hibernate, XML, Websphere, SQL, Oracle.    L&G Insurance, United Kingdom Java Developer Responsibilities Logica Pvt Ltd - Leatherhead June 2007 to December 2007 Leatherhead, UK Jun 07 - Dec 07    Legal and General CNBS  The L&G CNBS Project defines and implements a new system for the acquisition and subsequent processing of new protection business. As part of this system, a new component for the generation of correspondence to customers and third parties as part of the sales and sales administration process is being developed.    Java Developer Responsibilities:  • Come up with questions, issues, clarifications on specifications and resolve issues on Ambiguity.  • Brain Storming the Requirements and Preparing the Design document  • Designed and developed user interface using velocity and spring.  • Implemented the beans required for template generation.  • Performed Unit testing  • Preparing and maintain the project artifacts.  • Working with Version Control System to maintain source code.  • Participating in Code Reviews and Walkthroughs.  • Trouble shooting the issues in Test and Prod Environments.  • Preparing the unit test cases and answering the tester queries in case ambiguity on requirement.  • Preparing the test data scripts  • Verifying the Bug tracking tool like Bugzilla to track the bugs and changing the bug status by justifying the requirement.  Environment: Core Java, JDBC, Spring, Velocity, SQL, SQL server 2000. GM Logica Pvt Ltd February 2007 to May 2007 GM Initiative Project  The project is a competitive assessment for the Asia Pacific market, which was done for the auto company brands as well as other popular brands in India. The primary objective of this assignment is to measure how well auto company brands perform in fulfilling external customer requests. This customer fulfilment assessment also includes coverage of non auto company brands (both volume and premium manufacturers) in order to provide a comparative assessment of auto Company's performance. In total a specified number of brands (including auto company brands) will be assessed in each market.    Java Developer Responsibilities:  • Brain Storming the Requirements and Preparing the Design document  • Preparing the UML diagrams (Use Case, Sequence).  • Designed and developed user interface using JSP, HTML, Servlets, JavaScript  • Performed client side validations using Java Script  • Performed Unit testing  • Preparing and maintain the project artifacts.  • Working with Version Control System to maintain source code.  • Participating in Code Reviews and Walkthroughs.  • Preparing the unit test cases and answering the tester queries in case ambiguity on requirement.  • Preparing the test data scripts  Environment: Core Java, JDBC, JSP, Struts, SQL, SQL server 2000.    Logica Java Developer Responsibilities Logica Pvt Ltd September 2006 to January 2007 Sep 06 - Jan 07    Logica Utilities Web Services  The project is a web-based application built to serve the employees of LogicaCMG. By accessing this application, the employees can avail the features of Tool Box, Suggestion Box, Discussion Forum and Library.    Java Developer Responsibilities:  • Come up with questions, issues, clarifications on specifications and resolve issues on Ambiguity.  • Preparing the Proof of Concepts.  • Brain Storming the Requirements and Preparing the Design document  • Preparing the UML diagrams (Use Case, Sequence).  • Designed and developed user interface using JSP, HTML, JavaScript  • Designed and implemented Struts Validation Framework  • Implemented Action Servlet class and helper classes for performing business logic  • Developed both Session and Entity beans representing different types of business logic abstractions.  • Performed client side validations using Java Script  • Performed Unit testing  • Preparing and maintain the project artifacts.  • Working with Version Control System to maintain source code.  • Participating in Code Reviews and Walkthroughs.  • Preparing the unit test cases and answering the tester queries in case ambiguity on requirement.  • Preparing the test data scripts  • Verifying the Bug tracking tool like Bugzilla to track the bugs and changing the bug status by justifying the requirement.  Environment: Core Java, JDBC, JSP, Struts, SQL, Oracle 9i.    Logica Java Developer Responsibilities Logica Pvt Ltd December 2005 to August 2006 Dec 05 - Aug 06    Visitor Entry Management System  The project is an online application, which records the visitor details who visits LogicaCMG. This application enhances the security measures as compared to the existing manual system.    Java Developer Responsibilities:  • Come up with questions, issues, clarifications on specifications and resolve issues on Ambiguity.  • Preparing the Proof of Concepts.  • Brain Storming the Requirements and Preparing the Design document  • Preparing the UML diagrams (Use Case, Sequence).  • Designed and developed user interface using JSP, HTML, Servlets, JavaScript  • Performed client side validations using Java Script  • Performed Unit testing  • Participating in Code Reviews and Walkthroughs.  • Preparing the unit test cases and answering the tester queries in case ambiguity on requirement.  • Verifying the Bug tracking tool like Bugzilla to track the bugs and changing the bug status by justifying the requirement.  Environment: Core Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat 5.0, SQL, Oracle 9i. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Jira, Junit, Selenium, Testng, Css, Tomcat, Websphere Additional Information • Having 13+ years of technical expertise in complete Software development lifecycle (SDLC) process that includes Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Experience in Software development with Agile/SAFE (Scrum, Kanban) and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in developing enterprise and Web applications using Core Java, Spring, Apache Camel, Hibernate, Web Services (REST/SOAP), Apache Kafka, IBM MQ, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts, AngularJS  • Hands on experience in Logging Framework such as Log4J.  • Worked with Application/Web servers like Websphere application server and Apache Tomcat  • Expertise in developing Web applications using IDE tools like Eclipse, RAD, RSA and IntelliJ  • Expertise in automation of deployment of J2EE applications using ANT tool and Maven  • Experience in bug tracking tools like JIRA, Rally, Quality Center and Bugzilla  • Experience in Source code management tools like Github, BitBucket and SVN  • Experience in writing and executing the SQL queries  • Experience on troubleshooting issues and providing technical solutions  • Experience in preparing project related documents using Microsoft Office Suite like MS-Office, MS-Excel, MS-PowerPoint, MS-Visio.  • Have experience working at client locations in the USA and UK.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming languages: Java1.x, JavaScript, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, MS DOS, Solr  Methodologies: Scrum, Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development  Database: Oracle, MySQL, DB2, Informix, MS SQL Server, Cassandra, MongoDb  J2EE technologies: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, EJB, XML, JNDI, JAXB, SOAP/REST Web Services, JSON, Jackson, GSON  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, Apache Camel, Struts, Spring Boot, GDSN, Seam, Xnet, Vaadin, Liferay  UI technologies: Java Script, Jquery, HTML, CSS, JSON, Angular JS, Dojo  IDE& Tools: Eclipse, RAD, RSA, Confluence, Putty, Winscp, Fiddler, SoapUI, JIRA, Fiddler, Postman, Filezilla, GitBash, Confluence  Testing Framework: Junit, Testng, Wiremock, Mockito, Selenium  Web/Application server: WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss  Messaging Systems: Apache Kafka, IBM MQ  Log framework: Log4J  Build & Deployment Tools: Jenkins, Looper, Concord, OneOps, Glu  Operating system: Windows XP/7/2010, UNIX, Linux  Version control: SVN, CVS, GIT  Project Management: MS Office Suite