Sr. Front End Developer Sr. Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Front End Developer - Lucent Technologies Dallas, TX • SCJP (Sun Certified Java Programmer) around 8+ years IT experience including Strong Development experience using Java/J2EE and Web Technologies.  • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support,  • 5+ years of experience in providing User Interface and User Experience Design and development with most usable enterprise wide applications.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, JEE, Frameworks (Struts, spring, Hibernate, JSF), EJB, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, XML, UML, MVC Architecture, Web Services, JSP and Servlet.  • Experience in developing Front-End and User Interface using Struts, JSP, JSF, JQuery, Ajax, Rich Faces and myFaces, iceFaces JavaScript, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  • Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate POJO's, configuring Hibernate persistence layer, mapping Java classes with database using Hibernate and in Hibernate query language (HQL)  • Worked extensively with Waterfall, RUP, Agile Extreme Programming (XP), SCRUM Methodologies.  • Experience with Version Control Systems like Subversion (SVN), Git, Clear case and VSS.  • Hands on experience with Version control systems like Visual Source Safe, Harvest and Perforce, SVN.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, DOJO, Ext Js and JQuery.  • Extensive experience in using Application servers WebSphere Application Sever, WebLogic Application Server, JBOSS, Glassfish.  • Wide exposure with IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, JDeveloper and WSAD for Java programming.  • Extensive Knowledge with XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, Xquery, Xpath and DTD.  • Good knowledge of in Unified Modeling Tools (UML) concepts and extensively worked in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Object Diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Developed Technical Design (TD), Test Plans (UTP), Test Cases (UTR), Test Scripts for UAT tests  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL on MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service), IBM Web sphere MQ Series.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Front End Developer Lucent Technologies - Dallas, TX March 2016 to Present Lucent Technologies, Inc., was an American multinational telecommunications equipment company headquartered in Murray Hill, New Jersey, in the United States. It was established on September 30, 1996, through the divestiture of the former AT&T Technologies business unit of AT&T Corporation    Responsibilities:  ? Used JavaScript for developing UIComponents like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  ? Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js  ? Expertise in Advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Prototype, Ext JS, Angular JS, Node JS and Object oriented programing in JS.  ? Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular, Node, bootstrap, etc.  ? Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap, Require and Node, D3 which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  ? Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Can.js, and JQuery  ? Worked in using React components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  ? Developed applications using Velocity framework, JSP, JSTL, struts tag libraries (struts-bean, struts-html, struts-logic), CSS, spring framework, java, java script, Ajax, HTML and DHTML for front-end development.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets , HTML5  ? Architect and design for new Application as J2EE Web application and Oracle ADF.  ? Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL  ? Developed DAO API to manage the payment information using JDBC  ? Excellent knowledge on Complete Cassandra architecture with in detail understanding of read, write and delete processes. Expert in benchmarking and load testing  ? Basic Experience with SOA &REST  ? Applications developed in Eclipse IDE with Java, Google Web Toolkit, Hibernate, CSS, JBoss, HTML& Oracle DB.  ? Maintained the business standards and the requirements inEJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  ? Administered bot Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  ? Led development team using J2EE creating web enabled invoicing system for multiple location service company in NetBeans environment using Git-Hub version control.  ? Expert in handling Protractor, for performing end-to-end test framework for Angular applications.  ? Experience in creating test suites using JASMINE.  ? Practiced relevant agile development methodologies and worked daily with subversion and current networking technologies.  ? Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.    Environment:  JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, React.JS, CSS, Html5, Oracle, PL/ SQL, JDBC, Cassandra, REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, GitHub, Protractor, Jasmine, Agile, Sr. Front End Developer OCI Chemical Corporation - Dallas, TX November 2014 to February 2016 OCI Chemical Corporation mines, refines, produces, and supplies soda ash, sodium percarbonate, and hydrogen peroxide to companies in North America, Europe, and internationally. The company also offers packaging and logistics services.    Responsibilities:  ? As a Senior Programmer involved in design phase and assisting the team to develop admin UI services like manage users, roles, messages, etc., using Spring MVC and Acegi security.  ? Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  ? Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  ? Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, Node.JS, bootstrap.JS, etc.  ? Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie,  Backbone.js, and Celery  ? Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  ? Extensively used JSP, HTML, CSS, Java script for developing new pages.  ? Was involved in UI development, and Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSTL Taglibs.  ? Developed UI screens using YUI, CSS and JQuery.  ? Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  ? Developed JSPs, Struts Actions and ActionForms, Tiles layouts and DB2 SQLs.  ? Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations.  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  ? Implemented Web Services using SOAP Technology.  ? Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data between two interfaces.  ? Developed application code using Eclipse-Galaxo IDE and configured with Maven and JBoss  ? Extensively used IBM Websphere Portal APIs for authentication and personalization features.  ? Development work is also done to the legacy system using WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  ? Developing a new Content Management System backed by subversion using java EE technologies.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS,RESTFUL API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GIT, and JSON.  ? Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Angular.JS, Jasmine, Karma, HTML5, CSS3, LESS,RESTFUL API Services, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GIT, and JSON.  ? Mentoring of junior members for Agile (Scrum) process & Junit testing  ? Mentored a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML design documents.  ? Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that containsdeclarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Responsible for implementing the code, Fixing QA defect raised on Quality Center/JIRA.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX, HTML5, Node.js, Angular.js, Bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, Sencha ExtJS, DB2, CRUD, PL/ SQL, JDBC, Coherence, MongoDB, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere Application Server (WAS), WID, WSAD, Git, GitHub, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, iText, Oracle ECM (Enterprise Content Management), GWT (Google Web Toolkit), JIRA, Jasper Report, ILog, JRules, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP Sr. Front End Developer Target - Dallas, TX December 2013 to October 2014 Target Corporation is the second-largest discount store retailer in the United States, behind Walmart, and a component of the S&P 500 Index. Founded by George Dayton and headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the company was originally named Goodfellow Dry Goods in June 1902 before being renamed the Dayton's Dry Goods Company.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  ? With the IBatis implementation, all the queries were separated away from the code and moved to the XML files. Used Spring IBatis XML configuration files to call the queries.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked onSpring/HibernateApplications  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Involved in creating UI components using CSS,DOJO and JQuery.  ? Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  ? Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  ? Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations  ? Migrated data from legacy system (text based files, Excel spreadsheets, and Access) to SQL Server databases using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  ? Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence  ? Implemented Coherence Cache which can be used with Spring Annotations.  ? Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  ? Developed Web Services using WSDL and XML.  ? Automate test cases using the built in framework in Selenium Web Driver using Netbeans IDE  ? Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  ? Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  ? Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  ? Selenium-Sikuli Integration for Distributed Remote Execution  ? Designing the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  ? Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate  ? Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  ? Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  ? Used WebServicesfor creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAPmessages for getting insurance plans from different module and usedXML parsersfor data retrieval.  ? Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  ? Integrated EMC Documentum with Content Management Interoperability Services (CMIS) for Content Management.  ? Primary UI developer for Google Web Toolkit (GWT)-based VDI-in-a-Box management console  ? Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ QualityCenter for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  ? Troubleshoot Cognos Server Environment for the better performance.  ? Implemented two Java portals. One is Crystal Report Engine and the other is Jasper Report Engine as plug-in to other web-applications depending on the user's preferences.    Environment: Java, JEE, Javascript, Jquery, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD , SQL Server, DB2, Apache AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, JIRA J2EE Developer Microadeptech - Austin, TX May 2012 to November 2013 This project is an e-commerce site. It Provides access to catalog products that can be purchased using secure transactions over the internet. It covers online sales, purchase, inventory handling and maintenance of the customer database.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Struts.  ? Responsible to enhance the Portal UI using HTML, Java Script, XML, JSP, Java, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side Java script validations and Server side Bean Validation Framework.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  ? Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  ? Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API which will be used across the frame work.  ? Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems.  ? Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  ? Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL.  ? Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending an SOAP request.  ? Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience.  ? Created test framework on Selenium and executed Web testing in Chrome, IE and Mozilla through Web driver.  ? Used client side Java scripting: JQUERY for designing TABS and DIALOGBOX.  ? Created UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process, to perform regular jobs like file transfers between different hosts.  ? Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files.  ? Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  ? Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and Foreseeing the Potential Issues, and escalating to the higher levels.    Environment: Java, UML, Oracle, SQL, MS Office, Visio, Project, Windows & Unix platform. Java Developer Goldman Sachs - Dallas, TX June 2010 to 2012 Worked as a Developer on the AMR. AMR is the Account Management and Reconciliation system developed by Goldman Sachs. The AMR offers a more effective tool for account management, client reporting and account reconciliation. It provides the user with real time information consolidated views, and various different viewing options. The Mission of the AMR is to create one entry point for a common, consolidated view while offering quality real time data. AMR is a multi-tier architecture based application. Front end is made of swing components. Middle tier is a web logic server running on Solaris machine.    Responsibilities:  ? The application was designed on Struts Frame work to make use of MVC pattern.  ? Used Struts validator frame work to automatically validate user input.  ? Created tile definitions, struts-configure files, validation files and resource bundle.  ? Develop, implement, and maintain an synchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience  ? Created/mappings and implemented persistence layer using Hibernate.  ? Involved in designing the data model for the system.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, Value Object, Service Locator, MVC and Business Delegate.  ? Developed/Customized Java Server Pages (JSP) for Customer User Interface (UI)  ? Developed web tier using Struts tag libraries, CSS, HTML, XML, JSP, Servlet.  ? Involved in writing test cases using JUnit.  ? Used CVS tool for Version control.  ? Used web services in production analysis.  ? Developed Secured Single Sign on pages using SAMLSSO.  ? Involved in migrating code from development to QA, QA to UAT and UAT to Production environments.  ? Release management of the code between and different environments.    Environment: UML, MS Visio, Windows MS Office, MS Project. Software Developer Instancy - Jersey City, NJ August 2008 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the Functional requirements of CDP Module  • Involved in Design discussions.  • Involved in Integration and full testing of the application.  • Responsible for coding/development of Discussion Forums, Blogs, Personalization using web parts, Home page, Theme Management, Home page Gadgets.  • Developed a new Themes and skins.  • Enhancement of modules like catalog, web list, forums to support multiple sites  • Analyzing and fixing defects in the application systems.  • Assisting in technical design & enhancements to the system based on business requirements    Environment: Java, J2EE, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.Net, Java Script, HTML and IIS, Windows XP.    Work Status: Green Card Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Oregon State University Skills Ajax (6 years), CSS (6 years), html (8 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating System: Solaris, SuseLinux, Windows and Ms-Dos.  Languages: Java, C, C++, COBOL.  Methodology: OOAD, Agile, SDLC and UML.  J2EE Skills: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, RMI, EJB, JNDI, JAXP, JTA, JMS, Web Services, JPF.  Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, XML, SOAP, Axis, WSDL, UDDI, JQuery.  Frameworks: Struts Framework, JSF, Spring Framework.  Design Patterns: MVC, DAO Pattern, Singleton Pattern, Front Controller, Factory Pattern.  Database/Tools: Oracle, DB2, SqlServer, Hibernate, TOAD.  Web/App Server: Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss  IDE/Tools: Eclipse, Net beans, WebLogic Workshop, ANT build script, Maven build script  Version Control: CVS, Star Team, Subversion, Git, Clear Case, VSS, MS Visio.