Sr. Java Developer, contractor Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, contractor Sr. Java Developer, contractor Obtain a professional position utilizing my experience in the internet and software development arena. I am a hardworking, mature individual with excellent written and verbal communication skills as well as a varied background with over fifteen years experience in software development in consulting and non-consulting roles.  Please note: I am NOT able to relocate from Austin Texas at this time. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer, contractor Toppan Photomask Inc April 2019 to July 2019 Duties include full-stack Java development using Primefaces and Java 11 to migrate company's order entry application from RichFaces library to Primefaces library using Java Server Faces (JSF), Oracle and JPA. Other duties include file upload rewrite and Junit 4 testing. Agile development environment, Eclipse development tool, Subversion version control. Sr. Java Developer, contractor I.B.M January 2019 to April 2019 Worked on IBM and Salesforce's RIKER project.  Duties included EclEmma code coverage using EclEmma, Junit 4 and Mockito against Manager, Logic and Service layers.  Analysis of RestAPI requests and responses to and from SalesForce platform's Workbench.  Insertion of debug code for logging and analysis using Eclipse and Liberty17 application server.  Java EE8 coding and bug fixes as assigned using Eclipse, Oracle DB and dBeaver.  RestAPI testing and debugging using Postman, Swagger and SoapUI., Sr Java / J2EE Application Developer, contractor Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) July 2018 to January 2019 Provide technical support for commercial application suite and related interfaces. Work as a member of the IT Operations support team to process changes; minimizes the risk to the stability of the application when processing changes; reviews, tests and implements new application related tools or utilities as appropriate to meet business requirements and continuously improve performance. Mentor less experienced technical staff. Deploy applications to JBoss servers running on Linux Red Hat. Assist in developing migration plans, maintain and analyze logs using Splunk. Databases are  MS SQL Server and Oracle. Application servers are Apache, Tomcat, Jboss and IIS. Java development tool is Eclipse. Sr. Java Developer, contractor Scherzer Inc April 2018 to July 2018 Assisted in development of business management portal. Tasks included development of REST API using Spring, Hibernate and MS SQL Server. Created tables, implement Entity classes and created JUnit tests. Created controller classes and service interface to manage records and API calls. Implemented Spring JSON parsing and mapping. Open ID and Oauth 2.0 implementation using Okta API against Azure Active Directory application. Sr. Java Developer, contractor General Motors Inc December 2017 to March 2018 Assisted in the development of the PIX Personalized Infotainment Experience project. Project is based on the following technologies:  Spring Boot and Spring-based microservices. Duties include data-modeling and entity-modeling and mapping between the two; microservice and REST-based API definition and implementation, JPA data integration. H2 and Oracle databases are used to handle data modeling and testing. Bitbucket is used for Git version control management. Feign is used to inter-microservice communication. Caffeine is used for caching and Maven is used for service builds. Netflix Ribbon framework is used for client-side load balancing. Visual testing is accomplished using Swagger.    Duties include logging implementation across all services, error handling, data validation, testing, documentation, microservices architecture design and coding of business logic.    The project is the first project of it's kind used at General Motors Inc. It allows new car purchasers to browse and download various apps that are currently available for use in their automobiles. Completion date is tentatively set for October of 2018 after acceptance of initial demo scheduled for late February 2018. Sr. Java Developer, contractor Veterans Administration January 2010 to November 2017 Worked on NHIN (National Health Information Network) Adapter eHXE project as Senior Java Developer in Agile Java EJB development environment. Designed and migrated SOAP web services to REST API services using Spring Boot under Java 8. Technologies and tools used include Git, SoapUI, Spring Boot, Rational, Netbeans, Oracle, JPA and WebLogic. Reverse-checked existing documentation against codebase to check for validity. Tested migration of web services from WebLogic 7 to WebLogic 8. Monitored web service performance on AWS.    Worked on FPPS Health Care Payment Portal on the HAPE-PC Enhancements project as primary Java developer using JSF ( Java Server Faces), JBoss Seam, Hibernate, JBoss and Seam as primary Java developer.    Also primary Java developer on Emdeon flat-file EDI reporting engine using Java, Hibernate and Oracle. Tools used in both apps are Toad, Eclipse and JBoss. Database is Oracle. Managed Linux/JBoss testing environment, worked closely with testers and mentored MUMPS developers in Java development.    Performed complex data migration from SQL Server and Oracle databases through Java code, EDI Server software and Talend. Extensive integration between database servers and SQL packages, Java applications, EDI Server components and Java GUI applications. Implemented data-parsing and processing applications for 835, 837 and 275 ASC X12 HIPAA data exchanges in Java, Oracle and SQL Server.    Mentored junior Java developers on development environments, database structures and best practices.    Obtained high-level security clearance issued by the Veterans Administration in January of 2014. Developer, level E Accenture, San Antonio Delivery Center - San Antonio, TX April 2009 to December 2009 Assisted in the development of Accenture Public Service Platform (APSP) platform. Tools and software used Java include Oracle 11g, Oracle Weblogic, Oracle Secure Enterprise Server (SES), Spring, Adobe Livecycle, Adobe Flex. Applications developed and include Spring-based email application, Oracle SES search service implementation.    Developed Flex based web application using BlazeDS. The application used Oracle database and BlazeDS to allow users to define and upload PDF files, view lists of documents as well as opening documents for editing and deletion.    Tool used include Eclipse, FlexBuilder, Maven, Subversion.    Created documentation, how-to-use documents for all applications as well as being engaged in testing. VPS Consultant Vignette Corp - New York, NY April 2007 to July 2008 Duties include installation, configuration, testing and custom Java and JSP development for Vignette's Portal and Content Management Software (VCM) versions 7.3.1  and 7.5. Clients include NBC (NYC), Deloitte (Chicago), CenterPoint Energy (Houston), Kaiser-Permanente (Oakland) and T. Rowe-Price (Baltimore). Mentored junior developers in Java, JSP development and data modeling. Created Test Plans, and Design Documents. Trained end-users on development using Vignette tools.    Software tools used include Eclipse, WSAD, Oracle, NetBeans, Tomcat, WebLogic, JUnit. Met tight client deadlines using XE/Agile test-driven development. Documented VCM API and developed training applications and examples for new employees. Programmer Texas Education Agency May 2005 to October 2006 Duties included Java development using Eclipse, Hibernate, servlets and JSP pages under Apache Tomcat. Database used is Sybase. Maintained the Agency's EMAT (Educational Materials) application. The application manages textbook ordering, billing and delivery for the school districts of the state of Texas. Designed and implemented JSP pages to replace previous versions of application. Created data-access layer using Hibernate to replace existing proprietary code. Created EDI parsing and email notification application using JavaMail and XML. Developed, staged, maintained and migrated reports using Crystal Reports v. 9 and v. 10. Professional Musician January 2004 to May 2005 Consultant/ Developer Eastern Group Psychotherapy Society (EGPS) April 2002 to December 2003 Developed and launched data-driven website for client. Tools and APIs used are Tomcat 4.0, MySQL 3.21, JDBC, and Apache Struts. Back-end of the application is written in Java utilizing JDBC and JSP pages, JavaScript and Cascading Style Sheets are used on the front-end. The application server and servlet engine is Tomcat 4.0. Application features are multiple search criteria, email capabilities, data insert, update, edit and delete, file uploading and multi-level security via logon via Java Server Pages. User-maintained document management system via Internet. Sr. Software Engineer Guggenheim.com March 2001 to October 2001 Duties included architecting and developing internal and external Web  Applications using Java Servlets/JSP/EJBs on the Weblogic 6.0 application server with Oracle 8i as the database backend. Created UML class and sequence diagrams using TogetherJ Control Center. Performed database analysis. Acquired and documented specifications for applications from users.    Created entity and session EJBs for applications using Enterprise Design Patterns.    Developed data-conversion applications that migrated data from Excel to Oracle using Java. Mentored junior developers in an XP development environment as well as aspects of J2EE JSP, JDBC, servlet and database development.    Other tasks included writing stored procedures in Oracle 8i and writing specifications for web application to be used by front-end developers, gathering information from business users and writing servlets to interact with Flash and Macromedia Generator. Company closed due to events of 9/11. Sr. Technologist Razorfish December 1999 to March 2001 Duties include assisting client partners in evaluating software requirements for various client projects. Assisted client partners with proposals. Mentored junior technologists. Interviewed and evaluated prospective employees. Managed integration project between clients and Razorfish developers. Clients included 3Com and J.P. Morgan. Directed integration of front-end and back-end components of large website as well as doing backend development using Java and WebLogic 5.1 Application Server. Developed dynamic XML processing component using Java, Oracle 8.1 and XML for JP Morgan. Education Computer Technology and Applications Program Columbia University - New York, NY Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jboss, Java server faces, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Tomcat, Weblogic, Git, Rest, Linux, Maven, Java J2Ee, Hibernate Links https://github.com/VGPS Additional Information Skills Profile  Java, J2EE, SQL, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, Tomcat, Maven, Spring, Spring Boot, Oracle DB, WebLogic, JBoss, REST, Git, Postman, Swagger, MobaXTerm, Linux, EclEmma, Primefaces 6.0, Java Server Faces.