PHP Developer PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP/Drupal Developer Herndon, VA RAJANI YAMUSANI  rajani.yamusani@gmail.com 7036771076    SUMMARY:  • Around 9 Years of experience in n-layer web applications development using PHP 4.x, PHP 5, MySQL 4.x, MySQL 5.x, HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java script.   • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process which includes Designing, Developing, Testing and Implementation.  • Proficient in using with LAMP, Apache Web Server 2.0, MySQL 5.0 (PhpMyAdmin, PHP 5.0, MVC – AJAX, JavaScript 1.8, Unix Shell Script, XML, Firefox 3.5, IIS and Linux, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery Frameworks, DOM, AJAX, IDEs like Eclipse, Dream Weaver, Notepad++ and Edit plus.  • Experience with MVC architecture ,CMS such as Drupal 7, 8 and Laravel.  • Strong RDBMS skills with excellent knowledge of Design, Normalization and Database Management Concepts.  • Experience in modifying the Object-Oriented modeling techniques in the existing open source projects and enhancements of open source projects such as OS-Commerce and PHPBB3.  • Interacted with users in understanding business requirements & resolving technical issues pertaining to applications.  • Good experience with Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Certified OCA and OCP for Oracle.  • Have Public Trust Clearance.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Technologies : PHP5&7, Drupal7&8, Laravel.  IDE : Atom, Sublime Text, Dream weaver, Eclipse and Edit plus.  Operating Systems : Windows, Linux, Mac OS.  Databases : MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL.  Web Programming : HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript,jQuery, AJAX , Angular JS2,nodejs.  Web Servers : IIS 6.0 and Apache, Ngnix.  Open Source Software : LAMP, WAMP, XAMPP,MAMP.  Tools : Git, Docker, Acquia Dev Desktop, winSCP3, putty, SVN, SSH.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:    INADEV Aug’18 – Till Date  Role: Drupal Developer  https://business.dc.gov/start-wizard    Responsibilities:  •?Understand and develop the business requirements.  •?Configured the license questions under the related content and map to the appropriate taxonomy terms in order to show the contact and definition information.  •?Deployed the project in different environments and making sure it meets the business requirements.  •?Worked on the custom migration scripts and theme style changes.  •?Created a custom view and used contextual filters based on the requirements.    Environment: Drupal 7, Drupal 8, PHP7, MySQL5, Apache, Mac, HTML5, CSS3.    Deque Systems (Herndon, VA) Sept’17 – Jul' 18  https://dequeuniversity.com  Role: Sr. PHP Developer  Description:   Deque university is the opportunity to learn digital accessibility on your own schedule and for organizations who want to let team members learn accessibility at their own pace and individuals looking to build their personal accessibility expertise. It helps make the websites and mobile applications accessible to people with disabilities.    Responsibilities:  •?Automated the process of registering users to a subscription.  •?Updated the login scenario with blocking and unblocking user accounts with appropriate messages.  •?Worked on the Internal dashboard activities such as data integrity tests to cross verify the data against some scenarios.  Environment: PHP7, Laravel5, MySQL5, Apache, Linux, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, JQuery.    Lockheed Martin (Arlington, VA) Apr’15 – May’16  http://www.hallways.cap.gsa.gov  Role: Drupal Developer  Description:   It’s an Acquisition project for GSA (General Services Administration).The Acquisition Gateway is a workspace for the Federal acquisition workforce. The Gateway helps acquisition professionals do their jobs better. Acquisition Navigator is used as Market research tool to purchase laptops, printers from different Vendors, based on process as well as product selections Contract Vehicles will be listed and pricing options were available. They act confidently to accomplish their tasks effectively. Users compare contract solutions, use tools, find templates, study success stories, review data on prices paid, and more. These activities are supporting successful outcomes at each step of the acquisition lifecycle.     Responsibilities:  • Working knowledge on UI development using AngularJs.  • Experience creating custom Drupal modules.  • Maintenance and administration of Drupal modules – update and site upgrades.  • Configured Google Analytics module for tracking the visitors for the website.  • Worked on advance concepts like Features, Drush, Context, Views.  • Source code management and application build and deployment tools (GitHub, Jenkins).  • Comfortable working with debugging tools like Firebug, Chrome inspector, etc.  • Through understanding of the Software Development Lifecycle (e.g. Requirements, Design, Development, Testing) and exposure to Agile or iterative SDLCs.   • Extensively followed agile scrum methodology as a team with daily stand up meetings.  • Working closely with a cross functional team of developers, designers, and project managers to produce high quality web applications.  • Worked on Restful API's.  Environment: Drupal 7, PHP5, MySQL5, Apache, Linux, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, Github    FannieMae (Herndon, VA) Jul’13 – Mar’15  Role: Web Developer  Description:   Created a WIKI site creation for the Organization which will be helpful for the new/existing team members to go through the different documents with a single click.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in production support and able to resolve the business queries coming thru the monthly reports.  • Worked on Content Management usage and implementation.  • Source code management and application build and deployment tools (CVS, SVN).  • Involved in the coordination of windows 8.1 migration as a voluntary activity.  • Compute, classify, and record numerical data to keep records identical and has accurate information and checks the accuracy of figures, calculations, and postings pertaining to business transactions recorded by other workers.  • Responsible for weekly reports with respect to Tech Owner Delegates for internal management.  • Ability to pay attention to detail and to understand and follow complex written instructions.   • Always look for ways to improve current procedures and flexibility to try and test new ideas.    Web.com (Herndon, VA) Jul’12 – Dec’12  Role: PHP Developer  Description:   Internal project for new job opening approval in the hierarchical manner. Involved in Error correction of php project and then migration of existing PHP website to Java springs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in database schema design using 1NF& 2NF.  • Implemented the Sorted Pagination feature.   • Corrected the required data display for the hierarchical job opening requirement.  • Set cronjob through command prompt.  • Supported existing Drupal website and Integrated calendar module into Drupal website.    Verinon Technologies Apr’08 – Aug’09  Project1: Alphabets & Architecture (India) Jun’09 – Aug’09  http://www.alphabetsandarchitecture.com  Role: PHP Developer  Description:  This website mainly deals with marketing of unique personalized keepsakes from letters photography of nature, architecture and the world around us. Users can enter the word, which mean to them, select the frame type and buy it through online. Admin module in this website can view the order reports and change the status according to the order types. Online payment module is included for buying the keepsakes.  Environment: Windows, PHP, Java Script, HTML, Ajax and MYSQL    Project2: Wareva International Holdings Inc., (India) Apr’08 – May’09  Role: PHP Developer  Description:   Law Project is a web portal for managing work related to LPO (Legal Process Outsourcing) operations. Law firms can use this portal for managing their projects and allocate work to lawyers and other users associated with their projects. The functionality has been enhanced to work for multiple organizations as part of Law Project customization. Users of a company should be restricted to information of that company only. Permissions given to users and user roles are limited to only parent company to which the users belong.  Environment: Fedora, PHP, AJAX, Smarty, Java script, MVC, HTML and MySQL, Eclipse.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared technical design documents for the modules developed.  • Implementation of Web services from third party tool (Smarty).  • Implemented the AJAX in some modules.  • Deployed the project on Production server and Implemented the Test scenarios in the project.  • Implemented PayPal Integration& Performed Unit testing while development.  • Wrote command-line utilities and scheduled tasks using Cron.  • Used PHP sessions for maintenance of session data.    Aegis Consulting Services Jul’06 - Mar' 08  Role: Web Developer  Project1: University of Hyderabad (India) Feb’07 – Mar’ 08  http://www.uohyd.ac.in    Description:   This website mainly deals with providing all the required information about the university to the users. The content in the website is divided into five major parts named as About UOH, Academics, Admissions, Teaching & Evaluation and Administration. Apart from this also provided with updated News, Spotlight and events that happen in the university which provides information for the ease of users and new students.   Environment: LAMP, PHP, Java Script, HTML, MySQL.     Project2: I2T2 Pvt. Limited (India) Jul’06 – Jan’07  Role: Jr. PHP Developer  Description:   The main aim of this project is to maintain the information about Task management of all the employees. The administrator will have facilities of creating their teams and assigning the tasks to the team members according to their roles. The users will have a particular task assigned on which they have to work on. The work efficiency of each individual is measured on the basis of time taken to complete the task. Based on this administrator will generate the individual performance reports and also manages user information.  Environment: Windows, PHP, Java Script, HTML, MVC and MySQL, WAMP.     Responsibilities:  • Creation of admin panel for the application through which the administrator can set or change.  • Designed database and wrote SQL queries to retrieve/modify data.  • Prepared technical design documents for the modules developed.  • Error handling through specific error messages on client side as well as Server side.  • Updated and deployed the project in Production server.  • Involved in database design, implementing schemas required for the portal using MYSQL.  • Responsible for taking the backups(import/export) of database in Linux environment.  • Worked with the zip, unzip, tar, scp, cp, vi commands.  • Connected remotely using SSH, telnet from command level.  • Configuration of Apache, PHP and Mysql.    Institute for Electronic Governance (India) Jun’ 05 – Jun’ 06  http://www.ieg.gov.in/cpm  Role: Jr. PHP Developer  Description:   This JKC-CPM Maintenance System deals with three different types of users, they are all Engineering colleges of AP, Students and Employers of the Organization. Companies that are going to be in involved very soon for on-campus jobs. This contains the information about all the registered students of JKC (Jawaharlal Knowledge Center) and CPM (Campus Placement Mission). All the registered candidates’ details will be processed and information will be sent to different Software companies that are going to take part in Campus Placement Mission.   Responsibilities:   • Involved in the requirements gathering, analysis, design and coding of the system.   • Created user screens using HTML and Java Script.  • Implementing business logic using PHP.  • Performed Unit testing while development.   Environment: PHP, HTML, Java Script, MVC, MySQL, LAMP.    EDUCATION: Bachelor's in Computer science & Information Technology from JNTU in 2005. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP Developer Deque Systems - Herndon, VA September 2017 to Present Description:  Deque university is the opportunity to learn digital accessibility on your own schedule and for organizations who want to let team members learn accessibility at their own pace and individuals looking to build their personal accessibility expertise. It helps make the websites and mobile applications accessible to people with disabilities.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Internal dashboard activities.  • Automated the process of registering users to a subscription.  • Updated the login scenario with blocking and unblocking user accounts with appropriate messages.  • Written data integrity tests to cross verify the data against some scenarios.  • Automated the updating source links relatively while copying one folder to other folder in MODX.    Environment: MODX 2.6, PHP7, MSQL5, Apache, Linux, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, JQuery PHP Developer Lockheed Martin - Arlington, VA April 2015 to May 2016 Description:  It's an Acquisition project for GSA (General Services Administration).The Acquisition Gateway is a workspace for the Federal acquisition workforce. The Gateway helps acquisition professionals do their jobs better. Acquisition Navigator is used as Market research tool to purchase laptops, printers from different Vendors, based on process as well as product selections Contract Vehicles will be listed and pricing options were available.They act confidently to accomplish their tasks effectively. Users compare contract solutions, use tools, find templates, study success stories, review data on prices paid, and more. These activities are supporting successful outcomes at each step of the acquisition lifecycle.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, responsive design and appropriate UI wireframe.  • Ability to understand CSS changes to have consistent style across platforms and browsers.  • Ability to convert comprehensive layout and wireframes into working HTML pages.  • Working knowledge on UI development using AngularJs.  • Experience creating custom Drupal modules.  • Maintenance and administration of Drupal modules - update and site upgrades.  • Configured Google Analytics module for tracking the visitors for the website.  • Worked on advance concept like Features, Drush, Context, Views, and short and custom views.  • Produces standards compliant Drupal themes from creative designs and style guides.  • Knowledge of PHP, PHP files and theme functions, and knowledge of the Drupal theme layer.  • Source code management and application build and deployment tools (GitHub, Jenkins).  • Comfortable working with debugging tools like Firebug, Chrome inspector, etc.  • Experience developing web solutions in Drupal and PHP implementations in a LAMP environment.  • Through understanding of the Software Development Lifecycle (e.g. Requirements, Design, Development, Testing) and exposure to Agile or iterative SDLCs.  • Extensively followed agile scrum methodology as a team with daily stand up meetings.  • Working closely with a cross functional team of developers, designers, and project managers to produce high quality web applications.  Environment: Drupal 7, PHP5, MSQL5, Apache, Linux, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, SVN PHP Developer FannieMae - Herndon, VA July 2013 to March 2015 Description:  Created a WIKI site creation for the Organization which will be helpful for the new/existing team members to go through the different documents with a single click.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Content Management usage and implementation.  • UI/UIX design and development using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, responsive design and appropriate UI wireframe and design tools.  • Working on UI development using PHP, JavaScript, JqueryUI, and LAMP.  • Source code management and application build and deployment tools (CVS, SVN).  • Participate in all aspects of website development: Gather requirements, design, develop, configure, test, deploy and support Drupal 7 websites.  • Assist administrative team in setting up new Drupal instances and maintaining existing setups.  • Maintain, upgrade and debug existing Drupal installations.  • Manage web infrastructure for multiple Drupal 7 sites.  • Provide basic systems administration of the LAMP-stack web servers.  • Produces standards compliant Drupal themes from creative designs and style guides.  • Administer Drupal Core 6.x, 7.x and Modules.  • Develop, review, test, and deploy custom Drupal modules.  • Providing test cases for OOR activities.  • Currently involved in the coordination of windows 8.1 migration.  • Compute, classify, and record numerical data to keep records identical and has accurate information.  • Also check the accuracy of figures, calculations, and postings pertaining to business transactions recorded by other workers.  • Ability to pay attention to detail and to understand and follow complex oral and written instructions.  • To always look for ways to improve current procedures and the flexibility to try and test new ideas.  • Involved in the Weekly Reports with respect to Tech Owner Delegates for internal management. PHP/ Java Developer Web.com - Herndon, VA July 2012 to December 2012 Description:  Internal project for new job opening approval in the hierarchical manner. Involved in Error correction of php project and then migration of existing PHP website to Java springs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and coding of the system.  • Supported existing Drupal website.  • Implemented MYSQL database schema design using 1NF& 2NF  • Sorted Pagination in existing php code.  • Corrected the required data display for the hierarchical job opening requirement  • Set cronjob through command prompt.  • Integrated calendar module into Drupal website.  • Designed JSP pages for Java spring. PHP Developer WorldCom Mobile - Herndon, VA May 2010 to December 2010 Description:  WorldCom Mobile is a web portal of Africa's No.1 supplier for Recycled (green) and new Blackberry phones. Its functionality includes Member and Vendor Login who can order bulk quantity of recycled and new mobile phones of different variety of models.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements, analysis of the system, design and coding of the system.  • Created user screens using HTML and Java Script.  • Implementing business logic using PHP and Performed Unit testing while development.  • Creation of the admin panel for the application through which the administrator can set/change the application information.  • Installed Drupal and updated the themes.  • Integrated existing modules to the theme, control system for the user panel.  Environment: Windows, Drupal, PHP 5.x and MySQL. PHP Developer Alphabets & Architecture - Herndon, VA June 2009 to April 2010 Description:  This website mainly deals with marketing of unique personalized keepsakes from letters photography of nature, architecture and the world around us. Users can enter the word, which mean to them, select the frame type and buy it through online. Admin module in this website can view the order reports and change the status according to the order types. Online payment module is included for buying the keepsakes.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Web Forms development, validation using JavaScript.  • Designed database and wrote SQL queries to retrieve/modify data.  • Implemented PayPal Integration& Performed Unit testing while development.  • Prepared technical design documents for the modules developed.  • Implemented AJAX in some modules.  • Used PHP sessions for maintenance of session data.  Environment: Windows, PHP, Java Script, HTML, Ajax and MYSQL PHP Developer Wareva International Holdings Inc April 2008 to May 2009 Description:  Law Project is a web portal for managing work related to LPO (Legal Process Outsourcing) operations. Law firms can use this portal for managing their projects and allocate work to lawyers and other users associated with their projects. The functionality has been enhanced to work for multiple organizations as part of Law Project customization. Users of a company should be restricted to information of that company only. Permissions given to users and user roles are limited to only parent company to which the users belong.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in customization of project.  • Implementation of Web services from third party tool (Smarty).  • Implemented the AJAX in some modules.  • Referred the phpGACL functionality.  • Involved in writing SQL stored procedures to retrieve/modify data.  • Deployed the project on Production server and Implemented the Test scenarios in the project.  • Fixed the bugs in different phases of enhancement.  • Proven ability to develop, maintain and follow established procedures.  • Implemented and administered archive and backup systems.  • Installed, configured and maintained software on Linux systems.  • Wrote command-line utilities and scheduled tasks using Cron.  • Administered Apache web servers and MySQL databases.  Environment: Fedora, PHP, AJAX, Smarty, Java script, MVC, HTML and MySQL, Eclipse. Web Developer University of Hyderabad(India) - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2007 to March 2008 Description:  This website mainly deals with providing all the required information about the university to the users. The content in the website is divided into five major parts named as About UOH, Academics, Admissions, Teaching & Evaluation and Administration. Apart from this also provided with updated News, Spotlight and events that happen in the university which provides information for the ease of users and new students.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Web Forms development.  • Creation of the admin panel for the application through which the administrator can set or change.  • Designed database required for the application.  • Prepared technical design documents for the modules developed.  • Updated and deployed the project in Production server.  • Tested cross browser compatibility.  • Responsible for taking the backups(import/export) of database in Linux environment.  • Worked with the zip, unzip, tar, scp, cp, vi commands.  • Connected remotely using SSH, telnet from command level.  • Configuration of Apache, PHP and Mysql.  Environment: LINUX, PHP, Java Script, HTML, MySQL. Jr. PHP Developer I2T2 Pvt. Limited July 2006 to January 2007 Description:  The main aim of this project is to maintain the information about Task management of all the employees. The administrator will have facilities of creating their teams and assigning the tasks to the team members according to their roles. The users will have a particular task assigned on which they have to work on. The work efficiency of each individual is measured on the basis of time taken to complete the task. Based on this administrator will generate the individual performance reports and also manages user information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Web Forms development and performed validation using JavaScript.  • Prepared technical design documents for the modules developed.  • Did error handling through specific error messages using JAVASCRIPT(client side) as well as PHP(Server side).  • Involved in database design, database schemas and table structure required for this portal on MYSQL.  • Responsible for import and exporting of data using MYSQL.  Environment: Windows, PHP, Java Script, HTML, MVC and MySQL,WAMP. Jr. PHP Developer Institute for Electronic Governance (India) June 2005 to June 2006 Description:  This JKC-CPM Maintenance System deals with three different types of users, they are all Engineering colleges of AP, Students and Employers of the Organization. Companies that are going to be in involved very soon for on-campus jobs. This contains the information about all the registered students of JKC (Jawahar Knowledge Center) and CPM (Campus Placement Mission). All the registered candidates' details will be processed and information will be sent to different Software companies that are going to take part in Campus Placement Mission.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering, analysis of the system, design and coding of the system.  • Created user screens using HTML and Java Script.  • Implementing business logic using PHP.  • Performed Unit testing while development.  Environment: PHP, HTML, Java Script, MVC, MySQL, Linux Education Bachelors in Computer in science & Information Technology JNTU Skills HTML (8 years), PHP (9 years), MYSQL (5 years), JAVA (5 years), LINUX (5 years), Git, Jquery, HTML 5, Javascript, CSS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Technologies: PHP, AJAX, Java Script, Smarty, MVC,Drupal  IDE: Atom, Sublime Text, Dream weaver, Eclipse and Edit plus.  Operating Systems: Windows 95/2000/XP/NT, Window 2003, Linux  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL  Web Programming: HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, XML  Web Servers: IIS 6.0 and Apache  Tools/Open Source Software: LAMP,WAMP,XAMPP,winSCP3, putty, SVN,SSH, My eclipse