iOS Developer iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> iOS Developer at SpotOn.Pet Philadelphia, PA An innovative developer working with the most cutting edge technology to bring the best products to the market. Pursuing programming since he was twelve years old, he has elegantly crafted numerous products for the productive use and enjoyment globally. With extensive experience in iOS and Java development, Faraaz has faithfully worked with industry experts and high-level executives to accomplish goals beyond reach. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience iOS Developer SpotOn.Pet - Brooklyn, NY March 2018 to Present SpotOn is a pet-centric ride-hailing company which allows pet parents to take rides with their furry companions.  • Devised and built an iOS ride-sharing application in Swift.  • Designed UI and used storyboards to build the front-end of the application.  • Utilized Apple Maps native framework to determine prices and efficient routes for drivers.  • Integrated MongoDB for data storage and Firebase for backend management.  • Worked with CTO to determine and set team objectives to reach company goals. Java Developer RWB Capital - Princeton, NJ July 2017 to February 2018 RWB Capital is a financial investment company that helps others accumulate wealth by investing into real estate.   • Worked with team to develop software in Java to manage real estate properties.  • Responsible for building dashboard that summarizes financial property data.  • Communicated with MySQL database to gather and analyze financial data.  • Utilized Jira, Bitbucket, and Slack to effectively communicate with team and manage project. iOS Developer Embectra, Inc. - Pickering, ON July 2016 to July 2017 Embectra is a Canadian company owning investments in a portfolio of subsidiaries.  • Worked with team to design, build, and ship iOS application in Swift that allows high-level management to manage financial portfolios via E*trade API.  • Integrated MySQL and AWS for data management and user authentication.  • Used Apple Push Notification service to notify users of new financial data.  • Used agile development methods to efficiently and rapidly develop the application. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA September 2019 to June 2023 Skills ANDROID STUDIO, Git, HTML, TYPESCRIPT, SWIFT, Java, HTML, CSS, Typescript, JavaFX, Xcode, Objective-C Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/itsfaraaz/ Additional Information Wireframing: Sketch, UXPin, Keynote, Microsoft PowerPoint  Designing: Sketch, Adobe Photoshop  Frontend: Angular, Swift, iOS Storyboarding, Android Studio, JavaFX, HTML/CSS  Backend: Swift, Java, TypeScript  Version Control: Git, GitHub, Bitbucket    • Experience in working in a fast-paced and demanding startup environment.  • Can accomplish goals on deadlines while working remotely.  • Can confidently make presentations and speak publicly in front of a large  audience.