Lead Salesforce.com Developer/Administrator Lead Salesforce.com <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Administrator Lead Salesforce.com Developer/Administrator - Center Point Energy Bentonville, AR • Over 10+ years of IT experience in various stages of Software Development which includes more than 5+ years of experience as Salesforce CRM Developer which involves Administrator, Development, Integration, communities and lightning like classic to lightning migration and lightning component development. 4 Years of experience on Java.  • Hands on experience in Salesforce.com Development by developing the presentation layer in Visual force and business logic in the Apex by creating/using the Classes, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, S-Controllers and Web Services API.  • Experience in working with client specific solutions like Salesforce.com Sandbox deployments, Force.com IDE, Eclipse IDE, SOQL, SOSL and various production environments.  • Administration, Configuration, Implementation and support experience on Salesforce.com platform.  • Experience in customizing the standard objects, creating the custom objects, Interfaces, Relationships, Workflow rules, triggers, Data Validations, force.com Approval Processes Visualforce pages, Apex classes and business logic according to the business requirements.  • Strong Knowledge in Salesforce Customization, Workflow Approvals, Data Validation, Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Support Administration.  • Well versed with all phases of SDLC like requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and deployment, and documenting.  • Experience with Salesforce.com configuration and custom development experience in Sales cloud, Service cloud, Veeva, Service Max, Coveo Search Engine and Apttus CPQ  • Exposure to Apttus CPQ and also on Remedyforce and SAP/ERP Experience.  • Implemented Data Integration using SOAP, REST API and Outbound Messaging to establish communication between SFDC and other homegrown systems.  • Good experience with Data migration and Updation using Data loader tool in Salesforce.com.  • Wrote Apex test classes with more that 95% of code coverage before deploying into production.  • Worked with App Exchange Applications like Marketo, Conga Composer etc.  • Proficient in designing of custom objects, custom fields, Pick list, role based page layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, and Approval Workflow, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visual Force Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Worked on Docusign and Apttus CPQ and used dataloader, APTTUS CPQ data using VLOOKUP functionality in excel.  • Experience in working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex Programming Language.  • Strong working knowledge in querying Salesforce.com database using SOQL&SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer.  • Well versed with the process of detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and craving to the solution by customizing various objects of Salesforce and using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce Pages, Java Script & Apex Triggers.  • Experience in working with Agile/Scrum environment, Iterative, Waterfall software development methodologies.  • Strong communication, organizational and interpersonal competencies along with detail oriented and problem solving skills in the technology arena.  • Well versed with all phases of SDLC like requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and deployment, and documenting  • Experience in front-end development using HTML, Java Script, CSS and AJAX Tools.  • Developed Lightning components along with server-side controllers and used AJAX calls to retrieve the data from an object.  • Excellent team player, self-motivated, quick learner with good communication skills and trouble-shooting capabilities Work Experience Lead Salesforce.com Developer/Administrator Center Point Energy - Houston, TX August 2018 to Present CenterPoint Energy is a Fortune 500 electric and natural gas utility serving several markets in the U.S. states of Arkansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Oklahoma, and Texas.    Responsibilities:  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other platform-based technologies like Visualforce, force.com API, and web services.  • Developed and created various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, Reports types for custom reports, reports and dashboards validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Provide technical leadership on projects by providing necessary guidance to junior team members to follow Salesforce best practices.  • Accountable for Salesforce technical delivery - Build, System Testing handover/co-ordination, Tech. documentation and deployment activities.  • Play lead in reviewing Epics/User-stories, convert functional requirements to technical requirements, estimate user stories, plan team capacity and work closely with Scrum Master to finalize Sprint scope.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on force.com platform in salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual-Force pages as user interface.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment, created packages and moved it between Sandboxes and Production environments to place final implementations.  • Used Salesforce Lightning combines the new Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder, and Lightning Components to enable anyone to create modern enterprise apps quickly and easily build on Salesforce1 Platform.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Deployed the Apex Code Ant scripts and Inbound, Outbound change sets.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Experience using Salesforce Lightning UI. Created reports and dashboards in Salesforce lightning experience.  • Created automations of emails to Opportunity owners based on business requirements.  • Resolved major issues in previously existing integrations between SAP and Salesforce in the Jenkins environment and used REST and SOAP APIs for callouts.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Salesforce Sandbox, HTML, Java Script. Salesforce.com Administrator/Lightning Developer 8x8 Inc - San Jose, CA May 2017 to July 2018 8x8 Inc. is a leading provider of cloud communications and customer engagement solutions to over a million customers worldwide. 8x8 solutions include cloud-based voice, contact center, video, mobile and unified communications for small, medium to enterprise businesses. 8x8 is a pioneer in cloud communications with 150 patents (highest in the industry), driving global innovation in how companies communicate with their employees and customers.    Responsibilities:  • Performed salesforce.com configuration and designing of Sales Cloud and Force.com solutions with an emphasis on Service Cloud solutions.  • Experience with field service Lightning business processes and practices.  • Implemented and achieved field service needs , flexible, scalable and efficient cloud services using field service lightning.  • Developed pilot functionalities of related lists into lightning components for classic Salesforce.  • Created the Marketing platform with customized APEX based business logic, Visualforce pages to capture leads via customized Web-to-Lead approaches.  • Data integration and update using standard Data Loader application, Bulk API, and Batch Apex methods.  • Queried Salesforce Database with SOQL&SOSL queries available in Force.Com platform.  • Developed API Callouts &WSDL'S which host Client' services and also developed the functionality to accept the request from other system and process the request.  • Involved in integration of their legacy system with Salesforce CRM package through web services based on BULK API.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from (SFDC) Salesforce.com objects.  • Extracted API Callouts & WSDL'S services, hosted by third party companies to perform an action by connecting to their respective repositories and sending the request on demand.  • Experience working across various SFDC implementations that are covering Sales cloud, Service Cloud and Apttus CPQ.  • Generated the quotation word document from Salesforce.com and using the feature of CPQ product.  • Used detailed knowledge of application features and functions to assess the scope and impact of business needs throughout analysis and completion of all enhancement specifications for each business partner and cross impacted groups.  • Built relationship across multiple technology, operations, services, sales, program and product team to accomplish end goal.  • Developed CPQ deployment depending on providing careful training and support to their sales staff and implementing CPQ in tandem.  • Tracked and maintained the requirements to functionality traceability and use case traceability.  • Analyzed CPQ requirements, wrote functional/technical documents.  • Performed the detailed analysis of functional and technical requirements; designed and deployed the custom. objects; identified the lookup and master-detail relationships; and created the junction objects.  • Created new custom objects, assigned fields, designed page layouts, custom tabs, components, custom reports.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Implemented the workflows and approvals for various functional requirements.  • Configure Email Templates Integrated with outlook, Tracked Emails.  • Integrated using Lightning Connect to get the real time product information into salesforce from SAP.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Salesforce Sandbox, HTML, Java Script. Salesforce.com Administrator/ Developer AT & T Inc - Dallas, TX June 2016 to April 2017 AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate, headquartered at Whitacre Tower in downtown Dallas, Texas. Within the United States, AT&T is the largest provider of fixed telephone services and a leading provider of mobile telephone and broadband subscription television    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business needs, distinguish between needs and wants, identify gaps between business needs and standard application functionality.  • In depth knowledge in salesforce.com Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Chatter and Force.com product offerings.  • Conducted sessions with the management, different 3rd party vendors, users, commercial and other stakeholders for open and pending issues to develop specifications.  • Built relationships across multiple technology, operations, services, sales, program and product teams to accomplish end goal.  • Worked extensively in customization of sale Cloud by embedding Visualforce pages in custom console components, highlight panel and interaction log.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, and Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Installed and implemented third party application like Apttus CPQ and used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse and ensured apex code worked seamlessly within governor limits.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Involved in field & page layout customization for the standard objects like Account, Contact, and Leads.  • Involved in creating and customizing Email template and configuring them to the email alert within the workflow rule for a standard/custom object.  • Developed various Custom objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Components.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems.  • Provided ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic cleansing, custom objects and workflows.  • Implemented Security access to the user profiles by creating Object level security, field level security and record level security.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, S-Controls, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows 7 Salesforce Developer Allied Telesis - San Jose, CA March 2015 to May 2016 Allied Telesis is a network infrastructure/telecommunications company. The company is a global provider of secure Ethernet & IP access solutions and an industry leader in the deployment of IP triple play networks over copper and fiber access infrastructure. Allied Telesis has been delivering reliable, intelligent connectivity for everything from enterprise organizations to complex, critical infrastructure projects around the globe.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com CRM implementation  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization  • Worked on Pardot, Docusign and Apttus CPQ.  • Hands on Experience working across various SFDC implementations that are covering Sales cloud, Service Cloud and Apttus CPQ.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse  • Worked with salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards  • Worked with Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visual force pages  • Develop and Implement portal solution using salesforce Components  • Maintained user roles, security, profiles and workflow rules wherever necessary  • Created Sharing rules, Assignment Rules and Escalation Rules for Cases  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force  • Integration with CastIRON.  • Develop and Deploy SFDC Integrations with SAP and other applications using .Net environment and Force API  • Data Migration from Legacy Front Range to SalesForce Salesforce.com Developer/Administrator Blue Cross Blue Shield - Detroit, MI November 2013 to February 2015 Blue Cross and Blue Shield developed separately, with Blue Cross plans providing coverage for hospital services and Blue Shield covering physicians' services. Blue Cross and Blue Shield insurance companies are Licensees, independent of the association and traditionally of each other, offering insurance plans within defined regions under one or both of the association's brands. Blue Cross Blue Shield insurers offer some form of health insurance coverage in every U.S state.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with functional leads to transform and develop new requirements into design, implementation.  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes & Triggers to suit to the needs of the application.  • Working Knowledge on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Custom Cloud and Apex Programming On Force.com Platform.  • Extensive experience in lead case management (Web-to-Lead, Email-to-Case).  • Experience working with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Worked with Visual force Pages, Custom Controllers, Extension Controllers, Apex Coding, Apex Batches, Apex Web Services, App Exchange deployment, Apex Classes and Apex Triggers.  • Scheduling Apex jobs for processing large records.  • Unit and integration testing for new requirements and get the UAT from the business owner.  • Created Profiles and Roles based on Organizational role hierarchy, implemented Record-Level and Field-level security and configured their sharing settings.  • Created Custom Objects, Tabs, and Sharing Rules as per the business requirements.  • Worked on various Salesforce objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads and Opportunities.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation leading to effective Web-to-Lead communication with customers and partner portals.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with in Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using Force.com Explorer.  • Developed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes and Test Methods using proper controls & syntax and also experience in writing unit test cases.  • Experience with Managing the complex data Experience in Integrating App Exchange Applications with Salesforce, Mass E-Mail Management, Application management using Force.com Plug-in & Eclipse IDE in Sandbox and Production Environments, Working with different aspects of Web Services (XML, WSDL, SOAP,REST) & web integration with SDFC.  • Worked on configuration, security and security controls aspects of Salesforce  • Worked on Record Types, Validation Rules, Triggers and Page Layouts.  • Involved in Salesforce Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Integrated the SOAP and Rest based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com.  • Provided support for ongoing Salesforce maintenance by reviewing trace logs, developing action plans and other administration services including periodic data cleansing, workflows and approvals. Java Developer Yash Technologies - IN August 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Analyzing the system, design, and implementation of Kickstart Plan module.  • Developed Controllers, models and views using Spring MVC.  • Design and develop multiple web (UI) pages using JQuery, HTML5 and JSP.  • Developed, invoked and implemented validations using JQuery Validator.  • Implemented DAO Layer using Spring and Hibernate.  • eBay UI design templates are used for the look and feel of the application.  • Co-ordinating with offshore team and merging code with other modules.  • Responsible for the creation and execution of the Unit Test cases using Junit.  • Responsible for fixing defects and developing prototypes and implementing the business requirements and testing the defects. Java Developer Indus Valley Partners - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Designing, Developing, Bug fixing, documenting and unit testing the application.  • Interact with business managers to transform requirements into technical solutions.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Struts framework.  • User Interface has been developed using JSP, JavaScript.  • Proficient in doing Object Oriented Design using UML-Rational Rose.  • Developed web pages using Servlets and XML for various modules.  • Developed JSP and Java Helper classes for In-patient and out-patient Information.  • Used Oracle as the backend database.  • Developed HTML and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Used XML Web services for transferring data between different applications and retrieving credit information from the credit bureau.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files with Oracle database.  • Used Eclipse IDE for development and SVN for versioning system. Education Master's Tirumala Engineering College Skills Eclipse, Java, Force.com, Css, Web services, Apex, Api, C#, Html, Scripting, Xml, Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Soap, Etl, Rest Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce.com Technologies: Apex Triggers, Apex Classes, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force pages, S-Controls, Apex Web Services, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Reports, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects  Force.com Configuration: SFDC Standard Object Configuration: Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Price Books, Products, Assets, Contracts, Cases, Solutions, Ideas, Cases, Solutions, Ideas, Queues, Quotes and Custom Object development, Field creation, Page Layout creation/editing, Related list customization, Record Types, Field Level and Object level security, role hierarchies, sharing models, Workflow: time-dependent actions, field updates, email alerts, task creation, Reports, Dashboards, Formula Fields and Cross Object Formula Fields, Configuration Skills, Overall User Management.  Programming Languages: Java, C#, Apex  Scripting Languages: HTML, XML, Java script, CSS  Web Services: SOAP/REST API  Databases: SQL Server 2008, My SQL Oracle 10g/9i, MS Access  Packages: MS Word, MS PowerPoint, Eclipse IDE  ETL/Integration Tools: Apex Data Loader, Cast Iron, Force.com workbench.