Full Stack Java Devoloper Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> Devoloper Full Stack Java Devoloper - Insurance Trak Services Rochester, NY • Around 8 years of experience in Design, Development, Maintenance and Support of Java/J2EE based applications.  • Working knowledge and experienced in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOPS and OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experience working in environments using Agile(SCRUM) and Test Driven development methodologies.  • Worked in both Unix and Windows based development environments.  • Good programming and debugging skills in Unix Shell Scripting.  • Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using Visio.  • Extensive experience in Java/J2EE programming technologies like JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JMS, EJB 2.0/3.0.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Experienced in web development using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX technologies.  • Experienced in developing MVC framework based websites using Struts 1.x/2.x, JSF and Spring 3.1.  • Experience in building web applications using Spring 3.1 Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), IOC (Inversion Of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes.  • Expertise in Object-relational mapping using Hibernate.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like DTD, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, WS-I and Apache Axis.  • Experience in installing, configuring, tuning Web Logic Server, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, IBM RAD for Java/J2EE application development.  • Expertise in database modelling, administration and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle and SQL Server environments.  • Experience in using ANT and Maven for build automation.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like Clear Case, CVS and Subversion.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 98 / 2000 / NT / XP, AIX, Sun Solaris and HP-UX.  • Experience in designing, developing and implementing E-Commerce, B2B applications using J2EE technologies in Telecom, Banking and Insurance domains  • Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills.  • Expertise in using development tools like Eclipse IDE and Source Insight.  • Expertise in using Apache ANT and Apache Maven build tools.  • Served as a Module Lead and handled a team of five for more than a year.  • A good command over English possessing good oral and written communication skills.  • Comprehensive problem solving abilities, willingness to learn and positive minded self-motivato  • Excellent interpersonal and team skills.  • Expertise in using databases like MySQL and Oracle and very good knowledge on SQL queries and stored procedures. Performed CRUD operations in database using queries.  • Very good knowledge on REST using Jersey framework.  • Expertise in using servers like Sun Solaris and Tomcat Server.  • Involved in writing Log4j and JUnit testing.  • Very good knowledge on DSLAMs, DSL, MIBS, SNMP and NMS/EMS technologies.  • Developed few Xqueries to retrieve documents from MarkLogic database.  • Experience in JUnit frameworks.    TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGIES:    Programming Languages Java, PL/SQL, C, XML 1.0, XSL 2.0  Java/J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP 1.2/2.0, JMS, EJB 2.0/3.0  Web Development HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Java Script, AJAX  Frameworks Struts 1.x/2.x, hibernate 3.x, Spring 2.5/3.1  XML/Web Services XML, XSD, WSDL, SOAP, Apache Axis, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML Beans  Messaging Technologies JMS  Application/Web Servers BEA Web Logic 9.1/11g, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x  Methodologies/Design Patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC2, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Facade  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 2000/2005, IBM DB2  IDEs Eclipse, RAD, WSAD  Build Automation Ant, Maven  Testing/Logging Frameworks JUnit, Log4J  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports 11  Tools Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio, XML Spy, TOAD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Devoloper Insurance Trak Services - Rochester, NY March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in Sprint Planning and Showcase meetings as part of SCRUM team.  • Involved in coding and implementation activities for various components using Java, JEE, spring.  • Implemented the presentation layer using Spring MVC framework.  • Developed the frontend interface using JSP with AJAX features.  • Developed business functions using Java.  • Developed various User Interfaces using HTML, JQuery, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Developing complex Business Management and Business Intelligence functionality.  • Designing and developing reports for the Business Analysis using Actuate Reporting platform, followed Agile Modeling.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and also implemented functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  • Worked with Web services components like RESTful Web services to interact with external systems.  • Worked on research team that developed Scala, a programming language with full Java interoperability and a strong type system.  • Improved stability and performance of the Scala plugin for Eclipse, using product feedback from customers and internal users.  • Developed SOAP based web services using Apache CXF and test them using SoapUI.  • Developed the Business layer using spring IOC and AOP modules.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool and defined the mapping and relationship of each table in system and Oracle Database.  • Implementation of Hibernate using the Spring Framework (Created the session Factory).  • Worked with Open symphony workflows and delivered work flow module to the client.  • Wrote Unit, System Test plans for the business analyst to test the application.  • Designing Integration Test Plan that resulted in for Productivity improvement and saved approximately 20 hours of work.  • Involved in Unit testing and performed peer review of design and code.  • Used ClearCase for source code control and JUnit for unit testing.  • Developed test cases using Junit and Mockito.  • Used Maven and Jenkins as build tool and deploying the application.  • Software Development is driven by pure agile methodology, short sprints in from of iterations and developed using Java JEE components.  • Developed applications in Eclipse IDE and Deployed in WebSphere Application Server 8.5 and JBoss Application Server.  • Implemented Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  • Involved in Designing and Developing UI Interface using JSP, CSS, HTML, Java Script, AJAX and JQuery.  • Involved in developing and configuring server side J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JSON, REST Web Services, JNDI, LDAP, J2EE platform using Eclipse IDE, and deployments in JBoss App Server environments.  • Worked in developing Spring related backend services (For the flex to access the database)  • Used Springs Jdbc and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code (CRUD)  • Developed business layer using spring DAO's.  • Used SVN for version controlling.  • Created database tables in Oracle and Teradata created required SQL queries, stored procedures and used JDBC to perform database operations.  Environment: Java 1.6/J2EE, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring, hibernate 4.2, Spring, WebSphere, Workflows, Oracle, SQL, HTML, UML, JQuery, CSS, Toad, Edit Plus, XML, Ajax, RAD, TOAD, CVS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, SOAP, REST, Apache CXF, Mockito, SoapUI, Windows, JSON, and Linux. Full Stack java Devoloper Grad Trek - Coppell, TX December 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyze, design and Implement application architecture to suit the development of software using JAVA/J2EE  • Develop and maintain complex software components / systems in compliance with department standards including JSP, JSTL, EJB, JMS, JAX-WS, Restful APIs and Java Mail.  • This project uses Boot Strap, JQuery, Restful, Hibernate JPA, Sprin  • Architected services to align with business objectives and fit into overall SOA driven program  • Developed web based systems using Internet standards such as HTTP, XML, SOAP, SMTP and Web Services.  • Provided scalable architecture using Hibernate and Spring (IOC, ORM, JDBC, and MVC) frameworks.  • Developed and maintained programs for build and release tasks using JAVA, JavaScript, XML and HTML.  • Used AngularJS for building single page web applications.  • Developed and maintained comprehensive technical design documentation; including but not limited to software system architecture, high-level design, and low level design.  • Provide status regarding current and upcoming work assignments.  • Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment.  • Web Services testing using SOAPUI tool and Simulator as a part of unit testing.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for posting data received via JMS to Scheduler Database. Monitor and develop build scripts for build management.  • Wrote shell scripts for the deployments to Web Sphere Application Server for IT (Integration Testing), ST (System Testing), UAT (User Acceptance Testing) environments.  • Used Quality Center, Clear Quest for Bug Fixing and Tracking  • Used SVN, CVS for source control management for different modules. Upgraded to the latest Java version improving the security of the system.  • Cleaned up old applications and got them working in Production.  • Implemented various productivity improvement procedures.  • Developed JavaBean components to retrieve database data from the result set for processing level of authority and approvals.  • Developed persistent classes, including association, inheritance, polymorphism, composition and the Java collections framework.  • Used Log4j for Logging and Used Quality Center for Bug Reporting Tool  • Performed Unit Testing of the developed component using JUnit.  • Actively participated in readiness, Design meetings to give accurate estimates for the requirements.  • Used Version One V1 for story tracking.  • Supporting and handled the issues in Production. Maintaining, supporting and troubleshooting the application.  • Developed JSP's with Struts custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database. Used JavaScript for the web page validation and Struts Validator for server side validation.  • Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  • Involved in developing business tier using stateless session bean.  • Worked on java Multi-threading programming, Synchronization, Java Mail API and Collections API for concurrent product models upload/download process.  Environment: JDK, Web sphere, Oracle11g, JUnit4, Eclipse, Angular JS, Spring Transactions, SOA, Hibernate, MessageBroker, JMS, EJB, SQL, CVS, SVN, Rally, SCME, ExtJS, AJAX, DOJO, JavaScript, JQuery, Unix, Web sphere Portal Server, Portlets, Maven, ANT Full Stack Java Devoloper Jif Communication Pvt. Ltd January 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing business requirements and converting them into technical specifications.  • Developed Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams as part of Module Design Documentation.  • Agile delivery of software using practices of short iterations, scrum  • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging (database) and logging using Spring AOP. Various controllers were developed for the front end using Spring MVC. Dependency Injection was used for Service and Dao layer.  • Developed the Swing applet.  • Implemented Swing drag and drop feature to drag and drop iLog object.  • Implemented object/relational persistence using Hibernate for the domain model.  • Developed hbm files, Entity classes using annotations and used HQL to query the Database.  • SOAP has been used as a protocol to send request and response in form of XML messages. WSDL has been used to expose the web services using Apache Axis.  • Created LDAP services for user authentication and authorization.  • Used the Portlet Framework for application development  • Coded ANT scripts for compiling, building, packaging the jar files and deploying.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Test Driven Development approach was used and was involved in writing many unit and integration test cases.  • Developed several test cases using JUnit.  • Used ClearCase for maintaining the project documentation and code.  • Implemented the presentation layer using Spring MVC framework  • Created HTML Web pages utilizing JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for design, developed Tables, Views, SQL queries, Stored Procedures, triggers, Constraints for application enhancement using TOAD.  • Involved in developing distributed, transactional, secure and portable applications based on Java technology using EJB technology.  • Deployed web applications in weblogic server by creating Data source and uploading jars.  • Created connection pool Configured deployment descriptor specifying data environment  • Implemented Multithread concepts in java classes to avoid deadlocking.  • Involved in High Level Design and prepared Logical view of the Application.  • Involved in designing and developing of Object Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and also in complete development, testing and maintenance process of the application  • Created Core Java Interfaces and Abstract classes for different functionalities.  • Assembled components and deployed on Server by utilities.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Swing, JavaScript, XML, XSL, AJAX, XSLT, XML Spy, JAXP, SAX, JDBC, JSP, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Eclipse, JBoss, JMS, UML, Portlet, ClearCase, Rational Rose, TOAD, LDAP, Oracle 10g, Windows XP, Apache AXIS. Full Stack Java Developer Punjab National Bank - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN May 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing web pages using JSP, HTML and XHTML.  • Developed the JavaScript for Client Side Validation.  • Application is developed based on Struts Framework.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity to SQL Server.  • Java API, including JDBC, JAXP, JDOM to query patent data from database and transfer the data into various formats.  • Generated and customized the value object entities and DAOs.  • Created and implemented PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers.  • Ant is used for building and application is developed on JBoss application server.  • Involve in JUnit Testing, debugging and bug fixing.  • Worked on Multithreading.  • Participated in the discussion with business experts to understand the business requirements and mold them into technical requirements toward development.  • Designed UML diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the User Interface using JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Used Struts 1.3 framework to develop the application based on a MVC design pattern.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Factory pattern, MVC and Singleton Pattern.  • Created and consumed SOAP/Restful Web Services.  • Built the functionality for the front end JSPs to take the data from the model as an XML and using XSLT to convert the XSL to HTML.  • Prepared Test Cases for Integration Testing.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as Loan and Teller application  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Created the JDBC based DAO layer.  • Worked on HTML5 tags for forms, multimedia, graphics and geo-location.  • Deployed components to the development environment, system test environment, and UAT environment.  • Responsible for deployment of Java Servlet environment platform using IBM's WebSphere Application Server product (IBM WAS).  • Build and deployed WAR files  • Configured and scheduled jobs for multiple projects on Hudson.  • Developed automatic build scripts using ANT for the application to deploy and test.  • Maven is used as a build tool and continuous integration is done using Jenkins.  • Documented all process changes and requirement changes.  • Environment: Core Java, JSP, Struts, Apache Tomcat, JavaScript, JDBC, EJB 2.0, JBoss 3.0, SQL Server, PL/SQL, JUnit, CVS, Ant. Full Stack Java Devoloper CMC - HYDERABAD, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN August 2008 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the requirement document and preparing queries for clarification from client.  • Involved in High Level Design Document (HLD) preparation.  • Development of Web Layer with MVC framework using Java, JSP, Servlets.  • Coding for Model and Controller.  • Development of Web application using Struts framework based on MVC architecture.  • Implemented and configured various Action classes for handling the client requests using Struts framework.  • Used EJBs (Stateless Session beans) to implement the business logic, MDBs (JMS) for asynchronous communication internal and external to the system.  • Wrote Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Automation of Web Services Testing using SOAP UI 5.0.0  • Used Design patterns such as Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, Session façade, DAO, DTO.  • Involved in implementing the JMS ( Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Involved in using JMS Queues and JMS Topics for one-to-one and one-to-may communication in the application.  • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in WebLogic Application Server environment.  • Was involved in improving the existing design by minimizing dependencies between the layers with the help of design patterns  • Involved in analysis for Reporting frame work. Involved in procedures and functions modifications.  • Cross browser issue fixing with Firebug and IE Developer.  • Configuration manager role using Jenkins tool  • Programming and Development of web pages using Spring, JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed user interface using JSTL, HTML, Java script, JQuery and CSS.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Factory pattern & Singleton Pattern.  • Achieved MVC pattern using Spring MVC architecture.  • Used Hibernate as an O/R mapping tool for selecting, inserting and updating the records in the database.  • Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA and production environment during production support.  • Worked on UML diagrams like Class Diagram, Sequence Diagram required for implementing the Quartz scheduler.  • Handled Java training sessions for the trainees.  • Used My Eclipse as an IDE for development.  • SVN is used as a tool for version control  Environment: WebLogic 11g / Oracle 10g/ STS 3.0, Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow, JSP, EL, Servlets, AIX-Unit, Cruise Control, AXIS2 - Web Services, JQuery, SVN, FOP. Education Bachelor's Skills HP-UX (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (Less than 1 year), SOLARIS (Less than 1 year), SUN (Less than 1 year), UX (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/NT/XP, OSX, Sun Solaris, HP-UX.