Sr. Salesforce lightning Developer Sr. Salesforce lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Sales force lightning Developer - Caterpillar Atlanta, GA • Over 8+ years of IT experience in developing, customization and supporting different applications including 5+ years of experience in CRM such as salesforce.com, as a Developer/Administrator.  • Experienced in using Force.com platform, expertise in creating Visual Force pages and writing APEX Classes and APEX configurations for business development.  • Worked extensively in creating APEX Triggers, Web Services and Workflows to achieve complex business functionalities.  • Hands on experience in Salesforce.com configuration in creating the Custom Objects, various types of Custom fields, buttons, links, Record types, Page layouts, User Profiles, Work flows approvals and Validating Rules and all other Administrative Works.  • Expert in writing the SOQL and SOSL for querying transactional records from the Objects and experienced in Web technologies like HTML, CSS, JQuery and WSDL.  • Experienced in integration of Salesforce.com with external applications by using Web Services API, Metadata API, SOAP and REST.  • Developed and worked on different Salesforce.com environments such as sandbox and production environments.  • Experience with APPTUS CPQ for subscription, billing, invoicing and can take control of sales process from Quote to Cash.  • Work on Salesforce Connect Which enables to view, search, and modify data that's stored outside the Salesforce org.  • Work on Salesforce Connect framework which is used to copy the data using external objects to accces the data in real-time.  • Experience developing Dynamic Visual Force pages for salesforce.com and creating Custom UI with Java Script functionality and using Visual force pages, Visual force Tags and Controllers with the help of Custom Coding, and expert in code refactoring according to business requirements.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Email Services, Approvals, Reports, Dashboards, Actions, Tasks and Events.  • Used Force.com Web services API and outbound messaging for implementing web services through WSDL in the application for access to data from External systems and websites.  • Hands on Experience on communities and classic to Lightning migration, Lightning component development, Lightning design system.  • Experience in developing Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Experience in developing various lightning components, events and lighting applications. Created lightning Component tabs and Visual force tabs.  • Experience with SDLC process in agile methodology.  • Designed ready to use pages with Lightning components for dynamic pick lists, record pages and for Outlook.  • Hands on experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Experienced in writing Bulkyfied code following the Governor Limits and handling the code coverage by writing test classes during code deployment.  • Deployed Customization from Sandbox to another environment by using Change Sets Eclipse IDE, IntelliJ and Sublime text.  • Experience in Object Oriented Languages like Java, JSON, Ajax and developed web-based applications based on Java and J2EE technologies like XML, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Having good knowledge of all phases of SDLC with expertise in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development and Unit Testing.  • Efficient in communicating and working with off shore team in finishing the work on time.  • Team player with good Interpersonal skills, strong understanding of fundamental business processes, excellent Communication and Problem-solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce lightning Developer Caterpillar - East Peoria, IL June 2018 to Present Description: Caterpillar Inc. is an American Fortune 100 corporation which designs, develops, engineers, manufactures, markets and sells machinery, engines, financial products and insurance to customers via a worldwide dealer network. It is the world's largest construction equipment manufacturer.    Responsibilities:  • Demonstrated ability to translate customer requirements into specification.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visual Force pages to develop custom business logic.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Used APEX coding techniques to develop custom visual force pages along with Apex Classes for the business requirements.  • Having experience Lightning tools to upgrade to the Sales force platform  • Use the Lightning App Builder to customize the Lightning Experience and Sales force1 Mobile app.  • Knowledge on Lightning installation and disabling role creation at installations and disabling role creation after installation. Validate CTI call workflow integrated with other call center facing applications via IVR for Signup and for Credit background check.  • Developed APEX Triggers to support complex business process and Custom Buttons.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Experienced in setting up Environment by enabling My Domain, Decompose the App in Components and build the Lightning App.  • Building of custom lightning components to display the list view of orders and an order detail page to handle the business logic.  • Involved in Apttus CPQ configuration and integration.  • Involved in data cleanup and mapping in data migration project.  • Worked on Apttus for providing Quote-to- cash software delivering CPQ, Contract management, E-commerce & Revenue Management on salesforce.  • Performed Data Validation and used data utilities including Data Loader and Mass Delete.  • Working with Sales force data tools such as Data Loader and Eclipse Force.com IDE for data migration.  • Generated sync of contacts, email alerts, events and tasks amidst Sales force to Outlook and vice-versa.  • Experience in developing various lightning components, events and lightning applications. Created lightning Component tabs and Visual force tabs.  • Performed the detailed analysis of functional and technical requirements; designed and deployed the custom objects; identified the lookup and master-detail relationships; and created the junction objects.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com standard objects like Users, Contacts, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created Profiles and implemented object and field level security to hide critical information from the profile users.  • Debugged Apex scripts using Debug Logs to catch Exceptions and execute Governor Limits.  • Closely worked with BA team in analyzing and making the requirements understandable for the rest of the developers.    Environment: Force.com platform, Apex Language, Triggers, Visual Force Pages, Components & Controllers, Chatter, Data loader, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Web Services, WSDL, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Lightning Framework. Salesforce developer/Administrator Inc.is - Charlotte, NC January 2017 to May 2018 Description:  Premier Inc.is a healthcare improvement company uniting an alliance of approximately 4,000 U.S. hospitals and health systems and approximately 165,000 other providers and organizations. As an industry leader, Premier has created one of the most comprehensive databases of actionable data, clinical best practices and efficiency improvement strategies.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Salesforce consultant for Campaign connection in developing and generating Media Plans using Salesforce platform for business needs.  • Involved in creating Apex Class and customizing Visual Force pages for the business based on CPQ (Configure Price and Quote).  • Extensively worked on APEX classes and VF pages for adding additional business features to the existing system and involved in Writing Test classes for the APEX classes for checking the code coverage during deployments.  • Responsible for writing and changing several SOQL query statements to avoid Governor Limits for the transactions during code refactoring.  • Worked with managed packages from APTTUS CPQ and involved in integrating APTTUS business with current system.  • Extensively worked on Creating and Modifying the existing Custom buttons in salesforce using Java script and worked on creating APEX Triggers to perform some business actions.  • Worked in Service cloud console with exposure with CTI adapters and mobile application Integrations.  • Involved in creating Workflow rules according to the business criteria and requirements and built Visual Force email templates and Field updates for sending email notifications to the internal users.  • Involved in SFDC Administration for creating profiles and assigning permissions to different kind of the users and worked on sharing rules for the new Objects and the custom fields created and customized page layouts and related lists.  • Involved in writing REST Web services to call and trigger some of the email notifications using the outbound messages created in JBOSS middle ware service.  • Extensively worked on creating change sets, out bound messages and deployments.  • Involved in Agile and Waterfall process and worked closely with the BA team for gathering requirements and giving valuable suggestions to the entire team for the successful completion of the stories assigned.  • Worked closely with the off-shore team in managing some of the salesforce packages to run as desired per the requirement.  • Worked closely with the Incident Management Team, in responding to the issues/cases recorded in JIRA.  • Involved in providing valuable suggestions for business expansion and fixing the complex issues.    Environment: Salesforce.com CRM application platform, Apex language, Apex triggers, Visual Force (pages, components, controllers), S-Controls, CPQ, Lightning, Aura, HTML, Java script, SOQL, SOSL, Integration, Email services, Data loader, Security controls, Windows XP, Eclipse IDE plug-in, Sandbox data loading Salesforce Developer /Administrator Dealer track, Long Island May 2015 to December 2016 Dealer Track is the company mainly concentrated on providing digital solutions to the automotive retail industry. It used Salesforce.com CRM platform in fulfilling the customer's needs through various salesforce.com functionalities and providing the solutions on the fly.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in identifying, planning and implementing new salesforce.com features and functions (new screens, workflow, force.com objects, and reports, apex code) to meet business requirements.  • Proactively created Apex Triggers and Apex classes and developed and managed complex workflows, approvals, assignment rules and triggers.  • Defining/designing REST web services to interact with the middle ware services.  • Creating custom objects, Apex classes, Visualforce pages, controllers and extensions, triggers, workflows, validation rules etc.  • Responsible for writing SOQL & SOSL queries with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Involved in Administrative work, created and maintained Users, Roles and Profiles and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules, field level securities among the custom field's page layouts and record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users.  • Efficiently worked with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases and Opportunities, Products and developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components. Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visual force formats.  • Worked extensively in customization of Service Cloud Console by embedding visual force page in custom console components.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation Rules and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Developed Various Visual Force pages as per organization requirements.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com.  • The project ran on Waterfall methodology in fulfilling the requirements.  • Worked with the offshore team in keeping the Project in Track.  • Developed several custom reports to better assist managers and also report folders to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, S-Controls, HTML, Java Script, Apex Triggers, Web Services, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP Salesforce Administrator / BA Source PRO India March 2013 to April 2015 The main business of source pro runs on providing flexible solutions to reduce the total cost of using, procuring and managing indirect materials. Source Pro provides a wide range of options for inventory services and it is flexible for inventory management and meets customer's needs with wide range of salesforce features.    Responsibilities:  • Created various custom objects and worked on various standard Objects like Accounts, Case, and Contact.  • Developed APEX and Controller classes to use in VF page creations and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application and modified some of SOQL queries which are exceeding Governor Limits.  • Created Security settings for Roles and Profiles and managed Security Sharing Settings. Developed Validation Rules for the Custom Objects and Workflow rules and Approvals for some fields.  • Importing and exporting large volume of data using Data Loader, and used Sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing  • Created various reports (Summary reports, Matrix reports, Pie charts, Dashboards) and set up reports folders and created Custom dashboards displaying real time metrics including forecasts, revenue etc.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Individually worked on creating and implementing the Web-To-Case functionality to solve and track customer issues.    Environment: Saleforce.com, Apex Language, Triggers, Visual Force, SOQL, Change Set, Data Loader, Force.com, Work Flows-approval, Custom objects, Custom tabs, Html, Web service, Sharing Rules. JAVA Developer Insignia Labs January 2012 to February 2013 Project involved increasing Insignia Labs is one of the leading companies, which provides Wealth Management Services (WM) to its clients across the globe using CEFS (Corporate Employee Financial Service) application. This application receives the stock compensation related data from the clients, processes the data and stores it in the database.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the business domain layer using Java, J2EE, and JDBC and used DAO, Transfer Objects, Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory, State, Command and Front Controller design patterns.  • Implemented Struts framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed Struts framework Action Servlets classes for Controller and developed Form Beans for transferring data between Action class and the View Layer.  • Developed the front end UI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Implemented Struts Validator framework to validate the data.  • Developed Ant (build.xml) targets for build and deployments on Web Sphere Application Server 5.0.  • Developed Stored Procedures in the Oracle 9i database (RDMS).  • Performed impact analysis on the dependency projects of OneSource Project.  • Involved in writing unit test plans and developing test cases using JUnit.  • Used Configuration Management and Version Control tool CVS.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts 1.0, JDBC, SAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, WSAD, Web Sphere Windows 2000, and Oracle 9i. Jr Software Developer Pune Hot Properties India June 2009 to December 2011 Project: This Project involves analysis, design, and development for various modules that interacts with different systems to collect business data from exchanges, brokerages, clearing houses and agent banks. This data is extracted and loaded after calculations on to database using batch processes jobs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis and design of the several modules in the Project.  • Created use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, deployment diagrams.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements collection, Design and Analysis of the customer specifications, Development and Customization of the application.  • Designed and developed technical specifications using design patterns.  • Involved in all phases (Unit/Integration/System) of Testing.  • Designed and developed Session beans for implementing Business logic.  • Involved in configuration, development, and deployment of EJBs, JSPs & Servlets in Web logic test Environment.  • Developed UI, which enhanced user efficiency in using the functionality defined after business analysis.  • Designed intuitive responsive web pages using the concept of negative margins and percentages.  • Designed cross browser compatible web pages.    Environment: Java Server Pages (JSP), Struts 2.0, JSF, JavaScript, Java 1.4, Hibernate 3.2/3.3, spring 2.0/2.5, Web Services, EJB, Servlets, SOAP, XML, IBM, IRAD 6.0, CVS, ANT Build Scripts. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Java, Jsp, Api, C++, Html, Javascript, Xml, Ajax, Css, Web services, Apex, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Force.com, Soap, Rest, Salesforce, SFDC, Visualforce, Soql, COM Links http://salesforce.com