Senior Java Developer (FullStack) Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (FullStack) Senior Java Full Stack Developer Richmond, VA • Certified Java SE 6 Programmer with more than 15 years of development and support experience on Java/J2EE Front End, SOA and back end applications.  • More than 9 years of experience on developing JavaScript based solutions using AngularJS, Bootstrap, Jquery, etc. Developed many rich html components using AngularJS like typeahead, breadcrumb, customized application buttons, Freeze panes, structured tooltips, Customized Modal Panels, etc.  • Expertise in using GIT, GitHub, reviewing and merging Pull Requests. Expertise in writing karma test suites, Junit test cases and ecuke Cucumber Acceptance Test cases. Active participant in the PI planning, Sprint planning, etc  • Expertise in Design and Development of enterprise applications using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services and Struts. Extensive experience on MVC architecture using Spring MVC, Struts, Spring Service, JSP-Servlet and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Extensive Experience on Spring framework components Spring core, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring AOP, Spring Security. Expertise in writing Unit Test cases using Junit framework. Good working knowledge on Test Driver Development.  • Well versed with HTML and CSS and developing rich internet applications using AJAX technologies. Expertise in using IDEs like JBOSS Developer Studio, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper, NetBeans, IntelliJ, Editplus, Notepad++, Textpad, etc  • Proficient in working across all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile methodologies. Good Experience in UML Modeling developing use case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Proficiency in using version control tools like GIT, SVN, CVS and VSS, experience in using build tool like MVN and Continuous integration tools like Jenkins, Hudson and Bamboo. More than 3 years of experience as a Technology Lead with Infosys  • Proficiency in writing efficient queries in databases like Oracle, DB2, MS SQL, SQLServer. Good understanding of JAVA / J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC, Factory, Front Controller, Value Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Observer, Template and Façade.  • Applied and proven analytical skills on solving many business logics during the course of development in various projects. Expertise in programming complicated logic using Collections, Regular Expression and other JAVA API classes.  • Passion towards writing codes based on industry proven techniques in the form of Design patterns. Extensively used and proposed to use design patterns like Decorator, Strategy, Factory methods, Factory, etc.  • Good knowledge in Unix Shell scripting and using Regular expression for matching text patterns and files. Expertise in preparing Design Documents and UML Diagrams using Enterprise Architect, Visio. An Excellent Team Player. Have been a part of Development team with more than 100 developers and a Single Point of Contact for new Technologies like JSF, Richfaces. Mentored and guided a team of more than 100 people.  • Have been a key person from the POC phase through Design and Development phase till Testing phase for a Trade Application called TRIMS for Citigroup, US. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer (FullStack) Capital One - Richmond, VA June 2016 to Present Project: COS/ EASE Credit Card Feature support  Description: EASE web is an AngularJS based Front End application built using Node JS, bower, gulp and other related open source JS application support tools. Primary objective of the application is to replace Old Front end application based on Java Spring and AngularJS to fully AngularJS based and to support new functionalities as part of development and defect management and code maintenance as part of maintenance.  Responsibilities:  • Working as a Senior Analyst Programmer of a Feature team supporting AngularJS based front end application and Java based OL system.  • The back end for the application is the Orchestration Layer build on Java Spring components with back end service calls using REST and SOAP.  • Front End system consumes application data by making REST AJAX calls to the orchestration layer which outputs JSON data. Other parts of the systems are logging and customer monitoring tools integration.  • Developing AngularJS pages, Controllers, services, directives, sass, css and other components for new features and change requests. Develop Java Spring based service orchestration layer components for new features and change requests.  • Development activity involves:  ? Checkout latest code from master to local  ? Create branch for the feature implementation  ? Write code for the feature  ? Write Karma or Junit test cases for the change  ? Optimize code based on the unit test cases  ? Build and deploy in team server and test change on all Tier 1 browsers  ? Get the Code reviewed by another Team member and incorporate changes requested.  ? Push the branch to the master  ? Write Acceptance Test cases on Cucumber Java Cuke and push it to the Github base  ? Test them in QA environment and mark them completed in Version One  ? Demo to Product Owner and mark the story Closed  • Attending daily stand ups and PI, sprint and mid sprint grooming sessions. Raise any concerns and add Stories and backlogs for upcoming sprints.  • Updating Version One status and moving stories across the board. Maintain code by implementing Technical backlog items.  • Attend Tech scrums to understand organization wide goals and implementing any feature related changes for them. Designing and creating Technical User stories to achieve well maintainable and readable code.    Environment: AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, SCSS, HTML5, Karma, GitHub, Jenkins, Connect server, gulp, Jquery, Java, Spring, Junit, Intellij Idea, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suites, AWS, Maven, JIRA, OneSource, VersionOne Senior Java Developer (FullStack) Department of Education - AU August 2015 to May 2016 Project: ASTP App Development  Description: ASTP is a Full stack JEE application providing Transport to disabled students and maintains Driver / Contractors and other concerned parties details. Applications process, vehicle runs maintenance, payroll processing interface for contractor pays are important modules.  Responsibilities:  • Developing Junit Test Driven business logic using Spring, Spring MVC, Angular JS, RESTful services, Hibernate, etc.  • Developing responsive Web applications using Spring MVC, Spring Controllers, Custom JSP tags, Angular JS directives/ services and validations, Bootstrap style sheets and components, Jquery and javascript for work across all modules.  • Developing and maintaining custom components developed using Angular JS, Bootstrap, Spring REST services and hibernate queries.  • Designing and creating Technical User stories to achieve well maintainable and readable code. Creating GIT Branches and writing scripts for Test deployment using Bamboo.  • Attending SCRUM meetings and updating JIRA tickets with appropriate details. Developing different services using Spring framework and Hibernate framework.  • Has been a mentor to other team members on effective usage of blend of AngularJS, bootstrap, jquery, JSP and Java Enterprise frameworks.  • Had written many RESTful Webservices to be used along with AngularJS. Effective in using Jackson API.  • A key member of the architecting and development team developing core functionalities with a well maintainable and scalable coding style with latest technologies with Continuous Development tools and technologies like GIT, Bamboo, Maven, SourceTree (for GIT). Developing well designed code for the new developers to follow and deliver fast.  • Being a key member of the development team developing core functional modules, Spring MVC based web pages and framework level custom tags.    Environment: AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, Jquery, Java, Spring, Junit, Oracle, GIT, Bamboo, SVN, Eclipse, JBOSS Developer Studio, JBOSS Application Server Senior Java Developer (FullStack) DEC (NSW), Australia - AU August 2013 to June 2015 Project: ERN, PLATO support, TAFE Archive Development, ASTP App Development  Description: ERN, PLATO is a suite of School administration application based on Struts, Spring and JSP custom tags in front end and Hibernate and oracle based back end with an extensive usage of JQuery for UI validations and visual enhancements. TAFE Archive is a UI rich archive application for use in TAFE. System is built from scratch using Angular JS, JQuery, Spring RESTful services, Spring, Spring MVC, JPA, Hibernate, Oracle, JBOSS Developer studio, JBOSS eap 6.2, Junit, HTML 5 and CSS 3.  Responsibilities:  • Developed many reusable javascript components (directives) on AngularJS, Bootstrap, Jquery and javascript for work across all modules.  • Developed a new Archive system using Spring, Spring MVC, JPA, Hibernate, Oracle, JBOSS Developer studio, JBOSS eap 6.2, Junit, Angular JS, jquery, HTML 5 and CSS 3.  • Working on Agile methodology with Continuous Integration tools and technologies like GIT, Bamboo, Maven, SourceTree (for GIT).  • Developing well designed code for the new developers to follow and deliver fast. Developed RESTful Webservices along with the Spring MVC controllers.  • Being a key member of the development team developing core functional modules, Spring based jobs, Spring and struts based web pages and framework level custom tags.  • Developing different functional modules for implementing much Government initiated Change Requests.  • Helping in migrating the application from old source code management tools like WinCVS, Ant build tool and JDeveloper to Eclipse, GIT, maven based continuous integration environment.    Environment: AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, Jquery, Java, Spring, Groovy Testing, Struts, Oracle, Stored Procedures, GIT, Bamboo, SVN, Eclipse, JBOSS, JDeveloper Studio Senior Java Developer IAG (NRMA), Australia - AU December 2012 to August 2013 Project: Direct Insurance Support  Description: DI projects team develops and supports a suite of java applications for a distributed Customer record solution. Functional modules are exposed as webservices for various Front end applications based on .Net, Java Web, Web services applications and middleware layer with JMS, queues and backend layer of DB2, EJBs, Procedures.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Unit test driven core business function modules, Developed and maintained jobs for importing policies from multiple parties  • Developed Spring based web services for exposing the business logic to various front end applications and front end systems with GWT.  • Did Warranty support doing root cause analysis and fix spanning across, db2, procedures, java, JMS, queues, UNIX/AIX shell scripts, confluence (wiki) documentation, etc.  • Delivered various release working closely with the Testing and Midrange application supports on Release implementation planning and execution.  • Was a key member of the development team developing core functional modules using Jquery, AJAX, Spring based jobs, Spring based web services and Spring based Unit test cases.  • Helping and supporting the BAU team involving analysis across the DBA team, middleware and front end applications team and provided the solution using expertise in root cause analysis with lateral thinking.  • Developing different Batch Jobs for importing the life and other policies across different brands of IAG like NRMA, TAL, CGU, etc.  • Developed ad-hoc Reconciliation jobs involving syncing of mainframe legacy application with DB2 web service enabled application. This needed in-depth understanding the business modules.    Environment: Jquery, Javascript, Java, Spring, Unit Test, DB2, Stored Procedures, Spring webservices, GWT, UNIX/AIX, Shell scripts, Control M jobs, Journal Viewer, Squirrel, JMS, DB2 control centre, Data studio, Hudson, Jenkins, GIT, SVN, Eclipse, Websphere Lead Java Developer Westpac Banking, Australia - AU March 2011 to December 2012 Project: SPIDER (Teller Application for St. George and Westpac Bank)  Description: SPIDER is a JAVA Swing based Teller Application to replace the old legacy systems being used by Westpac branches. The Project challenge lies on the technical architecture binding the existing customer database with a scalable and highly interactive UI. SPIDER was a 7 year old system being used by St. George bank as a Teller Application. After the acquisition of St. George by Westpac, Westpac decided to use SPIDER as their Teller Application with modification to bind the existing Customer database and Business Logic.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Tech Lead/Senior Java developer for a Teller Application called SPIDER with Westpac, Australia.  • Developed core modules of functionalities, working with client on Change Requests, iterative Change Requests development by working closely with Testing team, developing wireframes for a better understanding of the request flow, attending Agile Scrum meeting everyday on providing the status and highlighting any discrepancies, raising defects on Quality Centre for different outcomes of the scrum meetings on specific change requests and defect fixes.  • Worked closely with the team members and guiding them on resolving any technical or functional queries.  • Helped team members in implementing many complicated logics in using Collections API and Regular Expressions. The technical architecture of the application is very rich. It uses a Web layer using Spring, GWT, Struts, jquery, DB2, Webservices, etc. for interacting with JAVA Swing client. Calls to legacy systems of Westpac using ESB, P2P layers of the system.  • Developed and maintained an admin tool called EJ (Electronic Journal) Query Tool which uses jquery, CSS, HTML, GWT, Spring and Struts extensively. Been a key member of the development team to understand the Business Requirements and to design the solution for the Change requests, defects and enhancements.  • Implemented many Web Services calls to interact with ESB and P2P layers. Spider has different underlying legacy systems to interact with and the interaction with them is abstracted using ESB. Different Financial and Non-Financial Services are implemented based on the Object Oriented design for better Inheritance and other OO advantages.  • Implemented and supporting the Web layer of the Spider with Spring, Struts and jquery framework. Actively designed and developed the administration tools and query tool for User, Branch, Fees and Workstation administration and querying mechanism for Management. This involved optimizing different queries used in fetching the report from DB2 database.  • Developed and maintaining different Batch Jobs for generating reports to be sent to NORKOM and other financial institutions of Australia. Developed automated scripts for Application's Morning and Evening Health Check    Environment: Java Webservices, SOAP, JAXRPC, Spring , Java Swing, J2EE, JMS, Struts, jquery, DB2, ESB, Webseal, MyEclipse, Squirrel, GWT, Jgoodies Java Developer - JSF/Richfaces, Hibernate Fly Emirates (Thru Infosys) November 2008 to February 2011 Project: Tour Operating System  Description: Emirates Holidays (EKH) along with Arabian Adventure (AA) is one of the leading outbound tour operators of the UAE headquartered in Dubai. EKH contracts with various suppliers in all destinations for various land services like Hotel, Transfer, Car Hire, Tour, Safari, Excursion, Train, Golf, Cruise, etc and provide these services to the travelers. TOS is a UI intensive Project for handling Booking and Reservation of different Tour services provided by EKH and AA.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Technical lead for a UI intensive Web Application called Tour Operating System. Designed and prepared custom tags on and above JSF/Richfaces layer and prepared framework classes for Managed Beans interacting with the Hibernate back end layer.  • It has been a great challenge designing and maintaining the UI layer of the Application. Mentored the Team members (more than 100 member's team) on the effective usage of JSF/Richfaces, Javascript, jquery, XHTML.  • Implemented complex UI logic using custom made Custom tags and existing JSF/Richfaces Custom tags and Expression Language in compliance with XHTML standards.  • Analysed the introduction of jquery in the existing customer owned framework. Have been a single Point of contact for technical queries regarding CSS, Javascript, and usage of JAVA Collection API for effective sorting and effective storage and retrieval of elements.  • Have been an effective team player and supported the team members by understanding their technical concerns and helped them resolving the concerns and been a guide to the freshers to properly understand the technical flow of the Web Application.  • Worked very hard for the quality delivery sticking to a stringent timelines given by the client for various IT phases.  • Been a key member of the team and have done an extensive analysis on JSF and Richfaces framework and developed framework classes and XHTMLs. Identified, developed and supported a major set of re-usable components in Richfaces and javascript.  • Mentored the team members on effective usage of custom tags on JSF/Richfaces and Hibernate framework. Conducted training program on the usage and development of tags and reusable components using the JSF technology  • Moved well with the team of more than 100 people and supported them on various issues raised on usage of the new frameworks and development of complex logic using JAVA collection and other APIs. Technical support for JSF, Richfaces, Hibernate, JavaScript, XHTML and AJAX issues.    Environment: J2EE, JSF, Richfaces, Hibernate, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, XHTML, EJBs, JBOSS, TOAD, Oracle 9i Associate Consultant (Module Lead) Citigroup - Sydney NSW May 2005 to September 2008 Sydney, Citigroup, US, CSB, Seoul / Oracle Financial Services  Duration: May 2005 - September 2008  Role: Associate Consultant (Module Lead)  Project: Web Re-engineering, KORAM Analysis for TRIMS Implementation, TRIMS Front End Re-Architecture, Citibank Lender System  Responsibilities:  • Developed POC by exploring different solutions for a Re-engineering project. Developed extensive Javascript, AJAX, Spring, Struts, SOAP based framework for replacing a thick client (PowerBuilder) with J2EE Web based architecture.  • Developed framework classes using Spring/Struts, SOAP with innovative and efficient paradigms for java framework interaction.  • Developed an in-memory intermediary for database caching on the browser side. This involved replacing the local client database with a Javascript data caching mechanism using AJAX.  • Developed SOAP based classes for interactions with existing DCE layer, Preparation of High and Low Level Documents for the different layers in the project.  • Involved in Production and UAT support for a Citibank Lender System Application. Worked extensively on Unix shell scripting for UAT and Production support    Environment: J2EE, JSP, Servlets, SOAP, Spring, Struts, TOAD, Javascript, AJAX, TibcoGI, hibernate Java Developer, Senior Software Engineer Keystone Solutions - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2002 to May 2005 Mumbai, Abner Root Tech, Mumbai, India  Duration: January 2002 - May 2005  Role: Java Developer, Senior Software Engineer  Project: Re-Architecture of the Renaissance Product, Online Catalog Management, Intranet Employee management  Responsibilities:  • Explored the Struts framework and third party APIs and Custom tags for the re-architecture of existing Renaissance Product for Insurance  • Involved in the design and architecting of the UI layer with tree like menu structures and created effective and easy to use custom tags for different UI components. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Pondicherry Engineering College May 2001 Skills Java (10+ years), javascript (9 years), Jquery (8 years), Oracle (8 years), Struts (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Java (1.4, 5, 6, 7), Angular JS, NodeJS, Bower, Gulp, Karma, Cucumber Java, Selenium, ATDD, GITHUB, Jenkins, SPLUNK, Google APIs, J2EE, XHTML, Spring (Core, MVC, JDBC, AOP, WS, JUnit), GWT, Ant, Maven (MVN), GIT, Continuous integration tools like Jenkins, Hudson, Journal Viewer, CA Wily, Struts 2, jquery, JSF, JSP/JSF Expression Language(EL), Richfaces, JavaScript, XML, JDoc, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JSTL, Richfaces Custom tags, JSF validators, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAXB/Xerces, DOM4J, JSP, Servlets, Oracle(8i, 9i, 10g), DB2, Stored Procedures in Oracle, Hibernate, TibcoGI, AJAX, ESB, Websphere 7, Websphere 6.1, JBOSS, Tomcat 7, Weblogic, Weblogic Integration, CSV, VSS, Rational Rose, Enterprise Architect, Eclipse, RAD, Unix Shell, Red Hat Linux, Windows 7, XP, Windows NT, Version One, One Source