Software Engineer (Hyperledger and Java EE) Software Engineer (Hyperledger and <span class="hl">Java</span> EE) Java Developer - Software Engineer- REMOTE ONLY Remote Work Experience Software Engineer (Hyperledger and Java EE) The Blockchain University - Fremont, CA February 2018 to Present Fremont , California, February 2018 - present    We are one of the early and leading providers of blockchain education. We build and teach classes for experienced software engineers using blockchain protocols like Ethereum, Hyperledger, and Tezos.    Software Engineer (Hyperledger and Java EE)  I was one of the first employees who participated in various projects from maintaining the current students portal platform using Java EE technologies to building POCs using blockchain protocols like Hyperledger. I've also written smart contracts using Chaincode and deployed on decentralized nodes. This also includes exposure to Ethereum and Solidity.    • Created multiple channels for different organizations to communicate with privacy.  • Used Kafka as an Ordering Service. Also used CLI and Composer for development purpose.    • Mentored junior engineers on the concepts and uses of blockchain, consensus mechanisms like PoW , PoS, and DpoS.  • Generated certificates using standard certificate authority of Hyperledger Fabric-CA.  • Used JavaSDK and Go implementation of Fabric.  • Leveraged MetaMask to send transaction over Ethereum network, also wrote basic Solidity code on Ethereum.  • Leveraged Hibernate , Spring, and REST API to build the back end system. Back-end Software Engineer ZipRealty, Inc - Emeryville, CA February 2015 to December 2018 provides home sellers and buyers with an innovative real estate solution. By using the efficiencies of the Internet, Ziprealty have streamlined the real estate process and are able to pass significant savings on to our clients.    Back-end Software Engineer  Served as a full time employee and participated in various projects from maintaining the current real estate system to adding new features as well as fixing critical bugs. I am also playing an important role in migrating the legacy system that was serving 2000 real estate agents to support 300,000 agents in the next year.    Image(Pictures) Thumbnail Processor, Webhook System for a 3rd party API.    • Leveraged Hibernate , Spring, ImgSclr and Image Magic to build an Image Thumbnail processor batch job that is integrated to external REST API to process agent's profile images, logo's of companies, created a thumbnail based on the desired size, and stored the files on a disk for future use.  • Individually designed and implemented a Webhook listener system for MailChimp API in order to listen to events that are happening at MailChimp servers for e.g when users unsubscribe from Mailchimp the webhook I built will synchronize the coming information with our database. Here I leveraged HTTP POST request that was sent by MailChimp and fetched the data we need and made a call to Hibernate DAOs to update our database.  • Created an interfaces and used a service layer in this project so if future implementation of MailChimp API are changed, most of the logic we have in place won't be changed.  • Assisted Project Managers and Testers in writing test cases and scenarios that helped them to verify the correctness of each tasks.  • Carefully documented designs and implementations in our internal wiki pages.  • Implemented unit and Integration test cases using JUnit.  • Created RESTfull Spring Controllers and Service layers for new functionalities that helped new companies, brokers and agents migrate to Ziprealty smoothly.  • Introduced and implemented Hibernate Envers for Auditing important tables that never had a history table. Now our company can track of what changes has been made, by who, and when. Java Software Engineer | Founder Smart Apps December 2013 to December 2014 D.C. Metropolitan area, December 2013- December 2014  As a founder my main role was to bring business to my startup, design prototypes, and implement the back end.    Java Software Engineer | Founder  Took a mobile app concept from idea into customer analysis, initial prototype design through commercialization, recruiting and implementation of the back end system using RESTful web services. We have developed 3 app prototypes, 3 mobile applications, one website (which has got over half a million views in 5 months). After building these apps and website I have also used analytic tools like Google Analytics, Crittercism, and Facebook Ad Manager to analyze on the data and make a decision on the next steps.    Bevy iPhone app:(http://goo.gl/jkZfwC www.getBevy.com)  Our first iPhone app my startup made is Bevy. Bevy helps users find Drink Specials and FREE Drinks in Washington D.C.  • I come up with the concept and executed the implementation of the project.  • Implemented the back end using Java and Servlet technology.  • Designed the Architecture of the app model  • Leveraged TestFlight for testing app functions by early adopters and before deploying to production server.  • Applied the principles of OOP and used MVC to design the back end system.  • Carefully documented designs and implementations in our internal wiki pages.    iRV Mobile App: ( http://goo.gl/BY6QYx & http://goo.gl/GKdEfh )  This is a full bluetooth low energy (BLE) based application that control Radios (external hardware). The functions include control radio volume, selection of sources, zone selection, control of DVD players, and turn off power.  • Helped ATP Products (medium size business) and Patrick Industries (A public company) build the first bluetooth application in their industry. Analyzed different bluetooth protocols that can be used with their hardwares.  • Designed a wireframe and changed all UI items into clickable prototypes.  • Gathered all requirement and data from customers and assisted in implementation of the Java back end.  • Participated in regression testing whenever we build new feature to the app.  • Successfully aided troubleshooting and testing a variety of user issues arose. Software Engineer FOLIO INVESTING - McLean, VA December 2012 to November 2013 McLean, Virginia December 2012- November 2013    Folio Investing provides a powerful web based platform for diversified investing and portfolio management, with significant customization, tax and cost management benefits. Folio Investing offers a Folio, which is a special basket of securities with specific features that can be managed or unmanaged by Folio Investing or other third parties and are not registered investment companies. Folio Investing also started offering Private Placement (or non-public offering) which is a funding round of securities which are sold not through a public offering, but rather through a private offering, mostly to a small number of chosen investors. Folio Investing expects to make millions in revenue from Private Placement platform.    Software Engineer  Participated in various projects as a Developer including three main projects of Folio Investing. Acted as one of the main Software Engineers in designing and implementing Private Placement project from the scratch. Contributed to the automation of regression testing internal framework. Maintained and added new features to Mutual Fund system. Played a major role in influencing stakeholders to make a decision in feature and design change in an Agile process.  Private Placement, Regression Testing Automation System, Mutual Fund System  • Leveraged the power of Watir Webdriver automation framework by writing ruby scripts to automate Folio's regression testing. After the framework is implemented, developers started focusing on other main projects rather than wasting their time on regression testing on every release.  • Participated in implementation of Private Placement project from the scratch. Leveraged such technologies as JQuery, Ajax, ExtJs, Jsp, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Strategy, Factory, and Singleton Pattern, Ant and SqLite.  • Individually designed and implemented to add a new feature on the current Mutual Fund System. The new feature includes keeping a list of valid US and international routing numbers and validating routing number for user's bank links right away after user's input rather than waiting for a third party validating system which will do it a day after the bank link is entered into the system.  • Used bcp and shell commands for downloading routing number file from Fed Directory and ajax validation to validate the existence of the routing numbers from our database. This project saved Folio and our customers a couple of days delay if users entered wrong routing number in to the system.  • Carefully documented designs and implementations in our internal wiki pages.  • Heavily used bcp commands, shell scripts, SQL and wrote Stored Procedures and Views in SqLite as a back end process. Leveraged the power Ant for build purposes.  • Gained a valuable knowledge in the Financial industry and the overall process of the internal system. Application Developer TEK SYSTEMS - Iowa City, IA October 2011 to August 2012 Iowa City, Iowa October 2011- August 2012  The University of Iowa is a major national research university with total annual operating budget about $2.8 billion. More than 30,500 students enroll at Iowa each year. The Administrative Information Systems (AIS) department provides information technology solutions and services which enhance the administrative operations of The University of Iowa business, collegiate, academic and service units. The broad range of services includes design, programming, implementation, maintenance, database management and administration, information access, consulting and project management.    Application Developer  Served as a full-time Application Developer for this big and well known State University. Contributed to the migration of legacy mainframe based application of several of the company's existing software products (specifically the Financial Aid System), meeting the stakeholders, gathering user requirements.    Made At University of Iowa (MAUI Financial Aid System)  • Participated in the design , implementation, and building of UIowa's ERP system for new student information by using the company's internal framework called MAUI.  • Designed and developed web applications using Java, Stripes, JSP, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Prototype, and AJAX.  • Implemented an existing design using Java and Stripes framework so that Departement of Education (DOE) sends and receives all sort of messages to and from the UIowa. I also used an existing message queue processor to grab messages from a specific destination.  • Designed and implemented a budget package that converts data stored in a mainframe, and make the data available to be used by the new web based system. I designed a system that uses transaction based processing, mapping data to a business object ( Java class) and store it to Oracle database using Hibernate.  • Successfully aided troubleshooting and testing a variety of user issues that were in the mainframe and avoided such issues not to happen on the web based system. It also includes debugging existing programs and fixing runtime and logical errors. TestNG was one of the tools I used.  • Leveraged such technologies as J2EE, Stripes, Hibernate, SQL, OOA, CSV, OOD, Intellij IDEA, Jira, Confluence, Tomcat.  • Participated in 60% new development and 40% existing development. Java Web Developer ULTIMATE COMPUTER SYSTEMS - Addis Ababa, ET 2007 to 2010 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia ? 2007-2010  Software development firm providing wide ranging solutions for businesses across industries.  Java Web Developer  As a university student, and concurrently with running my own development firm, served as a full-time Java Web Developer for this leading local software company. Contributed to the enhancement of several of the company's existing software products, playing a key role in developing project execution plans, gathering user requirements, and defining use cases to ensure each project increased corporate profitability by effectively bolstering the customer offering. Select projects included:  TENDER WEB APPLICATION (ethiotender.herokuapp.com, https://github.com/matiman/Ethio_Tender_App)  • Used Ruby 1.9 to design Model classes and to write test cases on Rails 3.2 framework  • Leveraged the use of MVC architectural pattern, to enforce separation between domain logic from the GUI and also implemented the concept of REST API.  • While following a Test Driven Development (TDD), i designed test cases by using Rspec to allow users to simulate the actions of a user interface and created Migrations  • Designed and developed the tender web applications using Ruby, CSS, CoffeeScript , SaaS and asset pipline, Migrations, MySql, SQLite,HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, and AJAX.  • Deployed the tender app on Heroku using Git commands. Also used Github for source code distribution and management.  • Applied the principles of OOP and also built Authentication and Authorization mechanisms to verify users and what actions they can do on the system. The system also uses SSL encryption.    Hospital Management System (HMS)  • Turned around the stability of this legacy product, creating a scalable, re-usable code using OOP and solving a performance issue within the database connection with JPA (ORM model).  • Designed and developed a new user interface (UI) in JSF, JPA, XML, Java, and J2EE and developed Web applications using HTML, JavaScript, PHP, and AJAX.  • Aided in the implementation of this sweeping system upgrade to existing customers, successfully troubleshooting a variety of user issues while setting up client workstation and server networking.  • Contributed to increased satisfaction among the company's existing clients by enabling a more efficient product as well as improving new product sales by providing a more robust offering.  • Leveraged Google Web Toolkit as a development toolkit to write application fron-tend in Java, for building complex AJAX-based page using Java, which is then compiled to highly optimized JavaScript.    Human Resource Management System (HRMS)  • Transformed the performance of a formerly manual / paper-based system by creating a reliable Web-based platform in J2EE, creating a product so well received that it contributed 7% of the company's profit.  • Enabled customers to rapidly process HR tasks while providing a seamless and easy-to-use method for data retrieval.  • Made significant contributions to the design of the initial prototype system, serving as a key customer / user liaison to identify needs and secure feedback.  • Additionally participated in coding, testing, integration, localization, database management, and ongoing customer support.  • Leveraged such technologies as Java, J2EE, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, NetBeans, Rational Rose UML, Marathon, JUnit, Windows XP, Windows Server, Façade, MVC, Mediator, Observer pattern, and the RUP methodology. Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA 2014 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Participant in the ICT Exhibition 2010 HiLCoE School Computer Science & Technology - Addis Ababa, ET Skills Api (6 years), Java (7 years), Junit. (7 years), Rest (6 years), testing (6 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/ln/matiman https://github.com/matiman Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Core Java ?Ruby  Scripting Languages: HTML ? JavaScript ? CSS ? AJAX ? Ruby  Web: JSF?Spring?JPA?Hibernate?JSP?J2EE?XML?JEE ?Web Services ?JMS?AOP  ? GAE ? Force.com ? Salesforce.com ? ExtJS ? Ruby on Rails ? REST  Databases: MS SQL ? MySQL ? MS Access ? PostgreSQL ? Oracle ? SQLite ? Sybase  APIs: Hiberante Envers, Mailchimp API, ImgSclr, Image Magic  Tools: GitHub ? SVN ? Bitcucket ? JDBC ? UML? Ant Build tool  Platforms: Windows XP/Vista/7? Windows Server ? Unix  IDE: Eclipse ? Intellij IDEA? NetBeans ? MyEclipse ?Visual Studio  Web/App Server ? Tomcat ? JBoss ? GlassFish ? Apache Web Server ? Heroku  QA/Testing: JUnit ? EclEmma ? Marathon ? TestNG ? Watir WebDriver  Design Pattern: Singleton ? Façade ? MVC ? Controller ? Command ? State ? Observer  SDLC Methodologies: Agile ? Waterfall ? RUP ? Test Driven Development(TDD)  Other Tools: Google Analytics ? Crittercism ? AdSense ? TestFlight  Blockchain: Hyperledger, Chaincode, Ethereum, Smart Contracts, Cryptography