Android Application Developer Android Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Application Developer - Capital One Dallas, TX * Over 7+ years Professional Experience with 3+ years of IT experience in design and development in Java based applications and 4+ years of Smartphone and tablet (Android) development experience. Developed multiple Android applications.  * Extensively worked with Android SDK with Eclipse IDE and Android Studio plug in.  * Extensively Worked on Android Component such as Activity, Services, Broadcast receivers and content provider.  * Expertise worked on data offline using SQ LITE DB.  * Worked on Push notification GCM and FCM  * Strong expertise in creating responsive UI for various screen resolutions.  * Good Knowledge of ecommerce domain, health care and banking domain.  * Expertise in Android Architecture, Design and Programming.  * Well Experienced on client server application making synchronous and asynchronous calls, consuming the web services of type RESTful, POST and parsing of data using the JSON, XML parsers Able to take initiative; work independently and also as a team player.  * Experience with Junit testing and also with Android Debugger tool.  * Extensively worked on memory leaks (detecting using MAT tools), content providers, multiple screen support, accounts and sync on Android.  Willing to relocate: Anywhere Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Application Developer Capital One - McLean, VA July 2016 to Present Designed and developed a mobile banking app for Android Devices for Capital One. The application supported a secured log-in system to the existing Capital One for personal account holders. Worked with the UI team to ensure the application is both users friendly and attractive. The application mechanism involves the secure internal database system API's that provides the individual account holder views to various types of accounts and ability to manage them. Customer may also utilize the Bill pay feature and they can also schedule the upcoming payment. This application also has some additional features like person2person payments, redeem rewards, mobile check deposits using Checkmate, update checkbooks and cards.  Responsibilities  * Involved in requirement gathering and designing of the application.  * Responsible for developing the Android UI layouts.  * Responsible for implementing Google Analytics  * Created custom Views, such as List Items, Date/Time Pickers, Complex Radio and Image Buttons, as well as custom ListView Adapters.  * Implemented intents for navigating to Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter  * Responsible for flow control between different activities using explicit and implicit intents.  * Added styles/themes to make UI look better.  * Responsible for the Android business logic that uses Json queries for getting data from the backend systems.  * Involved in integrating the service to the UI  * Involved in performance testing along with Functional and regression tests.  * Used Quality center and followed the defect workflow during the defect resolutions  * Coordinated with Configuration Manager for continuous integration.  * Followed agile methodology to implement the project.  * Performed on device debugging using ADB and tested application in both emulator and device Environment:  * Android Studio, RESTful service (json ),git ROLE:  * Application Design development and Maintenance 3rd party Library  * RoboSpice, Urban Airship, Bandwidth X, Facebook, CrashLytics.  Environment:-Windows 7, Android 5.x, Java, Eclipse 3.5, SQLite, JSON, REST APIs, Google Analytics Android Application Developer Chase Bank - San Jose, CA March 2015 to July 2016 * Experienced in developing applications with Android Operating Systems  * using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, Android SDK 2.0 to 7.1 and ADT plugin.  * Created Different Layouts for the Bank with full support and providing business solutions.  * Working around with JSON and XML pull parser implementations for server to client calls.  * Optimum use of system resources such as memory, battery.  * Extensive work on implementing the best practices adhering to the android design principles  * Involved in using the Location and Sensors of the device as per the business requirement.  * Good understanding of the various components in Android such as Activities, Services, Content providers and receivers.  * Involved in developing a utility library used across various applications  * Hands on experience in consuming Restful APIs for the Android  * application development.  * Working with remote data using Retrofit, Volley and other third-party libraries and APIs.  * Involved in moving the app development to Android studio which uses GRADLE from eclipse for development. Android Developer Magnum Hunt, LLC - Carlsbad, CA April 2014 to February 2015 Magnum Hunt are m-commerce applications that provide a fast, easy and a convenient way to shop a variety of products from a mobile device. They provide a fun ecommerce experience where users can manage their online accounts, find help from a personal shopper, manage their shopping cart, track the status of their orders, find local ads, deals and nearest store locations for store pickup etc.  Responsibilities  * Involved in requirement gathering and outlining.  * Worked in HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery extensively.  * Worked in Databases using native android API.  * Responsible for developing the Android UI layouts (Linear Layout, Relative Layout).  * Responsible for developing the user login screens and design the Context menus based on the Android Menu Navigation, Tabbed Navigation control and Action Bar Control.  * Developed the caching module that caches User profile in SQLite. Used both SQL Helpers as well as Raw Queries.  * Responsible for the Android business logic that uses JSON queries for getting data from the backend systems.  * Testing included emulator and device testing with multiple versions and sizes.  * Responsible for Peer Code Review, Defect Resolutions.  * Involved in performance testing along with Functional and regression tests.  * Used Quality center and followed the defect workflow during the defect resolutions  * Coordinated with Configuration Manager for continuous integration.  * Managed and coordinated for timely deliver.  Environment:-Linux, Android 4.0, Java, Eclipse 3.5, IntelliJ IDE, SQLite, JSON, REST APIs Android Developer Redmane Technology - Chicago, IL June 2012 to March 2014 Involved in development of Cur am based Java Applications for Government of US Virgin Islands towards Human Services Application such as Medicare, Child Support, Food Assistance and Cash Assistance.  Responsibilities  * Involved in requirement gathering and outlining.  * Responsible for developing the Android UI layouts.  * Responsible for the Android business logic that uses JSON queries for getting data from the backend systems.  * Involved in integrating the service to the UI  * Responsible for implementing Google Analytics  * Testing included emulator and device testing with multiple versions and sizes.  * Responsible for Peer Code Review, Defect Resolutions.  * Involved in performance testing along with Functional and regression tests.  * Used Quality center and followed the defect workflow during the defect resolutions  * Coordinated with Configuration Manager for continuous integration.  * Managed and coordinated for timely deliver.  Environment:-Windows 7, Android 4.0, Java, Eclipse 3.5,IntelliJ IDE, JUnit, SQLite, JSON, REST APIs, Google Analytics Android Developer Motorola Mobility - Chicago, IL October 2011 to May 2012 This is high traffic mobile ticketing application, where user can view theater, movie listings on their phone. The app syncs the purchases to the user device from the cloud. The user can view trailers, submit reviews and watch their favorite movies in their favorite theaters. This app is available both for honey comb and hand held devices.  Responsibilities  * Developed automation scripts using python to test functionality of MotorolaAndroid Phones  * Developed automation scripts using monkey runner Testing Android Applications  * Used xlrt, xlwt, PIL and Motorola python library (a python) to develop mobile automation scripts  * Developed BOPIS - Buy online pickup in store Android application  * Used Activities and Fragment to have a smooth flow between screens  * Used Multithreading concepts such as Asynctasks, Threads and Services  * Interacted with the testing team to fix defects  * Implemented custom Toast's and Snack Bars  * Good knowledge of User Permissions used towards access of Internet, Local Storage, Camera, GPS  * Responsible for the Saved data in the SQLite database  * Used Google cloud based services like Firebase cloud messaging (FCM), formessaging services  * Integrated continuously with Jenkins with android studio and also separately with eclipse  Environment:-Mac OS X SNOW LEOPARD, Android 2.3, Honey comb 3.0, ADT, Java, JUnit, GIT Java Developer Blue Mountain Capital Management, LLC - New York, NY July 2009 to August 2011 Blue Mountain Capital is a global IT services company, provides end to end IT solutions and services to its customers. DST Systems offers services to numerous clients in various types of industries like Banking, Hospitality, Retail, Manufacturing, Travel and Life Sciences.  Responsibilities  * Developed UI using struts view component JSP, AJAX, HTML and JavaScript.  * Developed Abstract Classes, Dispatch Action Classes and Forms for efficient request delegation  * Created various actions under Struts-config.xml, tiles-def.xml files.  * Used web 2.0 tools including spring framework for security Aspect and dependency injection.  * Used AJAX for interrelated web development to increase the web page's interactivity, speed, functionality and usability.  * Created standard support forms to capture requests and data for Logic.  * Handled client side validation using JavaScript.  * Created custom tags to front-end using JSTL.  * Developed and maintained data persistence using Hibernate framework.  * Used Web Service to exchange data between our application and third party software.  * Extensively used Log4j logging in the application.  * Deployment and testing of Application in Tomcat Web Server.  * Used Eclipse as the IDE for the application.  * Worked in environments likes internal, QA and PROD.  Environment:-J2EE, JavaScript, JSP, Struts 1.2, JDBC, Hibernate, Log4j, AJAX, JQUERY, Web Services, Eclipse, Tomcat 5.x, Adobe Flex, SQL Server, and UNIX. Education AS in Computer Science City College Of San Francisco - San Francisco, CA Skills Android (6 years), Eclipse (7 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (3 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows Linux, Mac.  Technologies: Java JDK Android SDK ,Android Version 2.3 to 6.0  Java Beans, J2EE (JSP1.2/2.0, EJB 2.0/ 2.1/  Spring2.0.x/2.5.x, Hibernate  1.1, JDBC 3.0, JavaScript , SOAP 1.2, Log4j 1.2 JUnit 4.0 JAX-WS 2.0, JTA 1.1,WSDL 2.0, XSD 1.1, C Web servers: Tomcat 6/7  Mobile Technologies: Android SDK  Version Control Tools: SVN,GIT. Management Tool SQL Reporting Services IDE Tools: Eclipse IDE , Android Studio.