QA ANALYST II QA ANALYST II QA ANALYST II - CentralSquare Technologies Greensboro, NC Work Experience QA ANALYST II CentralSquare Technologies - Greensboro, NC April 2019 to Present • Tracking, monitoring and reporting product defects in the Visual Studio Team Foundation Server (TFS), assigning them to developers.  • Scheduling and helping organize QA meetings, writing excellent test plans/scripts and creating test environment for simulation.  • Managing staff access and authorization of the product by writing SQL queries in MS SQL SERVER, including DDL, DML, DCL and TCL.  • Participating in Agile Scrum meetings with automation (Selenium) team to resolve defects, helping in building new releases.  • Working cooperatively with documentation team and summarizing technical documentation to assist in training new hires.  • Helped build strong relationships among QA and developers, improved the team work efficiency and saved a manual QA position. FULL-STACK SOFTWARE DEVELOPER( JAVA) Cogent Infotech - Pittsburgh, PA February 2019 to April 2019 • Involved in the whole software development life cycle, including working with product management team to building new releases.  • Designed and developed an E-Office system using JAVA, SpringMVC framework, Angular 5/HTML/CSS/JavaScript and MySQL.  • Created Unit test using Junit, reviewed the results and communicated with teammates and fixed bugs together.  • Implemented interface test using Postman and functional test by trying every button and logic and then debugged it. DATA ANALYST AND TESTER University of North Carolina at Greensboro - Greensboro, NC January 2018 to December 2018 • Collected tens of thousands of fruit images and made image classification with machine learning techniques in Python and OpenCV.  • Analyzed data characteristics, relations among features and made feature extraction with principal component analysis (PCA).  • Trained machine learning techniques with datasets manipulated by different methods, like normalization and standardization.  • Compared different manipulation methods in each step and proposed the best fruit image classification methods.  • Machine Learning Techniques Used: Random Forest (RF), Decision Tree (DT), Logistic Regression (LR) and K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN).  • Discovered the optimal model to classify fruit images, improving about 10% accuracy, tested and proved it with different fruit images. SOFTWARE TESTER INTERN Neusoft - Dalian, CN June 2014 to September 2015 • Architected the project and assigned tasks for teammates based on their speciality and learning ability.  • Lead daily scrum meeting, met with teammates weekly and lead retrospective meeting as a team lead.  • Created and executed test scripts/cases for new functions added, and then tracked the results and communicated with developers.  • Developed a Client-Server model HomeSmart system with QT Creator in C language and demoed it. SQL DATABASE ANALYST Dalian University of Technology - Dalian, CN June 2015 to August 2015 • Builded database environment, extracted and manipulated data information of SQL database in webpages.  • Developed a web-based application of Theater Ticket Management System with HTML, Javascript and SQL languages.  • Realized the function of page interactions and interactions between webpages and SQL database.  • Realized adding new released movies, removing or updating outdated movies from the system and other database operations. Education MASTER OF SCIENCE IN COMPUTER SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE University of North Carolina at Greensboro - Greensboro, NC December 2018 DUT Dalian University of Technology June 2017 Skills C (Less than 1 year), Cms (Less than 1 year), Content management system (Less than 1 year), Css (Less than 1 year), Html (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Selenium (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Xml (Less than 1 year)