Senior Java/Micro service Lead/ Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span>/Micro service Lead/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java/Micro service Lead/ Developer - AIM Speciality Health Chicago, IL • Hands-on, Application Development with more than 12 years of experience in design and development of high  performance, large scale software applications using OO design methodologies, service oriented architecture, in  financial services industry using Java/J2EE technologies for trade processing, Risk Technology, compliance,  health care and airlines data systems.  • Hands on expertise of ElasticSearch, MongoDB, Logstash, Kafka, Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and  Java 8, Docker and Kubernetes.  • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document,  Design, Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing, System Testing, Documentation, Production Support,  Functional and Regression Testing.  • Experienced in Core Java 6, 7, 8 And Java collections, data structures, Transaction Management, algorithms,  multi-threading, concurrency, asynchronous processing  • Hands on experience on Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST  API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Worked on the performance profiling using JProbe and enhancement of the application which involved  identifying the memory leaks and memory consumption and continuously monitoring the performance.  • Experienced in spring framework development, spring batch, spring data, Hibernate, Batch Programming,  Spring MVC, Spring WS, Spring Boot, Junit testing, testing framework.  • Extensive used project build tools such as Maven, Jenkins, and Ant.  • Experience in J2EE and related technologies like JSF, EJB, JDBC, JTA, JTS, JSTL, JNDI, JAXB, JAXR and JAX-WS.  • Experience with Soap based web services, WSDL, RESTful web services, XML, JSON. Handle the security  implementation for web services using SAML.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPath, XSD, XSLFO, XQuery, parsers like JAXP (SAX,  DOM) and JAXB.  • Strong Experience in EJB's (Session Beans, Entity Beans, Message Driven Beans), SOAP, HTML5, JMS, JSP,  Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Strutsand UNIX.  • Worked on Hibernate for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data,  insert and update the data from the database  • Extensively handle the implementation and deployment of Telecom, Banking and Financial, Insurance, Energy &  Utilities web application along with security implementation like SSL configuration and Digital Signing and  Application Servers clustering  • Excellent understanding of relational databases involved in application development using several RDBMS like  Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS-SQL, PostgreSQL SQL SERVER, LDAP.  • Expertise in developing highly interactive rich Web UI using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, JSF 2.0,  Rich faces 3.0 and Wicket.  • Experienced in development and deployment on IBM WebSphere 6.0, BEA WebLogic 8.1/10/11, JBoss  Application Server3.2.5, 5.1.0 and Tomcat 6.0/7.0  • Hands on experience in using relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Experienced in the use of various software development tools as database management (SQL Query Analyzer,  Navigator, DB Visualized, TOAD), source code control (SVN, Subversion, VSS, CVS, Rational clear case), profiling  and debugging tools (Eclipse), IDE (Eclipse and RAD).  • Experience in writing ANT, Maven build scripts, providing logging facility using Log4j and Writing JUnit test cases.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML and developing Use Cases, Class diagrams and  Sequence Diagrams with Rational Rose.  • Experience in different design patterns like MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Factory, DAO, Builder,  Business Delegate, and Session Facade in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Knowledge on Big Data technologies like Hadoop, HBase, HDFS, Apache Spark, Apache Scala.  • High development skills and ability to meet project delivery deadlines.  • Good analytical skills, commitment to co-operative teamwork and developing high quality software's meeting  exacting requirements of the customer.  • Excellent interpersonal skills, including the ability to coordinate and motivate team members.  • Strong interest and high caliber to learn new tools, methods, and technologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java/Micro service Lead/ Developer AIM Speciality Health - Chicago, IL October 2017 to Present Description:  Leading specialty benefits management partner for today's health care organizations, we help improve the quality of care and reduce costs for today's most complex tests and treatments.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop new Microservices based on new requirements and extracting functionality from existing  code base  • Build Microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise  • Develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot  experience building REST and SOAP web services using Java.  • Implemented micro services to read data from Elasticsearch using REST Java API.  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) Microservices to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot.  • Design and implemented of Spring Boot micro services like Member Demographic and Enrollments search  services ( search data from ElasticSearch ) and index data into ElasticSearch.  • Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Microservices using Jenkins CI server  • Strong understanding of Java concurrency, concurrency patterns, experience building thread safe code  • Work with Docker for convenient environment setup for development and testing.  • Integrated Kibana with Elasticsearch to analyze indexed data and get insight into the data in visual forms  • Implementation of the Business logic layer for MongoDB Services. Used MongoDB document oriented database  to store data  • Created Object to Mongo mappings for various domain objects. Developed DAO layer exposing access to MongoDB  • Experience with development tools like STS-Eclipse, Git, Sonar Qube, Jenkins, Jira, Artifactory etc.  • Experience with Tomcat web application server.  • Introduced a continuous deployment process for ease and speed-up of development and deployment using  GitLab and Docker through Docker-compose.  • Experience with TDD, code testability standards, JUnit.  • Strong understanding of OOP & SOA principles, design patterns, industry best practices  • Experience with scripting and working in a Linux environment  • Experience working on large and medium scale software projects  • Deployment of new and dependent services using AWS.  • Experience building distributed systems at Internet scale  • Strong written and verbal communication skills  • Strong interpersonal skills and time management skills  • Strong analytical and troubleshooting skills  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using spring framework and implementing custom tag libraries.    Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Framework, REST/JSON Web service, SOAP, Maven, JUnit, AWS, Micro services, Elasticsearch , Kibana, Logstash , Confluence, Linux, MongoDB Tomcat, Web sphere,  Sonarqube, JMeter, Docker, Kubernetes Senior Java/Microservice Consultant GCB - McLean, VA October 2016 to October 2017 Description:    Developed micro service API to call FIS billpay services for being called from Mobile UI. Also developed other micro- services API's to call Hogan mainframe from Sales-force and online application PFOL.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop new Microservices based on new requirements and extracting functionality from existing code base  • Build microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise  • Develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring  Boot experience building REST and SOAP web services using Java  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot  • Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying microservices using Jenkins CI server  • Strong understanding of Java concurrency, concurrency patterns, experience building thread safe code  • Experience with development tools like STS-Eclipse, Git, Sonar Qube, Jenkins, Jira, Artifactory etc  • Experience with Tomcat web application server.  • Experience with TDD, code testability standards, JUnit.  • Strong understanding of OOP & SOA principles, design patterns, industry best practices  • Experience with scripting and working in a Linux environment  • Experience working on large and medium scale software projects  • Deployment of new and dependent services using AWS.  • Experience building distributed systems at Internet scale  • Strong written and verbal communication skills  • Strong interpersonal skills and time management skills  • Strong analytical and troubleshooting skills  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using spring framework and implementing custom tag libraries.    Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Framework, REST/JSON Web service, SOAP, Maven, JUnit, AWS, Micro  services, Confluence. Tomcat, Web sphere, SonarQube, JMeter Senior Java Developer SITA August 2015 to August 2016 Description:  The APP/PNR project provides a system to obtain the traveler information in the right format which helps in conducting  traveler pre-arrival risk assessment. The project will identify international traveler (inbound, outbound and transit) as well as domestic travelers. The system provides a portal where officers can view the flight details, traveler details,  bookings, boarding's and crossing details.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate  mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Oversee and develop Notification Service microservice to use across the enterprise.  • Created shell scripts and updated the scripts as per the requirement  • Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database  • Developed scripts for inbound and outbound of the data on servers  • Used spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate  • Proficient in Java Multi-Threading and Concurrency.  • Hands on experience using multi-threading in back end java beans  • Implemented business logic using Spring MVC and Hibernate framework  • Taken care of Java multi-threading, concurrence in common java classes / library.  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using spring framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Utilize Camel to integrate microservices with other microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges.  • Oracle is used as the persistence layer, configured, and optimally indexed for searches  • Experience with SQL and basic CRUD operations  • Developed stored procedures, triggers, and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database  • Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  • Develop innovative and quality solutions by making use of latest tools and technologies like Apache CXF, Spring Core, and Spring AOP.  • Developed Rest architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Developed application using Eclipse Ganymede for rapid development.  • Use of WebLogic application server to deploy the application and connect through the data source using  JNDI name  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Designed and implemented four Agile Scrum teams for product development  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence, and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed application code using Eclipse IDE and configured with Maven and Apache tomcat  • Developed framework using Java, iText, MySQL and web server technologies  • Worked with ILog Jrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in WebLogic application server.  • Worked with business teams using agile methodology to integrate business line of apps with SOA in a seamless fashion.    Environment: Java 7,Concurrency,Microservices, Threading, Spring MVC, Hibernate, XML, Oracle, REST/SOAP Web  service, REST, JMX, ANT, Maven, JUnit, SVN. Senior Java Programmer Nahil Computers - SA May 2012 to January 2015 Description:  The Samba Access project provides corporate customers to do online banking transaction. Corporate customer can pay the utility bills, pay renew/new employee Ikama fees, generate LCs for trading and request for bank statement. The  system provides a portal where corporate customer can view the company's transactions details, employees list and  their paid fees, history of paid bills etc.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a Java, Oracle, Spring MVC, and Hibernate based Web application.  • Built an end to end vertical slice for a JEE based billing application using popular frameworks like  • Spring, Hibernate, Maven2, and Ajax by applying OO design concepts, JEE & GoF design patterns and best practices.  • Integrated other sub-systems like loans application, equity markets online application system, anddocumentation system with the structured products application through JMS, MQ, SOAP based Web  services, and XML.  • Tuned SQL statements, Hibernate mapping, and Web logic application server to improve performance, and consequently met the SLAs.  • Gathered business requirements and wrote functional specifications and detailed design documents.  • Improved the build process by migrating it from Ant to Maven2.  • Built and deployed Java applications into multiple Linux based environments and produced bothunit and functional test results along with release notes.  • Environment: Java 1.6, Spring MVC,, Ajax, JQuery, XML, Hibernate, Oracle, PL/SQL, Spring-WS, SOAP  • Web service, JMX, ANT, Maven2, Continuum, JUnit, SVN, TDD, and XP.  • Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data between two interfaces.  • Developed the Web Services Client using SOAP, WSDL description to verify the credit history of the new  customer toprovide a connection.  • Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application, Subversion for software version control. Used JUnit  framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting and JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags.    Environment: Java 7,Concurrency,Threading, Spring MVC, Hibernate, XML, Oracle, REST/SOAP Web service, REST, JMX, ANT, Maven, JUnit, SVN. Senior Software Engineer Primatics Financial - Karachi, PK April 2010 to May 2012 Description:  Evolve accounting and eliminate manual processes and spreadsheets by automatingall accounting functions - data  management,calculations,processes, workflows, and reporting - for all cash-flow-basedfinancial instruments.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database  • Used spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate  • Proficient in Java Multi-Threading and Concurrency.  • Developed SOAP web services utilizing business logic for CRUD functionality  • Worked on PL/SQL and created views, triggers, procedures, function, and stored procedures.  • Created complex SQL and used JDBC connectivity to access the database  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment  • Used Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime  exceptions.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum.  • Designed UML diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using  Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance  plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Design, implementation, and development of Oracle ECM workflows to meet the requirements of the business user  • Created user interface and backend server application using Java, Google Web Toolkit, Spring, Tomcat, and GIS  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ Quality Center for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build    Environment: Java 7, JavaScript,Concurrency,Threading,Web service, JDBC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Oracle, PL/SQL, Tomcat 7.0, ANT, CVS, and JUnit. Senior Software Engineer Daedalus Software Inc - Karachi, PK July 2008 to April 2010 Description:  BTM-Research:Allows centers to standardize their sample and data handling procedures, while reducing data entry  errors. Enables researchers to locate samples and data in support of a protocol faster and more cost-effectively.  Automates compliance with HIPAA, 21CFR11, IRB, and GxP specimen handling practices.The result: a reduced Total Cost of Operations enables the BTM-Research application to pay for itself in as little as one year, making it an extremely  attractive investment for most research centers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a Java, Oracle, Spring MVC, and Hibernate based Web application.  • Built an end to end vertical slice for a JEE based billing application using popular frameworks like Spring, Hibernate, Maven2, and Ajax by applying OO design concepts, JEE & GoF design patterns, and best practices.  • Integrated other sub-systems like loans application, equity markets online application system, and documentation system with the structured products application through JMS, MQ, and SOAP based Web  services, and XML.  • Tuned SQL statements, hibernate mapping, and WebLogic application server to improve performance, and consequently met the SLAs.  • Gathered business requirements and wrote functional specifications and detailed design documents.  • Improved the build process by migrating it from Ant to Maven2.  • Built and deployed Java applications into multiple Linux based environments and produced both unit and functional test results along with release notes.  • Developed JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags.  • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto Tomcat application server using Maven  build scripts to automate the build and deployment process    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring MVC, Ajax, JQuery, XML, Hibernate, Oracle, PL/SQL, Spring-WS, SOAP Web service, JMX, ANT, Maven2, Continuum, JUnit, SVN, TDD, and XP. Software Engineer Avanza Solutions - Karachi, PK November 2006 to July 2008 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete life cycle of software development including designing, developing, testing and deployment of application.  • Designed framework for outbound interface  • Designed frame work for inbound interface  • Designed and developed batch jobs using Spring quartz API  • Designed and developed registry for registering the status of batch jobs.  • The framework was designed to process large amounts of data and to be performance effective  • Mentoring team members  • Preparing check list for coding standards.  • Estimating for development of connectors  • Did POC for packing connector code and all dependent jars into one single jar  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS  • Involved in developing applications using Java and J2EE.  • Designed database Entity-Relationship diagrams, data constraints, triggers, stored procedures, and functions.    Environment: Java, Eclipse, MVC, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, J2EE Patterns, Apache tomcat Software Developer Telecard Limited - Karachi, PK November 2005 to July 2006 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Struts, JSF Web framework using the front-controller design pattern, which is used  successfully in several production systems.  • Normalized Oracle database, conforming to design concepts and best practices.  • Resolved product complications at customer sites and funneled the insights to the development and deployment teams to adopt long term product development strategy with minimal roadblocks.  • Convinced business users and analysts with alternative solutions that are more robust and simpler to implement from technical perspective while satisfying the functional requirements from the business  perspective.  • Identified and fixed transactional issues due to incorrect exception handling and concurrency issues due to unsynchronized block of code.  • Developed JSPs using EL language and JSTL tags.  • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto tomcat application server using  Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process  • Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web  Services.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Involved in a full life cycle Object Oriented application development - Object Modeling, Database Mapping, GUI Design.  • Used XML/XSLT for transforming common XML format.    Environment: Java 6, Servlet, JSP, custom tags, JNDI, JDBC, XML, XSL, DTD, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, DB2, PL/SQL, JBoss, JUnit, Log4J and CVS. Education Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Sindh University 2005 Skills BEA, BEA WEBLOGIC, ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, Spring, Java J2Ee, Rest Additional Information Technical Skills:    Technology Tools  Core Java Java (5, 6, 7,8), Multi-threading Inter-process communication Algorithms  Collections Generics Memory management Concurrency Design patterns.    Design Patterns MVC, Factory, Session Façade, Service Locator, Front Controller, Singleton Pattern,  View helper.  JEE JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, JCA, JTA, JPA, JSTL  MVC Frameworks Struts, Spring, JSF (MyFaces1.0, RichFaces3.0, Prime Faces), Ajax4Jsf1.1.  ORM Frameworks Hibernate, JPA  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans. Spring Tool Suite (STS)  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Databases MS SQL Server 2014, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MySQL, MS-Access 2003, Sybase, DB2  Web/App Server IBM WebSphere 6.0, BEA WebLogic 8.1, JBoss3.2, Tomcat 5.x/6.0/7.0, IIS Server  Web Service Imp Axis, CXF, Jersey  Web Service Specs JAX-RPC, JAX-WX, JAX-RS(Restful)  Bug Tracking Tools JIRA, IBM Clear Quest  Testing Frameworks JUnit, Easy Mock, Power Mock, Selenium, Mocha. SOAPUI