Sr. DevOps Engineer, Sr Java Developer, JBPM developer Sr. DevOps Engineer, Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, JBPM <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. DevOps Engineer, Sr Java Developer,lr - Ally Bank Detroit, MI Professional Summary: • 13+ years of IT experience with TCS as Java developer, Java Tech Lead, DevOps Engineer and JBPM developer.  • Have strong logical and analytical ability which help to analyze problem and provide solution.  • Experience in leading, developing project from onsite and offshore and successfully executed using Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Create Microservice using Apache Camel and spring boot and publish message to queue.  • Experience in Install and configure Jenkins, Sonar Quebec, Sonar Scanner, elastic search (on jboss), JBPM with LDAP authentication and fix JBPM related issue.  • Implemented CICD using Jenkins, Sonar Quebe, Maven, Sonar Scanner, Cruciable.  • Creating task, process, data object, guided decision table, package, and enumeration in JBPM.  • Creating WSDL and XSD and writing web services using Axis 2 and deploy on web logic server.  • Used Hibernate/ JPA to create DAO layer in MVC and other java project.  • Write J unit test case to perform unit testing and Test web services using SOAP UI.  • Perform load testing and performance testing using j meter and SOAP UI • Use UNIX and shell Scripting for automating JBOSS and WAS task.  • Experience in using F5 for load balancing, Splunk for seeing log and App Dynamics for monitoring of applications.  • Experience in integrating Subversion, Fisheye for the change management process with Jenkins.  • Experience in working on JBOSS and using CLI for performing JBOSS related task (deployment, DS creation, AMQ setup, Server restart, Vault creation).  • Creating CR for Data base related task (schema creation, table creation, Granting permission, tablespace creation), F5 setup, Splunk setup of model, PSP and prod environment.  • Creating FSD (Functional system design) for individual project and present FSD to project team.  • Experienced in planning offshore work and supervise the development efforts of offshore team team member and resolve issue which comes in development.  • Developed DevOps tool in java which perform build, deployment, code review status, file transfer and seeing logs.  • Used TortoiseSVN, CVS and Star team, Bitbucket for version control activities including branch creation, tagging code check-in, merging code with other branch and trunk.  • Experience in generating report of financial chart using Actuate.  • Experience in creating view in Cisco Data Virtualization (CDV) and publish as web services it and also used view directly from web services as table.  • Perform quality improvement processes (Code Review), and then coordinate external code review and present it to client tech lead and Architect.  • Creating knowledge transfer document and hand over code to production support team.  • Successfully done project cost analysis of and timeline estimation.    Career Profile:    Dates Organization Role 31-oct-2005 TATA Consultancy Services Associate Consultant Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. DevOps Engineer, Sr Java Developer, JBPM developer Ally Bank, NC - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to Present USA  Responsibilities: • Create REST web services using Apache Camel and Spring that call UNIX script to Start, Stop, and Restart JBOSS and WAS server, get server log, server status.  • Implemented CICD for project in dev and CIT using Jenkins, Sonar Quebe, Maven, Sonar Scanner, Cruciable.  • Install and configure Jenkins, Sonar Quebec, and Sonar Scanner on UNIX box.  • Create Microservice using Apache Camel and Spring Boot to create JBPM case, send email, validate case fields, retrieve mapping from DB and consume message from AMQ to process it.  • Created Microservice for handling DLP exception, Suspect duplicate exception, ACM exception for case creating and update.  • Use to create workflow for DLP,EDG and initial analysis for suspect duplicate of IBM workflow.  • Use JPA and write persistence.xml and Entity classes and use mapping between attributes.  • Write J unit test case to perform unit testing and Test web services using SOAP UI.  • Support CIT, UAT and CAP, pre-prod testing, and warranty support.  • Perform load testing and performance testing using SOAP UI • Use UNIX and shell Scripting for automating JBOSS EAP and IBM WAS task.  • Experience in using F5 for load balancing, Splunk for seeing log and App Dynamics for monitoring of application.  • Install JBPM with LDAP authentication and fix JBPM related issue.  • Creating process, data object, Guided decision table, package, form for JBPM and call it from SOAP UI create case.  • Experience integrating Subversion, Fisheye for the change management process and integrate with Jenkins.  • Creating CR for Data base related task (schema creation, table creation, Granting permission, table-space creation) F5 setup, Splunk setup of model, PSP and prod environment.  • Experience in working on JBOSS EAP , JBPM and performing JBOSS and JBPM related admin task.  • Experienced in build and deployment of Java applications on to different environments DEV and CIT on WebSphere, and JBOSS and perform server related task.  • Developed DevOps tool in java which perform build deployment and code review status.  • Used Tortoise SVN, Bitbucket for version control activities including branch creation, tagging code check-in, merging code with other branch and trunk.  • Perform quality improvement processes (Code Review), and then coordinate external code review and present it to client tech lead and Architect.  • Creating knowledge transfer document, and hand over code to production support team.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Web Services, Spring boot, Hibernate, Jboss, WebSphere, Unix, SQL, JBPM, JaCoCo, Soap UI, Tortoise SVN, SQL Developer, Jenkins, Sonar Quebe, Sonar runner, Fish Eye, maven, Spring Tool Suit (STS), ipswitch. Senior Developer, Tech Lead / Onsite Lead Wells Fargo, MN - Minneapolis, MN October 2011 to March 2017 USA (Oct 2011 to Aug 2014)  - Hyderabad, India (Sep 2014 to Mar 2017)  Responsibilities: • Changed existing web services to bring data directly from data base instead of calling SEI services, database also changed from db2 to SQL and all web services were modified to bring data from new system using hibernate.  • Worked on Migrating SEI model to BIS and then on CDV and then create web services which use new system.  • Leading and developing java project from onsite and offshore and successfully execute it.  • Developed and lead java project from onsite and offshore and successfully execute it.  • Creating WSDL and XSD and writing SOAP web services using Axis 2.  • Deploy ear and aar in and configure data source in web logic server.  • Used Hibernate to create DAO layer and write required files (hibernate.cfg.xml, hbm.xml and pojo classes).  • Converted existing Cash master main frame project in java and created batch job to upload data in database from csv file.  • Implementing Java exception, Java collection, java design pattern and other java feature in project.  • Create CDV view and publish it as web services and as table which used to create web services.  • Implemented fail over logic through code where one database is unavailable connects to other using failover logic.  • Used Tortoise SVN for version control activities including branch creation, tagging code check-in, merging code with other branch and trunk.  • Write J unit test case to perform unit testing and Test web services using SOAP UI.  • Perform load testing and performance testing using j meter and SOAP UI • Perform quality improvement processes (Code Review), and then coordinate external code review and present it to client tech lead and Architect.  • Planning offshore work and supervise the development efforts of offshore team, and resolve issue which comes in development.  • Use spring in project for DI and spring scheduler for scheduling job for cash master and other application.  • Creating knowledge transfer document and hand over code to production support team.    Environment: Java/J2EE , Web Services, Springs, WebLogic 9.2,11g, 12c, DB2, MS SQL, CDV(Cisco data virtualization), Jmeter , Winscp , Soap UI, Advance Query Tool(AQT), DB2 Client, TortoiseSVN, OEPE 10.3.5, 12.1.1 Tech Lead American express (Amex) January 2011 to September 2011 Work location - Bangalore, India  Responsibilities: • Analysis of Work and project cost and timeline estimation.  • Write SOAP web services and deploy it.  • Perform quality improvement processes (Code Review), and then coordinate external code review and present it to client tech lead and Architect.  • Web Services deployment on UNIX server.  • Assign task to team and supervise the development efforts.  • Analysis of Multicasting with the JGroups.  • Write J unit test case to perform unit testing and Test web services using SOAP UI.  • Used Tortoise SVN for version control activities including branch creation, tagging code check-in, merging code with other branch and trunk.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Web Services, Jgroup(Multicasting), IBM Web Server ,Unix, Soap UI, Tortoise SVN, Winscp, Citrix. Developer, Tech Lead Apple - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2009 to December 2010 India  Responsibilities: • Implement functionality to write company, Organizational Structure, Key contact, Product, Growth, and many other data of company (on company details page) into excel through java after taking related data through people soft services (which return xml), converting them into DAO and manipulating company data.  • Represents key contacts in a hierarchy with details of the contact after taking data from PS services.  • Edit newly created Leads, convert Lead into Opportunity, duplicate lead and cancel Lead.  • Creating new grid for newly created lead on company details page and loading top 100 newly created lead and their details into lead grid through AJAX • Provide functionality to create new lead, convert created Lead into Opportunity, duplicating Lead.  • Assign task to team and supervise the development efforts.  • Upload  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSF, Java Script, OC4J. JDeveloper, Excel, CVS. Developer, Onsite Tech Lead USAA Taxes June 2007 to February 2009 Work Location: San Antonio, TX, USA  Responsibilities: • Creating FSD (Functional system design) for individual project and present FSD to project team.  • Developed Saved item Functionalities which save user applications in middle of their work and start it again from same place where they saved it. All saved items saved by member in middle will be displayed on one page, from where member can go to the same page to where he had saved the application.  • Modify jsp page and services to provide member ability to change their personal info using pop up.  • Re-Design USAA.com for easy and user friendly navigation and better page.  • Used Star team for version control activities including branch creation, tagging code check-in, merging code with other branch and trunk.  • Planning offshore work and supervise the development efforts of offshore team, and resolve issue which comes in development.  • Publish massage in queue from multiple applications and subscribe it from one application and process it.  • Use JAXB for marshalling and un-marshalling message while publishing and subscribing message.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JAXB, MDB, PS Framework, HTML, Java Script, Hibernante, JMS, Web Services, IBM DB2, Websphere, IBM WebSphere MQ, RAD, Star team (for source code control), Jaxb, RfhUtil(IBM WebSphere MQ) Developer China Trust Commercial Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2006 to May 2007 India  Responsibilities: • Creating report using Actuate reporting tool, and write SQL Query for bring data for report.  • Write code to display wealth for individual using pie chart with percentage of wealth.  • Write jsp and java class in struts framework.  • Check-in code using VSS and merge code with other team member.  • Use Eclipse as IDE to develop code.  • Used web sphere to deploy code.    Environment: Windows XP, IBM DB2 8.2.1, Java, J2EE, Struts, Java Script, Web sphere  Tools: Eclipse, MS-VSS (for source code control), Actuate Developer Banco Penta - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2005 to September 2006 India  Responsibilities: • Write jsp, java script, java class, DAO in struts framework.  • Check-in code using VSS and merge code with other developer.  • Use Eclipse as IDE to develop code for project.  • Use hibernates for ORM, and write and sql query to test result.  • Developed order screen for buy/sell equity MF and other to place order.  • Support CIT and UAT testing.  Environment: Windows XP, Oracle 9i, Java, J2EE, EJB, Struts, Java Script, Hibernante, Web logic 8.1  Tools: Eclipse, MS-VSS (for source code control) Education BE in computer scince DAVV Indore - Indore, Madhya Pradesh July 2001 to May 2005 Skills JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAXB Assessments Data Analysis — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1l9cc2qcnwnhcmpd Problem Solving — Completed February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qmgmclqiyonubkdj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills:    OPERATING SYSTEMS Linux , Windows NT , Window 7,Window 10  Programing Languages Java, XML, Java Script, HTML, WSDL  DevOps Jenkins, Maven, Sonar Quebec 5.6.2, Sonar runner 2.4, Fish Eye  Monitoring tool AppD, Splunk.  Web services/Microservice Apache Axis 2, JAX-WS, Apache Camel, Spring boot  Version Control Subversion, CVS, Star team, Bitbucket.  Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate, PS, JSF, Spring boot  Design Patterns: MVC, Singleton, Façade, Factory, DAO. Dozer  Database System MySQL, SQL Server, DB2  Reporting and workflow tool Actuate, JBPM  Data Virtualization Cisco Data Virtualization (CDV).  Middleware IBM WebSphere, Jboss EAP, Web logic.  Other Tools Soap UI, J Meter, AQT, RAD, MS Excel, RfhUtil (IBM WebSphere MQ), Winscp, JAXB, Dom4j, ip switch