Senior AEM Developer Senior AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior AEM Developer - Goldman Sachs Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior AEM Developer Goldman Sachs - Manhattan, NY August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installing author/ Publishing instances.  • Work with Project Managers, Architects and other team members to ensure all project deliverables are on time with high quality.  • Work with QA and UI/UX teams.  • Assist in application deployment to Dev, QA and Prod environments and migrations.  • Experience development and testing Web applications like share file, share connect and Podio.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM 6.2/CQ dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Developed new pages with new templates for the 2017-2018 plans, using HTL script to transfer old content to new template.  • Migrate the complete web site CQ 5.6 to AEM 6.2  • Developing custom components, page templates and template components and workflow components in AEM 6.2.  • Experience in gathering and documenting functional and business requirements specifications in form of user stories.  • Developed static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  • Use web technologies in the page components for the rich templates.  • Create design dialogs for the common components in the entire portal.  • Work in the DAM for the maintenance of the media files.  • Create Users and Groups for workflow management.  • Responsible to configure the rules in dispatcher for the new modules  • Participate in all phases of development within the team.  • Developed and designed the front end using HTML, Sightly, Java Script and CSS.  • Actively participate in the design of projects or review proposed designs to ensure application integrity and performance.  Environment: Adobe 6.2, JCR, Apache Felix JAVA, J2EE, POJO, JSON, Adobe Experience Manager, Sightly, HTML5, Ext JS, CSS3, Maven, GITHUB, Jenkins, Restful Web services, Agile, SCRUM, Akamai, JIRA. AEM/CQ5 Developer Time Warner Cable - Charlotte, NC October 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for setting up Author and Publish environment  • Responsible for setting up the Author permissions for various author groups  • Responsible for coordinating with the dev team and perform build and deploying the components  • Responsible for design, development and unit and integration testing of Day CQ components, templates and the corresponding web services.  • CQ5 related design and framework development and Architecture using templates, components widgets, CQ5 bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author and editing content with the help of widgets.  • Design and development of web pages using CQ5, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  • Developed Adobe CQ5 templates and reusable components.  • Developed custom workflow process  • Responsible for setting up the Adobe CQ Author instance, create various author user groups and configure the access for the user groups.  • Schedule all project activities and manage risks throughout development cycle.  • Review and clarify business requirements for new application development.  • Collaborate with other functional area experts to design complete solutions.  Environment: Adobe 6.0/6.1, JCR, Apache Felix JAVA, J2EE, POJO, JSON, Adobe Experience Manager, Sightly, HTML5, Ext JS, CSS3, Maven, GITHUB, Restful Web services, Agile, SCRUM, Akamai, JIRA. AEM/CQ5 Developer HIGHMARK April 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created custom templates using Adobe experience manager 6.1.  • Developed multiple custom components using AEM  • AEM design and framework development and Architecture using components widgets, CQ5 bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author and editing content with the help of widgets.  • Worked on JavaScript for better performance of previously existing web pages.  • Created Responsive Designs using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Work on components, forms, templates and workflows.  • Create Users and Groups for workflow management.  • Document each and every user story. Review of Code and prepared test cases.  • Develop custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used HTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Main code changes were done in JSP, JQuery, and AJAX and JavaScript environment.  Environment: AEM Adobe 6.0/6.1, JCR, Apache Felix JAVA, J2EE, POJO, JSON, Adobe Experience Manager, Sightly, HTML5, Ext JS, CSS3, Maven, GITHUB, Restful Web services, Agile, SCRUM, Akamai, JIRA, Adobe CQ5, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON. AEM/CQ5 Developer Country Financial - Bloomington, IL January 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM 6.1/CQ dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache.  • Work on Adobe Lifecycle AEM/CQ Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  • Design and implement best in class Content Management (WCM).  • Hands on approach, leading the technical development teams, writing functional and technical specifications, and reviewing deliverables for accuracy and completeness, including formal code reviews.  • Active participation while preparing low-level design doc with TL/Architect.  • Conduct system analysis and development with limited support from TL/ Architect.  • Collaborate with Architects on the design and architecture for our team's deliverables.  • Work on components, forms, templates and workflows.  • Document each and every user story. Review of Code and prepared test cases.  • Develop custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company.  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows.  • Work closely with Akamai, plus line for production deploy, Dispatcher cache, Akamai cache etc.  • Work on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • GIT is used as a distributed revision control system for CQ5. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine.  • Work on the landing pages, category landing pages using content management system Adobe CQ5 for the consumer portal.  Environment: Adobe 6.0/6.1, JCR, Apache Felix JAVA, J2EE, POJO, JSON, Adobe Experience Manager, Sightly, HTML5, Ext JS, CSS3, Maven, GITHUB, Restful Web services, Agile, SCRUM, Akamai, JIRA. CQ5 Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL December 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Extended foundation components to create custom CQ5 components based on requirement Developed CQ templates and components.  • Experience developing UI, OSGI components in CQ 5.  • Experience developing event handling and related components in CQ 5.  • Effective use of component properties to meet the business requirements like actions, drop targets and in place e  • Utilized REST, Java, Sling, CQ5, and Java script for custom Coding.  • Is working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments.  • Supported the production and maintenance and also solved the Change Requests according to the requirements.  • Designed and delivered Adobe CQ components to allow non-technical users to rapidly update and create web site content.  • Content authoring and maintenance for test environments, including Campaigns and Segmentation.  • Setup and Used maven for managing dependent software libraries (jars) required to build our application.  • Involved in testing of application on various levels like integration and System testing.  Environment: Java (jdk1.7), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, jQuery, CQ5.5, CQ 5.4, Apache Sling, CRXDE, WCM, Jackrabbit, Windows and Linux. CQ5 Developer Cablevision - New York, NY September 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed software for Media & Entertainment based on information Architecture document provided by the client.  • CQ5 related design and framework development and Architecture using templates, components, widgets, CQ5 bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author.  • Designed the UI (i.e. web pages) in VAP using CQ5, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  • Developed various templates for Consortium to be reused by all the members for individual websites.  • Implemented i18n internationalization in the website.  • Enhancing web pages in VAP based on the client's requirement and developing new port lets in VAP framework.  • Extensively designed and developed custom ExtJs components and custom xtypes (especially data grids).  • Efficiently used Apache Sling/JCR for Content Resolution and handling dynamic data.  Environment: CQ 5.x, JDK1.6, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Adobe CQ5.4 (WCM), VAP 7.1 (Vignette Application Portal), Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector, Java/J2EE Developer Vertex Consultancy Services - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2009 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Full life cycle experience including requirements analysis, high-level design, detailed design, data model design, coding, testing and creation of functional and Technical design documentation.  • Closely worked with System Analysts and testers to develop the Module from designing, development and implement in production.  • Provided Java development and deployment using WebSphere, Clear Case, and Oracle.  • Designed and Developed using Java/J2EE, Web Services, Struts, XML, AJAX and Deployed on Web Sphere Application Server running on Unix.  • Worked on web technology Java, JSP, Servlets to build front end web framework  • Adopted J2EE framework using Struts, Web Services with standard design patterns.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns DAO, Transfer Objects, Service Locator, Singleton and MVC Design patterns.  • Wrote SQLs to pull data and created procedures.  • Used JUnit for unit testing framework of code in Test Driven environment.  • Prepared Unit Test Plan, Integration Test Plan for the testing. I have also reviewed test plans of the peers in my team.  Environment: Java JDK 1.4, JDBC 3.0, Struts, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, XSLT, JAXB, Web Services 1.1, SOAP, JMS, LDAP, JUnit, Rational Rose, Oracle 8i. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Technology Skills JAVA (9 years), J2EE (7 years), WEB SERVICES (7 years), AJAX (7 years), JSP (6 years), Drupal, NET, C#, Angular, MVC Additional Information • Around 9+ years of software development experience as Sr. Java Developer with 4+ years of experience in AEM/Adobe CQ5 Development and administration with hands on experience in building and deploying enterprise level Web Content Management solutions on Adobe CQ 5.4, 5.6 and AEM 6.0, 6.1 and 6.2.  • Experienced building various web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Experience in design and development of multi-tier applications using Java, J2EE, spring, Struts, and Hibernate frameworks.  • Current work experience with code control using GIT.  • Excellent work experience in Adobe Lifecycle AEM/CQ5 WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, OSGI Framework, JCR, Apache sling, Sightly, template development, CQ5 Component Development, Architecture, Administration and installation of Author and Publish instances etc.    Technical Skills Summary:    J2EE Technology Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JMS  Architecture& Framework Client-Server, MVC, J2EE, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Database Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), SQL Server 2008, MySQL  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM RAD, Builder  Enterprise Web Products CQ/AEM 6.1, 6.0, 5.6.1, CQ 5.5, CQ 5.4    Operating Systems Windows 9x/NT/XP/2003/VISTA/7/8, Linux, Unix  Conceptual knowledge Web Services  GUI HTML, Angular JS, XML, XSLT, JSF, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, Sightly, Foundation 5, JQuery, Bootstrap.  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL  Programming Language C, Java  Tools:  BEA Web Logic 8.1, JBOSS V7, IBM Web sphere Application Server 6.1, Tomcat 8.0, JUnit 4.0, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre, Rational Clear Quest, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, SVN, Toad    Design & Control UML, Rational Rose, CVS, Clear Case    Additional Development Experience:  • Understanding of CQ Mobile development concepts like server-side Mobile API, Mobile Components, Emulators, Device Groups, Device Detection and Mobile request processing.  • Experience with Java content repositories, sling request processing and OSGi bundles.  • Hands on experience developing custom components, page templates and template components and workflow components in CQ5.x, AEM 6.x.  • Responsibilities have included overall technical leadership, oversight of design, coding, troubleshooting, testing, implementation and maintenance.  • Experienced in developing Custom bundles and Servlets on Felix, Cloud Computing, Amazon AWS and EC2.  • Hands on experience with setup and development of GUI using CQ5 and Ext JS.  • Well versed in setting up or upgrading complex CQ environment with expertise in CQ5 Author, Publisher and Dispatcher administrations.  • Extensive experience in CQ, JSP and Display Tag for User Interface Development. Have a good understanding of Social Collaboration and Campaign Management with CQ.  • Domain expertise includes, system developments using Core Java& J2EE Technologies such as JSP, JDBC, XML, SAML, ANT, Maven, Java Script.  • Proficient in using various IDEs like CRXDE, CRXDE-Lite, RAD, and Eclipse.  • Expertise in developing integrated business applications using Hibernate, Spring framework (Spring Core Framework, AOP, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow and Spring Security), Struts, JSF Framework and Web Services (JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAXP, JAXB).  • Proficiency in deploying n-tier Enterprise / Web applications using IBM Web Sphere 5.0, 5.1, 6.1 b Web Logic 8.1 and Apache Tomcat.  • Efficient use of various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Service locator, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), and Business Delegate in the development of distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in design and development of, Object Oriented (OOPS), distributed OOAD based system using UML/ Rational Rose.  • Worked on Client-Server Applications in Finance, Retail and Telecom, Health Care projects of Java J2EE.  • Experience with SDLC process (Agile, Waterfall models) of performing detailed analysis, collecting use cases, documenting requirements.  • Ability to build tables, stored procedures, indexes, create jobs in SQL Server, use SQL Server Management Studio and tools such as query analyzer, activity monitor, and query profiler  • Good experience in coordinating and working with developers (Offshore and Onsite) and End Users in Team based environment.