Technical Director Technical Director Technical Director - V R Della IT Services Private Limited Research Triangle Park, NC Work Experience Technical Director V R Della IT Services Private Limited April 2018 to Present in DellaInfotech. DellaInfotech is one of fastest growing staffing company in America. DellaInfotech has started their IT division, which majorly focusing on product development and IT service/support.    Responsibilities  • Provide the sales team with technical advice and support  • Oversee each project's life cycle from conception to completion, with an emphasis on technical soundness and resource efficiency  • Develop and revise statements of work, which should include accurate time and cost estimates  • Analyze user requirements and usability metrics to ensure customer satisfaction  • Apply architectural and functional specifications to each project  • Collaborate with our design team to create accurate and detailed mockups for customer approval  • Meet with clients to refine and evaluate requirements, strategy and content needs  • Enforce coding standards across all departments  • Research and introduce new technologies for all employees and management  • Assist in creating in-house standards  • Solution architecting by analyzing the requirement of clients  • Communicates effectively with clients to identify needs and evaluate alternative technical solutions and strategies    Supporting tools and technologies  Java, Spring Boot, PostgreSQL, AWS, Hibernate, ETL, SAFE, Agile, GitHub, GitLab, React, Swagger and Azure    Achievements  • Formed new IT team for DellaInfotech and created working methodologies, strategies and team culture in 4 months  • Released first product "Vexamine" to prod in 2 months time Senior Software Test Engineer Citrix Systems, INC - Raleigh, NC April 2016 to October 2017 in "Podio" team. Podio is a project management product, which consists of various components and integration to manage any project.  Team is responsible for creating new features, as per customer requirements, maintain the product uptime and help partners with api calls to support their architecture.  Supporting tools and technologies  Ruby, Selenium, Jenkins, Github, Source tree, C#, capybara, Onetest and python    Responsibilities  • Automation of features full end to automation using UI and API level automation  • Implement BDD  • Maintain CD/CI environment, create jobs and extract report  • Create integration of Podio with other Citrix products like ShareFile and Rightsignature  • Create integration with non Citrix products like slack and device magic  • Worked with ShareFile tool, UMT automation as part of cross team collaboration  • Fixing backend bug(python) as the team was moving towards unified engineering    Achievements  • Learned script languages Ruby and python and contributed to the team in short span of time  • Introduced API level functional automation Senior Software Test Lead Microsoft India Pvt. Ltd March 2014 to July 2015 in "Tax" team, deals with Global Microsoft account taxing. Team responsible for extracting data from multiple sources, apply data processing logic and load the data to "WareHouse" and AZURE storage for reporting. Responsible for generating adhoc report and offline reports for tax audit counter parts.  Team was responsible for build tool called "Next Generation Tax", which can hold all the raw data in Data Lake Big data, and built the data processing logic to extract process, transfer and prepare reports.  TFS served as a versioning system for on premise applications and Github+Visio for cloud applications.  Supporting tools and technologies  Visual Studio Test professional, NUnit, MTM, SharePoint, Azure, Hive, HDInsight, Sqlserver 15, Power BI, Azure Sql, PowerShell scripts, Webservices, Fiddler, Biztalk, Store procedures, SSIS and ETL    Responsibilities  • To lead a team of 4 people, responsible for Test strategy plan, Automation and Automation reusability plan, TDD plan, Test suite execution, Test execution report, Automation, maintain CD/CI environment.  • Create end to end test automation, data samples and update automation frame work according to new user stories.  • Create POCs for big data processing on HDInsight, Azure, Hive and Azure SQL and create COSMOS scope and iScope queries.  • Understand the data patterns, provide the logic to reduce the volume of data and Optimizing performance of ELT process  • Implement Test Driven Development suits  Achievements  • Ramped up with new MS technologies within a month and started working on the deliverables.  • Implemented parallel download for all remote ETL sources thereby reducing the ETL cycle by 40% Software Developer CSC INDIA Pvt. Ltd May 2012 to February 2014 worked for the client AT&T. Part of a 5 member team that was responsible for identifying the functionality that needs to be automated. Team was responsible for preparing proposal document for the functionality to be automated. The team should suggest the feasible platform and technology, once the proposal approved. Team, along with onsite team, should come up with solution for AT&T end user queries.  Supporting tools and technologies  Java 6, XML, Tomcat, Toad, Oracle, HTML, SVN and Eclipse    Responsibilities  • To understand all the functionalities. Identify the functionalities that can be automated.  • Prepare proposal document with all the details. Send to AT&T client for approval.  • Work on automation, once the proposal document approved.  Achievements  • Automated telemetric report part completely singlehandedly. Software Developer EBAY INDIA Pvt. Ltd May 2011 to March 2012 was responsible for creating a tool called 'Devcnx'. This tool is the intra social networking site, where employee can create their profile, share, create and accept the events. It's a forum to share the technical events across the world. This tool helps in reducing the mail chains and shares the events effectively.  Technology used were MVC pattern, PHP as view, PHP code Igniter as controller and all backend in JAVA. It uses MySQL as a DB.  Web services have been built with "turmeric SOA" (Ebay open source plug-in) and the layers till DB developed using JAVA. PHP & JQuery were used for ajax calls. Postmark and Cron jobs used to send mails. Encryption has been done using "Md5 hash" algorithm. SVN served versioning system and "maven" for build and deployment.  Supporting tools and technologies  Java 6, XML, JBoss, LightHouse, Jira, SoapUI, HTML, Rest webservices, sql developer, Eclipse, putty, apache, Spring JDBC and SOA    Responsibilities  • To understand the requirements and develop modules according to the requirements  • To create DB scripts, backend layers, WSDL, Web service client, PHP page for corresponding module. Roll out the code to testing environment  • Bug fixing, Roll out to production and prod bug fixing  • Create Rest web services, keep update WSDL and serving methods according to requirement change, stub input and test using SOAP UI  Achievements  • Ramped with PHP and JQuery in two weeks and started delivering on the sprint tasks. FTL Developer IBM INDIA Pvt. Ltd January 2011 to May 2011 Worked for IBM Global Business Service and was working for Bank of America client. Project was dealing with migrate code to new technology and do development for the new requirements. We have to sustain the BOA functionalities by  - Converting struts1.2 to struts 2.0  - DAOs to spring  - JSPs to FTL  Supporting tools and technologies  Java 1.5, XML, JBoss, Sql, Pl/SQL, Oracle 11g, Toad, SVN, putty and Servelet IBM INDIA Pvt. Ltd August 2008 to May 2011 Java/J2ee Developer IBM INDIA Pvt. Ltd August 2008 to December 2010 Worked with IBM Global Business Service and was working for Vodafone Italy Client. Vodafone Italy is the AMS project (development and maintenance), which migrated from IBM Italy. This application was dealing web area of Vodafone, has many challenges such as language, frequent changes in requirements, improper time estimation from onshore.  The team has to sustain the Vodafone website by  - Adding new features, functionalities ,services, tools and corresponding database change  - Changing the existing to bring up to meet the current market challenges  - Make the features more user friendly  - Creating holder for third party content management system    Responsibilities  • Analyze the requirements and preparing the design document.  • Coding, Unit Testing with Junit, tomcat, TDD-UT, stubs and mock classes.  • Build & Deployment  • Bug fixing & Production support  Technology  Application had front end is JSP, multi layered business logic and intra layer connection using JNDI lookup and backend is Oracle. Application transaction taken care by EJB2.0 and MVC maintained by struts frame work 1.2. CVS as version control system and "Ant scripts" for build and deployment.  Supporting tools and technologies  Weblogic, websphere, Tomcat, XML, Junit, Java 1.5, Unix shell scripts, Rational ClearQuest, Webservices, HTML, SaopUI, Log4j, SQL, PL/SQL, Toad, Firebug, WINSCP, putty, WINCVS, QPRO SUIT, JSF, Seam and AIX  Achievements  • Got "Best Employee" award from client.  • Handled end to end process of the application, before forming build and deployment team, production support team and testing team. INTERNSHIP IBM INDIA Pvt. Ltd January 2008 to May 2008 College internship with IBM, worked for AT&T client. During internship created the automation tool called Reconciliation automation. Tool created based on Java/J2EE with the following components Oracle 9i, MySql, Tomcat, Ms-Access, MS-Excel, Windows 2000, JSP, Servlet, DB2 and CSS technologies.    Responsibilities  • Analyzed all the manual process in reconciliation application.  • Design. Develop and Exhibit the tool to the team.  • Provide user manual Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Madurai Kamaraj University 2008 Bachelor of Science in Chemistry in Chemistry Madurai Kamaraj University 2005 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlet, Struts, .net, Biztalk, Biztalk server, C#, C/c++, C++, Git, Hadoop, Php, Scripting, Svn Links http://in.linkedin.com/pub/priya-lingam/23/545/601 Additional Information Technical Skills  • 10+ years of Software Industry experience in development and testing  • Certified in Microsoft Azure Cloud certifications "Implementing Microsoft Azure Infrastructure Solutions (70-533)" and "Developing Microsoft Azure Solutions (70-532)"  • 1.5 years experience in ruby, capybara and selenium  • 1.5 years experience on ETLs, Bigdata, Azure cloud, TDD & basic understanding of Hadoop  • 5 years of strong Java/J2EE development experience  • 1 year of good .NET development experience  • Expertise in PHP, XML, SOA, JSP, Ajax, jQuery and SSIS package  • Struts framework, spring, JSF, Seam framework.  • Good experience with agile methodology as well as Waterfall methodology.  • Database: SQLServer, Oracle, DB2, MySQL, Derby.  • Platform: Windows, UNIX.  • Programming: Java, C#, C/C++, Shell scripting.  • Software: IIS server, Biztalk server, Maven, JSF, Struts, JBoss, Servlet, FTL, Apache, Web sphere.  • Tools: VisualStudio, Eclipse, SQLdeveloper, JUnit, Tomcat, TFS, CVS, SVN, TFS, GIT