Team Lead Team Lead Team Lead - Asset Pricing Jersey City, NJ ? Over 10+ years of experience across IT Project Management, Delivery Management, People Management, Technical Analysis, Design and Development with a liking towards Banking & Financial Domain.  ? Currently working with DevOps model and responsible for end to end deliveries of major projects.  ? Strong Knowledge on full Software Development life cycle (SDLC) - Software analysis, requirement, design, architecture, development and maintenance  ? Worked on relative ease with different working strategies like Agile, Waterfall, Scrum methodologies  ? Work with portfolios managers and traders to help design and implement current views  ? Work with senior leaders and internal business managers to execute key strategic projects and assist with solving day-to-day business issues  ? Strong sense of prioritization & ability to execute against deliverables. Able to take personal accountability for projects & issue resolution  ? Quick learner; proven ability to quickly learn the business, the application, and quickly adapt to ever changing priorities  ? Project management - excellent attention to detail, solid organization skills and the ability to manage high volumes of information  ? Strong interpersonal skills with the ability to build an excellent network and develop strong working relationships with both internal/external counterparties  ? Ability to manage multiple tasks, prioritize deliverables, good time management, key attention to detail, while remaining proactive and flexible in style  ? Excellent experience in designing and developing Enterprise Applications for J2EE platform using Servlets, React, JSP, AJAX, CSS, Spring, Hibernate and Web services (SOAP and RESTful web services using JAX-WS and JAX-RS)  ? Hands on experience in working on XML Suite of technologies (XML, XSD, DTD, XML Schema, DOM)  ? Expertise in developing web services with XML based protocols such as SOAP and WSDL  ? Very strong Business Modeling skills using OOAD using UML  ? Extensively used different IDEs like Intellij, Eclipse and RAD  ? Experience with design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, Proxy, DAO, Abstract, Prototype  ? Proficient in developing web based applications and client server distributed architecture applications in Java/ J2EE technologies using Object Oriented Methodology  ? Excellent track record of leading end to end implementation and Integrating projects to successful completion under tight deadlines  ? Hands on experience with major components in Hadoop Ecosystem including Hive, HBase, Pig, Sqoop, Flume, Avro, Oozie, Zookeeper and MapReduce frameworks  ? Worked of Hadoop Architecture and various components such as HDFS, Resource Manager, Application Master, YARN, JobTracker, Namenode, DataNode and MapReduce concepts  ? Worked on NoSQL databases like HBase  ? Experience in analysing data using HiveQL, Pig Latin and custom MapReduce programs in Java  ? Knowledge of Docker and Kubernetes frameworks.  ? Experienced on loading large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data and also performed importing and exporting data into HDFS and Hive using Sqoop  ? Hands on experience in working with Flume to load the log data from multiple sources directly into HDFS  ? Learning of new technologies that will allow for a more effective design and implementation  ? Intellectual capacity to grasp new situations quickly and problem solving skills  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal skills, proactive and a great team player along with a can do attitude. Work Experience Team Lead Asset Pricing March 2018 to Present Description:  This project involved adding features to the asset pricing application. This application enables the business to decide how various assets will be priced, how frequently based on global reform guideline requirements. Team followed DevOps model and I played critical role in all phases of implementing this project from development as well as business point of view. As part of implementation various java based micro services were created to perform ETL jobs. Created various schedulers to handle global requirements, java components/modules to enable the calculation of net asset values for different types of assets based on received prices. This was one of the most important projects due to its criticality and time bound nature. Worked extensively with portfolio managers and traders to help design and implement current views. This project helped develop relationships internally across various teams and functions such as risk & performance, compliance and operations etc    Roles & Responsibilities  • Ensured DevOps model is applied. Involved in the planning, analysis, design, implementation (development), documenting, testing, maintaining and support of the system.  • Worked extensively with portfolio managers and traders to help design and implement current views.  • Used Jira for tracking all the requirements.  • Used Agile and SCRUM Methodology.  • Created change management requests using ITSM and promoted Jenkins build to production environment using AIM.  • Provided direction and guidance to the team to overcome the impediments as and when required throughout the life cycle of the project.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing all major functionalities hosted by the application.  • Involved in thorough testing of all schedulers that are applicable to BAU working for PM's and Traders.  • Bitbucket and git were used for configuration management.  • Involved in branching and merging the source.  • Developed efficient test cases and test scripts using Mokito and Junit test pack which was used by the Testing team in SIT (System Integration Testing) phase and also in UAT phase.  • Supported the application as needed.    Environment: Spring IOC, AOP, Hibernate 3.0, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, XML, JDBC, Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse IDE, Perforce version control system, UML, JavaScript, Design Pattern DTO, session Facade, singleton, Front Controller, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre, Oracle 9i/10g, XML, AJAX, JMS, Apache Tomcat 6, Apache ANT, Squirrel 2.7, Pig Latin, Sqoop, Map reduce. Team Lead Asset Pricing March 2017 to February 2018 Description:  JPMC has several critical high availability applications. This trade reporting tool is one of them and is heavily used by Project Manager's and traders on daily basis for detailed portfolio analysis. Worked with portfolio managers and traders to help design and implement current views. Created enhancement proposal's for better performance and customer experience and delivered them successfully. DevOps model was used extensively for this project; I was sole responsible owner for this project.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in the planning, analysis, design, implementation (development), documenting, testing, maintaining and support of the system.  • Responsible for full life cycle of the application including hyper care and production support.  • Gathered User requirements and performed requirement analysis.  • Used Jira for tracking all the requirements.  • Used Agile and SCRUM Methodology.  • Involved in setup of windows server with cold fusion 9  • Created change management requests using ITSM and promoted Jenkins build to production environment using AIM.  • Provided direction and guidance to the team to overcome the impediments as and when required throughout the life cycle of the project.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing all major functionalities hosted by the application.  • Thoroughly involved in creation and deployment of stored procedures and Sybase SQL's to retrieve run time data.  • Involved in thorough testing of all schedulers that are applicable to BAU working for PM's and Traders.  • Involved in configuration management using Bitbucket and git.  • Involved in branching and merging the source.  • Developed efficient test cases and test scripts using Mokito and Junit test pack which was used by the Testing team in SIT (System Integration Testing) phase and also in UAT phase.  • Supported the application as needed.    Environment: Spring IOC, AOP, Hibernate 3.0, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, XML, JDBC, Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse IDE, Perforce version control system, UML, JavaScript, Design Pattern DTO, session Facade, singleton, Front Controller, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre, Oracle 9i/10g, XML, AJAX, JMS, Apache Tomcat 6, Apache ANT, Squirrel 2.7, Pig Latin, Sqoop, Map reduce. Team Lead DC migration - New York, NY April 2016 to March 2017 Description:  As part of DC migration I was responsible for smooth transitioning of two most critical CAF application from old to new data center. I was leading globally distributed team of 8 people located in Bangalore India, London England, and New york for this project and delivered it with no major issue reported by business during entire transition. We had a set of multiple servers in different data centers, configured load balancers to get low latency and better performance for these CAF applications. Heavily involved in various HA (High Availability) and SR (system Resiliency) along with disaster recovery management tests for this project.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in the planning, analysis, design, implementation (development), documenting, testing, maintaining and support of the system.  • Associated with the full life cycle of the application including hyper care and production support.  • Gathered User requirements and performed requirement analysis  • Used Agile and SCRUM Methodology.  • Set up new linux and windows server from scratch for critical application, installed all required libraries, jdk etc.  • Provided direction and guidance to the team to overcome the impediments as and when required throughout the life cycle of the project.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing all major functionalities hosted by critical applications on all set of servers in all related data centers.  • Involved in through testing of all schedulers that applicable to BAU working after migration and no business impact as it was one of the most critical application for JPMC.  • Used Hibernate for web application layer development.  • Used Design Patterns like DTO, Session Facade, MVC, Front Controller, Singleton etc for development.  • Implemented Java1.8 features by using with IntelliJ IDE.  • Involved in branching and merging the source.  • Developed efficient test cases and test scripts using Mokito and Junit test pack which was used by the Testing team in SIT (System Integration Testing) phase and also in UAT phase.  • Supported the application as needed.    Environment: Spring IOC, AOP, Hibernate 3.0, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, XML, JDBC, Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse IDE, Perforce version control system, UML, JavaScript, Design Pattern DTO, session Facade, singleton, Front Controller, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre, Oracle 9i/10g, XML, AJAX, JMS, Apache Tomcat 6, Apache ANT, Squirrel 2.7, Pig Latin, Sqoop, Map reduce. Designer and Team Lead ( Java, Big Data and Hadoop) Barclays May 2013 to November 2013 Client: Barclaycard  Description:  The Ecomm Account Services (AS) is the application that manages credit card accounts for all Barclaycard users, it interacts with mainframe through JMS to provide all card services like getting recent transactions, online statements, card balances, and making online payment. There might be customers who possess credit cards for both Barclaycard and American Express (AMEX), for such customers this project will provide a single platform to main account for both credit cards. This project required changes throughout Account Services project to incorporate AMEX card details, some of the major modules are allowing customer to register AMEX cards on Barclaycard account, displaying data on Account Summary page, changes to statement details etc.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in the planning, analysis, design, implementation (development), documenting, testing, maintaining and support of the system.  • Associated with the full life cycle of the application including production support.  • Gathered User requirements and performed requirement analysis, developed UML diagrams for representing the architecture  • Implemented by using Agile Methodology focusing on SCRUM.  • Identified the changes required in various business module to integrate new data from third party system.  • Delivered quality code using Java, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, PL/SQL to implement the service, process the business logic, load the data into Oracle, publish the progress of these services, results on the monitoring web page.  • Used Design Patterns for application architecture and design.  • Providing excellent technical support and consultation to resolve issues.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP ( Java Server Pages), Servlets, JDBC, and deployments in Web Logic App Server 8.1.  • Involved in parsing the XML files pushed into production server by the editorial team and presenting to the user.  • Integrated, configured and managed the Perforce as a source code management system and for Change control management.  • Involved in designing the front end of the application using JSP ( Java Server Pages), Java script, HTML, XML, XSD and XSL/XSLT.  • Used Hibernate for web application layer development.  • Used Design Patterns like DTO, Session Facade, MVC, Front Controller, Singleton etc for development.  • Implemented Java1.5 features by using with Eclipse 3.1 IDE  • Involved in branching and merging the source.  • Efficiently transferring bulk data between Apache Hadoop and structured data stores such as relational databases using Apache Sqoop.  • Using Apache Pig Latin scripts to automatically process a large volume of data sets in a parallel manner on a distributed environment.  • Using Hive-QL for querying and managing large data sets residing in distributed storage.  Developed Pig Scripts, Pig UDFs and Hive Scripts, Hive UDFs for analysing the data loaded in Hadoop from various data sources.  • Writing MapReduce Drivers, Mappers, and Reducers in Java, Saving Binary Data Using Sequence File and Avro Data Files. Creating custom components to manage complex data types.  • Writing Mappers and Reducers with the Streaming API  • Manage Hadoop jobs using Oozie workflow scheduler system for Map Reduce, Hive, Pig and Sqoop.  • Implemented Loggers by using Log4j and ANT for build scripts and application was deployed on AIX.  • Developed efficient test cases and test scripts using Mercury Quality centre which were used by the Testing team in SIT (System Integration Testing) phase and also in UAT phase.  • Supported the application whenever needed.    Environment: Spring IOC, AOP, Hibernate 3.0, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, XML, JDBC, Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse IDE, Perforce version control system, UML, JavaScript, Design Pattern DTO, session Facade, singleton, Front Controller, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre, Oracle 9i/10g, XML, AJAX, JMS, Apache Tomcat 6, Apache ANT, Squirrel 2.7, Pig Latin, Sqoop, Map reduce. Java/J2EE Developer Steria July 2012 to May 2013 Client: Barclaycard  Description:  GOLF (Global Online Application Form) - instant credit is online application project where customer can apply for special Barclaycard product which instantly offers part of their credit to use for online shopping rather than waiting for plastic to arrive after 5-7 days of application. Third party decision engine will be used for instant decision and calculating how much instant credit should be given to customer based on his/her eligibility and other decision criteria's.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in the planning, analysis, design, implementation (development), documenting, testing, maintaining and support of the system.  • Associated with the full life cycle of the application including production support.  • Gathered User requirements and performed requirement analysis, developed UML diagrams for representing the architecture  • Created the technical design documents and test scripts adhering to quality control standards.  • Developed User Interface to communicate with thrid party systems.  • Delivered bug free code using Java, JSP, Struts, Web Services, PL/SQL to implement the service, process the business logic, load the data into Oracle, publish the progress of these services, results on the monitoring web page.  • Used Design Patterns for application architecture and design.  • Providing excellent technical support and consultation to resolve issues.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP ( Java Server Pages), Servlets, JDBC, and deployments in Web Logic App Server 8.1.  • Involved in parsing the XML files pushed into production server by the editorial team and presenting to the user.  • Integrated, configured and managed the Perforce as a source code management system and for Change control management.  • Involved in designing the front end of the application using JSP ( Java Server Pages), Java script, HTML, XML, XSD and XSL/XSLT.  • Used Hibernate for web application layer development.  • Used Design Patterns like DTO, Session Facade, MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, etc for development.    Environment: Spring IOC, AOP, Hibernate 3.0, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, XML, JDBC, Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse IDE, Perforce version control system, UML, JavaScript, Design Pattern DTO, session Facade, singleton, Front Controller, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre, Oracle 9i/10g, XML, AJAX, JMS, Apache Tomcat 6, Apache ANT, Squirrel 2.7. Java/J2EE Developer Steria July 2008 to July 2012 Client: Barclaycard  Description:  GOLF (Global Online Application Form) is online application that can be used by the user to apply for Barclaycard products. Instant decision will be given to customer within 60 sec to tell whether they are accepted for product they applied, are eligible for upgrade or decline. Third party decision engine will be used for this purpose.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in the planning, analysis, design, implementation (development), documenting, testing, maintaining and support of the system.  • Associated with the full life cycle of the application including production support.  • Gathered User requirements and performed requirement analysis, developed UML diagrams for representing the architecture  • Evaluation of new technologies and products for technical compatibility.  • Used Design Patterns for application architecture and design.  • Providing excellent technical support and consultation to resolve issues.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP ( Java Server Pages), Servlets, JDBC, and deployments in Web Logic App Server 8.1.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, XML, JDBC, Struts MVC, Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Perforce, UML, JavaScript, Design Pattern DTO, session Facade, singleton, Front Controller, ANT, Log4j. Java Developer Ecomm AS September 2005 to July 2008 Client: Barclaycard  Description:  The Ecomm Account Services (AS) is the application that manages credit card accounts for all Barclaycard users, it interacts with mainframe through JMS to provide all card services like getting recent transactions, online statements, card balances, and making online payment.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in the design and UI development of Presentation Tier using JSP, Servlets, JSP, Taglibs, HTML and JavaScript.  • Development of middle layer in Java and Servlets.  • Implemented database interactions using JDBC.  • Involved in creation of tables, inserting data as per business requirements.  • Finding reusable components.  • Involved in Unit and Integration Testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, JDBC, Struts MVC, Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Perforce, UML, JavaScript.    AWARDS AND APPRECIATION  ? Received 'Star Performer' trophy and number of 'Pat on the back' awards for excellent work  ? Honoured several with client appreciation emails Education Bachelor's Degree in Engineering in Computer Science Govt. College Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-ws, Jms, Jsp, Servlets, Wsad, Db2, Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Big Data Technologies: HDFS, Hive, Map Reduce, Pig, Sqoop, Oozie, Zookeeper, YARN, Avro, Spark, Scripting Languages Shell, Python  Programming Languages: Java/J2EE, C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Front End Technologies: React, HTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, Servlets, JSP  Java Frameworks: Docker, Kubernetes, MVC, Apache Struts1.1, Spring and Hibernate  Web Services: SOAP (JAX-WS), WSDL, SOA, Restful (JAX-RS), JMS  Application Server: Apache Tomcat, WebLogic Server, WebSphere  Databases: Oracle 11g, MySQL, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, Squirrel 2.7  NoSQL Databases: HBase  IDE: Intellij, Eclipse 3.4.2, WSAD, RAD  Deployment Tools: ANT, Maven  Version Control: Perforce, SNV  Testing / Logging Tools: Mercury Quality Centre, Junit, log4j  RDBMS: Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, MS Access, MS SQL Server, PL/SQL  Operating Systems: Linux, UNIX, Windows NT / 98 /2000/ XP / Vista, Windows 7 and 8  Networks: HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, UDP, TCP/TP, SMTP.