J2EE Senior Java Developer J2EE Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> J2EE Senior Java Developer Union City, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience J2EE Senior Java Developer Kaiser Permanente IT (Insight Global) - Pleasanton, CA January 2019 to June 2019 MDFA Project:  Updated server-side REST/SOAP application called by pharmacy patients to self-check-in and select prescriptions for fulfillment. Optimization was required in order to scale offering to a wider audience.  • Migrated large monolithic application into smaller service-based components.  • Reduced number of requests to critical service from three to one.  • Refactored and modernized code base using SOLID principles.  • Spring Boot, Spring Framework, Spring Batch. Spring JPA. Java 8. Java Developer, IT Department Autodesk, Inc - San Francisco, CA 2006 to 2018 Continuous Delivery' Web Application Project:  • Created an in-house continuous delivery web application for developers to submit 'subdoc' (submission document) for communicating User Story code changes and for automated artifact deployment to Acceptance Testing environment.  • Provided auditable, single-source-of-truth platform, for generating metrics and reporting on all code changes made to Staging and Production environments.  • Created using Java 8 and open-source libraries with MS SQL Server backend.  Web front-end: ZK, Object/Relational Mapping: Hibernate ORM, Caching: Ehcache; Apache Tomcat, Autha and Authc: Apache Shiro and MS Active Directory, Apache HttpComponents, and numerous libraries from Apache Commons.  • Integrated with Jira, Git, Jenkins, and SharePoint, using secure REST APIs.  • Ran on AWS EC2 server, using RDS backend.  Salesforce Configuration Migration Tool Project:  • Created a web application for migrating SaaS configurations from one Salesforce environment to another, saving Autodesk operations team many countless hours of manual effort.  • Application programmatically logged on to both source and target Salesforce websites using headless browser Java framework. Programmatically collected configuration from source and copied values to target.  • Drastically reduced amount of time for Salesforce operations team to push changes to production environment.  DevOps Related:  • Introduced Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery processes to Autodesk IT department.  • Architected and implemented Jenkins continuous integration instances, saving countless hours of manual effort while assuring repeatable, auditable, and tested delivery of high-quality software.  Jenkins automations for Middleware, ERM, CRM, Data Warehousing, and other business applications, including: TIBCO, SAP, Salesforce, Siebel, Informatica, QlikView, Java, Node.js, Python, and Ruby applications.  • Automated deployment to both on-premise and in-cloud (AWS) infrastructure. Autodesk, Inc 1997 to 2018 Java Developer, Subscription Services Team Autodesk, Inc - San Rafael, CA 2001 to 2006 AutoCAD product value-add by embedding internet-based features.    AutoCAD / Internet Feature - DesignCenter Online:  • In-product, web-based feature; allowed AutoCAD drafters to drag-and-drop symbols (chairs, tables, windows, scaffolding) directly from internet into current drawing.  • Designed and implemented frontend using innovative JavaScript interface.  • Symbols searchable by industry and function, presented in folder structure and content layout.  • AJAX based, 'Object-oriented' JavaScript design - reacted like a desktop product (no full-page refreshes).    AutoCAD In-product Web Portal:  • Web portal embedded within AutoCAD vertical products.  • Portal provided industry-specific information to AutoCAD user, including news and drafting tips-and-tricks.  • Presented user entitlement information based on license information sent from product.  • Worked on all aspects of this portal, including authentication and authorization modules, processing XML news feeds into viewable content.  • J2EE back-end on WebLogic with Oracle database. MVC architecture. Test Automations Engineer, AutoCAD 2000 Autodesk, Inc - San Rafael, CA 1997 to 2001 Hired to help test AutoCAD 2000. Used Auto-LISP extensively to automate testing of many new features. Education Bachelor of Science College of Engineering, University of California, Berkeley - Berkeley, CA Skills Hibernate, JSP, Java J2Ee, MVC, J2Ee, Java, Spring, Javascript, AWS, Soap, Rest, Core Java, JEE Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholasdierauf Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate October 2018 to October 2021 https://www.certmetrics.com/amazon/public/transcript.aspx?transcript=69B5QGX1KN1QQTK8 Certified Jenkins Engineer August 2017 to Present https://certificates.cloudbees.com/oiga4eqa/sso?code=8043