Technical Lead Technical Lead Technical Lead - PepsiCo Plano, TX • Over 15+ Years of IT experience in analysis, design, and implementation and testing of various Client/Server Applications, Web Based Applications using Java, J2EE Technologies, Object oriented programming Concepts and Database administration  • Extensively worked with Ecommerce and Banking domain with good knowledge of developing complex projects and good management skills of the deliverables.  • Have excellent exposure to all stages of Software development Life Cycle and proficient with CMMi level processes.  • Experience in ant, maven ,Jenkins and Bit bucket  • Experience in Cybersource, Elavon, Smartclicx and OneSource  • Knowledge on Channel Advisor process  • Knowledge on Endeca (Search tool) and Oracle Workbench  • Experienced in Core Java , Struts and Spring Frame Work  • Proficient in J2EE components such as Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans ,struts and Hibernate  • Experience in writing database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, and PL/SQL packages for Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Expertise in developing the custom XML/JSON parsers and message services and queuing systems using Jaxb, Jettison, JMS and IBM MQ.  • Extensive experience in UNIX, LINUX and Windows.  • Project/Program Management work involving Point of Sale Integrations, Compliance, , Supply Chain and Retail  • Experienced in Elastic Path, Core Java 1.7 , Java/J2EE,Spring MVC, REST Web services, AWS Cloud, Spring Boot DB2, Maven, Git ,Bit Bucket ,Jenkins and UNIX shell scripts  • Experienced in Agile Framework and SAFE frame work  • Experienced in Rest and Soap frameworks  • Experienced AWS tools (EC2boxes, Lambda, Dynamo Db , Code deploy and Step functions)  • Experienced in Micro Services.  • Ability and desire to learn new tools and technologies  • Experience with Ajax, XML, XSLT a plus  • Experienced in ecommerce Domain worked for Kohls ,Belk.com ,Trimble.com and PepsiCo clients    Experienced in eCommerce Frameworks  1) Blue Martini  2) Elastic Path(EP)  3) Spring Frame work  4) Sprint Boot /Spring Batch  5) SAFE Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Technical Lead PepsiCo - Plano, TX January 2019 to Present Description:  The scope of "eCommerce Channel advisor integration Power of Program" project, is to automate and integrate orders from eCommerce third party market place 3PL (e-Retailers & Consumers - Amazon, eBay etc.) from Channel Advisor to PepsiCo SAP ECC system. Integration will include completed/Non-live as well as Live orders flowing from channel advisor. Ability to interface live and non-live order from channel advisor or eCommerce HUB. Ability to make order changes as well as cancellations for live orders once created in SAP.  Once customer placed an order in different marketing sites those orders are called as Live Orders and all orders are routed to SAP through Power of One project. Once SAP receives the Live orders fulfill those orders and posted to CA using power of program. Like Shipment Notifications all inventory are also posting using power of project.  As part of this project , we are implementing the split order future based on Order type in order response from Channel Advisor    As a Tech lead, I am responsible for    1) Implement the Integration with Channel Advisor(CA)  2) Implement Integration with SAP and XI  3) Experienced in Cloud Foundry (PCF)  4) Implementation of CI/CD Pipeline Using Concourse  5) Involved in Fortify scan integration  6) Experienced in PCF and Azure  7) Assist the team members in the Technical & domain related queries  8) Involved in Peer testing and end to end execution of project  9) Work on Enhancement as result the for production fix.  10) Involved in post-production deployment and support in case of production issues  11) Develop the microservices to perform variety of services Ex: Order ,Inventory, Product , Split Order  12) Integration with Elk/Kibana for logging  13) Experienced in Power BI for Reporting  14) Implemented services using node js    Environment: Spring Batch, Spring boot ,Node js , Cloud Foundry (PCF) , CI/CD Pipeline implementation , Azure, Fortify Scan ,SonarQube,VSTS ,Bit bucket ,GIT ,Elk, Kibana , Kafka, MSSQL , Couch DB ,Microservices , Couch base , Agile ,XML and SOAP and SAFE Technical Lead Trimble Navigation December 2016 to January 2019 Description:  Trimble is a leading provider of advanced location-based solutions that maximize productivity and enhance profitability. The Company integrates its positioning expertise in GPS, laser, optical and inertial technologies with application software, wireless communications, and services to provide complete commercial solutions. Trimble serves a variety of industries including agriculture, engineering and construction, transportation and wireless communications infrastructure. The Company's portfolio of over 1,200 patents is the basis for the broadest positioning solutions portfolio in the industry.    We started working on preparing the B2B platform for selling subscriptions and managing licenses using Elastic Path frame work.    As a Tech lead/I.T Project manager , I am responsible for:    1) Own the Responsibility of the overall sprint or iteration outcome  2) Use project's best practices and coding standards  3) Prepare and help team to prepare the design; should have a very good understanding of the project architecture  4) Coding and unit testing including JUnits  5) Conduct peer review and provide feedback  6) Remove the technical impediments  7) Update regular associates RAG (Red, Amber, Green) status; discuss the Red cases on the immediate basis with the project manager to help the manager in the attrition management  8) Interface between team and management  9) Write quality code, set an example of quality in front of the team members  10) Provide the road maps to team and make sure the delivery  11) Proactive implementation of Dev ops  12) Assist the team members in the Technical & domain related queries  13) Involved in Peer testing and end to end execution of project  14) Work on Enhancement as result the for production fix.  15) We have used Micro services to implement the separate services like Account Service, EMS (Entitlement Management system) and FCH (Fusion Commerce Hub) applications  16) We have used the Micro services to implement the Separate testing tool using spring boot application  17) Report the status with alarms, explanations and solutions;  • Promptly escalate issues to the reporting manager  • Track and resolve issues    Environment: Elastic Path Frame Work, Micro Services ,REST APIs, AWS Cloud (EC2boxes, Lambda , Dynamo Db , Code deploy and Step functions), ARIA billing Engine , Cyber Source, vertex , and Safenet applications XML , Oracle , Splunk and Sumo Logic Technical Lead BELK, Charlotte March 2010 to December 2016 Date    Description:  Belk, Inc., a private department store company based in Charlotte, N.C., is the home of Modern. Southern. Style. with 293 Belk stores located in 16 Southern states and a growing digital presence. Belk is a portfolio company of Sycamore Partners, a private equity firm based in New York. Belk and www.belk.com offer a wide assortment of national brands and private label fashion apparel, shoes and accessories for the entire family along with top name cosmetics, a wedding registry and a large selection of quality merchandise for the home.    Belk offers many ways to connect via digital and social media, including Facebook , Pinterest, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube and Google Plus, and provides exclusive offers, fashion updates, sales notifications and coupons via email or mobile phone text messages. Customers can also download the latest Belk mobile apps for the iPad, iPhone or Android.    As a Tech Lead, I am responsible for:    • Performed complete application life cycle functions (SDLC) from conception to final release to users including design & analysis, Implementation, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.  • Prepared the LLD using Microsoft Visio to record the requirements as is and cover the assumptions that we have with the upstream and downstream to be in agreement  • Interacted with business analysts and end users in gathering requirements.  • Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using MS Visio.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring MVC and Blue Martini Framework  • Development of UI's with the help of Struts UI Tags  • Reviewed the modules developed by offshore team to make sure code is reflecting the LLD and code standards/best practices are followed  • Monitored the production logs in Splunk/introscope during the warranty period and took care of fixing the high severity issues in the expected SLA.  • Managed E Commerce projects by building storefront solutions and setting up payment gateway    • Created and maintained customer service training program for 20 off-shore contact center agents to deliver a unified, global customer support experience    • Provide the road maps to team and make sure the delivery    • Proactive implementation of Dev ops    Environment  Core Java, Java/J2EE,Spring MVC, Blue Martini , Micro Services ,REST APIs, Jax-RS Web services, JAX-WS, Spring framework,DB2,Sybase, IBM MQ, Splunk, JMS, MS Visio, , Introscope, Azul,Gomez,Dynatrace , IBM Websphere, Putty, SSH Techia, Maven,Git ,Bit Bucket ,Jenkins and UNIX shell scripts. Sr Java Lead Kohls March 2008 to January 2010 Description:  Kohl's Corporation is an American departmental store offers a wide range of products through Departmental Stores, Online, Call centers and through E-Mails. Goal is to provide customers with a streamlined, efficient and world class personalized shopping experience, which will be supported with the best-of-breed technology platform    As a Tech Lead, I am responsible for:    • Performed complete application life cycle functions (SDLC) from conception to final release to users including design & analysis, Implementation, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.  • Prepared the LLD using Microsoft Visio to record the requirements as is and cover the assumptions that we have with the upstream and downstream to be in agreement  • Interacted with business analysts and end users in gathering requirements.  • Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using MS Visio.  • Monitored the production logs in Splunk/introscope during the warranty period and took care of fixing the high severity issues in the expected SLA.  • Involved in writing and reviewing Unit Test using JUNIT and Mockito.  • We have used Micro services to implement the review rating application    Environment  Core Java, Java/J2EE,Spring MVC, Blue Martini , Jax-RS Web services, JAX-WS, Spring framework,DB2,Sybase, IBM MQ, Splunk, JMS, MS Visio, , Introscope, Azul,Gomez,Dynatrace , IBM Websphere, Putty, SSH Techia, Maven,Git ,Bit Bucket ,Jenkins and UNIX shell scripts. Java Lead SRAS March 2006 to January 2008 Client: SUN    Description:  Risk Analysis is a methodology comprised of tools, technologies, quantitative indices, and business processes, used to identify and prioritize all components of risk in a customer data center. With the Risk Analysis methodology, we can identify, assess, quantify, and recommend mitigation for data center risks faced by our customers and field services employees.    As a Lead, I am responsible for:    • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Develop and Implement the application using J2EE technology  • Translated business requirements into detailed design.  • Developed xml schemas and WSDL documents by understanding the business requirements.  • Participate in Code, Analysis, and Test Plan Reviews  • Involved in preparing test cases for System Testing and User Acceptance Testing  • Actively involved in production support, fixing the problem and provide appropriate documentation describing the root cause of the problem, actions taken to rectify etc.  • Involved in fixing the SIT and UAT issues. Java Developer SHINSEI BANK - JP August 2004 to February 2006 Environment: Core Java, JSP, SERVLET and EJB    Description:  Orbi Invest provides Branch and Internet platform for High Net Worth (HNW) Retail customers of Shinsei Bank with the Stand-In acting as the base.It is an integrated portfolio management system managing retail Investments in mutual funds, equities, bonds and warrants.    As a Developer, I am responsible for:    Involved in analysis , Design , Coding and Testing in the following modules    1. Account Operations.  2. Making The Subscription (Buy) / Redemption (Sell) Orders.  3. Authorizing the Orders  4. Responsible for all the Deployment and code drops in different environments. Purchase Officer , Purchase Approval Cost-Center Management and Catalog Management February 2003 to August 2004 Project name: OilPalmWorld(OPW) - Malaysia 2003 Feb to 2004 August    Description:  The OilPalmWorld (OPW) project builds an independent e-Procurement product that can automate the traditional business procurement processes. The present phase is intended to develop the core engine of e-procurement. The scope includes the following modules:  Requisitioning, Requisition Approvals, Creation Of Preferred List, Creation Of Requisition Basket , Purchase Officer , Purchase Approval , Cost-Center Management and Catalog Management.    As a Team member , I am responsible for:    1. Preparing the Preferred list with selected items.  • Creating the requisition Basket with selected items from preferred list.  • Making the requisition from requisition basket.  • Creating the items those are supplied by each supplier.  • Creating the Preferred Catalog and open Catalog Items.  • Implemented Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architected Education Master's