Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Washington, DC To pursue a senior Java developer/architect position in a challenging environment. Work Experience Java Developer Devine Consulting - Arlington, VA November 2017 to Present Worked on DOD Continuous Evaluation project as subcontractor to GCE at DMDC. Developed microservice to support automated records checks requests using Java 8, Angular 6, Spring MVC/REST, Spring Batch, Spring Data, SOAP/CXF, MongoDB, Oracle, and Git. Sr Info Services Developer DXC Technology - Alexandria, EG April 2017 to November 2017 Converted from subcontract to permanent with DXC (formerly HPES). Developed portlet front end using AngularJS 1.6, HTML5/CSS, and JQuery. Sr Info Services Developer Apex Systems - HPES Subcontractor - Seaside, CA June 2014 to April 2017 Provides development of user interface to access military service records using HTM5/CSS3, AngularJS. KnockoutJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Java, Spring MVC, JPA, REST Web Services with Oracle.    Maintain and enhance SOAP Web Services.    Created prototype of NoSQL data mart solution using CouchDB/ElasticSearch. Develop Sharepoint 2010 web parts for internal use. Software Engineer 22nd Century Technologies - Monterey, CA May 2013 to May 2014 Refactored C# .NET backend to move from Microsoft WCF to new WebAPI RESTful services Architecture for the DLI student management system. Updated Liferay 6.2 portlet (student registration app) to connect to the REST service. Fixed and maintained Liferay front-end code (JSP and JQuery). Configure roles and permission within the portal. Also updated a VB application to connect to the REST service.    Implemented single sign-on for Sakai Learning Management Systems with OpenSSO/OpenAM, and also Sharepoint 2013 with OpenAM in the development environment. Tested migration of OpenAM from Windows to Linux CentOS.    Took part in major student database migration to a new network. Inventoried SQL Server database tables, procedures and other artifacts that needed to be migrated. Set up development VM in VSphere/Vcloud to create development/testing environment for migration team. Administer Active Directory, SQL Server databases and Windows Servers for development environment. Advanced Software Engineer General Dynamics - Fairfax, VA August 2008 to May 2013 Developed J2EE web-based applications that allowed analysts to analyze data collected from various sources. Led migration of existing in-house web applications to the Spring platform. Developed back end DAO layer in IBatis and JDBC. Developed front end user interface using JSP, JSF, Richfaces, AJAX, JQuery and CSS. Mentored junior developers and helped transition developers to new technology. Installed Subversion for configuration management and Hudson for continuous integration.    Developed a search tool for a survey application using Javascript, Struts 1.2, Spring, JDBC and Oracle PL/SQL    Worked on maintenance of a document search and retrieval web application. Technologies included JSP/JSTL, JQuery, Spring MVC, IBatis, Oracle, and REST services.    Responsible for day to day operation of Apache SOLR/Lucene text search engine that indexed millions of documents. Developed RESTful web services in Jersey/JAX-RS to manage SOLR backend and implemented JMS queue for SOLR indexing. Rewrote Oracle text search procedure to use more efficient SOLR queries. Senior Java Engineer SAIC - Alexandria, VA October 2007 to August 2008 Provided software development on a J2EE project to develop a web-based tool for military planning. Developed workflow UI using JSP/JSF/ADF framework. Write Java beans to access the data layer (Hibernate/MS SQL Server). Write code format data in XML to be used for a DHTML tree. Develop code to support AJAX requests for user interface. Generate a parser to handle custom query in web services. Engineer Raytheon Virtual Technology Corporation - Seoul, KR May 2006 to September 2007 Performed software development on a J2EE project to develop a web-based tool for military planning. Developed workflow UI using JSP/JSF/ADF framework. Wrote JSF beans to access the data layer (Hibernate/MS SQL Server). Wrote code that formats data into XML to be used for a DHTML tree. Perform database tasks to help in data migration. Assisted in initial checkout of application before delivery. Provided technical support to on-site customer. Engineer Northrop Grumman Mission Systems - Redondo Beach, CA January 2001 to April 2006 Performed software development for an embedded hand held radio terminal system. Responsible for the OO design of three different subcomponents and helped refined the initial architecture. Developed C++ code for Green Hills Integrity RTOS. Developed unit tests for embedded code on Sun Unix using gcc and CC compilers. Implemented interfaces to other components using CORBA. Utillized XML to integrate software based on Software Component Architecture(SCA). Develop tools for Clearcase CM in Java/Swing and Perl to support development and testing.    Develop web applications for internal organization using Java WebObjects. The web applications allow managers to manage departmental home pages, upload file resources, and view employee information. Develop a prototype to retrieve employee information from LDAP using JNDI.    Develop code in C++ to integrate COTS middleware messaging product into an operational system on Sun Solaris. Design and develop GUI components in X-Windows/Motif using builder tool Accessory Builder (BX). Provide software maintenance and bug fixes for operational product. Configure and maintain COTS products. Travel to customer site to install system and train site developers and users.    Perform software integration testing for a large project. Create test plans and procedures for formal tests. Develop and execute automated tests using Segue software. Configure and maintain software test environment. Report and track software defects. Develop Perl and shell scripts for test procedures. Maintain test files using CM tool. Participate in reviews and walkthrough to ensure testing quality. Consultant Cap Gemini Ernst & Young - Vienna, VA June 2000 to October 2000 Perform data conversion tasks for startup client. Set up user laptop computer and network account. Research and develop proposals for new contract. Applications Software Engineer Lockheed Martin Management & Data Systems - Reston, VA March 1999 to June 2000 Develop Web-based applications that support system engineering and project management for customer and internal use.    Generate CGI scripts for dynamic web pages to access Oracle database using Perl, HTML, JavaScript, and SQL. Customize look and feel of web interface.    Develop server-side components on Apple WebObjects application server using Java, Objective-C Enterprise Object Framework(object-oriented database API).    Perform database tasks on Oracle such as creating database tables, indexes, sequences, and ensure data integrity. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD December 1998 Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, Jboss, Jsf, Struts, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Angularjs, Objective-c, Sharepoint, Tomcat, Webobjects, .net, Visual studio, C#, C/c++, C++ Additional Information SKILLS  Languages: Java, C/C++, C#, Objective-C, Perl, Python, SQL, HTML, XML, Visual Basic  Operating Systems: Sun Solaris, SGI, HP-UX, Centos/Red Hat Linux, Windows, Mac OS X, Integrity OS, VxWorks  Applications & Packages:, Spring, AngularJS, Struts, JSF, Eclipse, JDeveloper, Git, Subversion, Ant, Tomcat, Glassfish, JBoss, Maven, MongoDB, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Apple WebObjects, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Office, Sharepoint, Visual Studio, .NET, VMWare