Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Administrator Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator - Allscripts Health Care LLC Raleigh, NC • Around 8 years of IT experience in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement engineering, development, enhancements, testing, and maintenance of Multi-tier, web-based, and portals based object oriented enterprise applications.  • Extensively worked on various SFDC standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Leads, Campaigns, Cases, Solutions, Reports and Dashboards.  • Experience with Service Cloud and Sales Cloud Functionalities.  • Experience in developing Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes for Automated alerts, new Tasks, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Salesforce Admin/ Developer with 6 years of experience in configuration, Customization, Implementation, Data Migration and Support of Salesforce CRM.  • Expert in customizing standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns as per client's need.  • Process knowledge of CRM processes like Sales, Marketing, customer service and customer support, Business processes and recommended solutions to improve their processes using Salesforce.com.    • Experienced in Client-Server application development using Oracle 10g/9i/8i, PL/SQL, TOAD and SQL*LOADER.  • Expert in generating and analyzing custom reports and dashboard for management and various business unit personnel to provide detail information on key performance indicators.  • Interact with the offshore team, coordinate with development efforts and get the status update on Development items and Bug Fixing.  • Administered and Configured the TFS with in multi -platform environments.  • Worked extensively in customization of Service Cloud Console by embedding Visualforce pages in custom console components, highlight panel and interaction log.  • Worked on setting up and implementing Live agent and Service console.  • Experienced in Data Migration using Apex Data Loader and Integration with third Party Tools.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Experience in developing the presentation layer in Visual force and business logic in the Apex by creating/using the Classes, Triggers, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, Controller Extensions, S-Controllers, Web Services API and Eclipse Force.com IDE Plug-in.  • Experience in SOQL, SOSL.  • Experienced in deploying the AppExchange applications and integrating with third party applications and developing the Big Machines.  • Good command over designing & developing dynamic web content using Java/J2EE, JSP, Ajax, HTML, XML, JavaScript & other web development tools/technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Allscripts Health Care LLC - Raleigh, NC January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed several APEX triggers, classes, Visual Force pages for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Visualforce Email templates and also automated Email process to send installation instructions to new and existing customers.  • Coordinated with offshore technical team members at different locations.  • Interact with the offshore team, coordinate with development efforts and get the status update on Development items and Bug Fixing.  • Interacted with various team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Worked and Developed Custom portals, partner portal.  • Implemented SSO for custom portal users to login into the salesforce using 3rd party applications.  • Used Apex Data Loader for Insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesoforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV), implanted Automation of their loads.  • Created Database Health Scorecard to visually analyze the health and integrity of the Marketo database.  • Handling Service desk tickets for all types of salesforce.com and integration requests.  • Worked on Batch Apex, Schedule Apex Jobs.  • Debugged and fixed several defects or configuration issues raised by UAT.  • Deployed to SIT, UAT sandboxes and production using change sets.  • Created Test Cases, Scenarios on analyzing requirements at each phase of testing in SIT, UAT and verified & validated in QC.  • Working on Release Management, Case Management, and Deployments.  • Created Ant Scripts for deployment changes from Sandbox to Production.  • Involved in Refreshing Sand boxes (Full, Config only and Development).  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on regular basis.  • Implemented Service Cloud including: Service Console, Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, Knowledge Base and Entitlements.  • Worked on setting up and implementing Live agent and service console.  • Created Skills set for implementing Live Agent pre-chat forms.  • Worked extensively in customization of Service Cloud Console by embedding Visualforce pages in custom console components, highlight panel and interaction log.    Environment: Apex, Visual force, S-Controls, Force.com IDE, Exact target, JQuery, SOQL, SOSL, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, Apex data loader, CA Service Desk, Live Agent/ Service Console, Workbench, Click tools, Marketo, Oracle 9i, MS office 2003, Oracle 10g/9i, TOAD 8.0. Sr. Salesforce Developer HCA Health Care - Nashville, TN October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects.  • Responsible for understanding the data migrating requirements and analyze data to be loaded from legacy systems to Salesforce.com.  • Used Apex Data Loader for Insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesoforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV), implanted Automation of their loads.  • Designed and developed workflow rules, validation rules, and customizations within SalesForce.com.  • Worked on Batch Apex, Schedule Apex Jobs.  • Debugged and fixed several defects or configuration issues raised by UAT.  • Deployed to SIT, UAT sandboxes and production using change sets.  • Created Test Cases, Scenarios on analyzing requirements at each phase of testing in SIT, UAT and verified & validated in QC.  • Involved in requirements gathering with multiple project managers, in an effort to better customize, and utilize the full functionality of the Salesforce.com CRM solution.  • Working with web services API.  • Written SOQL queries against force.com API.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE plug to develop the classes and triggers.  • Used the sandbox for testing to ensure minimum code coverage for the application to be migrated to production.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to Salesforce.com Objects and fields.  • Working on Release Management, Case Management, and Deployments.  • Administered and Configured the TFS with in multi -platform environments.    Environment: Apex, Visual force, S-Controls, Eclipse, Force.com IDE Plug In, Exact target, JQuery, SOQL, SOSL, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, Apex data loader, CA Service Desk, Live Agent/ Service Console, Workbench, Click tools, TFS , Oracle 9i, MS office 2003. Sr. Salesforce Developer McGraw-Hill Education - Columbus, OH May 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created custom links on the page layout using html S-control.  • Developed APEX triggers, classes, Visual Force pages.  • Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries for new enhancement in the application using TOAD.  • Involved in creating UNIX shell Scripting. Defragmentation of tables, partitioning, compressing and indexes for improved performance and efficiency. Involved in table redesigning with implementation of Partitions Table and Partition Indexes to make Database Faster and easier to maintain.  • Good working experience in querying salesforce.com database using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com explorer.  • Worked on field definitions and data mapping with mapping source data to the SalesForce application.  • Created summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts and Dashboards to assist the business team.  • Developed custom Workflows and Assignment Rules.  • Worked on role hierarchy & sharing rules to configure visibility  • Extensive experience Creating Roles, Profiles, Email Services, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts, Actions, and Approval Workflow.  • Developed Apex Before Insert, Before Update, After Insert and After Update Triggers.  • Experienced to maintain, enhance and create workflows and validation rules.  • Prepared training material and trained salesforce.com business users.  • Migrated data from MS Excel / CSV files to SFDC using Data Loader.  • Extracted data and developed scripts for loading data into the SalesForce application.  • Trained developers for understanding and subsequent support for the system.    Environment: Apex, Visual force, S-Controls, Force.com IDE, Exact target, JQuery, SOQL, SOSL, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, Apex data loader, Oracle 9i, MS office 2003, Oracle 10g/9i, TOAD 8.0. Salesforce Developer Corning Inc - Corning, NY May 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects and Custom objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Designed various WebPages in Visual Force for implementing Business requirements on Accounts and Opportunities  • Integrated Oracle with Salesforce using WebServices API. Have built Integration programs to bring nightly data from oracle to Salesforce.  • Involved in SDLC gathering requirements from end users. Developed views to facilitate easy interface implementation and enforce security on critical customer information.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs of the application.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields.  • Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts depending upon user roles, and groups.    Environment: Salesforce.com Enterprise Edition, Pages, Data Loader, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs,  Security Controls, Data Management, Profiles, Page Layout, Validation Rules. Business Analyst and Salesforce Admin National Grid GDFO May 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects and Custom objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Implemented case automation to track and solve customer's issues. This helped to form a common platform to address Business Users issues.  • Minimized the custom code by using the standard configurations such as WorkFlows, Validation Rules, Auto Response Rules.  • Worked extensively on Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities and other standard objects and additional fields, layouts and record types for custom objects.  • Data modeled the Salesforce Application of Ricoh by using Lookup and Master detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity where ever required.  • Worked on Roles, Profile, Access settings, Page Layout features of Salesforce platform.  • Performed Deployment activities using ChangeSets and Eclipse IDE.  • Prepared functional requirement and design documents.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com Sites, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Marketo, Demand Tools, Workbench. Java Developer New York, NY November 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Applications for Kodak Ireland, Czech Republic, Turkey, Hungary and Netherlands using JSP and Servlets.  • Developed user interface screens using HTML and CSS.  • Implemented Language Translations for Vodafone Hungary.  • Worked on SSO for Vodafone Turkey.  • Weblogic Server Installation and Configuration  • User Domain Creation, Configuring JDBC Resources, JMS Modules, JMS Servers and Foreign Servers  • Configuration of Application Notifications, SMTP Access and Batch Reports  • Configuration of HTTPS, SSL and other security features  • Database setup for E-Billing 6.0.4 which includes E-Billing database installation, Oracle 11g release 2 installation, OWB installation and configuration.  • Bill feed data analysis and bill feed through OWB  • Weblogic Server Administration  • Server Troubleshooting  • Requirement analysis and Use-case preparation for E-Billing 6.0.4 and E-Billing 6.0.2  • Preparation of application use-cases for Customer Service Representative module of E-Billing 6.0.4    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSF, JSP, MySQL, XML, Web services, Hibernate, Web sphere 6.1, Eclipse, JUnit, Oracle E-billing 6.0.2, 6.0.3, 6.0.4, Weblogic 10.0 mp1, Weblogic 10.3, OWB 11g, OWB 11gR2, RHEL 5.7, Solaris Java Developer Accolite - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2008 to October 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering.  • Followed the Agile methodology for development of application.  • Involved in designing the application architecture.  • Extensively involved in the development of JSF screens.  • Developed the presentation layer in JSF using components like Input, Output, Command, Selections and Data table.  • Extensively involved in the development of PL/SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages.  • Developed ManagedBeans required for the JSF pages.  • Developed the code for JSF event handling.  • Worked on the validations part of JSF.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection.  • Developed the Session Beans.  • Developed ANT required for the project.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using the ORM framework in Hibernate.  • Developed the AJAX code for dynamic population of values to the screen without having to reload the screen.  • Developed a JAX-WS Webservice to expose business methods for other applications.  • Used Java WSDP for developing Webservices for the application.  • Developed the Javascript code.  • Configured the CVS for the project.  • Setup the testing environment for the project.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, J2SDK1.5, Core JAVA, J2EE, EJB 3.0, JSP, JSF, XML, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Eclipse WTP, Weblogic, WebSphere, Ant, Unix, and CVS. Education Bachelor's Skills ORACLE (8 years), ECLIPSE (7 years), APEX (6 years), FORCE.COM (6 years), SALESFORCE.COM (6 years), Apex, Visual force, S-Controls, Force.com IDE, Exact target, JQuery, SOQL,SOSL, HTML,CSS, XML, XSL, Apex data loader, CA Service Desk, Live Agent/ Service Console, Workbench, Click tools, Marketo, Oracle 9i, MS office 2003, Oracle 10g/9i, TOAD 8.0. Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    SalesForce.com  Configurations ,Apex Classes, Triggers and Visual force(Pages, Component & Controllers),Eclipse Force.com IDE, Custom Objects, Data migration, Record Types, Workflows, Email Templates, Data loader, SOQL, SOSL, Force.com Excel connector, Desktop Integration, Chatter    Operating Systems Windows 2000/2003, Win-XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7,UNIX  Languages /Scripts C,C++, JAVA , HTML,XML, JavaScript  Database MS Excel, SQL Server 2005/2000, Oracle 10g/9i.  Tools Microsoft Visual Studio2008, Microsoft Visio, Visual Studio 6.0