Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Capital One Richmond, VA, VA, VA, VA An accomplished software engineer specialized in object oriented programming analysis with extensive full Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) experience in Application Software Specifications, Design, Development, Testing and debugging, Maintenance.    8+ years of rich experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of, enterprise and web applications, with skills in wide range of Java technologies.  • Experience on Web-based technologies, J2EE, Spring, Spring MVC, Struts, Hibernate, Web services, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JDBC, and JNDI.  • Experience in working with Application Servers like Weblogic, Websphere and Tomcat.  • Expertise in building RESTful implementation using Jersey, Spring Web Services, implemented Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Experience with 2-tier, 3-tier and 4-tier architecture  • Worked Extensively with Open Source Technologies like Struts 2.X, Hibernate 3.0, iBATIS, Spring 3/2.X, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, IOC, and ICEFaces, Spring Data, Spring Boot and Spring Cloud  • Experience in various IDE tools such as Eclipse, Netbeans and My Eclipse.  • Experience in working with build management tools like Ant, Maven.  • Experience in XML technologies including XML, DTD, XPath, XSD, XSLT, XQuery, DOM and SAX parsers.  • Core Java suchas multithreading, Collection and Arrays concepts to develop and application implementations.  • Strong knowledge of database like Oracle 8/9/10g/11g, Postgre SQL, MySQL.  • Experience in setting up the mongo DB for saving data coming from micro services.  • Extensive Experience in customizing Oracle BI Apps, OOTB ETL adaptors and prebuilt analytics  • Experience in working with design tools like Rational Rose and Visio.  • Experience in working with version control systems like SVN and CVS.  • Experienced with JUNIT for unit testing and Log4J for logging.  • Experience in deploying EAR and WAR in application servers like Jboss4.2.3, WebLogic and WebSphere.  • Has working experience in Agile Scrum process.  • Good knowledge on AWS EC2, ECS, VPC, AutoScaling, Security Groups, AWS CLI, Cloud watch.  • Good at containerization such as Docker understand best practies of docker develop reusable base images and tune docker applications.  • Ability to work independently in teams and self-starter, quick learner.  • Good interpersonal skills, commitment, result oriented hardworking and passion to learn new technologies and take on challenging tasks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and prototyping.  • Participate in design sessions.  • Involved in designing Network Diagram, UML Use Case and Sequence diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and development of REST Webservices using Spring Boot and Microservices.  • Wrote codes to POST JSON UI data to server and to GET/ receive JSON response for DOM Population.  • Followed Test Driven Development by using Junit and Mockito to build unit test cases for most of the components and used Jasmine for JavaScript unit testing.  • Extensively used Spring JDBC in data access layer to access and update information from DB2 database and have written complex DB2 SQL queries.  • Customer MQ packet packets of TSYS and converted XML into RESTFUL Webservices as JSON Data using JAXB.  • Created Collections and documents and performed CRUD operations with Mongo repositories.  • Worked on migrating existing application build on a custom framework called Execution Services to Spring MVC and worked on required configuration and Controller implementation.  • Actively involved in the api design team to adhere to security standards as dictated by ISRM  • Used Subversion (SVN) and GitHub to maintain the versions of the source code of the project.  • the scripting language such as shell and ruby are for creating enveriment role and parameter filewhich are used for deployment of webservices in AWS.  • Responsible for creating stack, destroying stack and CNAME flipping using Jenkin's jobs and validating EC2 instance.  • Created Contingency plan for APIs.  • Created S3 as repository and SNS Notification services and used to deploy API.  • AWS Technologies such as AWS EC2, ECS, VPC, Auto scaling, Security Groups, AWS CLI, SNS containerization (Docker) of applications.  • CI/CD technologies such Git, Chef, Jenkins are used for develop and deploy web services.  • Responsible for configuring and deploying application in AWS Development environment and releasing code to engineering team for Test/Stage/Production deployment.  • Participated in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using the Agile methodology with SCRUM and SPRINT type development.  Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, Spring 3, Chassis Framwork ( Spring Boot and Microservices), Eclipse MARS2, Maven, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Angular JS, Mongo DB, DB2 DBA, TSYS DBA, GitHub, SVN, MQ, M S office 2010 and 2013, JAXB, Restful web Services, Soap UI, Life Cycle Tool (YAML), Mockito, DRB (Design), AWS, MS Visio. Java Full Stack Developer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN January 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement discussion, design and development to build the application  • Used spring for Dependency Injection for plugging in the Hibernate DAO objects to the business layer.  • Developed Data Access layer using Hibernate and spring framework.  • Developed Controller classes in Spring MVC using annotations to handle the request and Service components and DAO classes are created to fetch or update data.  • Deployed Web Services for updating the information to the workflow steps and getting the pre-configured workflow processes.  • Implemented Role-Based authentication using Spring Security  • Used maven script for building and deploying applications  • Developed SDTM Code list Conversion Tool for its intended use as per the Computer Systems and Electronic Records;  • Electronic Signatures (LQS302) procedure • Implemented Spring batch with quartz scheduler framework..  • Generated reports using Altova Mapforce. • Dynamically generating graphical PDF reports using IText1.1 and excel reports using apache POI.  • Involved in developing numerous Lab Reference Tables using MySQL database  • To support import of data into the Quantum Clinical Metadata Repository (CMDR)  • Developed a business process to dynamically generate data using BI publisher  • Provided primary database support for application database systems  • Generated reports from the database using PL/SQL and SQL.  • Performed database tuning using Toad, Oracle SQL developer  • Optimized the configuration of Amazon Redshift clusters, data distribution, and data processing  • Launching and configuring of Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring the servers for specified applications using Terraform.  • Deployment and implementation of Chef.  • Provided technical assistance for development and execution of test plans and cases as per client requirements.  • Supported technical team members in development of automated processes for data extraction and analysis.  • Prepared detailed technical documentation such as workflows, scripts and diagrams in coordination with research scientists.  Environment: Java1.7, J2EE, Spring 3, Hibernate 4.3, Eclipse MARS2, Maven, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Angular JS, DB Visualor, TFS 2010, Synkronizer 9.5, M S office 2010 and 2013, Oracle BI Publisher Desktop 11.1.1.7, AWS, Quantum (Tool Developed by accenture) Redshift. Sr. Java Developer Tyson Food INC - Springdale, AR February 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirement and understand the current system  • Involved in shipping, receiving between Inter Company, Customer and Export using WMS, DLX, OCS and EIM  • Used to create Inventory and Management, creating the sales order, shuttle for different systems.  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business logic using Spring (IOC, AOP), and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Implemented service layer classes using Spring IOC and AOP classes.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developedweb UI portal for MongoDB using Spring Framework (Spring MVC and Spring Data), JSP, HTML 5, Bootstrap Framework, JQuery and Java Script, Mongo DB and Oracle DBtechnologies.    • Build interactive dashboards with drill down effect through Oracle BI Answer  • Involved in the upgrade process of 10.1.3.2 to 10.1.3.4 Oracle BI Platform for Job ID issue during the campaign execution.  • Developed cross-browser/platform RWD (Responsive Web Design), HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Handled Production Support of the application, fixed bugs efficiently and prepared RCA documents as part of process.  • Followed Agile Scrum processes and involved in all meetings.  Environment: Java1.7, J2EE, Spring 3, Hibernate 4.3, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, JSON, Web services, Maven, JSF, Mongo DB, Eclipse 3.2 Oracle BI Publisher AARP - Emart Event Management - Maryland Emart Event Management May 2012 to January 2013 J2EE Developer  Responsibilities:  • Developed a web-based application with HTML, JSP, Spring, Spring MVC, REST, frameworks.  • Implemented controllers that invoke business logic and create a ModelAndView object and also used annotations for spring configurations.  • Implemented Validator interface to perform the validations.  • XML configuration to wire the dependency components together.  • Integrated Spring Security to validate the users using LDAP server.  • Involved in the design and code review discussions.  • Used Rally application for Agile application lifecycle management (ALM)  • Used IBATIS SqlMapClientTemplate to execute the queries in the DAO.  • Deployed application local environments to the Tomcate6.0 application server.  • Used CVS for the source control and merge code to integration branch.  • Used Rally to track the defects.  • Conducted integration testing using org.springframework.test.util.  • Developed Test Cases, Test Suite using JUnit4.0 to confirm the functionality.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP 2x, Servlets 2x, Spring3.0, Spring MVC, Spring IBATIS, REST, AXIS2, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SOAP, Log4j, JUnit 4x, Oracle11g, ANT, Tomcat6, Log4j, CVS, Eclipse 3.2. J2EE Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX December 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement discussion, design and development to build the application.  • Involved in creating data objects and hibernate configuration for object model component.  • Involved in implementing Spring Dependency Injection configurations.  • Implemented new business services to implement regulatory changes.  • Involved in implementation of action class in Struts 2.0 framework.  • Involved in consumption of Restful web services for fee details.  • Implemented Ajax nature using JavaScript in Loan application management.  • Used Struts tags and components to represent data in the presentation layer.  • Implemented UI and Service layer independently for SMS and Email modules.  • Developed DAO classes to interact with database using Hibernate persistence API.  • Developed Test Cases, Test Suite using JUnit4.0 to confirm the functionality.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, WebSphere, Struts 2.0, IBM DB2, Spring, JSP, Hibernate 3.1, JavaScript, JUnit 4x, Log4j, SVN, ANT, Maven, Eclipse 3.2, Linux. Java Developer Mavin Infotech February 2009 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete life-cycle of the project: Requirements specification, Prototyping, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance  • Implemented JSPs for the web pages.  • Implemented custom tag libraries using JSP and JSTL.  • Involved in implementation of consumption of Restful web services.  • Responsible for bug fixing and new CR's development.  • Developed Ant build file for build process.  • Configured database connections and connection pools in Weblogic server.  • Implemented JUnit Test cases and changed as per the functionality changes.  Environment: Windows, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, WebLogic 8.1 SP4, Oracle 9i, Eclipse, Toad Education Master in Information Technology Virigina International University Bachelor of Technology in Technology Electric and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University India Skills ECLIPSE (9 years), J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (6 years), PHP, Javascript, Angular, React Additional Information Technical Skills:-    Programming Languages C, Java, J2EE, Unix Shell Script.  Web Technologies  Spring3.0, Spring MVC, Struts1.2/2.0, JSF (My Faces, Prime faces),  Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML,  Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, CSS, Apache POI, Log4j, AngularJS JNDI, JDBC, ASP.NET.    Persistence Technologies JPA, Hibernate4.0.  IDE and Tools Web services Eclipse 3.0, NetBeans, My Eclipse, WSAD, SQL Developer JAX-WS, Apache axis 2.0 and REST.  RDBMS  Designing Tools  Content Management  Build Management    Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MySql 4.0.  Rational Rose, Visio, IReports  Subversion, Win CVS.  Ant, Apache Maven 2.2.1.    Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat 6.0, JBoss4.2.3, WebLogic 10.x, WebSphere 6.1.    Operating Systems Windows XP/ Windows 7, Linux, UNIX