Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Xylem Inc Richmond, VA • 11+ years of experience in developing engineering software applications and utilization of data modeling to design architecture for various organizations using Java, J2EE, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, RMI, EJB, Servlets, JSP, XML, Struts and Web Services.  • Expertise with operating systems UNIX and Windows environments.  • Hands-on experience in using Eclipse, JUnit for building, logging, testing and SVN, GitHub for version control.  • Extensive experience in frameworks like Struts framework, Hibernate framework, and Spring framework.  • Expertise in various components in spring such as IOC, AOP, Spring Jdbc, Spring Security and MVC.  • Experience with Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP and Spring Heroku, Spring Integration, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Netflix, Spring Hystrix, Spring Zuul with Thyme leaf.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 as an ORM Tool to access Database.  • Expertise in Web Services architecture in SOAP, REST and WSDL.  • Used SoapUI for web service testing  • Experience in Web development using HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and JQueryUI  • Extensive knowledge of Client-Server technology, Web-based n-tier architecture, Database Design, development of applications using J2EE Design Patterns e.g. creational, structural and behavioral design patterns (MVC Architecture, Business Delegate, Singleton, Data Access Object (DAO) etc.).  • Good knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, MarkLogic, SQL Server, MS Access.  • Experienced in implementing Micro Services, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top Down Approach and Bottom Up Approach  • Expertise in using SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Proficient in UML modeling including building Use Cases, Conceptual Models, Collaboration Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Activity and Sequence Diagrams  • Experience in deploying business applications using application servers and web servers like JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  • Experienced in application build tools like Kubernetesfor the Microservices Architecture  • Good UNIX experience with hands on experience in Unix Shell Scripting.  • Expert in using defect tracking system like JIRA.  • Good exposure to Agile Work Environment. Worked on Testing with different testing tools and prepared unit testing, Module testing, System testing and Acceptance testing plans. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Xylem Inc - Seneca Falls, NY, US January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the Requirements team, analyzed the Use cases and followed Waterfall methodology.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java and implemented web services (WSDL) and effectively worked with SOAP, XML, XSLT.  • Designed and developed RESTful API web services to support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, JSON, Log4j, RESTful and Maven.  • Designed dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS for single page applications. Developed customized directives which could be reused by all teams.  • Implemented jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed JBPM workflow process, rules with help of Drools engine. Wrote services for business layer using core java/Spring concepts.  • Used AJAX with jQuery to parse object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages.  • Developed code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Developed business components using Java Objects, AOP and used Hibernate framework to map the Java classes to the database.  • Developed a web-based reporting for credit monitoring system with HTML, XHTML, and Tiles using Struts framework.  • Wrote various Struts frame work Action classes for interfacing with the business logic, form beans for presenting the data to JSPs.  • Implemented Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  • Actively interacted with Business Analysts for requirement gatherings and analysis. Developed designed specifications using Rational System Architect (RSA) and UML including Use case, Class and Sequence diagrams.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC Architecture.  • RCIM application was implemented using Spring MVC, DI, JDBC template, Spring Security and AngularJs.  • Developed the Persistence layer DAO using Spring Jdbc for all modules which has POJO classes with CRUD operations.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, triggers, cursors and views.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL with Stored Procedures to interact with Persistent database using Oracle 10g.  • Worked with defect tracking system JIRA.  • Worked with IDE including Eclipse and JBoss Developer Studio and deployed into Oracle WebLogic Application Server & used Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Implemented Spring ORM with Hibernate taking advantage of Java features like annotation metadata, auto wiring, and generic collections.  • Working extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from Oracle database. Developed Enterprise JavaBeans for implementing application's business rules and policies.  • Implemented Log4j for logging purposes and debug the application. Prepared Junit test cases and executed the test cases using Junit in eclipse.  • Involved in integrations using Maven and Jenkins and worked with Version Controlling Systems like Git. Full Stack Java Developer Tradeweb Markets LLC - Jersey City, NJ, US September 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on CMS Hub project - Java developer involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Created micro service plugin to read in info via RabbitMQ message bus and send SNS messages to AWS SNS  • Followed Agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing this project, with each SPRINT lasting for 3-4 weeks.  • Designed the project in apache camel, spring and deployed the application using JBoss  • Developed the Spring Features like Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Integration  • Did Junit testing of the application.  • Developed client side validations using HTML and Angular JS.  • Made use of Angular JS to simplify both the development and testing of this application.  • Worked with Docker engine and Machine environments, to deploy the microservices for scalable applications  • Used CALT and later migrated to JIRA as the bug tracking tool  • Developed web services, including rrv service, vlp service, irs end of year service, etc.  • Developed the testharness service comprising scenario files used by the webservices.  • Attended daily scrum calls to give updates on user stories assigned to me.  • Created micro services to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST  • Used GitHub to check in code  • Used MarkLogic as the NoSQL database  • Worked with Docker engine and Machine environments, to deploy the microservices for scalable applications and worked on creation of custom docker container images, tagging and pushing the images  • Spring MVC Framework design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. Used Spring Boot Actuator for application's configuration properties in various environments    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE 1.6, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript 1.7, JSP 2.1, Spring 3.0, Apache Axis2 web service , XML 1.0, UML 2.0, Mockito framework(JUNIT), Apache Tomcat Server, 3.7, Eclipse Oxygen and JBoss Developer Studio Maven 2.0, SVN, SoapUI, Oracle 10g, MySQL , JIRA. Java/J2EE Developer Deutsche Bank - Jacksonville, FL, US November 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • My role included Systems Analysis, Systems Design (including Database Design), System Development and Systems Implementation  • Designed and developed the application using Spring MVC and Struts, XML and Servlet approach for View and Controller. Used various components of Struts Framework such as Action Forms, Action Servlet and Action Mappings.  • Developed Beans and implemented validations.  • Implemented persistence using Hibernate and configured Hibernate in hibernate-cfg.xml file.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the Midtier.  • Collaborated with Data and Application Architects to design solutions, to ensure all application development, testing and deployment was done successfully.  • Documented the whole process and wrote several flow diagrams for easy understanding and future trouble shooting of errors.  • Programmed in-house Web Applications with the Applications Development Unit using JSP, Java Servlets and JSF, specifically Account Balance; Collections system for School fees, Ghana Water and KNUST payments; Staff information system for HR; Customer transaction alert system (i-Alert); the Bank's Information Portal  • Generated ad-hoc reports using SQL  • Involved in Unit and Integration testing.  • Writing Ant build scripts for automation of release/migration process.  • IT Quality Assurance and Compliance duties to ensure that all the different IT units work effectively and did system troubleshooting to ensure that all branches work effectively  • Sent digitized checks from branches to the Central bank and brought back responses  • Used Oracle 10g as the database.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE 1.6, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript 1.7, JSP 2.1, Spring 3.0, Web Services/SOA, JAX-WS 2.0, XML 1.0, UML 2.0, JUNIT, Oracle WebLogic Application Server, Eclipse Indigo 3.7, Maven 2.0, SVN, SoapUI, Oracle 10g, JIRA. Java/J2EE Developer World Fuel Services Corporation - Miami, FL, US July 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Used WSAD 5.1.2 for writing code for JSP, Struts and EJBs.  • Developed Business layer using EJB.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tuples in DB2.  • Designed project related documents using Visual Paradigm (Unified Modeling Language tool) which includes Use case, Class and Sequence diagrams.  • Spring MVC Architecture is used for developing the project.  • Developed the Presentation layer using JSP, HTML, custom taglib and used AJAX/ JQuery based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Developed the Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, and JTA.  • Developed the Persistence layer DAO using JPA, HIBERNATE with Entity Manager  • Additional security is added to the project using Spring Security feature.  • Developed the project using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability.  • Worked with defect tracking system JIRA.  • Worked with IDE like and deployed into Apache Tomcat Web Server & used Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Developed the application using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability.  • Deployed the applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report to Server.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP protocol to transfer the amount to other application that is remote and global to different financial institutions. Used SoapUI for web service testing.  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components. Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules. Used SVN as version control    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts 1.x, EJB, JMS, JNDI, DB2, HTML, XML, DOM, SAX, ANT, Rational Rose, WSAD (Web Sphere Studio Application Developer), IBM Web Sphere Application Server, Java/J2EE Developer Citigroup - Jersey City, NJ, US September 2007 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire lifecycle activities of the project including requirement gathering, analysis, design and development and testing and used Rational Unified Process (RUP) to develop the project.  • Involved in Object analysis, design and documentation of the application model using UML.  • Followed model, view and controller architecture (MVC) for the project development.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence tool to interact with Persistent database MySQL.  • Involved in creating, publishing and consuming Web Services using JAX-WS 2.0 API and other technologies like WSDL, UDDI, SOAP 1.2 and REST. Used SoapUI for web service testing.  • Worked with defect tracking system JIRA.  • Involved in architecture, design and development of a secure, scalable, high volume transaction J2EE based education application used by school districts.  • Participate in full-life cycle development  • Business logic and data layer components were developed using EJBs and deployed in the Application Server.  • XML is used to exchange data between web browser and web server and between web server and application server.  • Configuration feature of Struts was used in the system.  • XML is used to generate HTML code in which JavaScript is embedded.  • Servlets, JSP, JNDI and other J2EE technology were used in the system.  • Also helped to maintain the lab  • Worked with Eclipse and deployed into JBoss Application Server with Tomcat Server & used Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Used SVN for source control.  • Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE 1.5, Hibernate 3.0, Web Services/SOA, JAX-WS 2.0, XML 1.0, UML 2.0, JBoss, Eclipse Indigo 3.7, Maven 2.0, MySQL 5.0, SoapUI, JIRA.    Environment: J2EE, Spring Framework, Struts Framework, Hibernate, WebSphere Application Server, JSP, Servlet, XML, Oracle 10g, Windows XP, UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills database. (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Java (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), Maven. (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java, C, C++, HTML, HTML5, DHTML, SQL, CSS, JavaScript  Java Technologies  Core Java, JDBC, Hibernate, JSF, XML Parsers, JSP, Servlets, Portals, EJB, JMS, Swing,  Java Beans, POJOs, Web Services, Design Patterns    XML Technologies XML, SAX, DOM, XSL, XSLT, XPath, WSDL, SOAP, Rest  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, React JS and Angular JS 2.0  Frame Works Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Groovy on Rails, ADF, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap  Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, WSAD, RAD, CVS, JBuilder, JDeveloper, Ant, Maven  Design Tools Rational Rose, Ms Visio  Servers IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x  Operating System Windows, UNIX  Database Oracle11g/10g/9g, MS SQL Server, DB2, MySQL, No SQL, Toad