JAVA J2EE Dev/Solution Architect <span class="hl">JAVA</span> J2EE Dev/Solution Architect JAVA J2EE Dev/Solution Architect - Aflac McKinney, TX Work Experience JAVA J2EE Dev/Solution Architect Aflac - Columbus, GA April 2017 to Present Enterprise Integration Bus (EIB- NIIT)  EIB is an integration system providing various services to different applications that exchange information and communicate as a part of enrolling insurances and processing to different systems to maintain. EIB is a scalable standalone platform that is application agnostic. It is the foundation for future enterprise data / services connections. It will be the "highway" that information will travel for enterprise capabilities. It has API Gateway, different transformation services, messaging, Micro Services,  Security Monitoring, Canonicals, Enterprise Integration patterns and EIB portal. EIB follows Agile, CI/CD, TDD methodologies.  Responsibilities:  • Working as a Solution Architect for developing canonicals in Agile environment.  • Actively participated in Sprint planning on daily basis.  • Involved in Requirement Analysis and Design of various modules using ACCORD standard.  • Involved in High-level design documents (HLD) and Low Level Design documentation for the involved modules.  • Developed EIB Portal using AngularJS, Spring Rest template, Bootstrap and RESTful micro services..  • Involved in recurring code reviews and refactoring of the code.  • Experience in using XML mappings tools like Altova XML Spy, Pilot fish for mapping data and Java Objects  • Developed dashboards for monitoring the application status using Splunk.  • Even to search, analyze and visualize the massive streams of machine data generated we have used Splunk Enterprise edition.  • Carried out the Test Driven development using Junit.  • Carried out automation of tests cases using SOAP UI and Groovy scripts.  • Expertise in working on Continues integration standards using Jenkins and Docker  • Expertise in using Version one and building different modules.  • Helped the associates in functional, technical and design aspects of the project.  Environment: JAVA, JDK 1.8, Spring Rest Template, AGILE/SCRUM Methodology, Splunk, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, XML, XSLT, WSDL, Log4J, JUnit, SOAP UI, Jenkins, Docker, Mongo DB, HTML5, CSS. Lead Java Developer TechMahindra - IN December 2013 to March 2017 GE Appliances and SCM Legacy Support  GE Appliances and SCM Legacy support handles multiple applications depended on Supply Chain Management. It consists of all the phases of Supply Chain Management like order requests, Stock availability processing invoices and maintaining sales data and maintain Commission system based on sales and calculating the revenue details. Supported various applications in Sales domain.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Lead Java Developer in managing a small team in Agile environment. Also worked closely with vendor to monitor the deliverables.  • Provided functional and technical consultation for the vendor in delivering the modules in time with good quality.  • Wrote the core logic for data flow using Java, J2EE concepts  • Developed presentation layer using struts tag libraries like logic, html, bean, etc in JSP pages  • Used MVC-Struts framework in the front-end to develop the User Interface.  • Experience in using the Object Relational Mapping Tool Hibernate, strong in using XML mappings and Java Objects  • Actively participated in Sprint planning and conducted Agile Scrum meetings on daily basis.  • Involved in design and development of few modules in the system using Backbone JS.  • Involved in technical and functional discussions during solution design with various teams like Business Analysts and Technical Architects.  • Involved in software requirement specification (SRS) and High-level design documents (HLD) documents.  • Involved in consuming Web services using JAX-RS.  • Implemented code for parsing the different output files such as XML.  • Provided support for QA teams.  • Involved in Data migration activities.  • Involved in integration with other components.  • Reviewed various deliverables such as requirement, design documents and provide feedback.  • Performed thorough code reviews to ensure code quality.  • Implemented new product development on SDP platform.  • Worked on migrating all the applications to Tomcat 8 using cloud components like Jenkins, Voyager and Mesos.  • Testing the compatibility mode for application on new versions of Internet Explorer  • Plan, schedule and coordinate User Acceptance Testing sessions with business users and log associated metrics in Quality Central - Mercury.  • Responsible for migrating the changes to Dev, QA, Production.  • Handling SSH certificate issues for all the applications under Sales domain  • Supported SDP Core enhancements team in design and development activities.  Environment: JDK1.5, JEE, Struts, Spring, WebService (Restfull), JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone.js, JSP, HTML, CSS, LDAP, XSLT, XML, JBoss, Ant, Maven, Junit3.x, SOAPUI, Web services, HP QC, HPSM, Linux and Eclipse, Jenkins, Voyager and Mesos, Agile methodology. Software Engineer & Production Support Engineer NetElixir Inc March 2011 to December 2013 LXRSEO.  LXRSEO is powerful tool which allows you to use its SEO tools, analyze your website and keyword performance, plan and execute daily recommended tasks, and measure your progress against your competitors  Responsibilities:  • As part of the pre-transition activities, involved in different workshop, training and self-study activities to fill the knowledge base required for the application.  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Struts Framework.  • Designed web screens for various modules using JSF, HTML, DHTML and CSS and used Java Script as client side validation  • Preparation of reverse presentations to ensure the capture of application knowledge.  • Involved in defect fixes and Implementation of SRs as part of on job transition activities.  • Ensure the successful completion of assessments by Customer.  • Prepared the design documents for enhancements, bug fixes.  • Worked on developing the views for every request using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax and JQuery.  • Involved in integration of API to pull different SEO metrics and page ranks.  • Part of database design, integrating different concepts to pull SEO concepts.  • Implemented Fusion charts to represent data to drill down to multiple levels.  • Worked on agile approaches, including Extreme Programming, Test-Driven Development and Scrum. Used agile methodologies, test driven development and automated builds  Environment: JDK1.5, JEE, Tapestry, Spring, Hibernate, MapInfo, JSP, HTML, CSS, Oracle, Agile methodology, Tomcat, JBoss, Ant, Junit3.x, SOAPUI, RAD7, HP QC, JIRA, Windows 2000, Linux, Tuxedo and Eclipse IDE with CQP.    Company: NetElixir,  Developer  LXRMarketplace  Description: LXRMarketplace is powerful tool providing free, simple SEO SEM, CSE tools for online marketers to make their Campaign management and SEO management.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Database for all the tools.  • Worked on designing front end screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax.  • Implemented class, UML diagrams for entire application and dataflow.  • Leaded the team in developing Keyword Performance Analyzer, Amazon Price Analyzer, Sitemap Builder, Competitor Webpage Monitor tool and Email tracking, SEO Rank Checker tool etc.  • Worked on integrating application with JQuery, Jsoup, JSON, HTML Editors for various functional requirements.  • Develop and implement all the requirements following Agile methodology.  • Worked on re-designing the website for LXRMarketplace.  • Currently working on integration of payment module for paid tools using PayPal.  • Analyzing various solutions and selecting the best, efficient solution to meet expectations.  • Worked on agile approaches, including Extreme Programming, Test-Driven Development and Scrum. Used agile methodologies, test driven development and automated builds  Environment: Springs 2.5, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, MySQL, Eclipse, Agile methodology, Fusion charts 2.0, JQuery 1.6.2, JSON, Tomcat 7.0, Jsoup etc. Senior Java Developer NetElixir Inc January 2009 to February 2011 LXR100 - PPC Search Marketing Tool  LXR100 is a powerful, integrated Pay-Per-Click (PPC) Advertising Management & Optimization Technology that enables users to effectively monitor, manage and optimize campaigns on Google, Yahoo and MSN - in minutes a day. LXR100 gives you complete visibility, accessibility and control over your paid search advertising campaigns in real time, at all times. Moreover, other than the core optimization algorithms that drive optimal performance, literally all parts of the technology can be customized per your unique needs.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements gathering with Business team.  • Involved in software requirement specification (SRS) and High-level design documents (HLD) documents.  • Involved in low level design documents with function and variable names per the design.  • Involved in database design and finalizing the naming conventions with database team.  • Involved in preparing the XSD's based on the HLD document naming conventions.  • Involved in finalizing the WSDL operational names for each service which is involved in project.  • Generated the stubs with JAXB specification and configured them in framework for proper use.  • Written the implementation classes and configured them with Spring framework.  • Generated Hibernate persistence classes (POJO) based on the database entities and configured them in to context file to scan the package while loading the application.  • Written DAO and DAO Implementation classes.  • Integrated Web services with Spring configuration files.  • Written Unit test classes by mocking the services and ensured 90% code coverage.  • Used PMD plug-ins to resolve if there are any redundant and cyclic dependencies.  • Worked as Dev Ops member to support this application and provided L3 support.  • Coordinated the Changes to deploy and problem records for issue fix tracking.  • Prepared Monthly Meeting Business executive reports.  • Mentor the new support team up to the level where in they can give complete support.  Environment: JDK1.6, Struts 2.x, Spring3.x, Hibernate 4.x, SOAP Web services, JSP, Weblogic 8.x, HTML CSS, Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, SOAP, JAXB, SQL, Maven, XML, PMD, Emma, Junit3.x, Oracle 11g, Windows 7, Linux, HP QC, JIRA, IBM RTC. Course & Internship NIIT June 2008 to November 2008 Sky High Institute of Management  Sky High Institute of Management is a prestigious Business School which provides online registration for all the students, and also online fee payment, course details, faculty details and also their records. It is an envisioned System provides a centralized database to store the course details and information on new students. It has different modules for login, registration, search, record display and payment.  Responsibilities:  • Development of all the above modules.  • Involved in development of tool using Struts framework and developed view using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax.  • Integration and deployment in different environments  • Unit Testing using Junit and Implementation of logging  • Lead in Providing Code Red complained code  • Support for the FURL and Homepage.  Environment: Struts 1.2, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Ajax, Oracle 10g, NetBeans6.5, Linux, Fusion charts 2.0, JQuery 1.3, Tomcat 6.0. Sales,Retail and Supply Chain Management Multi-Threading and Collections • Familiar in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) concepts, Multi-Threading and Collections.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Knowledge and experience in using common and Java Design Patterns.  • Experience in Waterfall, Agile Development Methodologies with Scrum, Extreme Programming and Test Driven Methodology.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Struts, Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Good experience in various Spring Modules such as Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring ORM.  • Expertise in developing SOA ,SOAP Web services (Publisher/Consumer) by using JAX-WS, Log4j, API-driven development.  • Expertise in developing RESTful Web services (Publisher/Consumer) by using JAX-RS and Jersey frameworks.  • Expertise in J2EE technologies such as JDBC, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, RMI, JNDI with remote data via REST and JSON  • Good working experience with WebSphere 7.x, Weblogic 8.x, Jboss 4.x, 7.x and Tomcat 7.x application servers.  • Expertise in Code quality & code coverage by using PMD, SONAR plug-in integrates with Eclipse & RAD.  • Experience in version control, build tools and frameworks such as Maven, ANT, Tortoise CVS, SVN and CVS.  • Experience in Integrated Testing and Unit Testing using JUnit and Automation using Selenium.  • Excellent experience in Oracle and MySQL database development activities.  • Good working knowledge of JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML, HTML5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  • Having excellent understanding in larger project stacks with AD, LDAP, SSO, ESB, Portal and portlet environments.  • Exposure to Splunk and hands on experience in ticket tracking tools like Service Management, Service now.  • Exposure in Change Management, Incident Management and Problem Management processes  • Excellent Analytical and Problem Solving skills coupled with good communication and interpersonal Skills.  • Excellent Customer interaction skills and project coordination skills with onsite/offshore model. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communications Engineering in Electronics and Communications Engineering JNTU May 2008 Skills HTML (8 years), Java (10+ years), JavaScript (8 years), Linux (8 years), Struts (8 years) Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY  Languages & Java Technologies: C++, JDK 1.4/1.5, J2SDK, Servlets2.1/2.2, JSP1.0/1.1/1.2, JDBC1.x/2.x/3.x, JSF 1.x, 2.0, JNDI, AJAX, Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring2.x/3.x, Hibernate2.x/3.x and JUnit.  Middleware: EJB, JMS, RMI, Web Services (SOAP/ RESTful), Axis, CXF, Mule, and Web Methods.  UI/Ux technologies JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, HTML, HTML5, CSS3.  Web/Application Servers: JBoss 4.x/7.x, Tomcat 5.x/6.x, WebSphere, WebLogic 8.x and Apache  Other tools, utilities and frameworks: Clear Case, SVN, CVS, RTC, Rational Rose, Ant and Maven. Jenkins, Mesos , Voyager, SQL Developer and SQL Server Studio. XML, XSLT2.0, XSD, JAXB, XML Beans, XML Spy.  Databases: SQL, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11i and MySQL  IDE: Eclipse 3.x, MyEclipse5.x/6.x, IntelliJ IDEA3.x/4.x  Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP/7, MS-DOS, UNIX, LINUX