Java Lead/Architect, Head of Software Development <span class="hl">Java</span> Lead/Architect, Head of Software Development Java Lead/Architect, Head of Software Development Plano, TX Work Experience Java Lead/Architect, Head of Software Development MA Department of Education - Malden, MA 2007 to 2019 - Developed new features and provided technical support for student data collection and teacher licensure systems.  - Redesigned the data collection applications to use rules engine built in-house replacing third party software.  - Provided technical guidance to software development department consisting of Java, .NET and DB Teams.  - Architected and lead migration of Department's portfolio of applications to Java 8 and WebLogic 12C.    Environment: WebLogic 12C, J2EE, Oracle 10G, Struts, Maven, Spring, Rational Team Concert (RTC), Eclipse Senior Software Consultant Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc - Braintree, MA 2005 to 2007 - Automated the manual processes utilizing shell scripting on HP-UX and Red Hat Linux.  - Increased the productivity by 50% by eliminating the manual steps in the upgrade process.  - Designed the email notification system to relay the system status to predefined email groups.  - Developed the XML based interfaces of Starwood Preferred Guest program for external use by business partners.    Environment: WebSphere 5.0, MQ Series, J2EE, HP-Unix, Linux, Oracle 9i, KSH Senior Java Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield of Rhode Island - Providence, RI 2004 to 2005 Migrated claim processing from legacy system to a new XML compliant system for healthcare industry while keeping  the published external interfaces intact.  - Played key role in the design and implementation for the infrastructure, architecture and integration group.  - Developed Java utilities to translate Mainframe data files into valid XML files.    Environment: WebSphere, J2EE, JMS, Windows, Oracle 9i Programmer Analyst Business Software Solutions - Mount Laurel, NJ 2003 to 2004 Developed web-based application that enables internal corporate users to perform queries on financial transactions  and auditing on insurance claims stored on DB2 database on mainframe.  - Integrated report generation with online application to generate reports in Excel and PDF formats.  - Collaborated with end-users to create software requirements specification and application prototype.    Environment: WebSphere, J2EE, COBOL, Servlets, Linux, DB2 Technical Services Consultant TeaLeaf Technology, Inc - San Francisco, CA 2002 to 2003 - Deployed and supported the web application management solution in high volume production environments.  - Conducted business and technical training for Fortune 500 companies.  - Recommended hardware sizing and documented project plans for installations at customer sites.    Environment: WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, Microsoft IIS, J2EE, SAP, HP-Unix, Linux Software Engineer Telegea, Inc - Waltham, MA 2001 to 2002 TeleGea Emporium is an e-business platform that facilitates Web-based commerce, management and delivery of communication services for telecom service providers.    - Designed and deployed the web services interface to core Emporium services.  - Implemented Emporium UI using JSPs in compliance with storyboards.  - Utilized Castor framework to generate object-to-xml mapping and vice versa.  - Automated deployment and release management using InstallAnywhere.    Environment: WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, J2EE, JSPs, Servlets, Ant scripts, XML, Windows, UNIX, WinBatch scripting Software Engineer Techlogix Inc - Woburn, MA 1999 to 2001 - Designed and developed technology solutions for businesses ranging from health insurance to banking industry.  - Created Integrations using WebMethods' Visual Integrator with Oracle as backend.  - Delivered wrapper Java application after analyzing the WebMethods' data connectivity toolset.  - Built a web-based application that provides a single point of inquiry to the insurance agents to view profile, licensing, and contract for internal insurance products.    Environment: WebMethods, Web Sphere 2.0, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, J2EE, JSPs, Servlets, Log4j, Ant scripts, XML, JDBC  2.0, Windows, UNIX, Dream Weaver Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Skills ECLIPSE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), HIBERNATE (10+ years), SPRING (5 years), JAXB (6 years), JMS, JNDI, SERVLETS, STRUTS (10+ years), WSAD, DB2, JDBC, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, POSTGRES, SQL, MS VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, HTML, Jquery, XML, Javascript, Linux, Spring Boot (5 years), Java J2Ee, Ecommerce