Lead Java Developer Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Java Developer - USAC Washington, DC Experience in designing and developing applications using J2EE, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts.  ? Experience in developing,packaginganddeployingServlets,JavaBeans,andJSPsusingEclipse4.x,STS.  ? /Applicationserverslike Apache Tomcat, WebLogic and WebSphere.  ? ,JSP,HTML,CSS,XHTML, Java Script, JQuery, JSTL and AJAX.  ? Experience working with Oracle &MySql databases.  ? Having good experience in handling XML form of data.  ? Build micro services using spring boot for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.   ? Expertise in defining coding and development standards and implementing design and code review procedures throughout the project lifecycle.  ? implementation of J2EE Design Patterns like DAO, Singleton Pattern, Session Facade, Service Locator, Spring IOC, Spring MVC  ? Hands on experience in using different types of build tools like MAVEN and ANT.  ? Good experience on version management tools Clear Case, CVS and SVN  ? Experienced in the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Like Requirement Analysis, Requirement Validation, Software Requirements Specification, Detailed design, development, testing, and implementation.  ? Good understanding of UML  ? Ability to quickly master new concepts, applications and work a team player  ? Experience in project documentation and has good logical and analytical abilities.  ? Strong communication and Interpersonal skills  ? Abilitytoperformatahighlevel,meetdeadlineswithqualitydelivery,adaptabletoeverchangingpriorities  Ability to work in diverse platforms and industry environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Java Developer USAC - Washington, DC December 2017 to Present Description:  Providing funding to companies working to expand connectivity infrastructures in unserved or underserved areas. Carriers participating in modernized Connect America programs must file deployment data with USAC's HUBB (High Cost Universal Broadband) portal showing where they are building out mass-market, high-speed Internet service by precise location. This information will include latitude and longitude coordinates for every location where service is available, and will eventually be displayed on a public-facing map showing the impact of Connect America funding on broadband expansion throughout rural America.    Responsibilities  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services S3  • Build micro services using spring boot for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Created Python scripts and updated the scripts as per the requirement  • Designed and implemented a database migration to centralize multiple local MySQL database instances to a single Amazon Aurora S3 instance.  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Configuring application server for Performance Auditing/logging and managing memory.  • Developed an Analytics and Reporting application in Java to gather database metrics, store them in a Orient DB graph database and produce a daily snapshot report from a Java application running in Tomcat.  Build micro services using spring boot for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Created SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures using DB2. Also, used JPA with Hibernate provider. Proficient in Java Multi-Threading and Concurrency.  • Monitor performance using JProfiler for memory leaks and thread deadlocks.  Oversee and develop Notification Service micro service to use across the enterprise.  • Hands on experience using multi-threading in back end java beans  • Implemented business logic using Spring MVC and Hibernate framework  • Taken care of Java multi-threading, concurrence in common java classes / library.  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using spring framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Postgres, REST/JSON Web service, REST, JMX, ANT, Maven, JUnit, SVN, Kafka, S3, Bamboo, Microservices, Confluence, Concurrency, Multi-threading, Memory Model. Senior Java Developer PADI Divers August 2016 to November 2017 carry the most respected and sought after scuba diving credentials in the world. No matter where you choose to dive, your PADI certification card will be recognized and accepted. In fact, on most scuba diving adventures, you'll be surrounded by other PADI Divers who made the same certification choice you did - to train with the world's largest and most respected scuba diving training organization Responsibilities:  • Followed agile software development (Scrum) across all the projects to deliver a potentially shippable setof functionality every iteration, provided the agility to respond to rapidly changing requirements.  • Involved in creating spring micro services for operating backend data services and connector APIs  • Involved in developing and troubleshoots frond end applications using Angular JS.  • Involved in writing the Junit Test cases for all services.  • Used Spring STS, POSTMAN, PGAdmin as IDE for Java development.  • Involved in trouble-shooting logs using logstash, Kibana.  • Involved in deploying application in PREDIX platform.  • Involved in working with PredixUAA (User Account and Authentication Security Service) for developers to securely authenticate their application users.  • Involved in build and deploying code in development environment using Jenkins.    Environment: Java, Spring, Spring REST web service, Spring Security using PredixUAA, Spring boot, Spring JPA, Postgres, Spring STS, GitHub, Rally, PREDIX, Cloud foundry, RabbitMQ, Angular JS, Jenkins, Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Eclipse, WebSphere, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, JDBC, Java Web services, Oracle, Junit, CVS Senior Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - Wilmington, DE July 2015 to July 2016 The Digital Emerging Payments - Which responsible for delivering solutions to provide access to variousnew and existing JP Morgan Chase payment capabilities to consumer and business through e- commerce and mobile platform. The application focus currently is around digital wallet capabilities and ability to use Credit and Debit cards in e-commerce and point of sale transaction using web and mobile client application.  -enrollment,accounteligibility,provisioning and tokenization, digital wallet checkout and transaction processing, customer wallet management features, wallet services and loyalty integration.  Responsibilities:  • Followed agile software development (Scrum) across all the projects to deliver a potentially shippable setof functionality every iteration, provided the agility to respond to rapidly changing requirements.  • Involved in creating the service layers to setting up the Wallet Application.  • Used Spring JDBC, JPA and Hibernate templates to read/write data into the database.  • Involved in writing the Junit Test cases for all Wallet services  • Involved in creating the Spring REST web services, Spring integration.  • Developed application using Node.js with MongoDB backend database, and performed the application deployment  • Used Eclipse, SOAP UI, oracle SQL developer as IDE for Java development.  • Involved in trouble-shooting and debugging issues across all the environments  • Involved in Spring security, authenticate with custom user details services  • Involved in trouble-shooting logs using SPLUNK.  • Involved in build and deploying code in development environment using Jenkins    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JMS, POJO, SQL, Apache Tomcat, NodeJS, Spring Integration, Spring REST webservice, Spring Security, JPA, Hibernate, Oracle 11, Eclipse3.2, Tortoise SVN, HP Quality center, JIRA, Splunk, super putty, Jenkins.  Servlet, JSP, JSF, AJAX, Spring, Restful Web services, JMS, JavaScript, HTML5, DB2, ANT, log4j, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, MVC Architecture, Eclipse, CVS, SoapUI-Pro, VISIO, SVN Application Java Developer Capital One - Wilmington, DE July 2013 to June 2015 Capital One has one of the nation's top 10 largest banks based on deposits. The Transactional Application -servicebanking with Capital One. This is one of a handful of applications available to customers that allows them to manage / moneyoverthroughthephone. at their computer with any certified web browsers, mobile web, tablet, Android, IOS application.  into their accounts and begin to manage their money. The Apache Velocity is the primary "View" technology forbuildingandrunningrichwebapplication.TheSpringWebFlowbuildsontheSpringWebMVCprovidesa domain-specific- formanagingconversationalstate. it through Profile system. The Profile is primary financial system which stores the financial accounts for all capital one customers and is responsible for processing the transactions associated with them.  Responsibilities:  • Followed agile software development (Scrum) across all the projects to deliver a potentially shippable setof functionality every iteration, provided the agility to respond to rapidly changing requirements.  • Provided technical expertise while meeting deliverables across all business project dimensions.  • Involved in creating various Views using Apache Velocity and integrate with Spring Web flow.  • Involved in creating the service layers to setting up the Transactional Application.  • Involved in writing SQL, PLSQL to load the data from the Oracle system.  • Involved in writing the Junit Test cases for all Spring Web Flows events.  • Involved in creating the Spring REST webservices  • Used Eclipse, SOAP UI as IDE for Java development.  • Involved in trouble-shooting and debugging issues across all the environments  • Involved in build and deploying code in development environment using anthill pro / Jenkins    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JMS, POJO, SQL, PLSQL, Spring SOAP Webservices, Apache Tomcat, ApacheVelocity,SpringWebFlow,SpringRESTwebservice,Oracle10,Eclipse3.2,TortoiseSVN,HPQuality center, Version One Anthill Pro, Jenkins. Senior Associate / Senior Java Developer / Tech Lead Chase Bank - Wilmington, DE February 2011 to May 2013 ChaseCardsareoneofAmerica'smajorcreditcardsover110millionaccounts.Thesystemwhichprocesses the initial start of creditcardserviceiscalledORI(Origination).Itinvolvescreatinganewcreditcardaccountor credit line increase, naming change and reinstatement requests. The key processes are ApplicationCapture, Verification & Validation, Credit evaluation, Credit decision, Communication.  All Credit Card Service UI or Batch program calls the Webservices to captured the application, then call the EJBlayertoprocessthebusinesslogic,. All the database packages for stored procedure call through model class, which is in java using IBatis.  Responsibilities:  • Provided technical expertise while meeting deliverables across all business project dimensions.  • Involved in end to end coding for Mobile Banking.  • Created business layer logic using core java and EJB.  • Created Batch processing for migrating data from one database to another.  • Used STRUTS framework for setting up the admin dashboard application.  • .AlsoaccessedotherWebservicestopost the data.  • CreatedMessageDrivenBean(MDB) would then re-process the messages as per business rules  • Involved in developing Spring MVC component to setting up Partner UI application.  • Developing the database model class in Java using Ibatis.  • Involved in writing SQL, PLSQL to load the data from the different system.  • Writing the Junit test case.  • Used Eclipse, SOAP UI as IDE for Java development.  • Involved in trouble-shooting and debugging issues with complex based programs.  • As a Team Lead, I have involved offshore project co-ordination and planning and involved in preparation of detailed project plan for every week, metric sheet for every month and preparation of release notes and file inventory list for every code delivery.  • Adhere to high-quality development principles while delivering the code.  • Identify and encourage areas of growth and improvement within the team  • Maintain high standards of software quality within the team by establishing good practices and habits.  Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB, Struts, Spring, JMS, IBatis, JAXB, JAXP, POJO, SQL, PLSQL,Webservices, Weblogic 10, Spring REST Webservice, Oracle 10, Eclipse3.2, Tortoise SVN 1.6, Jquery, HP Quality center, UNIX Senior Associate / Java Developer / Tech Lead Chase Bank - Wilmington, DE February 2010 to February 2011 The Cost Tool application is a tool that enables the business user to manage the production, shipping, packaging and mailing of marketing offers to engage the existing Card Members through various business initiativesandmarketingcampaigns. fortheProduction,Service& suppliers. This  tool also enables the user to capture these costs for tracking and analysis. GUI is developed usingExtJS,.StrutscalltheSpringtovalidateand process the business logic and sends through Database. All the database model classes are implemented using IBatis.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in requirement gathering, system design and implementation.  • Involved in study, analysis, design the GUI layer using Ext JS.  • Created the business layer logic using SPRING framework.  • Developing the reports in excel sheet using Apache POI.    • Involved in developing Spring AOP transaction for managing our CostTool application.  • Wrote the complex SQL to fetch the data for UI report screen.  • Coding and preparation of JUnit Test cases for Cost Tool Application.  • Involved in performance analysis and defect fixes.  • Introduced and implemented Agile Methodologies in the project.  • As a Team Lead, responsible for overall onsite/offshore Project co-ordination and planning.  • Engaged in impact analysis and construction for EIPP enhancements / maintenance efforts.  • Participated on creating detailed project plan, coordinate with other groups to facilitate testing efforts    • Responsible for communicating any potential risks/delay in upcoming/starting of future tasks much ahead of the occurrence of the event.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Ext JS, POI, SPRING, Struts, POJO, SQL, PLSQL, IBatis, Tomcat 5, Oracle 10, Eclipse3.2, Tortoise SVN 1.6, Oracle, HP Quality Center, UNIX Associate / Java Developer / Tech Lead Chase Bank - Wilmington, DE January 2009 to February 2010 riskenvironment.ItisaworkflowsystemhousingOptionsChangeRequests(OCR).Theapplicationisalsoa staging database that communicates through batch directly to the mainframe and it will make  optionchanges over there. Feature manager has built in controls that are excellent risk mitigation tools. The control features are Error handling (business rules automation), conflict control and option change staging. Error handling ensures that values entered into options are valid, controlling risk. Conflict control makes sure that multiple option requests on the same option are correctly input. Option staging allows option input and validationprior to the option being available to users. GUI is developed using JSP, which in turn calls Struts 2 layer, which is developed in java. Struts calls the Spring to validate and process the business logic and sends through DB2 database.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in development of Java framework for the application using MVC architecture.  • Used STRUTS framework for setting up the entire Web application.  • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer.  • Developed server side components containing business logic using J2EE patterns.  • Involved in extensive functional and unit testing using JUnit.  • UsedTortoiseSVNasversioncontroltoperformchecking-outandchecking-inofcodesfromtherepository.  • Used Ecllipse as IDE for Java.  • Introduced and implemented Agile Methodologies in the project.  • As a Team Lead, I have involved offshore project co-ordination and planning and involved in preparation of detailed project plan for every week, metric sheet for every month and preparation of release notes and file inventory list for every code delivery.  • AsaTeamLead,,coordinatewithothergroups to facilitate testing efforts and file inventory list for every code delivery.  • AsaTeamLead, to quality process in all the deliverables.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, SPRING, IBatis, Weblogic 10, DB2 Associate / Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ April 2008 to December 2008 AmericanExpressTravelServicesCoIncsuite,whichemploysaGlobalLimitsonSupps(GLoS)isacapability a rep. GLoS Self Service will attempt to expand the capability to the interactive world and enable card members to manage GLoS online and provides the Basic CM to use various GLoS Management functions  throughonlineinteractivechannel,abilitytoviewasupp'sspendingstatistics,creatingalertsfortheBasicCM notifying them that their supp has reached the assigned limit, servicing/ alert emails.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in development of custom AMEX based framework.  • Used AMEX framework for setting up the entire Web application.  • Involved in writing JUnit Test cases for GLoS implementation  • Created database connectivity defined business logic and workflow application.  • Used Ecllipse as IDE for Java  Environment: Java, J2EE, AMEX framework, Eclipse Associate / Java Tech Lead JPMorgan Chase - Chicago, IL May 2005 to April 2008 Electronic Invoicing Presentment and Payment application (EIPP) employs a common base of core software and a common database architecture to handle many aspects of web based invoice and bill presentation, recipient notification, maintenance and payment processing.  J.P. Morgan's Electronic Invoice and Payment solution will provide Sellers with a robust and fully integrated Internet-based Invoicing and Online Payment solution. Our solution will allow Buyers to view invoices online, dispute line-item detail, initiate payments,and exportinvoiceorpaymentinformationintotheirsystem.GUIisdevelopedusingJSP,whichinturncallsStruts layer which is developed in java. Struts calls the EJB to validate and process the business logic and sends through DB2 database.  Responsibilities:  • Used STRUTS Frame Work for setting up the entire Web application.  • Created database connectivity. Defined business logic and workflow application in the Beans.  • Created Business layer logic using core Java and EJB.  • Writing the JUnit test cases.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for Java.  • As a Team Lead, responsible for overall onsite/offshore Project co-ordination and planning.  • Engaged in impact analysis and construction for EIPP enhancements / maintenance efforts.  • Participated on creating detailed project plan, coordinate with other groups to facilitate testing efforts    • Responsible for communicating any potential risks/delay in upcoming/starting of future tasks much ahead of the occurrence of the event.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, EJB, XML, XSL, DB 2 v 7.2, Shell scripting Programmer Analyst / Java Developer Group Management - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2002 to April 2005 OilPortal application gives features of User Management system, Content Management system. In User Management system contains the sub-module of Group Management (add number of groups can becreated in any hierarchy), Page Management (add pages under specific category), Group Permission, Category Permission, User Creation (any number of users can be created under a group) and Content Management system contains the sub-module of Category Management, Dynamic content (this module is used to edit the static and dynamic pages), Content Approval (this module enables  the content management system user to prepare, approve and reject the pages as per the rights assigned to him in the Group Management module), Image upload (this module is used to upload the image files needed to create pages dynamically to specific category) appropriate servlets. Each action servlets interacts with business objects for business logic/databaseupdate/ insertion. Presentation layer is totally separated as Light weight JSP where in view processing starts after request processing and corresponding business logic/database interaction.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, system design and implementation.  • Used STRUTS Frame Work for setting up the entire Web application.  • Involved in database design, development and coding of stored Procedures using PL/SQL.  • Writing the JUnit test cases.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for Java.    Environment: Java, Struts, Java Server Pages, Java Database Connectivity, MYSQL Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication University of Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2002 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAXB, JMS, jQuery, JSF, JSP, SERVLET, JIRA, JUNIT, RALLY, DB2, JDBC, ORACLE, ORACLE 11, POSTGRES, SQL, Angular, AWS, Angularjs, JEE, Javascript, Java J2Ee, MVC, Rest, Soap, Core Java Additional Information Skills / IT Skills  Java 8, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Postgres, REST/JSON Web service, REST, JMX, ANT, Maven, JUnit, SVN, Kafka, S3, Bamboo, Microservices, Confluence, Concurrency, Multi-threading, Memory Model ,Spring, Spring REST webservice, Spring Security using PredixUAA, Spring boot, Spring JPA, Postgres, Spring STS, GitHub, Rally, PREDIX, Cloud foundry, RabbitMQ, Angular JS, Jenkins, Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Eclipse, WebSphere, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, JDBC, Java Web services, Oracle, Junit, CVS, Java, J2EE, Spring, JMS, POJO, SQL, Apache Tomcat, Spring Integration, Spring  REST webservice, Spring Security, JPA, Hibernate, Oracle 11, Eclipse3.2, Tortoise SVN, HP Quality center, JIRA, Splunk, super putty, Jenkins. Servlet, JSP, JSF, AJAX, Spring, Restful Web services, JMS, JavaScript, HTML5, DB2, ANT, log4j, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, MVC Architecture, Eclipse, CVS, SoapUI-Pro, VISIO, SVN, Java, J2EE, Spring, JMS, POJO, SQL, PLSQL, Spring SOAP Webservices, Apache Tomcat, ApacheVelocity,SpringWebFlow,SpringRESTwebservice,Oracle10,Eclipse3.2,TortoiseSVN,HPQuality center, Version One Anthill Pro, Jenkins. (10+ years), Hibernate, Spring, Java J2Ee, Java, J2Ee, Rest, Soap, Javascript, Core Java, Angular, API, Restful, AWS, Groovy, Maven