Full Stack Developer ,Angular Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> ,Angular Full Stack Developer ,Angular - Breakthru Beverage Group Fort Lauderdale, FL • IT Professional with over all 9+years of experience and as a Full Stack.Net Developer in system Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance of Web-Based and N-tier Architectures using object-oriented programming in Health care, banking and E-Commerce domains.  • Experience in developing highly interactive web applications utilizing Angular 4/5/6, NodeJS, Express.JS, TypeScript, JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS to create Single Page Application and integrating RESTful API's.  • Experience on working with Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM manipulation using Structural, Attribute and Custom Directives and performed client-side validation using Forms in Angular 4/5/6.  • Created Angular Modules, Components, Services, Dependency Injection, Pipes implemented routing for seamless navigation and used RxJs library for observable, map and subscribe to fetch data.  • Experienced implementing REST API using node.js & express.js, Testing API using PostMan for all CRUD operations. Enable Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for RESTful services with multiple endpoints.  • Expertise in developing application using ASP.NET, .NET, C#, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET WEB API, LINQ, SQL Server, MongoDB, ADO.NET and Entity Framework.  • Experience in working ASP.NET MVC by developing Controllers, Views, Partial Views, HTML Helpers in Razor View Engine, Data Annotations, Action Methods, Action Filters and Action Results.  • Experienced with implementing ASP.NET MVC Models extensively on integrating ADO.NET, Entity FrameWork, LINQ and Lambda expressions with SQL server.  • Proficient in developing SQL on MS SQL Server using Tables, Triggers, Views and Stored Procedures and maintaining the database.  • Deploy, Configure, Maintain applications on Azure Cloud Services and Knowledge on Azure CLI. Experience in configuring cloud platform such as VM's, Web apps, Cloud Services.  • Performed Unit Testing, end to end testing using Karma and Jasmine in Angular, and NUnit in ASP.NET.  • Version control using GitHub, TFS, GIT integration with VS & VS Code where multi-branch code commits and merging.  • Working in an Agile application development SCRUM team, and using Jira for project management and bug tracking. Work Experience Full Stack Developer ,Angular Breakthru Beverage Group - Fort Lauderdale, FL June 2018 to Present ASP.NET    Description: Breakthru Beverage Group is a leading North American beverage wholesaler driving innovation in the marketplace with a nimble and insightful approach to business. Breakthru is proud to be family-owned and operated, bringing valued expertise to its operations across    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Design and implemented web-based application using C#, ASP.NET WEB API, Entity Framework, LINQ, SQL Server, and Angular 5/6, Restful API using Node.js, Express.js and MongoDB.  • Designed and developed Single Page Application using Angular, Dependency Injection, Routing, Components, Services, Lazy loading, Custom Directives, and Pipes.  • Utilized Angular lifecycle hooks such as ngOnInit, ngOnChanges, ngDoCheck and ngOnDestroy to optimize application performance and data persistence.  • Used Observables and RxJs library to communicate with the server and used input, output, ViewChild, EventEmitter and Services for sharing data within different Components.  • Involved in designing view templates using responsive design with Angular, bootstrap, CSS, HTML. Implemented Angular client-side validation to improve the accuracy of input data.  • Deployed the API using Node JS, Express JS and Handled HTTP Request/Response using Router Module.  • Implemented token-based Authentication and Authorization using JSON Web Tokens (JWT) where password bcrypted. Angular AUTH guard (CanActivate/CanDeactivate) access and restrictions to modules based on a user.  • ASP.NET Web API development with entity framework for MS SQL with CORS enabled multiple endpoint web and mobile.  • Tested using the Postman Services to ensure the get, put, post, delete functionalities are working fine.  • Used ASP.Net Entity Framework to create Models and data access through the Web API from the server. Used LINQ to interact with the database and perform the data manipulation through the WebAPI.  • Used SQL Server as database and involved in writing several SQL objects like Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers and Involved in designing tables.  • Prepared Unit test cases and performed N-Unit testing prior to system implementation.  • Involved in Unit Testing components, Services using Karma and Jasmine frameworks.  • Have followed Agile Methodology effectively. Used Git Repository as a version control for code repository and use JIRA for Project management.  • Deployed the Web Application on Azure Cloud Services and Maintained the application in developer environment.    Environment: ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC 5, Entity Framework, Angular 5, LINQ, SSMS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Node.JS, Express.JS, MongoDB, GIT, JIRA, TFS. MEAN Stack ,ASP.NET Developer HSBC - Jersey City, NJ March 2016 to May 2018 Description: HSBC, one of the largest banking and financial services institutions in the world, serves millions of customers through its four Global Businesses. Being one of the world's leading world's leading financial institutions, serves individual consumers, small and middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. It also includes online and mobile banking. In core banking system, there were three main modules such as Admin, Banker, and Customer. In Banker module, we developed new functionality in deposits sub-module API's, where system processed banking transactions and posts updates to accounts and to other financial records. Our team was also involved in developing and maintaining web pages for account maintenance fees as savings, checking's. Developed the application using Angular as front end and ASP.NET WEB API as backend.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement Analysis, Design and Development of a web-based application using C#, ASP.NET WEBAPI, Angular, Entity Framework, and SQL Server.  • Designed & implemented Single Page User Interface for client service module using Angular, HTML, and CSS.  • Worked effectively with Angular, generated Components, and Services using Angular-CLI. Implemented Client-side validations manipulated DOM Events, Directives, and Pipes.  • Created templates using various built-in directives to manipulate DOM objects using ngIF, ngFor, ngClass and ngSwitch. And worked with NPM package manager tools.  • Worked with reactive extensions (RXJS) especially Observables for asynchronously calling the server.  • Worked in Angular built-in directives such as ngModel to perform Two-Way Data Binding, and passed the data between the components using @Input, @Output, EventEmitter.  • Designed and developed the data access Layer using Entity Framework with DataBase First approach  • Effectively used LINQ to objects for data manipulation using Entity Framework to do CRUD operations and made use of Lambda Expressions for retrieving data proficiently.  • Worked in Agile methodology and delivered accepted functionality in each sprint.  • Designed unit testing module with NUnit to test the application performance and availability.  • Involved in Microsoft Azure platform for the building, managing applications and deploying web applications. Heavily involved in code review, build and deployment with GIT.    Environment: C#, .NET FrameWork, ASP.NET MVC, Entity FrameWork, LINQ, BootStrap, ASP.NET WebApI, Html5, CSS3, Angular 4, SQL Server, Mongo dB, JIRA, Visual Studio 2015, GIT, TFS. ASP.NET MVC Developer Bed Bath and Beyond - Union, NJ April 2014 to February 2016 Description: Bed Bath and Beyond is an American chain of retail and merchandise stores specializing in bedroom, bathroom, kitchen, and dining. The purpose of this project was to bring their tracking technology up to date, to keep records of their customers and products, as well as provide the status and history of any products across every store in real-time. Using this application, Management users were informed what items had low sales, in order to put these items on clearance. It was accomplished by updating the database and creating a friendly user interface to allow more sales by sending emails to customers to gain their attention and inform them about new and upcoming sale offers dashboard to model and display sales trends and predictions, creating alerts and email automation. Our development team implemented backend using ASP.NET, driving a Web-based front-end and a relational database.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and develop UI screens using ASP.Net MVC 5/ASP.Net/C#/Visual Studio. Design and developed Views, Partial Views, Models, ViewModels and Controllers.  • Design and develop User Interface and build custom Html helper classes for reusable controls.  • Designed and developed the data access Layer using Entity Framework with DataBase First approach.  • Effectively used LINQ to objects for data manipulation using Entity Framework to do CRUD operations and made use of Lambda Expressions for retrieving data proficiently.  • Experience in using MVC filters like Action Filters, Exception Filters and created custom filters to implement in controller action level and controller level.  • Implemented ASP.NET MVC validation at controller level using Data Annotations for model validation. Achieved Strongly typed view by using data Model in the View.  • Worked with Razor Views Engine for displaying C# code in HTML. Implemented ViewBag, ViewData, TempData and Session to transfer data between views and controllers.  • Partial Views for assigned modules Custom classes for MVC Views. Responsive UI with Bootstrap for handheld devices or multiple screen resolutions.  • Used ASP.NET forms Authentication and role-based Authorization to implement application security. Installed and used NuGet for Package management and dependency resolution.  • Followed Scrum Framework for the development and release activities. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Source Control and Version Control.    Environment: ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, Entity FrameWork, LINQ, SQL Server Management Studio, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Razor views, NuGet. ASP.NET MVC Developer DEP - Flushing, NY July 2012 to March 2014 Description: DEP has various departments and one of the Departments is EHS (Employee Health & Safety). ECT is a Web Application for tracking Employee Concerns of various levels and notifies the personnel to the respective group. ECT system provides various reports to various levels of Users. DEP has one more web application called DEP facilities that allow users from different facilities at different bureaus to manage enter, search for data related to historical contamination at DEP facilities in designing and developing the ECT for various report and DEP facilities module to search data.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in coding using ASP.Net, C#, ADO.Net, HTML, JavaScript.  • Working closely with client for requirement gathering, analysis and provided desired solution in time limits.  • Created UI screens using Razor Views, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap for responsive design.  • Used ADO.NET and Entity Framework to create Models. Extensively used ADO.Net data objects like Data Set, Data Reader, and Data Adapter for retrieving the data from SQL Server database and for updating the data back into the database.  • Used Data Annotations for Server-side validations and JavaScript for Client-side validation.  • Used the Shared Layout view to keep the theme consistent across page and created Views and Partial views.  • Experience in using MVC filters like Action Filters, Exception Filters and created custom filters to implement in controller action level.  • Written and used Stored Procedures, Tables and Views, Triggers, Functions for maintaining and interaction with Database using SQL server.  • Have followed SCRUM Methodology effectively.  • Worked with Team on Code review, Best practice docs, testing and error handling.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Source Control and Version Control.    Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, ASP.NET MVC, C#, ADO.NET, JQuery, SQL Server, SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio, Team Foundation Server. Java Developer Delta Air Lines - Atlanta, GA February 2010 to June 2012 Description: Delta Air Lines, Inc., typically referred to as Delta, is a major American airline,    Responsibilities:  • Implemented OOD & J2EE design patterns while coding.  • Developing presentation layer using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSP and achieved better navigation, look & feel from user perspective on MVC frame work.  • Developed Processors to handle requests from presentation layer using Servlets.  • JavaScript was used to validate the information.  • Developing business layer using J2EE architecture.  • Created DAO for database communication. Wrote the utility classes for connection to database using oracle thin drivers. Developing SQL queries. It includes creating tables, views, procedures and updating them.  • Responsible for writing the prepared statements that is precompiled and complicated SQL statements.  • CVS Source Version Control source control is used to check in and check out the files.  • Client-side Validations are implemented using JavaScript. Another Validations are implemented using JSTL and Custom Tags.  • Provided Application support for System Integration Testing and User Acceptance Testing.    Environment: Servlets, Java, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL, Oracle 9i, ES Frame works Third party S/W (related to Struts), Eclipse, WSAD, CVS Source Version Control, JUnit, UML, HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS, WebSphere 5.0 Student Trainee Stevens Institute of Technology , St - Lancaster, PA November 2008 to January 2010 Description: Stevens Institute of Technology is a private, coeducational research it is one of the oldest technological universities in the United States and was the first college in America solely dedicated to mechanical engineering.    Responsibilities:  • Design of Architecture.  • Writing of class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams.  • Developing the Prototype.  • Design and coding of modules.  • Writing SQL, Procedures.  • Deploying on Oracle Application Server, build, test and deploy.  • Involved in writing test cases and use cases.    Environment: Java, Windows XP, Oracle Education Bachelor's ,,,, Skills ADO, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2012, SQL, .NET, MS VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, TYPESCRIPT, .NET 3.5, ASP.NET WEB API, MVC, AJAX, ASP, CSS Links http://Stack.Net Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C#, .NET 3.5/4/4.5, JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML, CSS, Java  .NET Technologies ASP.NET 4/4.5, MVC 4/5, ASP.NET Web API, Entity Framework, ADO.NET, LINQ  Databases SQL Server 2012/2014/2016, MongoDB  Web Technologies Angular 4/5, Node Js, Express Js, HTML, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ajax  Development Tools MS Visual Studio 2013/15/17, MS Visual Code, Postman  Source Code Control Tools Team Foundation Server (TFS), GitHub, GitLab, JIRA  Methodologies & Cloud Agile Scrum and Azure Cloud Services