Job Seeker • Over 12+ years of experience in design, development, integration and deployment of enterprise grade in Java/J2EE applications and C and C++.  • Experience in multi-tier projects using Core java, J2EE, JSP, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS and Oracle, DB2, Informix.  • Deep understanding of Core Java concepts including Object Oriented Programming OOP , Garbage Collection, Exception Handling, Generics, Multi-Threading, Collections and Input/output.  • Basic knowledge of Scala and Angular JS.  • Experienced in implementing /design patterns using Model-View- Controller (MVC) pattern using Spring Framework.  • Experience in using various Web/Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, Jetty Application Server  • Experience in Object Relational Model library Hibernate  • Good experience on Web Services using REST and SOAP.  • Strong understanding of OOP concepts and design patterns.  • Good Experience with writing SQL Queries and PL/SQL Stored Procedures.  • Worked on JIRA for defect tracking and maintenance  • Good understanding of various phases of SDLC. Versatile with Water-fall, TDD, model and Agile methodologies.  • Work Experience with Junit, performed Unit testing, integrated testing and closely worked with QA team in preparation of test plans.  • Proven ability to analyze, plan, manage and motive. Superior ability to achieve immediate and long term goals. Work Experience Fidelity Investments January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved analyzing the existing MFL application and migrated into IIBv10 from WMBv8.  • Developed some of the stories of Multi Fund for college contents  • Resolved production issues for MFL applications  • Resolved core dumped errors in MFL applications  Environment: IBM Integration Bus v10, Spring Boot, Java 1.8, Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c, HTML5, Angular JS7, Visual Studio Code, STS, Gitbash, AWS, Jenkins, JUnits and Splunk 7.0.4, Docker Great West Financial January 2018 to January 2019 Project Name: Re-writing and Re-compiling existing core modules  Description: Great West Financial is a registered mark of Great-West Life & Annuity insurance company. It is indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Great West Lifeco Inc. and a member of power financial corporation group of companies.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing existing pro*c modules which were developed on Solaris platform and porting on Redhat Linux platform.  • Developed automatic scripts which compiled modules and generates a csv file with list of all warnings, errors.  • Developed automatic scripts to creating shared libraries.  • Developed and compared unit test results with existing static libraries.  • Re-write existing pro*c modules into Java Spring applications.  • Designed and developed Micro Services to divide application into business components using Spring Boot  • Developed REST API's using Spring boot , hosted all micro services.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Experience with Docker Containers, leveraging Linux Containers and AMI's to create Docker Images/containers  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  • Developed JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods and also MOCKITO.  Environment: JDK 1.8, REST, Oracle 12c, JUNIT, Maven 3.6, Sonar. Spring Boot, pro*c, Red hat Linux, Solaris, Docker, GIT, Oralce 11g, Makefile, Confluence Pages. Full Stack Developer Western Union September 2016 to August 2017 Description: Western Union is a leading US online Money Transferring company. We developed higher level security for WUPOS application. This application will be worked with 64-bit user name and password provided by the Western Union for their online agents    Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of the business components  • Used JavaScript and Html5 Framework developing UI Screen.  • Encrypted redirect URL and append to the existing URL along with more parameters.  • Developed JSON script to send database values to applets.  • Developed Servlet filters to capture updating data from DB.  • Create connections to database using Hibernate API, to store and retrieve data.  • Updated certificates for WUPOS urls using JKS.  • Unit test coverage using Junit framework for accuracy of code.  • Build scripts using Maven that compiles the code, built an EAR file and deployed the application on Jetty server.  • Involved in quality process, peer reviews, defect tracking and update results to management.  • Coordinating with QA team and resolved QA defects  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Actively participated in clearing issues at the time of UAT and production deployments.  • Worked with the support teams on the release activities.  • Trained new resources on the application    Environment: JDK 1.7, REST, Hibernate 4.0, Intellij IDE, Oracle 10g, JUNIT, jetty Web Server, Maven 2.3.4, SVN version control, Jenkins. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Western Union August 2013 to August 2016 Description: WUPOS (Western Union Point of Sales) is a point of sales application which is maintained by Western union agents across the world. WUPOS contains all compliance screens. These screens are varying from one country to another country.    Responsibilities:  • Developed UI components and front-end validations using Java Server Faces technology.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Spring and Hibernate framework.  • Developed Factory design pattern for uploading and downloading various software for downloading at western union agent machine.  • Worked on different util classes those are used all over the application to format data.  • Used Oval framework for validations of application data.  • Involved in the process of information transmission. Applied Core Java including Collections, Exception Handling and I/O for image loading, serialization and deserialization.  • Unit test coverage using JUNIT and defect fix.  • Used Maven for build process.  • Peer reviews, Defect tracking and Document test results in Quality Center.  • Actively participated in patch deployments and performed documentations  • Closely worked with QA team to prepare test plans.  • Trained new resources on application    Environment: J2SDK 1.5, J2EE, Spring MVC, Jetty Server, Intellij 3.4.2,Hibernate3.0, Maven 2.3.4, CVS version control, Tandem, Unisys. AngularJS C++ Developer Adtran(through TCS) April 2011 to August 2013 TA1424 was designed for cost-effective deployment of voice and data services to small and medium size business supporting up to 24 two-wire SHDSL loops.    Responsibilities:  • Developed command line interface ( CLI ) using C++.  • Developed SNTP algorithm to sync both master and slaves timestamps using multithreading.  • Worked on various SNMP traps and MIB-2.  • Designed and implemented adtran-like command-line interface (CLI) for high-speed MPLS service switch/router.  • Implemented compiler for custom CLI-description language.  • Developed primary timing sources identify outage of networks and also developed CLI.  • Involved in Unit testing and smoke testing.    Environment: C++, RTOS, Greenhill C++ compiler Involved in preparation of quality documents. Team Lead Shopper Drug Mart February 2008 to January 2011 The Shopper Drup Mart is a retail pharmacy chain based in Toronto. TShoppers Optimum is a loyalty card program that is exclusive to Shoppers Drug Mart/Pharmaprix stores.  Members collect Shoppers Optimum points that may be redeemed on purchases within the store.  Shoppers Optimum members receive 10 points for every dollar spent at the store.  This excludes the purchase of lottery, tobacco products, transit tickets and passes, prescription items, any products containing codeine, Canada Post products, and gift cards (except Shoppers gift cards).  Events for bonus point collecting and/or redemption are regularly held. With Loblaw buying Shoppers Drug Mart, there are no planned changes to Shoppers Optimum in favour of PC Plus and PC Points.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in review of Change Request and Impact Analysis of Change Request  • Involved in developing in life cycle of optimum card using Core Java, C++, Shell Script.  • Developed shell scripts for executing C++, Informix scripts.  • Developed one time shell scripts for updating production databases.  • Developed shell scripts for parsing of files.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection Framework, Interfaces, Multi-Threading and Exception Handling programming.  • Involved in the development of Waste Diversion Project using Informatica, shell script.  • Involved in the development of upgrading of the Financial Application.  • Involved in the production support for Sev3 and Sev 4.  • Involved in fixing UAT issues & Performance issues  • Involved in Quality related activities.    Environment: C++, Core Java , Spring MVC, Shell Script, Informatica, DB2, Oracle, Informix IT Analyst Nielson (Through TCS) June 2007 to February 2008 Responsibilities:  • Developed C++ interfaces to capturing barcode or scanned data.  • Developed SQL Stored procedures and functions to analyse the captured data    Environment: HP-UX, C++, Sybase, Shell Script. Education Certificate MapR and BigData University Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating System(s) Windows, Unix , Linux  Programming Languages Java, J2EE, C, C++  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JSF, EJB  Frameworks Spring 3.x, Hibernate3.x  Web Services REST, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAXP  Web/Application Servers Tomcat8.0, Jetty  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g, IBMDB2 , SQL Server  Scripting Languages Shell Script, Pig Script, AWK, HTML5.0, Java Script, CSS  UI Frameworks Angular JS  IDE / Tools Intellij , Eclipse 3.0  Testing and Build Tools JUNIT, Log4j, ANT, Maven  Version and Source Control SVN, CVS, GIT