Technical Lead for Software Project Technical Lead for Software Project Carnegie, PA Experienced developer with over 17 years of J2EE development experience involved in full life cycle, modular development of several enterprise-level software systems supporting thousands of users. Specific experience includes but is not limited to: system components, including requirements analysis, detailed design, and implementation using J2EE three-tier architecture, and testing.  • Previously worked as Technical Lead for Team Money for CT Application  • 17 Years of Java/J2EE Development Experience  • All phases of Software Development Lifecycle Methodologies covered  • Extensive experience in Spring Framework: Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Mobile, Spring Security, Spring Hibernate, Spring JMS,  • Extensive experience in requirements analysis, design, flowcharting and construction of an enterprise scale software  • Experience in global delivery of software  • Experience Managing Onshore and Offshore Software Development Teams  • Experience Coordinating Effort among Multiple Teams: Testing Teams, Vendors, COTS Products Teams, Clients  • Experience designing, creating and delivering presentations to teams and managers  • Experience in the Agile Software Development, Daily Agile SCRUM Meetings, HP Agile Manager, Microsoft TFS, Atlassian Suite  • Java/J2EE Software Developer with over 17 years of experience  • Extensive experience working with requirements analysis, design and development  • Worked with a web application with MVC Framework such as Struts and Spring  • Extensive experience with Spring Framework, hibernate developing Enterprise Web Applications  • Good experience developing REST and SOAP web applications using Jdk and Spring Framework. Please see project VisionIT, FAA. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Lead for Software Project Wipro Limited January 2018 to June 2019 Technical Lead Wipro Limited - Cincinnati, OH January 2019 to May 2019 Project Description: This project involves development of a bank application. This application allows tellers, managers, cash managers to allow bank operations. The application is developed in NodeJS and AngularJS 7, NCR REST API. I was part of Team Money. My team developed the core cash management functionalities for the banking application.  • My role as a technical lead is to provide technical guidance and management guidance to the onshore (Cincinnati, Minnesota, Illinois and Oregon) and offshore (India) team.  • I coordinated efforts between multiple teams such as offshore and onshore development team, onshore and offshore testing team, onshore UI team, NCR vendor and COTS products technical teams.  • I setup and organize meetings between the teams such as the UI team and development team and help them sort out issues.  • I help develop the User Stories with the product owner.  • I work with Scrum Master to assign User Stories to developers.  • I review the Acceptance Criteria with developers to make sure that they understand the User Story that they are working on.  • I create User Stories in Microsoft Team Foundation Server. Microsoft TFS is an Agile Management software.  • I assign User Stories to different developers and teams in Microsoft Team Foundation Server.  • I review the Flowchart wire frame diagrams, Content Document and Data Document with developers.  • I review demos of the application by developers before presentation during the Sprint daily standup to the product owner.  • I review demos of the application by testers before presentation to the product owner.  • I coordinated meetings between the developers and the testers for the testing result feedback and the rectification.  • Lead the scrum/agile daily stand up meetings.  • Participate in User Story discovery meetings with product owner.  • Participate in User Story refinement meetings with the scrum master and product owner.  • Participate in the Sprint Retrospective and Review meeting at the end of the Sprint.  • Review resume of the new potential team members.  • Allocate resources on the project according to the need of the project.  • Improved the overall development team performance in Agile User Story completions for Sprints.  • Lead my team of 8 developers to complete more User Stories for each Sprint compared to the 2nd development Team Awesome after I joined the team  • Lead my team to meet the goals set forth by the manager in User Story completions and successfully met those goals  • Achieved 30% increase in team performance in User Story completions by the development team in each sprint  • Increased by 50% the team's morale, activity participation and satisfaction rate on the project during the course of the project  • Practiced good time management skills during team management and practiced good task prioritization skills during task assignment to the team.  • Lead the team autonomously in a fast-paced and dead-line oriented environment.  • Each Sprint was 2 weeks long. I practiced good interpersonal communications skills while communicating with my team and the senior management. Technical Lead Wipro Limited - Franklin, TN May 2018 to September 2018 Project Description: This project is a Nissan North America's Sales and Marketing web application called VIMS (Vehicle Incentives Management System). My role as a Tech Lead was to work with the development team to implement the additional features for the customer based on their requirements. I provided the guidance and leadership to the team for the execution and implementation of the project managers vision and plan.  • Participated in the daily Agile team meeting with the team and the project manager  • Build the application and use Jenkins and submitted it for deployment by the team.  • Participate in the Sprint Retrospective and Review meeting at the end of the Sprint.  • Wrote the Git installation document  • Participate in User Story refinement meetings with the scrum master and product owner.  • Wrote the application deployment document  • Wrote a JIRA bug tracking usage document  • Wrote the new modern architecture and design document for the application modernization  • Lead the team of 10 application developers and database administrators to complete the User Stories each Sprint by 100%. The sprints were 2 weeks long.  • Increased the team performance by 20% after I joined the project.  • Participate in User Story discovery meetings with product owner. Technical Lead Wipro Limited - Pittsburgh, PA January 2018 to March 2018 Project Description: The project involves consuming of the incoming data through various formats and producing them into JMS messages, so it involved xml, java, jms, app servers. As a leader I provided guidance and leadership on this project from the technical perspective. I provided guidance and leadership for the Spring Boot JMS Application involving Eureka and I worked on converting the JMS message into the byte array for JMS topic. Senior IT Technical Consultant CherryRoad Technologies, New Jersey May 2017 to October 2017 Project Name: Neogov, Broomfield County, Colorado  Project Description: The project involved integration of two systems: Neogov Cloud and Oracle Fusion HCM Cloud. The integration involved transfer of employee data on a daily basis from one system (Neogov Cloud) to another system (Oracle Fusion HCM Cloud). I worked on requirements analysis, design, and development of the project end-to-end. The project was done using Java 8, Eclipse, Spring REST WebServices. I did the following things:  -Wrote Java code with Spring REST WebServices to access the Neogov WebServices, Oracle Fusion HCM Cloud WebServices.  -Wrote Java code to transfer data from Neogov WebServices to Oracle Fusion HCM Cloud WebServices.  Wrote the Scheduler code which runs the program daily in the evening to transfer the data.  Project Name: Oracle Fusion Cloud ERP Integration, St. Croix, Wisconsin  Project Description: The project was for the St. Croix county, Wisconsin, for their Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software integration, which was implemented using Oracle Fusion Middleware Cloud. I worked on implementing the functionality for the third-party data Integration using Java 8, Spring REST WebServices with Oracle Fusion Cloud. I implemented 2 modules in java: General Ledger and Invoices.  General Ledger: Specifically worked with File-Based Data Import for Oracle Financials Cloud. Worked with ERPIntegrationService to send the data files to Oracle Fusion Cloud for General Ledger Journal Import and submit for the ESSJob, get the EssJobStatus and download the log files using Java code. Attached and sent the downloaded log file to a person using an e-mail. Wrote the code to download data files from remote server. Import the third-party financial data to the Oracle Financial Cloud. The data followed the Oracle Financials Cloud defined data csv/excel template. Wrote the code so that the data was massaged, filtered and validated before it was imported to the Cloud. Experience in developing applications using Oracle Fusion Middleware Business Intelligence Publisher Web Services Release 12. Specifically worked with the Oracle Business Intelligence ReportService WebService to run the reports to get validation data using java code and get the report data. Experience in developing application using Oracle Financial Cloud Release 12.  Invoices: I implemented this functionality for Invoices using Java 8. I wrote the code for downloading the file from remote server for Invoices. Then I wrote the code for manipulating the data and formatting and validating it according to the Oracle Fusion Cloud template. Wrote the code for submitting the data to the Oracle Fusion Financial Cloud. Technical Architect Infosys Limited - Basking Ridge, NJ September 2016 to December 2016 Project Description: The project was for Wellpoint in Richmond, VA. I worked on the WellPoint portal rewriting and modernizing the wellpoint's web application.  • Created, designed and developed the portlet application from the beginning on the IBM websphere application portal server.  • Wrote the java code for Spring MVC Framework, Spring Services layer, Spring Data Access Layer  • Wrote the JSP code for the Spring Tags jsp forms. Senior Java Developer VisionIT - Detroit, MI August 2015 to March 2016 Project Description: The project is for the Covisint end client. The project uses Liferay as its platform for development of applications. The application allowed managers to assign travel packages to specific organizations. The project uses Spring Portlet framework with access to data from a REST Web Service. Mr. Berwa does the following:  • Created, designed and developed the Liferay portlet application from the beginning.  • Captured and Evaluated system requirements.  • Worked with subject matter experts to establish technical specifications and to determine subject material to be developed  • Wrote the java code for Spring Portlet MVC Framework, Spring Services layer, Spring Data Access Layer  • Wrote the JSP code for the Spring Tags jsp forms.  • Used MVC design patterns  • Deployed and tested the portlet application on the Liferay Portal server.  • Agile based project  • Developed code using eclipse IDE  • Used Object-Oriented Analysis and Design using Java language.  • Research and create technical information into manuals or documents for end users.  Project: HealthIDX  Project Description: The project involved creation of REST webservices and client application to be called by 3rd party application. The REST webservices and the client is created using the Spring 3 Framework. There are 2 separate web applications. The REST Webservices is deployed in the Liferay Portal Server, which was deployed on the Amazon Cloud. Our Web service was accessible like a web application for the web services url. Mr. Berwa did the following things:  • Wrote the code for the Spring REST Webservices running on AWS.  • Wrote the code for the Spring REST Webservices Client application which parses the xml data files and then calls the REST Webservices to create a peson on the Covisint platform.  • Captured and Evaluated system requirements.  • Worked with subject matter experts to establish technical specifications and to determine subject material to be developed  • Worked with multiple projects as necessary.  • Converted the data from java to JSON and returned the JSON data back to the user.  • Used the SOAPUI to test the web services.  • Used MVC design patterns  • Deploy Application on the Linux Server running on Amazon Cloud (AWS).  • Created the public/private key using WinSCP to connect to the AWS.  • Installed Java 7 on Linux CentOS running on AWS.  • Installed Tomcat 7 on AWS.  • Connect to the Amazon cloud using the public/private key using PUTTY.  • Deploy the Liferay Portlets on the Liferay Portal server running on the Cloud.  • Used Object-Oriented Analysis and Design using Java language.  • Participatde in peer review of technical documentation.  • Wrote User's manual on how to use the software  Project: Fiat/Chrysler  Project Description: This project involved maintaining, modifying and updating of the mopar.com ecommerce website. The website allows users to search, find and locate the Chrysler dealerships where the mopar parts are used. The website is also used for promotions and discounts on mopar parts. The website Mr. Berwa did the following things:  • Worked on mopar.com ecommerce website.  • Modified and updated the code of the mopar.com  • Did enhancements to the website locally, then transferred to the Development Stage, Staging Stage and then Production Stage  • Did bug fix of the mopar.com  • Worked with client Fiat/Chrysler's team on the prioritization of issues and bug fixing and enhancements  • Used bitbucket to track bugs, and updated status in it to propagate to proper channels  • Developed code using eclipse IDE  • Worked with Testers after the enhacements to the website was done. Senior Java Developer Deloitte - Arlington, VA March 2015 to June 2015 Project Description: The project is a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) federal agency Integrity project. It is a project involving the pharmaceutical companies submitting application to the FDA for new drugs ideas and trials and then getting approval from the government. The project uses Spring Framework MVC, Oracle Database and Redhat Linux OS. Mr. Berwa does the following:  • Wrote web services to access the existing database and provide that data through webservices written in Spring Webservices.  • Tested Webservices using the SoapUI testing tool.  • Wrote the Spring MVC Rest/JSON Controllers for the AngularJS based client to provide JSON data.  • Tested the Spring MVC Rest/JSON Controllers using the SoapUI Testing tool.  • Wrote the Exceptions handling code to handle the exceptions for the Spring Webservices, Spring MVC, Spring Services and the Spring Data Access Layer classes with Hibernate/JPA.  • Worked with Angular JS to develop client-side User Interface Senior Filenet Consultant TSPI - Reston, VA March 2014 to October 2014 Project Description: The project is a Enterprise Content Management Systems (ECMS) for the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The project involves IBM Suites of products including the IBM WebSphere Portal Server, IBM WebSphere Application Server, IBM FileNet, SharePoint, Alfresco, MediaBeacon. The purpose of the project is to modernize the USDA's IT Systems to use the modern IT Technologies. Mr. Berwa did the following things:  • Setup the Application Development Environment  • Installed the Rational Application Developer  • Installed WebSphere Application Server  • Installed WebSphere Portal Server  • Worked with FileNet Content Engine documentation  • Wrote Java Program to Connect to FileNet Content Engine and to make Java API Calls.  • Worked on writing the technical installation documentation for the various IBM Components that were intalled Senior Software Engineer KGS - Fairfax, VA October 2013 to March 2014 Project Description: The project is about evaluating the commercially available Cloud Broker softwares for the General Services Administration (GSA) of the US government. The purpose is to provide GSA the capability and features of commercially available Cloud Broker softwares and provide GSA recommendation of which commercially available softwares is the best suitable for their needs. Mr. Berwa did the following things:  • Worked with Gravitant, Enstratius and Jamcracker Cloud Broker Softwares.  • Evaluate and wrote the technical documentation on the different features and capabilities of these softwares.  • Wrote the steps on the different features of the softwares for the GSA government officials so that they could do the hands-on practice of these software and get a good feel for these softwares.  • Make updates to existing documents per markups, or draft new procedures, documents, and manuals.  • Worked with the Gravitant, Enstratius and Jamcracker technical team.  • Participated in the help sessions with the government to help them with technical questions of the above-mentioned products.  • Provided recommendations with regards to the suitability of the above-mentioned software for the usage within the GSA.  • Researched and created technical information into documents for end users.  • Worked with CentOS on Rackspace Cloud and installed and setup jdk 7 on the server and installed and configured JBoss Application Server.  • Deployed annotation style SOAP Webservices on JBoss.  • Tested the webservice using the SoapUI Webservice Testing Tool.  • Participated in peer review of documentation  • Communicated status and issues to management appropriately Senior Software Engineer SRA International - Fairfax, VA February 2013 to July 2013 General Accounting Office (GAO), Washington,DC  Project Description: The GAO agency is the enforcement arm of the US Congress. This project involves implementation of Liferay 6.1 Open Source Portal Server customization as well as the development of new portlet applications. The portlets are based on JSR-168 and JSR-286 portlet specifications. The development environment consists of Redhat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) OS for the development and deployment with the server Tomcat 6 with Liferay 6.1. The database tier consists of Oracle database. Mr. Berwa worked on the following things:  • Customized Liferay User Interface as per the requirements. Configured and customized the Liferay portal interface to enable and disable private and public site pages.  • Configured the permissions and roles on the public and private pages. Created new sites using the Lifeary Control Panel.  • Worked with Liferay Theme to customize the user interface.  • Created portlets to be deployed inside the Liferay Control Panel  • Write the JSP pages using the Liferay UI tags for the Form Builder and Form Display portlets.  • Created new users in Liferay. Configured roles and permission for the users.  • Configured datasource for Liferay with the Oracle Database  • Write the Portlet controller based on Liferay MVCPortlet for the Form Builder and Form Display portlets.  • Wrote the Service Layer classes for the portlets or the Form Builder and Form Display portlets.  • Worked with Liferay Java API to integrate the custom application with Liferay and to do database operations.  • Used Liferay Service Builder plug-in to create and do database operations.  • Wrote analysis and design documents and visio diagrams for portlets.  • Wrote portlet application deployment documents.  • Worked with Liferay Dynamic Data Lists to customize them for the project.  • Worked with the Liferay roles and permissions model  • Installed Liferay on RedHat Enterprise Linux Servers.  • Installed JDK 1.6 on RedHat Enterprise Linux Servers. Senior IT Specialist Unissant - Reston, VA November 2012 to January 2013 National Science Foundation - PIMS and WWW Apps  Project Description: National Science Foundation is a U.S. federal government agency that supports fundamental (basic) research across all disciplines of science and engineering and related education. The project involves enhancements and maintenance of the main National Science Foundation website (www.nsf.gov) J2EE based web application. This web application is the public facing website of NSF. Scientists, professors and research scholars come to the website to get information, apply and search for awards. The PIMS is the internal j2ee based web application that NSF use to approve grants to universities and organizations seeking grants. This application has a workflow engine. Both applications use Struts as the web application framework. The platform involved Struts Framework for the web application framework. Eclipse was the development IDE environment. It used Sun Application Server, Sun Web Server to run the web application, and Sybase database to store the data. Mr. Berwa worked on the following things:  • Updated the various modules/parts of the nsf.gov and the pims applications  • Modified and updated the Struts Action classes for the nsf and pims applications.  • Modified and updated the server-side code including the delegates, model and data access layer code for the various modules.  • Created builds of the nsf web applications to be deployed on the Sun One Application Server.  • Deployed the nsf web applications in the development and testing environment  • Created build of the pims application to be deployed on the Sun Web Server.  • Deployed the pims web application in the development and the testing environment  • Fixed bugs related to the application as per reported by the testing team. Senior Java Consultant HP - Alexandria, VA May 2012 to November 2012 DEERS-Webdoes  Project Description: This application allows the members of the military and their family to enroll in a health insurance plan designated by the government. The project involves enhancing and maintaining of a JSF/Trinidad Framework and Spring Framework based web application. The platform involved Windows 7 Enterprise with Oracle Database and Oracle Weblogic Application Server, JDeveloper. Mr. Berwa worked on the following things:  • Added, modified and updated the JSF BackingBean code  • Added, modified and updated the Spring Services Layer code  • Added, modified and updated the Spring Data Access layer code using Ibatis Object Relational Mapping Tool  • Created builds of the webdoes application to be deployed on the Weblogic 10 Application Server  • Deployed the webdoes application to the Weblogic 10 Application Server in the development and the testing environment  • Modified and updated the JSP code as per the requirement from the customer  • Fixed bugs related to the application as per reported by the testing team IBM Rational Application Developer Pharmacy Prior Authorization Service November 2011 to April 2012 Project Description: The project involves creation of the service where doctors can login into the BCBSM ecommerce website and submit the form which prior authorizes medicines for a patient. The application involves the doctor/provider functionality as well as the pharmacy technician functionality related to prior authorization. The working environment includes IBM Rational Application Developer, IBM Websphere Application Server 7, with Spring Framework 3.0, Apache Myfaces 1.2 JSF Implementation, JSF Facelets, RichFaces 3.3 Component Library, Tomahawk and Oracle Database 11g. Mr. Berwa works on the following things:  • Analyze client requirements and transfer the requirements into initial design  Integrated Apache Myfaces 1.2 JSF implements with the component library of JBoss Richfaces 3.3  • Architect and design the application based on Spring Framework 3, JSF 1.2, JSF Facelets, JBoss RichFaces, Apache MyFaces, Apache Tomahawk.  • Integrated Spring with JSF, RichFaces and Facelets  • Integrated Sun Single Sign On (SSO) with the application  • Writes Spring Controller classes, Spring Service Layer and Spring DAO Objects for the Appeals Form, implement lock and Unlock Feature for the Medicine Request Form module, Implement the Search functionality for the Medicine Request Form, Wrote the full lifecycle code for the Update functionality for Medicine Request Form module.  • Deploy application on the Webphere Application Server 7  • Unit Tested application on the Websphere Application Server  • Used Oracle SQLDeveloper to connect to the Oracle Database and browse and view data Technical Lead BCBSM - Detroit, MI October 2011 to November 2011 Connecture Project  Project Description: This project involved a customization of a COTS product called Connecture. This product is for insurance industry and allows a company to enroll new customers and keep their insurance profile for delivering insurance services to them. Mr. Berwa did the following things:  • Helped with the customization of the Connecture product  • Worked with the systems administrators and testing team to help them test and deploy the Connecture product in the development environment and Quality Assurance environment.  • Coordinated with the Connecture team to help clarify their business requirements related to the BCBSM  • Coordinated with the test team and setup conference calls with the Connecture tech team to report bugs and to resolve bug fixes  • Setup meetings and conference calls as per the delivery lead requests Principal Technical Resource Army Publishing Directorate (APD) - Alexandria, VA September 2010 to July 2011 VA  Army Publishing Directorate (APD)  Project Description: The project involves working and customization of the IBM Cognos Business Intelligence 10 Software. The development environment involves a mixture of Windows 2003 Server with IBM Websphere 7 for the middle-tier and the IBM DB2 database for the data storage. The Staging and Production environment includes a mixture of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), Windows 2008 Server, IBM Websphere 7 and Cognos BI 10 with DB2 Database for data storage. Mr. Berwa worked on following things:  • Lead a team of java developers and coordinated the project efforts with the IBM Tech Team for IBM Cognos.  • Worked with the IBM tech team during the Installation of the Cognos software and during customization  • Identified bugs in the IBM Cognos BI Software and reported those bugs to IBM for fixing  • Customized the user interface of Cognos BI software for the client  • Installed java sdk for Cognos BI Software  • Installed Cognos BI software on Windows 2003 Server  • Wrote a java program which uses the Cognos SDK and updates the profiles of users based on the 'default' user.  • Wrote a java program which uses the Astoria CM Database Java API to extract the data from the Astoria database.and stores it on a hard disk drive.  PRTA Project: This project is a web-based application designed and developed in .NET Framework. The current assignment involved integrating the filenet workflow with the existing application.  • Installed and Configured FileNet 4.5.0 Content Engine, Workplace XT and Process Engine.  • Wrote a java program which uses FileNet CE Java API to bulk upload files onto the content FileNet Content Engine.  • Wrote java code to connect to FileNet Content Engine and do operations on FileNet Content Engine.  • Wrote a java-based web application, which used the FileNet Code to allow users to do operations on FileNet Content Engine. This application is based on the Spring Framework 3.0 with Spring Security.  • Worked with the IBM Tech Team during the deployment of the FileNet SOA Architect C-MCI - Fairfax, VA April 2010 to August 2010 Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security  Project Description: This project is an enterprise project involving Customs and Border Protection Agency of the department of Homeland Security. DHS involves a heterogeneous environment for its computing needs. Mr. Berwa specifically works with the system that runs web services on Oracle ESB, IBM DataPower and AmberPoint SOA Management System. Mr. Berwa does the following things:  • Wrote the EXT-JS code for client side with JSP code and server-side code in Java Servlets for a Rich Internet Application (RIA) prototype.  • Wrote Rich Internet Application Design and Architecture document  • Configure IBM DataPower to configure security for web services  • Configure AmberPoint SOA Management System for web services  • Configure Oracle ESB to deploy web services written in java  • Installed Oracle Application Server with SOA Suite in a clustered environment.  • Worked on developing a Microsoft Silverlight Application prototype in the .Net framework Senior Java Consultant Computer Sciences Corporation - Chantilly, VA November 2009 to March 2010 GSA Cloud Portal Project - Senior Java Developer  Project Description: This project is a multi-tier architecture Cloud Computing web application, involves creation of presentation tier, business tier, database tier, and web services tier. The presentation tier is done using php language. The business tier is done using java and the java web services. The data tier is with MySQL Database server. The presentation tier invokes the business tier web services. The business tier invokes the Terremark RESTFul style web services for cloud computing as well as CRUD operations for the database. The tools used are hibernate, JBoss, Eclipse, etc. Mr. Berwa does the following.  • Transform the requirements into detailed design  • Write Java code for business tier, including the SOAP web services, hibernate  • Write the Java code to do operations on Terremark vCloud API, particularly the network related APIs.  • Tested the webservices and Terremark APIs.  • Deploy and test the application  • Use soapUI to test developed web services  • Guided PhP Developers to the usage of java web services. Senior Consultant SRA International - Arlington, VA June 2009 to September 2009 eTSCA Application (EPA) - Senior Java Developer  Project Description: This project is a Java GUI Swing Project. It involves creation of java Swing classes, XML, JIBX, XML Schema, etc. The application is based on Java Swing's JGoodies Application Framework. It leverages the existing JGoodies Framework and builds on top of its existing underlying framework. This application is a standalone application. The project is in the maintenance phase of the product lifecycle. Mr. Berwa writes and updates java classes, XML Schema and other parts of the application as per requirement from the client.  • Gather Requirements from client  • Transform the requirements into detailed design  • Write java code in Java Swing  • Test the java code  • Deploy and test the application  • Create a installer, package the application and deliver it to client. Senior J2EE/SOA Application Architect FAA - Washington, DC October 2008 to April 2009 Washington, DC, District of Columbia, United States of America  FAA SOA Application - Senior J2EE/SOA Application Architect  Project Description: The project involves creation of a web application and creation of SOA based Web Services, whereas the web application consumes the developed Web Services running on Oracle Application Server and Oracle SOA Suite, running on Solaris Operating System. This project supported the Workforce Management Toolset (WMT) program which is a large FAA NON-NAS initiative. It was installed at Mike Mcroney Aeronautical Center (MMAC) data center.  • Supervised and mentored junior level java developer  • Developed web services for Oracle App Server Platform, Spring Framework Servlets, JavaBeans, Log4J, Validations, JSP using JSTL, Spring Service layer, Spring DAO layer for Hibernate.  • Implemented role-based application security based on Spring Security.  • Administered Oracle SOA Suite.  • Worked on a Non-National Airspace System (NAS) project where I designed and implemented a SOA pilot interfacing two distinct FAA data sources which contained personnel and IT information data sources.  • Worked with standards-based architecture like XML, Web Services and FAA standards like Oracle infrastructure and Spring J2EE framework.  • Assisted in developing the use cases and the architecture after extensive discussions with the FAA staff.  • Familiar with the FAA ATO environment. Senior IT Specialist IBM, Fairlakes, VA May 2006 to April 2009 District of Columbia, District of Columbia, RIMS Project - Web Application Architect FEMA October 2007 to October 2008 Project Description: Project involves development of J2EE web-based applications based on the clients needs. The web applications are developed using the Spring Framework's web-tier and middle-tier, with Hibernate as the object-relational mapping tool for data-tier for database operations. The project involves the Oracle database and Oracle App Server. The project follows Agile methodology for rapid application development. The PVCS is used for SCRs and SVN is used as a Version Control tool. The Eclipse is used as a software development IDE.  • Analyzed requirements; created detailed design and java coded the web applications and used Log4J.  • Used Spring Framework to code the Spring controllers and forms for the controller part of MVC.  • Coded the middle-tier using the Spring Framework's Service Layer.  • Coded the Data Access tier using the Spring Framework's DAO Layer and hibernate.  • Wrote jsp code, JSTL, html, javascript and CSS.  • Used Spring Security/Acegi Security framework to implement role-based security for the applications. Portal Development - Portal Developer United States Courts - Washington, DC November 2006 to September 2007 Project Description: Project involves a development of JSR-168 portlets using the J2EE technology, which involves the IBM Websphere Portal Server V5 and V6, IBM Tivoli Access Manager, IBM Websphere Application Server V5 and V6, IBM ClearQuest, IBM RequisitePro, JSTL, and JSP  • Supervised and mentored junior level java developer  • Wrote Java code for IBM's authentication and authorization solution, Tivoli Access Manager. The code connected to the Tivoli Access Manager. It read existing user information from TAM. The code also added a new user to the Tivoli Access Manager. The code allowed updating user profile information which resided on the TAM. The code also allowed deleting of a user from the Tivoli Access Manager.  • Analyzed requirements designed and coded portlets for the project.  • Coded the middle-tier using the Spring Framework's Service Layer.  • Coded the Data Access tier using the Spring Framework's DAO Layer.  • Wrote code for Log4J, jsp code, JSTL, html, Javascript and CSS.  • Implemented SOA by writing Web Services based on JAX-RPC based for Websphere Application Server.  • Deployed the client and server webservices on Websphere Application Server.  • Tested the web services he deployed. Application Architect US Army - Lakes, Virginia, US May 2006 to November 2006 Project Description: Project is a distance learning system for the US Army. The project used COTS product like Saba. Its environment included Weblogic Application Server, Solaris Operating System and Oracle Database.  Provided services related to the re-engineering of Saba 3.4 to Saba 5.3 based on J2EE multi-tier environment.  • Analyzed requirements, designed and coded the Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) for the project.  • Deployed and tested the code on the Weblogic Application Server. Senior Consultant Booz Allen Hamilton - McLean, VA May 2004 to May 2006 Case Management System (CMS) Project  This project is a J2EE Project involving FileNet, Struts Framework, Spring Framework, Acegi Security Framework, Hibernate, Oracle Application Server and Oracle Database. My duties involve the following tasks.  • Write Struts Actions, JavaBeans, any Java coding required of me related to the CMS Project.  • Analyze requirements of functional units and then implemented JSP pages, Struts Actions, DAOs and JavaBeans.  • Implemented J2EE Web Worker Design Pattern for the FileNet workflow system. The design pattern allows developers to make calls to the FileNet P8 Process Engine to create, update, dispatch and delete a workflow item. Senior Software Consultant UPT May 2004 to March 2005 User Provisioning Tool (UPT) is a multi-tier J2EE project and involves usage of Struts framework. Client side is developed using JSP. JavaBeans and DAOs are part of the middle tier. The middle tier runs on Oracle Application Server 10g. Database tier is using Oracle 9i database. Database server and the Oracle AS10g are running on the Solaris Operating System on Sun servers.  • Wrote Struts based Servlets for the UPT.  • Wrote JSP pages for the client side.  • Wrote controller Servlets, JavaBeans as well as Java Data Access Objects to access the data from the database to be displayed on the JSP pages.  • Wrote Ant script to compile and build the project as well as for other utility functions.  • Deploy and undeploy the UPT application from the Oracle Container (OC4J) running locally.  • Configured log4j as a logging mechanism for the UPT tool.  • Designed the project directory structure for the UPT tool and wrote a document describing my design.  • Wrote database store procedures and database Functions. Software Consultant Number Six Software - Arlington, VA June 2003 to April 2004 RAPIDS Project  RAPIDS project is a multi-tiered J2EE project, involving webservices, Log4J, Ant, Swing, JUnit and runs on Solaris platform for the application server and the database servers and Windows XP for the client-side. RAPIDS application uses database known as DEERS, which holds benefits data of US military personnel. I have been involved in the following tasks on the project.  • Designed and developed Logging subsystem using Log4J.  • Wrote Ant Scripts to compile and build the project and test cases.  • Wrote documentation on Oracle9iAS regarding how to configure, deploy and manage web applications on Oracle Application Server and also how to implement SSL on it.  • Use JUnit to write and run JUnit testcases for java code.  • Wrote Swing GUI components.  • Implemented migration from Oracle9iAS to Sun Java Application Server Version 8 running on Solaris.  • Used 'putty' program to logon through ssh on Solaris and performed systems admin. Java Software Engineer Staffing Agency - Reston, VA March 2003 to May 2003 Homeland Security Project  Joint project between REI Systems and Oracle Corporation involved creation of a multi-tier web-based risk assessment system for the Department of Justice. This application allowed state and local jurisdictions to submit risk assessment collected data to the State level and up the ladder. The application was based on Java's J2EE architecture. It ran on Sun Solaris operating system with Oracle9i database server and Oracle9i Application Server. I worked on the web-based client-side functionalities:  • Use Ant to build and compile project.  • Develop tests to ensure system compliance with user requirements.  • Write servlets, JSP pages, and Java Beans based on Struts framework.  • Modify and update the existing client-side related java code Software Engineer/Web Developer Northrop Grumman - Chester, VA July 2002 to January 2003 GCSS Project  Project provides a web-based logistical support system for the US army. Allows the army to order supply, maintain and keep track of the military's extensive hardware. Project is based on Java's J2EE architecture. The GCSS application is designed to run on an enterprise database as a transactional system as well as under distributed environments and supports thousands of simultaneous users in various parts of the world. The client-side is developed using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, and CSS. Netscape IPlanet webserver is used to serve the web pages, and the BEA's WebLogic is the application server. The server-side programming is done using Servlets, JavaBeans, and Java Tag Libraries. The Oracle9i is used to store the data. Rational ClearCase is used for source code control. Specific contribution includes the creation of various Supply Reports for the support system using the following.  • Create Servlets following the MVC Controller architecture.  • Create JavaBeans to set values in JSP pages to give web pages dynamic functionality.  • Create JSP pages and use JavaScript for client-side HTML/JSP document form validation.  • Create Data Objects in Java to retrieve data from the Oracle 9i database and store them in specific objects.  • Create Business Objects to call the methods of Data Objects and then populate the JavaBeans with data to be used in JSP pages.  J2ME Development - The project involves providing the functionality for a web-based system as well as for the hand-held device such as Sharp Zaurus or Palm Pilot. Used the J2ME SDK as the method of programming for the hand-held device.  Installed and configured the J2ME SDK from Sun Microsystems.  • Created graphical user interface for the Palm Pilot and cell phones which implemented the CommandListener interface.  • Coded a screen which displayed a scrolling banner text like a stock ticker.  • Coded other screens which provided textual information to the user and took the user to the different screens based on whether they selected 'Next' or 'Back' button on the screen.  • Tested my code on the simulators provided by the J2ME kit. The kit provides simulators for the Palm Pilot and various Motorola cellphones. Software Engineer/Web Developer TRW, Fair - Lakes, VA, US December 2001 to June 2002 CMM Level III and CMM Level IV Certified Corporation  Defense Travel System (DTS) Project  DTS is a CMM Level III project that provides a paperless travel reservation system for the Department of Defense personnel. Project design is based on Java's J2EE architecture framework. The client side developed using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, and JSP dynamic pages. The middle tier is developed using Java and third tier is Oracle 8i database server. My responsibilities included developing the DTS Management website, an internal document management tool, which is also mirrored to the customer's intranet. I used HTML, JavaScript, CSS and ASP to develop dynamic pages and maintained the website. Specifically, was responsible for developing the following functionality and features:  • Create new pages, modify and maintain the Project Management website, which is on an intranet with HTML, JavaScript, ASP on NT Platform with Oracle8i database server.  • Created new pages, modified and maintained the website: http://www.defensetravel.com  • Developed login screen using JSP, which validates the user id and password using a JavaBean and JDBC against the database values and then takes user to appropriate page.  • Developed JSP web page, which retrieves the data from the database using JavaBean and JDBC and then displays the data dynamically.  • Developed test procedures and conducted tests to ensure system compliance with user requirements.  • Designed and developed a web-based search engine in ASP, which allows users to enter multiple criterias for the query and then retrieve the data based on that criteria.  • Designed and implemented Access database.  • Performed regular back-ups of the Project Management Website. Software Engineer TRW, Fair - Chantilly, VA March 2001 to December 2001 CMM Level III Certified Corporation  Modern Integrated Database (MIDB) Project  Designed and developed Java (Applets/Swing components) for a Department of Defense project that runs within the Defense Information Infrastructure Common Operating Environment (DII COE) and Global Command and Control System (GCCS-I3) frameworks. Project involved the creation of applets for the client side, Enterprise Java Beans implementation for the middle-tier and Sybase database server for the third tier. Specifically, was responsible for design/development of client-side through Java Applets - utilizing Swing components - that provide several capabilities:  • Allow administrators to keep track of current server, server priority, server id, and server description; data is saved back to the database. Administrators can also search for a server either through server id or server name.  • Queries/loads data from a database table and then displays it to the user from a browser frame. Applet was designed as a multi-threaded application.  • Displays records that were viewed last time by the user. The user first logs in and based on the login authentication, his or her records viewed last time are retrieved from the database.  • Allow user to retrieve records from the database directly, based on the table index number and through simple search value entered in a text field.  • Allow user to enter user id and password and thus logon to the system before they can actually modify any data.  • Created homepage and all related HTML documents of a fully functional website for the MIDB project using HTML 4.0, JavaScript and Cascading Style Sheets under Windows NT platform.  • Created images and decorations for the website utilizing Adobe Photoshop and Adobe ImageReady.  • Responsible for updating, modifying and managing the project website. Web Developer Prior Art Searches - Arlington, VA March 2000 to March 2001 Created a new fully functional business website for the company using HTML 4.0, JavaScript and Cascade Style sheets knowledge.  • Wrote majority of the code for the website. The URL address is: http://www.priorart.com  • Created charts, graphs, diagrams, pictures and animations using Adobe Photoshop and ImageReady.  • Used Cold Fusion for taking user input and feedback from the client.  • Wrote Cold Fusion client-side code to code the html forms.  • Modified, updated and maintained the company website using HTML 4.0 under Windows 2000 Professional Platform.  • Used JavaScript to do form validation for the order form and the feedback form.    of Education Diploma in Financial Trading and Investment Academy of Financial Trading 2019 BA in Psychology University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI 1995 Software Engineering George Mason University - Fairfax, VA