Associate Director - Technology - Robotics Process Automation (RPA) Associate Director - Technology - Robotics Process Automation (RPA) Associate Director - Technology - Robotics Process Automation (RPA) - AT&T Fulshear, TX Dynamic, versatile, hands-on technology Associate Director for Robotics Process Automation (RPA) who supervises and leads cross-functional teams to develop and deliver business strategies, rapid results, application development, technology solutions, program/ project management, roadmap management, release management, customer management and vendor management. Make decisions as to the staffing hiring, firing and advancement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Director - Technology - Robotics Process Automation (RPA) AT&T - Houston, TX 2017 to Present Supervise, lead and manage Robotics Process Automation (RPA) roadmap, operations, infrastructure, applications, communication and program management. Define the vision and set objectives, priorities and scope for the RPA Program. Responsible for the development strategy and operation models for automation across the organization. This includes the development of the program's governance, RPA program performance dashboards, program roadmap development and tracking, and resource allocation to ensure efficiency of operations and organizational priorities are met.    • Spearheaded the development of the first-ever RPA Program team; staffed and trained program/ project management and development teams, designed RPA roadmap model and defined RPA strategy and processes, including those related to architecture, infrastructure and operations.  • Manage daily operations, productivity, define deliverables, allocate and mentor resources, conduct performance reviews, and ensure compliance with established processes.  • Oversee and manage a third-party vendor teams of RPA developers to support RPA operations.  • Create and manage RPA program communications, staffing and stakeholder management strategy.  • Responsible for budget management, and coordinating, evaluating, and partnering with RPA technology vendors and outside consultants as needed.  • Provide guidance and coaching/mentoring to team members and other project leaders as appropriate.  • Use analytical reports to watch for early signs of slippage in terms of budgets, costs, and timelines and take proactive action and also to improve resources utilization and better forecast savings.  • Act as the main contact with business units to identify and quantify business issues associated with specific projects/ process, develops and implements business strategy, and assists in setting strategic technical direction  • Create regular program status reports summarizing status of projects including progress, financials, risks, mitigations, contingencies and presents to senior management.  • Achieved over $177 million company's savings through RPA. Program/ Project Manager Hewlett-Packard - Houston, TX 2016 to 2017 Managed and delivered software development projects on time, within budget and within scope.    • Successfully managed software development projects delivery of DMO design through implementation.  • Worked with stakeholders to understand DMO requirements, identify any risks, and develop mitigation plans.  • Owned and delivered DMO MSPS artifacts like Project Charters, Scope Statements, Business Requirements, etc.  • Efficiently communicated project activities and updated MSPS on regular basis to provide visibility to DMO management on project progress.  • Project closure activities gaining formal customer acceptance, closure, lessons learned and documentation archiving.  • Worked with DMO management team for reporting of performance measures and meaningful service level agreements - both at the individual and team level - that align with business objectives.  • Full transparency of progress towards agreements on a consistent basis to ensure mutual partnership towards success.  • Established engagement to ensure continuity and help anticipate unexpected project issues.  • Managed testing phase engaging different stakeholders to drive the successful completion of testing.  • Prepared move to production plan and executed it ensuring zero post-production defects. Project Manager/ Project Coordinator General Electric - Houston, TX 2012 to 2015 Accomplished Surface Business Unit objectives by performing both project coordination and project management functions as part of surface engineering team, in three types of projects: NPI (New Product Introduction), PLE (Product Line Extension) and Customer-Specific Qualification and Testing projects simultaneously against agreed scope, budget, schedule and customer expectations. Projects varied from hundreds of thousands to multi-million dollars' budgets.  • Coordinated and managed all project activities through projects lifecycle from concept, requirements, design, development, manufacturing, testing, shipping logistics and close phases  • Provided projects cost estimate and helped in developing projects budget. Tracked and managed project financials and provided reliable Forecasts versus Actual to management. Met approved budgets. Developed and updated expense reports.  • Controlled project Primavera schedules by meeting weekly with the project team and updating actual work hours, estimates and progress.  • Managed communication and facilitated all needed information among diverse stakeholder groups including engineering, finance, manufacturing, supply chain, designers, sourcing, executive management and customers.  • Created and maintained project management plans. Tracked and reported project status and issues/risks. Escalated promptly any issues that may affect operations.  • Managed and conducted project procurement including issuing RFQ's, evaluating quotes, placing purchase orders for BoM (Bill of Material), with established and new vendors using Oracle Supply Chain Management (SCM) and ORACLE E-Business Suite applications (Procurement/Purchasing, Inventory, Order Entry/Shipping). Followed-up, communicated with vendors to track deliverables to meet project schedule and resolve any issues. Coordinate logistics of materials/supplies. Received supplier invoices and resolve any issues.  • Updated and controlled Metrics and Tollgate presentations. Project Manager PMO Hewlett-Packard - Cairo, EG 2009 to 2012 Managed and delivered software development projects for the largest two accounts at HP: Vodafone Germany and Vodafone UK as PMO Project Manager.  • Initiated and kicked-off software development programs/ projects.  • Created and maintained project management plans including project charters, scope statements, project deliverables, cost management plans, risks/issues and resource requirements, etc.  • Developed and managed project schedules using MS Project.  • Managed and reported expenses and provided project Actual versus Forecasts.  • Tracked progress and milestones status.  • Developed and controlled monthly portfolio level reports for executive management and customers.  • Managed program Lessons Learned repository. Application Support Team Lead Hewlett-Packard - Cairo, EG 2008 to 2009 Led and managed a team of application support analysts to support, troubleshoot and maintain to Team Site application systems for ABN-AMRO Bank, UK account.  • Configured and maintained new and existing Team Site application systems.  • Responded to and resolved application systems issues using root cause and needs analysis or provided recommendations for business process/application implementation or improvements.  • Defined and prioritized application systems goals and requirements  • Participated in or assisted with the design, maintenance, troubleshooting, and documentation of application systems infrastructure.  • Acted as technical lead on application systems upgrades and/or implementation.  • Created and maintained application systems documentation. Java Developer/ Software Tester Hewlett-Packard - Cairo, EG 2007 to 2008 Designed, develop and tested object-oriented software web-based Java applications for UK Court systems to support business requirements.  • Defined application objectives by analysing user requirements.  • Contributed in all phases of the development lifecycle.  • Wrote well-designed, testable, efficient Java/J2EE code.  • Resolved technical issues through debugging, research, and investigation. ORACLE Reports Developer/Enterprise Data Management (POLARLAKE) Developer Hewlett-Packard - Cairo, EG 2005 to 2007 Designed and created ORACLE 10g Reports for UK Court systems. Also, used POLRALAKE Enterprise Data Management (EDM) to design and implement user-interface solutions for UK Court systems.  • Rewrote existing Oracle 6i Reports and developed new Oracle 10g Reports to migrate from the Oracle 6i to Oracle 10g environment.  • Worked with PL/SQL to create views, packages and triggers.  • Developed UNIX Shell scripts into PolarLake XML document-oriented environment rather than being hard-coded using XML. ORACLE Forms and Reports Developer Cairo, EG 2004 to 2005 Designed, developed and implemented ORACLE 10g Forms and Reports for the government systems.  • Migrated from existing Informix based applications into Oracle Web Forms and Reports  • Developed and implemented new applications using Oracle Developer Suite 10g Education Bachelor of Computer Science Engineering and Information Technology in Computer Science Engineering and Information Technology Cairo University Professional Diploma in Software Development and Information Technology in Software Development and Information Technology Information Technology Institute Skills Ms access, Oracle, Sql, Pmbok, .net Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rania-abdelazim Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, SDLC, PMBOK. Platforms: Windows. Software & Tools: Microsoft Project Server; MS Project; Power BI; HP PPM; ALM; APEx, SharePoint; MS Access; MS Outlook; PowerPoint; MS Excel; MS Word, Visio, ORACLE E-Business Suite, ORACLE Supply Chain Management (SCM) applications, Java, Oracle, SQL, Toad, .Net, Java Script, HTML