Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Planning Systems International Von Ormy, TX Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Planning Systems International - San Antonio, TX July 2018 to Present In support of the Defense Health Agency, and the Medical Education and Training Campus (METC), responsibilities are to support the staff and organization with automated solutions, and database  design and support. Systems and applications are authored as .NET applications the methodologies and architecture designed to satisfy organization and customer requirements, including Microsoft  Office SharePoint add-ins, Windows Forms, Web Forms, and ASP.net MVC. Tools are limited Microsoft  Visual Studio, GitHub components, and Microsoft SQL Server.    Responsibilities are tiered, software application development in support of the DoD Medical Education  Technical Center (METC), in a .NET and SharePoint development environment, using Microsoft Visual  Studio IDE, and (MOSS) SharePoint Designer, Microsoft SQL Server, and Microsoft ACCESS data  repositories. Application technologies support development of Windows Forms stand-alone/web-based  executables, and ASP.net MVC application, including Microsoft Office SharePoint add-ins. System Application Software Engineer/Project Task Manager BTAS, Inc - Randolph AFB, TX August 2017 to July 2018 Duties: Project task lead required to design, program, document, and implement web-based ASP.net , and web farm-based ASP.net Core; Azure applications that require knowledge of information systems and related systems concepts for effective development and deployment of software modules.  Participates in all phases of software development with emphasis on the design, coding, testing,  documentation, and acceptance phases. Additional responsibilities include design and preparation of technical reports and related documentation. Information Technology Specialist Defense Health Agency - Fort Sam Houston, TX November 2016 to August 2017 Duties: As an IT Specialist (APPSW), responsible for a variety of duties with these being the major  duties: developing system and configuration of the Defense Health Agency (DHA) enterprise internets, intranets, extranets and multi-site support in the area of web-based application programming, analysis  and problem resolution; providing support for applications, primarily for web application development  of internet, intranet and extranet portals, as well as numerous other software programs, utilities and tools (e.g., Visual Studio, JQuery, InfoPath and Standard Query Language (SQL) database technologies);  developing strategy for optimal use of SQL databases and system integration with other collaborative  tools within the organization; reporting directly to the Web Strategies and Collaboration Branch Chief as the POC for DHA Intranet SharePoint policy and planning strategies, requirements review, design  strategies and technical specification developments; advising leadership on changes and advances  in web policies, business practices and technologies; validating the need for proposed new systems through consultation with customers and program officials.    Develop Microsoft SharePoint Site Applications - sites; libraries; lists; workflows - for integration/  migration into DHA "CarePoint" system, using Microsoft Office SharePoint 2010, and Microsoft SQL  Server 2014 database. Additional, provide Microsoft SharePoint technical support and knowledge to customer POCs, and organizations. Information Technology Specialist (Database Mgt) Defense Media Agency March 2015 to November 2016 Duties: Responsibilities were defined by the following duties:  Perform planning, design, development, testing, implementation and management of internal and external web solutions; work with customer in establishing the functional requirements for new  projects and with the IT community to determine technical requirements; ensure that databases  efficiently collect, store and process data; manage the conversion of existing databases to meet new  release requirements; perform intensive collection and analysis of data from the customer service  database to create input for future IT requirements; provide research and input to project feasibility  studies and system performance evaluations. Conduct site surveys designed to verify adequacy of operations and ensure customer needs are met.    Projects were development of a system dashboard application to facilitate application monitoring  and troubleshooting. The web-based application was comprised of third-party tools, and utilities, and native .NET technology, with an enterprise-level database infrastructure. Additional projects included  maintenance of existing media-based applications, within the DoD-broadcasting community. JAVA System Developer/Analyst Air Force Legal Operations Agency - Wright-Patterson AFB, OH April 2014 to March 2015 Duties: Assigned to the Enterprise Development, principle responsibilities are associate Java developer, developing, enhancing, and maintaining enterprise - Web; SOA; Client-Server; Desktop - systems and  applications for the Air Force Legal Operations Agency JAG. Additional position serving as a systems  analyst in assessing IT requirements, administering and managing database operations and web  application, and providing customer assistance and training and documentation support. Database Administrator Air Force Legal Operations Agency - Edwards AFB, CA November 2012 to April 2014 Enterprise Data Manager 513th Military Intelligence Bde - Fort Gordon, GA December 2011 to November 2012 Duties: Position consists of work in a technical capacity and collaborates with a large enterprise  management team consisting of developers, integrators, administrators and program level staff  providing operations and systems analysis of Tactical Biometrics systems, communications, and architectures deployed around the world in their operational environments. Primary responsibilities  included, but were not limited to working on complex problems requiring assembly of diverse threads  of information, synthesizing the data, and drawing factual conclusions, and serving as the lead in developing and enhancing data normalization, movement, interpretation and reporting practices.  Additional responsibilities included serving as lead role in systems and network architecture analysis, developing and enhancing current and new innovative trend analysis and metrics presentation  methods, and development of technical documentation, charts and graphs supporting analysis. As  essential-personnel, serve as an emergency replacement for OCONUS database administrators, advising and assisting with the introduction and implementation of new database security concepts to the TBS database systems enhancing access security, performance, reliability and data integrity.  As database administrator and data manager, tasking included oversight and support for all deployed  TBS database operations and database admin in theatre, to include CONUS, Iraq, Afghanistan, Horn  of Africa and others. Working closely with the deployed database and systems administrators, and TBS technical staff, position required enhancing and standardizing database administration and  data management processes, providing input to training and development curriculum developers  regarding Enterprise Data Management of TBS systems. As a member of the TBS technical and Enterprise management support team, provide advice and assistance to technical staffing standards,  development, and hiring as requested by contract management. Tasks include database development for DCGS-A, SQL query scripting for support of MI Knowledge Management, and processing RFI  requests for theater/operational stakeholders. Information Technology Specialist Data Mgt - Stuttgart, DE August 2008 to December 2011 Germany  Duties: Responsibility to serve as NETOPS Content Staging and Content Development database  administrator, and WEB application developer for the HQ USAFRICOM C4 Systems Directorate.  Plan, implement and maintain information repositories, in a variety of forms, for presentation and customization of operational requirements. Additionally, provide requirements analysis and strategies for enterprise database solutions, recommendations for enterprise solutions and integration.    Served as Theater Network Command Center (TNCC) Watch Officer, facilitating and coordinating  command and unit-level information resources for use by management and assigned assets in real- world operational and training environments.  Maintain proficiency in all duties of the U.S. Africa Command Theater Network Operations (NetOps)  Control Center (TNCC). Maintain effective African Theater Command, Control, Communications, and Computer Systems (C4S) situational awareness (SA).Effectively coordinate Theater C4S SA with  Components, JTFs, DISA-Europe, and other COCOMs to maintain positive control and limit negative  impacts. Provide current, accurate, and timely C4S SA to U.S. Africa Command Leadership, Joint  Operations Center, Components, and other NetOps organizations as required. Provide and calculate  combatant command level C4S operational impact through coordination with components, JTFs, and theater NetOps partners. Direct NetOps actions in support of changing operational priorities to  ensure C4S assets are optimized to support U.S. Africa Command's assigned missions and operations.  Act as Authorized Service Interruption (ASI) Manager for the U.S. Africa Command AOR. Working within DISA and USEUCOM Network Operations, ensure the U.S. Africa Command Theater Network  Operations (NetOps) Control Center (TNCC) Portal page is up-to-date and accurately reflects current  and actionable C4S status; to include Communications Tasking Orders (CTOs), Communications Spot  Reports (COMSPOTs), Coordinated Alert Message (CAMs), Authorized Service Interruptions (ASIs), Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network Defense (CND) events. Read, track, and store all  TNCC Unclassified and Classified organizational email, to include AMHS. Effectively use collaboration  tools like DCO to enable effective NetOps C2 and accurate NetOps situational awareness (SA). Update and edit C4S Status Brief to ensure information is accurate and maintained current within standards.  Maintain, update, and create TNCC Internal Checklists, SOPs, and CTOs as required. Information Technology Specialist/Project Manager Command & Control Support Agency December 2005 to August 2008 Pentagon, DC  Duties: Serve as Information Technology Project Manager supporting the Command and Control (C2)  information requirements of the Headquarters, Department of the Army command staff. Provide  complex IT project lead support for requirements gathering, user interface design and programming, database design, documentation, testing, implementation, and maintenance of IT projects that support  C2 operations, mobilization, readiness, and deployment functions of the US Army. Participate in analytical and advisory functions pertinent to the development of local policies, plans, and processess,  ensuring compliance with higher authority policies and guidelines. Direct, integrate, and evaluate  the progress of projects using a team of developers, an IT Quality Assurance specialist, and the necessary system administration network personnel. Serve as the System Architect, facilitate  communication between the developers and the functional, and maintain government oversight of the entire development and post-development system. Ensure the rigorous application of the information  security and information assurance policies and principles.    As project manager for C2 applications, with minimal supervision, plan, design, coordinate, integrate, implement, and manage high visibility information management projects. Adhere to all agency  published security guidance and directives. Develop and implement IT project meetings, milestones, deliverables, and suspense dates (as agreed upon by management and the customer). Additional  responsibilities include development of large- and small-scale "smart-client" applications using  composite-interface methodologies. Develop formal briefings and presentations as required. With  minimal supervision, research topics and issues, gather and analyze information and develop system  designs and architecture.    Document the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) IAW the branch SDLC publication, including  proposed solutions, impact analysis, and budget considerations, scheduled deliverables, and user  acceptance. Draft documentation at each SDLC stage with final documentation completed no less  than 3 weeks after implementation. Complete weekly progress reports as instructed and circulate  minutes from In Progress Reviews to affect parties within 24 hours of the meeting. Utilization of agency  procedures and approved requirements management tools to capture and review requirements within  5 business days of receipt.    Deviations must be pre-approved by management. Oversight of application testing and resolving  identified errors as approved by management. Additional responsibilities include documentation of User Testing errors that result from inadequate unit and modular Testing, and undefined requirements. IA security compliance custodian 2008 to 2008 to 2008  Duties: Using UNIX and Windows Oracle 10g, 11g and MS SQL Server 2005, -2008 R2, and -2012  SSIS; SSRS , execute software engineering processes for assigned communications initiatives, gathering technical requirements and developing required documentation within negotiated schedule.  Coordinate, monitor, and track assigned initiatives to identify unacceptable technical risks and/or architectural and standards compliance issues in order to prevent impact during implementation of the  initiative. Work with project managers to develop reasonable transition dates for executable initiatives and ensure completed documentation is delivered by the transition dates agreed upon. Prepare  and present slides and briefing materials in order to communicate strategic direction and obtain  concurrence. Report any schedule slippage prior to suspense dates. Serve as IA security compliance  custodian for the Special Missions branch, developing a comprehensive automated solution to facilitate  management of security requirements (SRG), implementations (STIG), and review SSRS-defined  reports, maintenance and update of the current DoD policies (CCI), and DISA-released vulnerabilities, and security compliance information repository, central POC for FSO correspondence, providing  database administration support to the Communication Squadron "Security Compliance" program.  Maintenance of Sun SOLARIS ORACLE servers, including vendor-supplied patching of system CPU, PSU, and SPU files and services.    Additionally, provided assistance in the development and validation of assigned software projects and standards according to the defined architecture and standards development plan, ensuring that all  developed software integration and compatibility with higher-level architecture frameworks. Perform  code reviews and peer reviews of technical solutions in order to assess compliance with software  architecture and standards. Completion of all reviews within agreed timelines, and reporting of any  schedule-slippage, prior to suspense dates. Design, maintain, upgrade, test software applications and work with Configuration Management teams to deploy software to the Edwards Enterprise Hosting  Environment within the virtual datacenter architecture, using JAVA Runtime ( JAVA), Microsoft Office  automation tools (VSTO), and Microsoft Visual Studio (WinForms; WPF; HTML5). Identification of design goals, requirements, and constraints, and useful information for making design decisions.  Recognize and analyze best-practice recommendations. Analyze alternative design choices. Identify  risks and brief mitigation plans. Ensure all software is developed using required security standards  and are documented using DoD AF UML Standards. Ensure information security/assurance policies and principles are enforced. Implement new technologies within current environments. Participates in, or  conducts, special mission projects. Perform Database and Data Analysis administration on existing  Edwards AFB Business systems. Database Developer/Web Developer Northrop-Grumman Aerospace April 2002 to December 2005 USAF European Network Operations Center (ETNOSC); Ramstein AFB, Germany  Duties: Web development of logistics inventory management WEB application/service ("Unit Property  Manager"), and various elements of the command information portal, using C++, C#, XML, ASP.NET  and ASP methodologies to define the interfaces; designed and implemented the Microsoft SQL server  "back-end" database entities - tables, views, stored procedures, and triggers. Deployed and maintained  the SIPRNET and NIPRNET web portal, and developing subsequent user-defined interfaces and data- driven web-services. As co-administrator, shared responsibilities for database administration, including  maintenance, archiving, and enhancements.    Additional responsibilities include client-server prototyping the Unit Property Manager, originally  written as a multi-tier "client-server" application using Inprise's DELPHI, and later ported to a "web  service" in order to utilize the HTTP-protocol for remote data servicing. Database Developer R. J. Reynolds Tobacco - Winston-Salem, NC December 2000 to April 2002 Duties: Consultant, and co- developer for R. J. Reynolds logistical/data warehouse applications, writing inventory management applications using PARADOX database management language  (OPAL), DELPHI (enterprise, version 5), Borland INTERBASE database, and Microsoft SQLSERVER as a  "backend". Additional responsibilities include technical/hardware support to Cold Storage management, overseeing a network of approximately 12 clients- server, running Microsoft WindowsNT. Subsequent  systems require maintenance and modification, making use of OCX-objects and procedures - written  using VISUAL BASIC and DELPHI - to interface the system with production machinery (package  "manifestor"; digital scale; handheld laser scanners; etc).    Additional responsibilities include client-server prototyping the Distribution & Logistics Inventory  Manager using JAVA (J-Builder IDE), publication of system documentation and user guides for eight  (8) enterpriselevel systems (generating documents in PDF-format), server-side co-administration of Promotion Operations Customer database, and hardware configuration and support (installation of  workstations as LAN hubs, installation of software, and upgrading of client workstations). Database Developer RMI Consulting Port Authority of New Jersey - Jersey City, NJ November 1998 to December 2000 Duties: Primary database administrator for PATH database applications - FARE CONTROL SYSTEM, EMPLOYEE TRAINING SYSTEM, EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL SYSTEM, and SAFETY SYSTEM - written in Borland PARADOX (version 7, converted to version 8). Each application was used to facilitate  statistical analysis, budget analysis (during trend analysis to forecast customer revenue and usage),  human resource management, training and payroll management, and ordinance maintenance and management. The primary data repository was maintained on an HP9000, using the SCO UNIX  operating system.    Additional responsibilities included administration and maintenance of the Port Authority Information  System - an automated, web-based information system that broadcasted train arrival/departure  information, along with INTERNET-based news/weather. The system interface was written in VISUAL  BASIC, with a SQL- SERVER database. Further responsibilities included Year2000 remediation of existing  "mission critical" and "high-level" database systems, and working directly with the Port Authority  director and IS director to produce divisional statistics and reports. Application Developer MAXIM Group - Washington, DC October 1997 to October 1998 Duties: Contract project for PAREXEL-SFA to maintain a medical research application, employing  PARADOX for Windows (version 7), and assist in the conversion to an ORACLE-based (version 7)  application. Responsibilities included supporting the database needs of the designated research  programs, performing analytical functions, and to provide technical support to users and operation  support for the network. Participated in the evaluation, testing, installation of hardware and software, and provided versatility in various data sources and specific databases. Contracted project for Hughes  Network Systems, Inc. to design client-server applications employing PowerBuilder and PARADOX for Windows (version 5) for interface development, and ORACLE RDBMS server. Applications include  Accounts Receivable Sub-Ledger Report Generator, and Corporate Rental Manager application.  Program modules written using Borland's PARADOX for Windows, PowerBuilder. Externals are written  using Microsoft's VisualBasic application language.    Consultant to NationsBank, NC, maintaining a mortgage account and loan application and database  written in Paradox for DOS (version 3.5). The subsystem used imported and entered data to track  mortgage accounts by region. The application was re-written as a Windows-based application using  PowerBuilder as the interface, and an ODBC-converted database. Database Developer Program Support Assoc - Washington, DC February 1996 to October 1997 Duties: As Consultant for (US Navy) SPAWAR, conversion and maintenance of the contract Financial  Management Information System (FMIS) application, an enterprise-level logistical application currently in use within the Department of Defense, from stand-alone and client/server versions using PARADOX  for Windows (version  7 and 8) and Borland's INTERBASE server to a true client/server system using Microsoft VisualBASIC  (version 6.0) as the client platform, and ORACLE RDBMS as the server. Responsibilities included  consultation and database administration for the U.S. Navy SPAWAR (Washington, DC) client base, teammember for installation and configuration of the ORACLE database environment, administrator for  configuration management (using Microsoft Visual Source Safe - version 5 and 6), and maintaining the current version of FMIS, rectifying trouble-tickets and user requests.    As senior program analyst for Dept. of Labor, assigned to the conversion and maintenance of the Alien Education High School Diploma Delaware State University - Dover, DE 1975 Caesar Rodney Sr. High School - Camden, DE 1972