Lead Oracle SOA Developer / Fusion Middleware Architect Lead Oracle SOA <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Fusion Middleware Architect Lead Technologist /Senior Integration Architect Ashburn, VA • 16Years of Software Engineering and Application development and Architecture experience in Analysis, Designing Enterprise and middleware applications using JAVA, J2EE, XML, SOAP, Web Services technologies and Oracle, SQL Server databases, Web Logic, Web Sphere Servers.  • 11 Years of middleware integration experience Oracle SOA/ESB suite and BEA WLI suite  • Over 3 years of experience in leading and managing the projects towards SOA architecture  • Expertise in developing middleware applications, system integrations on different domains like Financial, Mortgage, Telecom, Cable, Healthcare, Credit Card, Supply Chain Management and Utilities.  • Expertise in Oracle WLI 10gR3, ALSB, iWay Adapter and SAP R/3 GUI  • Experience in SOA architecture and Oracle Middleware technologies.  • Experience in writing Design documents, Operation manuals and architecture documents.  • Expertise in developing BPEL processes using Oracle SOA 11g/10g / BEA WLI Suite.  • Expertise in Oracle Enterprise Service Bus(OSB) & ALSB(ESB) SOA technologies  • Expertise in developing transformations using XSLT, XQuery and XPath programming techniques  • Experience in developing Sequence Diagrams, Interaction Diagrams, State & Activity diagrams and Class diagrams.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process which includes Designing, Developing, Testing and Implementation.  • Experience in in internet/intranet application development using: Java, JSP, Struts Frame Work, EJB, JMS  • Experience in spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Experience in Oracle Data Integration (ODI), DAC, and Informatica ,OBIEE technologies.  • Experience in Oracle Enterprise Business Suite (EBS) in GL,PO and AP modules.  • Experience in IBM WebSphere 5.0, RSA  • Experience in RDBMS Skills on Oracle, SQL Server, DB2.  • Conversant with tools like Eclipse 3.0, TOAD,SVN, PVCS, WinCVS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Oracle SOA Developer / Fusion Middleware Architect Department of Homeland Security / IBM August 2018 to Present FSMS is Financial System Modernization System, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) core accounting solutions for the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (CWMD), Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the United States Coast Guard (USCG).    • Responsible for providing the solution framework for integrating the DHS FSMS with DHS Internal and External Systems.  • Responsible for developing proof of concepts for RESTful SOA projects  • Responsible for providing overall Integration Architecture Document.  • Responsible for developing the SOA composites, BPELs, and OSB projects for RICEW Interfaces.    Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 12c , Oracle Web Logic Server, XML, Java, Oracle EBS Suite, Oracle OSB, Oracle EBS, Oracle Data integration (ODI) Lead Technologist /Senior Integration Architect DOL / Booz Allen Hamilton April 2018 to August 2018 NCFMS is DOL (Department of Labor) financial management system implemented using Oracle EBS and Oracle SOA technologies.   • Responsible for new architecture for setting up the highly available environment.  • Migration of existing 10g interfaces to Oracle SOA suite 12c version.     ITRAK is NSF (National Science Foundation) new financial system, replacing old financial system with Oracle EBS and using Oracle SOA suite as middleware integration tool to connect the NSF business applications, Federal systems with NSF new financial system (iTRAK) implemented by Oracle financial suite.  ·      Was part of writing Functional and Technical design documents for iTRAK integration interfaces  ·      Designed and Developed OSB proxies and business services to integrate NSF systems with iTRAK.  ·      Designed and Developed SOA composites and components in iTRAK Integration layer to create     requisitions, purchase orders, vendors and invoices  ·      Designed and developed integration between new travel systems, CONCUR with iTRAK for NSF employees travel needs.  ·      Developed Oracle Custom packages to interact with Oracle EBS API  ·      Was part of the O&M team to maintain the day to day operations of financial system.  ·      Provide technical support and develop change requests for NSF data extracts using Oracle Data Integration (ODI) , between iTRAK and NSF Business Systems database (MSDDB)  ·      Provide technical support and develop change requests for reports using Informatica/DAC and OBIEE technologies, between iTRAK and NSF Business Systems.    Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 11g,12c , Oracle Web Logic Server, XML, Java, Oracle Database 11g, Oracle OSB, Oracle EBS, Oracle Data integration (ODI), Informatica, DAC and OBIEE Lead Technologist /Senior Integration Architect NSF / Booz Allen Hamilton February 2014 to December 2017 iTRAK is new financial system , replacing old financial system with Oracle EBS and using Oracle SOA suite as middleware integration tool to connect the NSF business applications, Federal systems with NSF (National Science Foundation )new financial system (iTRAK) implemented by Oracle financial suite.    Responsibilities:  • Was part of writing Functional and Technical design documents for iTRAK integration interfaces  • Designed and Developed OSB proxies and business services to integrate NSF systems with iTRAK.  • Designed and Developed SOA composites and components in iTRAK Integration layer to create requisitions, purchase orders, vendors and invoices  • Designed and developed integration between new travel systems, CONCUR with iTRAK for NSF employees travel needs.  • Developed Oracle Custom packages to interact with Oracle EBS API  • Was part of the O&M team to maintain the day to day operations of financial system.  • Provide technical support and develop change requests for NSF data extracts using Oracle Data Integration (ODI) , between iTRAK and NSF Business Systems database (MSDDB)  • Provide technical support and develop change requests for reports using Informatica/DAC and OBIEE technologies, between iTRAK and NSF Business Systems.    Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 11g, Oracle Web Logic Server 11g, XML, Java, Oracle Database 11g, Oracle OSB, Oracle EBS, Oracle Data integration(ODI), Informatica , DAC and OBIEE Lead Oracle SOA/ESB Consultant FINRA /Tek Systems April 2013 to December 2013 Description:  The NYSE merger required rapid assimilation of a diverse set of applications into the FINRA infrastructure. FINRA chose Oracle ESB to integrate disparate applications via declarative (versus programmatic configuration). It manages the routing and transformation of messages between systems. It provides a guaranteed delivery mechanism within the enterprise and allows for disparate protocols to communicate with one another.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the FINRA ESB architecture and support the existing ESB client base day to day operations.  • On boarding the new clients(active mq, jms, webservice based) to ESB platform  • Responsible for writing the design docs for new interface/flows.  • Create the new schemas, proxies, business services and web logic resources based on the client requirements.  • Responsible for the builds and deployments across all the environments (DEV, INT, QA, PROD)    Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 11g, Oracle Web Logic Server 11g, XML, Java, Oracle Database 11g. Principal Software Engineer/Technical Manager General Dynamics August 2012 to April 2013 Description:  Development Effort Consolidation Contract(DECC) project is about modernization of CMS infrastructure and quality applications, systems using SOA based architecture. DECC involves retirement of legacy systems and migrating their functionality into a service based operational model. Hospital reporting (HR) is one of the application group under DECC, for reporting the clinical and quality measures to CMS.    Responsibilities:  • Leading and managing the teams for HR apps(NOP, Vendor Auth, OnlineForms, WBM)  • Understanding the HR applications and present systems architecture  • Responsible for understanding the SOA based 3 tier enterprise architecture  • Responsible for HR applications architecture and implementation  • Responsible for coordination between the HR and EA teams.  • Mentoring the HR teams about Enterprise architecture.  • Reviewing and Proposing the design document changes for HR apps migrations.  • Trouble shooting the issues for HR apps migrations.  • Tracking the development status and present to senior management.    Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 11g, Oracle Web Logic Server 11g, Oracle Enterprise Manager 11g, JDeveloper 11g, XML, Java, Oracle Database 11g. Lead Oracle SOA Developer /Integration Architect TCS/Freddie Mac March 2012 to August 2012 Description:  Pricing and Securitization System (PSS) project was about integrating property and loan details at various stages of loan between systems like OUS, MPS, DMS with Securitization System , to leverage the data for business users for securitization purpose.    MARS Integration project was about capturing data changes (Property, Loan, Borrower, Pool) at legacy MPS system using Event Driven Architecture and converting the data changes using Producer Adapters to CDM (Canonical data model) xml to database, which will be leveraged by Consumer systems    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the business requirements and systems architecture  • Responsible for SOA architecture and writing SMS design documents  • Developed Sequence diagrams for various business integration flows  • Developed and designed several BPEL Processes & OSB Services  • Developed POC's for Business requirements using Oracle SOA  • Developing new composites using Oracle SOA 11g  • Designed Database Adapters to poll for new records and sync data from multiple systems  • Designed JMS Adapters to actively send and receive messages from various enterprise systems.  • Involved in the configuration of the connection pools and data sources for Database Adapter and on the application server.  • Created Scheduler for BPEL Process.  • Created Fault Policies for Error Handling.  • Created, Configured and Managed Oracle OSB (Oracle Service Bus) Services  • Created Queues, Connection Factories, Multi Data sources and Data sources,  • Configured JMS Queues, Connection pools and connection factories to connect to different databases and publish and receive JMS messages.  • Developed Processes in ESB for routing  • Configured Security with OSB  • Designed and created OSB Proxy and Business Services.  • Executed and wrote complex SQL queries to validate data integration    Environment: Oracle SOA Suite 11g, Oracle Web Logic Server 11g, Oracle Enterprise Manager 11g, JDeveloper 11g, XML, Java, Oracle Database 11g. Lead Java/J2ee/ SOA/Integration Developer Comcast/Harvey Nash - Mount Laurel, NJ August 2009 to March 2012 Provisioning Services:  Provisioning services are web services provide functionality to create & maintain customers for various Comcast products and activate devices in network and update required systems with the status and device information. Hand held devices and web applications uses provisioning services to provision devices on network with specified features. The core services which I worked on were ProvisioningService , CDV Service, DVC Service and ProvisioningISPService.  Responsibilities:    • Understanding requirements and preparing design documents.  • UML modeling with RSA.  • Implementing web service using Web logic workshop.  • Implementing Web Service using ESP framework.  • Deploying on Unix/Linux machines for testing.  • Providing deliverables on centralized deployment schedule.  • Implementing Junit Test cases and configuring Sonar, code coverage tools.  • Developed BPEL processes using Jdeveloper and Oracle SOA Suite  • In BPEL processes, Utilized various(JMS, File, DB, Webservice) adaptors provided by Oracle SOA suite  • Exposed BPEL processes as Web services in Oracle Service Bus  • Deployed BPEL Processes in Enterprise Manager console and performed Unit testing  • Creating Service bus projects in OSB  • Develop and deploy ESB proxies  • Developing transformations using Xquery  • Configure and build applications using Cruise control.  • Creating connectors to consume other web services.  • Testing Web services using SOAPUI.  • Supporting the services in Production environment.  • Supporting the operation team for application deployments  • Monitoring the health check of Services in ESP & WebLogic consoles    Environment: JDK 1.5, Weblogic 9.2, Weblogic Work shop, Jdeveloper, RSA, Eclipse, Spring, Hibernate, LDAP, oracle 10g, Oracle SOA Suite 11g/10g, Oracle Service Bus 10g(ESB), Maven, SVN, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL. Linux, Windows, SoapUI. ObjectWin Technology - Tampa, FL November 2008 to July 2009 ObjectWin Technology February 2002 to July 2009 Sr. Java/J2EE Developer ObjectWin Technology - Foster City, CA April 2008 to November 2008 Description:  Visa offers a number of automated back office services designed to facilitate exception item processing for Members. Exceptions include transactions that dispute, reverse, adjust, or correct "originals". Exception item processing is a back office function that supports credit and deposit access transactions. It provides a means for Members to correct transaction discrepancies. Exception items are follow-up messages between Issuers and Acquirers.    VROL is VISA Resolve Online. This project is mainly for resolving disputes.Dispute can be raised by the bank member on behalf of the customer. Steps for raising dispute involves Request For Information, Request For Copy, Questionnaires, Case Filing, Final Ruling.    Responsibilities:  • Supported and fixed the issues raised in earlier releases of application in Production  • Analyzing the new requirements and coming up with strategy plan & Impact analysis  • Developing the new requirements in UI, Model , Persistent and DB layer  • Modifying the existing jsp's and writing the JavaScript functions for new requirements  • Writing action classes in PANDOORA framework and writing model classes  • Developing EJB's and persistent layer classes to Interact with Database  • Writing and modifying existing complex database queries    Application Environment: JDK1.4, J2EE, IBM RSA, Clear case , Web sphere 5.0 , Oracle , Squirrel, IBM Tools Sr. J2EE / Web logic SOA/Integration Developer ObjectWin Technology November 2007 to March 2008 Description: Sempra Energy is the provider of gas and power services to its Southern California customers. This project eService(TM) is to provide an infrastructure of automated electronic payment systems to the residential and commercial customers.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested Stateless/Stateful Business Processes, web service controls in Web logic workshop 9.2 to enable interact between B2B applications.  • Developed Web logic Integration controls - Email Control, and Web Service Controls  • Implemented Data Transformations and utilized XQuery programming for data manipulation and transformation mapping  • Developed framework for supporting two utilities and moved EJB operations to WLI components.  • Involved in deployment process to INT environment and testing.  • Created Web Services out of Processes and generated client delegates to the WSDL and connected to Portal application.  • Attending design meetings and review the designs for various projects in SDGE.  • Providing various WLI best practices to eServices projects.    Application Environment: JDK1.5, BEA Platform, WLS 10.2 , WLI 10.2, BPEL Web Logic Eclipse IDE, XML Beans, SOAP, ALSB, XML Appliance, Oracle SQL Developer, AIX OS, Log4J. Sr. Web logic SOA/Integration Developer ObjectWin Technology - San Francisco, CA February 2006 to October 2007 Description: Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) is the provider of gas and power services to its California customers. This project SmartMeter(TM) is to provide an infrastructure of automated electric and gas metering equipment and applications to service most Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) residential and commercial customers.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Class and Sequence diagrams using Rational Software Architect (RSA) tool.  • Designed and developed many interfaces to integrate PG&E business systems to enable data sharing between applications.  • Developed and tested Stateless/State full Business Processes (JPD)and web services in Web logic workshop to enable interaction between B2B applications.  • Used Aqualogic Data Services (ALDSP) to integrate data from various sources like Web services, Database and File.  • Worked on POC applications for large files handling, integrating different data sources and DB extracts using DB links and bench marked the performances.  • Written Java custom controls to handle business requirements.  • Developed XSD's and XQuery files for data manipulation and transformation mappings.  • Created Event generators in WLI console - File, HTTP, JMS, RDBMS and Timer Event Generators.  • Created wrappers for Auditing and Logging of interfaces for various stages of JPD processing.  • Developed generic proxies and deployed on ALSB  • Written Watch rules and created Alerts & Notifications using WLS 9.2  • Developed Operations support manuals for various Interfaces    Application Environment: JDK14.5, BEA Platform (WLS 8.1 SP5, WLI 8.1 SP5, WL Workshop) XML Beans, SOAP, ALBPM, ALSB, ALDSP 2.1, Oracle SQL Developer, AIX OS, Java, JMS, JDBC, PVCS, Cruise Control. Lead Oracle/Web logic SOA/Integration Developer ObjectWin Technology April 2005 to February 2006 Description: Verizon is integrating business systems as part of its Supply Chain Integration. There are various systems in the IT landscape meeting different business requirements. All of these systems are developed in different environments and business processes are addressed in a different way.. The crux of this project is to replace the CAPRI/MMIS systems and the interfacing legacy systems should interact with SAP through the Web logic Integration platform. The SCIB project renders the best practices embedded in the standard SAP R/3 delivered systems for MM, SD, PP, FI/CO, SRM, and BW etc to sync the legacy systems with data up to date.  Responsibilities:  • Developing build scripts to automate the build process  • Supporting the existing interfaces in the production  • Developed few POC interfaces using Oracle SOA suite to migrate from WLI to Oracle SOA Suite 10g.  • Developed few interfaces using BPEL Process Manager and Jdeveloper  • Developing Interfaces between SAP and other Verizon systems  • Understanding the change requests and implementing in the existing interfaces/services  • Reviewing technical documents and keeping them update with the code base  • Integrating the iPM, work flow management tool with the Weblogic builds and SharePoint  • Creating Business and Proxy services and maintaining in Oracle Service Bus/ALSB.  • Developing and monitoring the business processes workflows , automatic and interactive BPM processes and maintaining the data consistency across the business systems  • Performing Admin activities like deploying the builds to various environments and creating and monitoring the Weblogic resources and Integration events on WLI console.    Application Environment: JDK142, Oracle 10gR3/8.1 SP6 Integration suite, ALSB, BPEL, Oracle SOA, ALBPM, DB2 UDB, AIX OS, iWay Adapter 5.5, SAP R/3 , Java , JMS, JDBC, CMSynergy. J2EE Developer / Analyst ObjectWin Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2003 to February 2005 Description: Real Clear Technologies, formerly ManageStar, is focused on building Enterprise applications and leading provider of Corporate Asset Management and Service Delivery Management (SDM) Software.  Global Signal, FL.  Global Signal is a Lease Property Operational Management (LPOM) project is to:  • Provide a single web enabled operations system to organize and manage sites, operating units, assets, security keys , access points, customers, permissions, and agreements and associated business processes.  Universal Sodexho, UK - Remote Site Management System  Using Managestar's software developed a remote site management system that is used for managing man and materials for remote oil wells located in Nigeria and United Kingdom. Modules developed including People, Order management, Goods management, space management and Inventory management.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis and Designing using UML and Rational Rose  • Used Struts framework for Web Interfaces with JSP as View, Servlets as Controller, and Form Beans as Model.  • Developed Server Side Components (EJB) for holding business logic such as manipulating data and for various calculations using Session beans.  • Deployed the EJB's (both Entity and Session beans) on WebSphere Application server.  • Designed delegates and DAO objects to talk with backend for the retrieval and storage of information.  • Data retrieval, manipulation and transaction management using JDBC and container managed transactions.  • Used various design patterns like factory method, Singleton, adapter, Service locator, Session façade, DAO  Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB, JSP, Rational Rose 2000, UML, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, JDBC, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, SQL Server, UNIX,    Voice Over IP: Voice Over IP project aims to send voice across Internet in between two embedded VoIP phones by implementing SIP (session initiation protocol). VoIP is a form of telecommunication that allows data and voice transmissions to be sent across a wide variety of networks. The basic steps involved in originating an Internet telephone call are conversion of the analog voice signal to digital format and compression/translation of the signal into Internet protocol (IP) packets for transmission over the Internet; the process is reversed at the receiving end. VoIP uses SIP (session initiation protocol).  SIP (session initiation protocol) an application-layer control (signaling) protocol for creating, modifying, and terminating sessions with one or more participants. These sessions include Internet telephone calls, multimedia distribution, and multimedia conferences. C/C++ Instructor/Lab Assistant Aptech - Kodad, IN June 1999 to March 2000 Responsibilities:  • Teaching C/C++ programming basics to the institute students  • Assisting students in programming lab sessions Education Masters in Computer applications Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills ORACLE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), SOA (10+ years), WEB LOGIC (10+ years), XML (9 years), Middleware, Fusion, Oracle Database, Performance Tuning, PL SQL, ESB (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: JAVA, C, C++, UML, XML, XQuery, BPEL, SQL and PL/SQL.  App. Servers/ IDE: Web Logic 11/10.2/9.2/8.1/7.0,WebSphere 5.0/3.5, Eclipse.  Java Technologies: J2EE 1.4/1.5, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JNDI, JDBC, JMS  Oracle Technologies: Oracle SOA Suite, OSB, ODI, Informatica, DAC, OBIEE.  RDBMS: Oracle, SQL Server, DB2  Model / version Tools: SAP R/3 GUI, SVN,ClearCase, PVCS, VSS and Bugzilla    Operating Systems: Windows NT/2000/XP, UNIX and Linux