Senior Oracle Identity Management Consultant Senior Oracle Identity Management Consultant Senior Oracle Identity Management Consultant - TriZetto-CTS Los Angeles, CA • Experienced professional with more than 14 years background in architecture, design, development, testing,  integration and implementation of multi-tier enterprise applications, with special expertise in the Identity and  Access Management space  • Implementation experience with Oracle Identity and Access Management till the most recent versions.  • Experience in developing custom connectors, tasks, provisioning, approval processes and other custom  components to meet product requirements.  • Developed custom plug-ins (event handler, data validation and schedule jobs, adapters) for customer  requirements.  • Integrated OIM with custom RBAC (Role) and ABAC (Attribute) solution.  • Developed connectors using Adapter factory, GTC, ICF framework approaches.  • Review existing implementation for potential improvements including better performance, best practices,  ease ongoing maintenance, advice roadmap and future activities to add business value to the project.  • Strong programming skills in designing and implementation of applications using Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP,  HTML, Spring Framework, Struts, JavaScript  • Worked with REST, SPML, SCIM web services.  • Worked on Weblogic, WebSphere, OC4J, JBoss and Tomcat application servers  • Experienced in all phases of SDLC like requirements gathering, designing, developing, configuration  management, build management, testing, deployment etc.  • Supported system testing, integration testing and User Acceptance testing and provided end user training.  • Production rollouts, ongoing maintenance, support. Part of on call or operations teams  • Worked with vendor's Product Support teams to resolve issues (defects, bugs, enhancements) with product  • Adaptable to work both as a team member as well as independently.  • Effective consulting and project management skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle Identity Management Consultant TriZetto-CTS - Los Angeles, CA December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Initiated the requirements gathering sessions by meeting application owners, solutions owners, helpdesk and operations team.  • Configured and customized Employee reconciliation connector for trusted source reconciliation.  • Developed event handler of unique User Login generation, applied it on post process, create operation on User entity.  • Developed custom event handlers to update other systems with some flags during user management  operations.  • Configured and customized the connectors Active Directory, Database table, PeopleSoft user Management, Exchange to meet provisioning needs.  • Collaborated with AD administrators to build a PowerShell script for home directory permissions after creation.  • Customized UI to achieve branding and logo.  • Developed web services connector for integrating with Service Now.  • Built custom SOA composite approval workflows.  • Built various notifications / plug ins during user management and request operations.  • Built custom schedule tasks to maintain lookups. The lookup data was used in provisioning decisions.  • Used roles and access policies for basic provisioning based on Department and location.  • Integrated Active Directory Password synchronization connector for CTRL+ALT+DEL.  • Worked with customer, application owners, operations to come up with optimized schedule of various  schedule jobs.  • Designed and setup the environments like development, test and production with failover and high availability  as needed.  • Optimized the performance by following OIM tuning recommendations. Senior Oracle Identity Manager Consultant XEROX -NY, MN MMIS - CTS August 2013 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Prepared high-level design documents, impact analysis and detailed level design documents for implementing  the New York, Montana MMIS Medicare Medicaid changes.  • Implemented Oracle Identity Manager on Weblogic Environment.  • Created and Configuration of user self-Registration and self-service request  • Installed IAM in development, UAT and PROD environment.  • Installed the connectors for AD, OID, and database DBAT with latest version OIM 11gR2 PS3.  • Developed custom connector classes to attain functionality, which was not available OOTB.  • Integration of OIM with HR systems like Oracle DB.  • Implemented certification, audit and SOD process for user access, role and application instance audit.  • Implemented Admin role process for authorizing role and application instance.  • Worked on reconciliation, created accounts in OIM and created users in target systems.  • Worked on JDeveloper and deploy to WebLogic. Oracle Identity Manager Consultant Walmart-CTS - San Francisco, CA January 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Automated user provisioning/de-provisioning services to automate user de-provisioning and close critical  audit findings using OIM.  • Implemented a service request catalog and user self-service interface to consolidate and expedite user  provisioning to target applications using OIM.  • Automated Role and Entitlement provisioning and de-provisioning based on HR demographic information (ex.  job code/dept/location). This includes not only Zero-Day provisioning but also job, department and location  changes.  • Implement automated Access Certification/Attestation processes and procedures.  • Integrated OIM with OUD, AD and Office365 connector.  • Developed OIM's ICF framework-based AD connector and connector's server to replace the existing AD user  administrator tool with OIM automation.  • Built and tested workflows, reconciliation and provisioning components of the IAM solution by working with application teams.  • Work with Bulk Load Utility to load users, roles, role membership, role hierarchy, account data into OIM from  .csv file and DB table.  • Troubleshoot and Monitor Bulk load logs to fix performance issues.  • Build OIM reporting to meet Client Audit/Compliance requirements. Senior JAVA J2EE Engineer-Polaris December 2007 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed and refactored web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE as Application Development Environment.  • Designing of database components using Hibernate, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Performed unit and functional testing on code changes.  • Creation and maintenance of data using SQL Server database.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity. Designed and implemented complex SQL queries.  • Using RIDC Interface get content details and Create Content through application.  • Used JavaScript for client- side validations.  • Used ANT for building the application. Senior Java Developer TCS January 2005 to November 2007 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design & Implementation of JSP, Servlets and Web Development  • Involved in Java/J2EE Design and EJB, Struts/JSP using MVC architecture  • Development using IOC, Dependency Injection using Spring framework  • Spring AOP was followed when writing business logic code for validations  • Development using Hibernate HQL for query execution on d/b  • Design and Implementation of Java Web-Services using SOAP to provide the Payments Settlement  functionality comprising Apply Payments, Payments Summary & Detail, and Profile Summary  • Implementing XML Parser (DOM/SAX) for integrating legacy system  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing  • Implementation of XLS to XML converter for passing parameters to web-services  • Developed the WSDL/XSD using top-down approach and XML Namespaces  • Generated the stubs using JAXB  • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using CXF  • Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit and log4j.  • Eclipse was used as an IDE for development with Apache tomcat as the server  • Daily maintenance and handling performance issues Education Master's Skills DATABASE, DB2, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, Identity Management, Active Directory, SUN, SSO