Salesforce Release Engineer/Admin/QA Salesforce Release Engineer/Admin/QA Salesforce Release Engineer/Admin/QA - AT&T Wi-Fi Services Austin, TX Around 12+years of experience in the IT industry and around 5+ years of experience as a Salesforce developer/administrator and force.com platform. Having extensive knowledge in implementing, customizing and maintaining Salesforce solutions.    • Experience in SFDC Development in implementing Apex classes, Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL and SOSL.  • Experience in working with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Actions, Tasks and Events.  • Performed Validation Rules, workflows, e-mail services and approval processes using customization & Apex.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Import Wizard and Data Loader Utility.  • Experienced in analysing business requirements, Entity Relationship diagram and implementing them to Salesforce custom objects, Junction objects, master-detail relationships and lookup relationships.  • Extensive experience in lead, case management, web-to-lead, Web-to case, Email-to-case.  • Good experience in working on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  • Experience in SFDC Integration using Web Service and Apex Programming, Salesforce.com Service Cloud expertise.  • Exposure to different types of software development life cycle methodologies including  • Agile methodology.  • Developed Custom Web Services for handling inbound requests and outbound calls to external Web Services.  • Experience in developing customized applications on force.com platform using Apex classes and Triggers, Lightning Components ,Visual Force, Web Services API, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL, SOAP based Web Services.  • Expert in Sales and Support clouds.  • Proficiency in installing App Exchange applications.  • Presence in web technologies like HTML, XML, JSP, JavaScript, and WSDL.  • Proficiency in Object Oriented Languages like C, C++, Java.  • Proficient in databases including MS SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle & MS Excel.  • Excellent analytical, de-bugging skills and documentation skills.  • Capable of rapidly learning new technologies and processes, and successfully applying them to projects and operations. Work Experience Salesforce Release Engineer/Admin/QA AT&T Wi-Fi Services - Austin, TX March 2018 to Present • Create and Customize Custom Objects, Formula Fields, Cross Object Formulas, Roll up summary fields, validation rules, Dependent Pick lists, and page layouts.  • Created workflows and Approval processes.  • Implemented Profiles, Roles, Users, Object Permissions, Field level permissions, Page Layouts, Record Types of the application  • Performed the role of salesforce QA/Release Engineer in the organization.  • Performed Pre Configuration, Post Configuration, Data Migration and deployment activities in salesforce QA environment.  • Complete bulk imports of data using Apex Data Loader.  • Experienced in tools and best practices for Continuous Integration, Build, Test& Deployment [Ant/Git/Jenkins].  • Analysing the requirements & preparing test case for the same.  • Involved in preparing and execution of Functional/Regression Test cases based on SRS/FS (Functional Specification about particular feature)/Change request Specification.  • Bug tracking and reporting using JIRA.  • Preparing and executing the test scenarios and test cases.  • Understanding the business functionality of the application.  • Expert knowledge of the software development lifecycle, Release Management and Configuration Management  • Knowledge of Network infrastructure systems. Salesforce Release Engineer/Admin/QA Present Salesforce DevOps Release Engineer Lead /Admin SunPower - San Jose, CA October 2016 to February 2018 • Setting up and maintained automated build scripts in Jenkins.  • Worked with development team on enforcing source control strategies, building, packaging and deployment of products.  • Debugging build failures, coordinated with developers and testers to resolved related issues.  • Created and managed release plan for all development releases and provided instructions to teams on releases days.  • Used Autorabit for Deployment in different environment.  • Experienced in tools and best practices for Continuous Integration, Build, Test& Deployment [Ant/Git/Jenkins].  • Experienced in setting up process for configuration management that includes branching using GIT or similar tools.  • Coordinate between various teams (Dev, QA, PM, BA) on release management.  • Experienced in Deep understanding of the Salesforce Meta Data API and Salesforce release management process.  • Implemented Profiles, Roles, Users, Object Permissions, Field level permissions, Page Layouts, Record Types of the application.  • Worked with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases and Opportunities.  • Complete bulk imports of data using Apex Data Loader.  • Participated in change control meetings for change request approval.  • Conducted periodic reviews with respect to release readiness, schedule reviews, and Retrospectives.  • Worked with team of build engineers executing the continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) processes for Software Informatics Division.    Environment:Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, process builder, profiles, and permission sets, Triggers, Standard objects, Git, Ant, Jenkins, Pivotal Ticketing tool, Data Loader. Salesforce Developer Mars - Vancouver, WA July 2014 to October 2016 • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com.  • Worked with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases and Opportunities.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing  • Implemented Profiles, Roles, Users, Object Permissions, Field level permissions, Page Layouts, Record Types of the application.  • Developed apex REST web services classes for external applications accessing salesforce.com data with restricted access.  • Good experience in Integrating Salesforce.com with other internal/external applications using REST based web services.  • Written apex REST web service classes for inbound calls to Salesforce.  • Worked on integration of two instances using APEX REST API callouts. Configured Connected App to integrate Salesforce.com with two external JAVA applications using REST API.  • Experience with Rest Web services, JSON Data format and serialization, OAuth2, Basic Auth authorization standard.  • Strong Salesforce technical knowledge with experience in writing Apex Classes, Triggers, VF Pages, Web-services (REST API).  • Responsible for developing and customizing Salesforce applications using Apex, Visualforce, Triggers, SQL and REST Web Service.  • Experience in designing, developing web services/Rest API to interface with other systems.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Rest API, web services, profiles, and permission sets, Triggers, Standard objects Salesforce Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX January 2013 to June 2014 • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Admin in the organization.  • Create and Customize Custom Objects, Formula Fields, Cross Object Formulas, Roll up summary fields, validation rules, Dependent Pick lists, and page layouts.  • Created workflows and Approval processes.  • Actively involved in interacting with business users (subject matter experts), requirement gathering, defining functional and technical specifications.  • Developed and maintained validation rules and custom workflow, Process Builder.  • Implemented Profiles, Roles, Users, Object Permissions, Field level permissions, Page Layouts, Record Types of the application.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on record detail pages and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Built a site page for customer community record.  • Developed different Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application using different Visual force components.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Triggers, and validation rules for various functional needs in the application  • Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects. Developed visual force pages using apex components.  • Involved in pre and post -deployment activities and was part of regression and UAT.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, triggers, Batch classes, Page layouts, Process builder. Salesforce Developer/Admin United Health Group - Minneapolis, MN September 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Triggers, and validation rules for various functional needs in the application.  • Created custom objects and Lookup relationships associated to Cases.  • Best Practices understanding on Coding Standards, Deployment, Apex, VF, Salesforce Integration, Security implementations.  • Hands on experience with Salesforce Lightening Component Design System.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Migration of all the Customizations including Custom Configurations, packages and other objects from Sandbox to Production environment  • In Administrative function, created profiles and implemented Object level, field-level and record-level security.  • Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for custom objects for different request types as per the requirement.  • Developed rich UI using custom Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) in Visualforce pages and used Java Script, JQuery for client-side validations.  • Written SOQL, SOSL, Aggregate, Relationship queries in apex classes, triggers to retrieve optimized data from sObjects.  • Involved in pre and post -deployment activities and was part of regression and UAT.  • Responsible for migration of code from sandbox to production environment.    Environment:Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Data Loader, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Community Portals, Jenkins. Salesforce Developer/Admin Electronic Arts October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Create and Customize Custom Objects, Formula Fields, Cross Object Formulas, Roll up summary fields, validation rules, dependent, Pick lists, and complex page layouts.  • Create complex workflows and Approval processes.  • Implemented Data segregation through Record Types and Field level security.  • Implemented Profiles, Roles, Users, workflow, Object Permissions, Field level permissions, Page Layouts, Record Types of the application.  • Configured and customized sales cloud, service cloud, Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Leads, Campaign, Events, Tasks, Cases.  • Worked on standard salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • In the service cloud environment, performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Complete bulk imports of data using Apex Data Loader.  • Developed and maintained custom reports.  • Batch reassignment of accounts and opportunities based on organizational changes.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, S-Controls, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer BiznusSoft Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2008 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Closely worked with SalesForce.com team while implementing the solutions for the requirements  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on record detail pages and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, and S Control to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Implemented Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows Implemented in the system.  • Customized tabs for among different business user groups and business centres.  • Supported the data migration activities for migrating the data from various business centres and business centre users with the support of Saleforce.com.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Force.com Platform, Salesforce Enterprise Edition, Apex, Visual force, Eclipse IDE Plug-in Objects. JAVA Developer Tech Total Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2007 to January 2008 Responsibilities:  • Developed use cases, drawn sequence diagrams and class diagrams of the application.  • Involved in development of the server-side business logic for Input and output reports.  • Development of database calls using prepared and callable statements of JDBC API.  • Developed user interface using JAVA Server Pages (JSP), HTML and Java Script for the Presentation Tier.  • Developed front end controller in Servlet to handle all the requests.  • Developed Ajax call from JSP pages.  • Developed Controller Servlet to handle the database access (MVC pattern).  • Developed stateless Bean to handle the Business logics as well as database interaction.  • Supporting the application at client side.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Rational Rose, Ajax, Oracle and Web Logic. Salesforce Release Engineer/Admin/QA Education Bachelor's Present Bachelor's Present Skills Ajax (1 year), Apex (10+ years), case management (Less than 1 year), Crm (Less than 1 year), Customer relationship management (Less than 1 year), database (1 year), Eclipse (3 years), Excel. (Less than 1 year), Force.com (3 years), Html (2 years), Java (6 years), Jsp (1 year), Loader. (6 years), Rational (1 year), Rational rose (1 year), Rest (2 years), Restful web services (2 years), Sql (2 years), Web services (2 years), workflow (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce Technologies:  Sales Force CRM, Sales Force SFA, Apex Language, Apex Classes /  Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages/ Components, Apex Web Services, SOAP & REST Services, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation, Custom Objects, Apex Data Loader.    Salesforce Tools: Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com, Data Loader, Force.com Platform  Languages: VBScript, SQL, HTML, XML, Apex, Java, JSP, Java Script.  Database: SQL Server, TOAD, PL/SQL.  MS-Suite: MS-Word, MS Excel, MS-Project, MS Outlook.  GUI Tools: Eclipse 4.3, Rational Rose, and XDE.  Operating Systems: MS Windows, UNIX , LINUX