Manager, Application & Performance Architect, Project lead, Technical Sales lead, and Developer Manager, Application &amp; Performance Architect, Project lead, Technical Sales lead, and <span class="hl">Developer</span> Technical Delivery Manager Cary, NC Shaminder Singh is an accomplished Delivery & Program Manager with over 19+ years of  experience in leading the Software/Business development of Enterprise Web/Mobile/Cloud  applications. Mr. Singh has demonstrated the ability to handle complex programs and manage  cross-functional resources to optimize Enterprise Technology and IT operations. Mr. Singh led  multiple and diverse IBM teams with members located in multiple geographies to accomplish  defined goals and objectives on-time and within the budget.    Shaminder's 19+ year experience in IT - last 14+ in IBM - spans all phases of the software  development lifecycle, Business planning & Strategy for multiple clients. He has architected,  designed, developed, tested and implemented both custom and packaged software solutions, across  various environments and platforms using both traditional Waterfall and Agile development  methodology. He has also helped many Fortune 100 clients formulate/improve their  business/marketing plans for Global operations.    Mr. Singh is a proven leader with exceptional business acumen and people management skills. He  is quick to grasp new concepts, creatively address challenges and ability to relate to people at any  level of business. Mr. Singh demonstrates strong oral, written and interpersonal communication  skills with effective conflict resolution & negotiating skills. Work Experience Manager, Application & Performance Architect, Project lead, Technical Sales lead, and Developer IBM February 2005 to Present USA  Completed 14 years with IBM in the Global Business Service division. Over the span of several years, served many Fortune 100 & 500 IBM clients. Positions held includes: Program & Account Delivery  Manager, Application & Performance Architect, Project lead, Technical Sales lead, and Developer. Last 10+ years have been in the leadership role providing account level support for  IBM clients. Consistently received top ranking in IBM's annual performance assessments.  § Some of the major clients/accounts served are Metlife, Lowe's, Walmart, CIGNA, Coca- Cola, Walgreens, CircuitCity, GM and numerous IBM internal accounts. Different  responsibilities over the span of 14+ years with IBM include the following:  - Project/Program management, Project delivery, Client Engagement management, business advisory, technology & transformation solutions for Enterprise wide  initiatives. Ensuring the overall health of the program/account  - Emphasis in project delivery, quality, Process planning & management and business  strategy, with strong relationship themes around the "voice of the customer". Has a reputation for high client satisfaction, strong leadership and building high performing  teams.  - Most recently led a team of 50+ resources delivering multiple projects for a Fortune  50 Financial company.  - Worked with Clients, Executives, business, sales and developers to run successful  projects.  - Managed appropriate governance, processes, and tools to enable program over-sight, risk management, dependency management, approvals and monitoring of  projects/programs.  - P&L adherence, client satisfaction, Delivery & People management, Vendor  management  - Technical skills include: Enterprise Architecture, IBM cloud  development/migration/deployment, Agile methodology, Leadership of the development and QA teams, project feasibility study, working with business analysts to capture functional and non-functional requirements, translating business  requirements into technical requirements, Business process and application  modeling, prototyping use-case and model-driven system design, development and implementation. Senior Java Developer/Consultant Kanbay Inc - Pune, Maharashtra January 2003 to November 2004 and worked on several projects in the Morgan Stanley account. Received numerous positive client testimonials for completing many  critical projects successfully and promoted to project lead/Architect position after a year. Left the company in Nov 2004 for a job offer from the USA. developer and worked on the GE account BirlaSoft - Noida, Uttar Pradesh June 2002 to January 2003 Noida, India  Selected to the company in the Campus recruitment drive. Joined as an Application Software  developer and worked on the GE account. intern in the HFCL company in the IT department HFCL - Mohali, Punjab January 2000 to March 2002 Designed and developed the Customer care application from scratch which was used in the entire state for providing services to the customers. Education Master's degree Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology Bachelor's Degree Guru Nanak Dev University Skills Translating, Technical requirements, Retail, Java, Java technologies, Devops, Team management, Financial planning, Contract negotiations, Business planning, Issues management, Business requirements, Healthcare, Offshore, SQL, Sql Server, Linux, XML, HTML, Javascript, Jquery Additional Information Core Competencies    § Program/Account Delivery § Business Planning & Strategy § Solution Architecting  § IT/Business stakeholder § Financial planning & tracking § Java technologies  Management § Process Planning & § Cloud Architectures  § Global Delivery Management management § Microservices Architectures  § Contract Negotiations § Transformation Initiatives § Service Oriented Architectures  § Motivating & leading § End Users/Business § Big Data Architectures & tools  geographically diverse teams requirement management § DevOps/DevSecOps leadership  § Onshore/Offshore/Near § Risks & Issues management § Waterfall & Agile /SCRUM  Shore team management § Project Management Skills Methodology  § Proven Fixer and a problem § Insurance, Banking, Retail & § Translating business requirements  solver Healthcare Domain into technical requirements  § Presentation & Public Knowledge  speaking