Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Nicor Gas Austin, TX ? Around 11 Years of experience in design, development and deployment of n-tier distributed environment in enterprise applications.  ? Well versed with Life Cycle Development process that includes translation of requirements into functional and technical specifications, designing, developing, testing and implementation and post-production support.  ? Proficient with Agile methodology of Software development.  ? Proficient in implementing various Java design patterns like Template, Intercept, Builder, Adapter, Command, Factory, Singleton, State, Strategy, Mediator and Observer pattern.  ? Experience in implementing client - server business applications using Microservices, Designed and developed Microservices components using Spring Boot, Docker and Kubernetes on IBM Cloud.  ? Experience in breaking down monolith product into Microservices.  ? Strong knowledge in Designing dynamic user interface for web forms using SPRING MVC, HTML and implementing the business logic using JAVA, J2EE.  ? Experience in planning, designing, developing and implementation in the area of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Experience on AWS services like EC2, V2, VPC and other cloud services.  ? Experience in migrating on premises applications to AWS.  ? Developing system with accessibility according to WCAG standards.  ? Experience in Writing Cloud formation templates.  ? Experience in Configuring AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users and groups for improved login authentication.  ? Familiar with Design and Development of database systems using Relational Database Management Systems including Oracle, MYSQL and in programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Experience in developing the three-tier and two-tier Client-Server and Distributed Object Systems and Object-Oriented Technologies in an Internet/Intranet Environment.  ? Knowledge in working with frameworks like Spring Boot, Struts MVC, Spring MVC, Spring Hibernate and implementing various J2EE design patterns.  ? Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used Angular 2.0, Express.js, Node.js, Backbone JS, VUE JS, React JS and Redux.  ? Experience with Restful Web services (REST, SOAP) for client server communication.  ? Implemented UI components and validations using jQuery and bootstrap libraries.  ? Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service).  ? Expertise in implementing design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, DTO, Singleton Pattern, Session Façade Pattern, MVC Pattern, Business delegate Pattern, Factory pattern, Value Object pattern, DAO pattern and Data source pattern and Session Facade etc.  ? Created Mobile Web Applications with Responsive Web Design, through uses of Twitter Bootstrap, J-Query Mobile and CSS3 Media Queries.  ? Experienced in developing website with ADA compliances according to ADAA Act standards.  ? Expertise in designing and implementing webpages in Disability testing using Nvidia and AXE tools.  ? Experience in using Bootstrap, Grunt and CSS procedures LESS, SASS.  ? Good Experience in Core Java concepts like Threads, Collections Framework, and Java Reflection.  ? In-depth knowledge of integration of RESTFUL WebServices, HTTP Services and Web Services with web applications.  ? Working knowledge in creating Class diagrams, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Flow charts using Rational Rose and Visio.  ? Knowledge in developing common reusable components for applications cross cutting concerns like logging, build management, transactions using Log4J, ANT, Maven, JIRA and Taglibs to increase scalability of the applications.  ? Experience in using XML technologies like XSLT, XPath and XQuery, XML parsing technologies like SAX, DOM and XML binding technologies like JAXB.  ? Worked in various configuration management tools like CVS, SVN. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Nicor Gas - Naperville, IL September 2018 to Present Project: Customer Platform Portal (OGE.com)  • Technical Platform: IBM WebSphere Server8.5, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, REST full services.  • Project Description: Nicor Gas serves more than 2.2 million customers in Illinois area, it service customers to maintain account, watch system outages through site, day to day analytics for usage, electric solutions to Business, Residential and Communities, providing access to enable, disable and transfer service to customers. Providing leverage to customers to optimize utilization, custom payment plans including variable and fixed monthly bills.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the revamping the existing websites with new look and feel using Spring MVC, Spring IOC/DI.  ? Created multiple static theme based on the user flows and maintained different profiles per page to make improve the performance of the web.  ? Create design for new functionalities.  ? Perform reviews of Design and Development of features.  ? Provide technical guidance to team members.  ? Implement requirements (Coding) using Java and J2EE technologies.  ? Lab Advocate for customers.  ? Leading geographically distributed team of 20 developers and testers.  ? Running Scrum, Implementing Agile best practices.  ? Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object-Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Concurrency framework.  ? Implemented Message Driven Beans to consume data from queues.  ? Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services using JAX-RS, REST web services supporting both XML and JSON.  ? Used GIT for version control and Jenkins for continuous integration.  ? Performance optimization of overall product.  ? Designed and developed JUnit test cases during the development phase.  Tools/Environment: WebSphere v8.5, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Java/J2EE, Spring IOC/DI, Spring Boot, JSP, Servlets, jQuery, Mustache Templates, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, RESTful WebServices, JDBC, DB2, firebug, Fiddler, Maven, IBM iSeries, Tomcat, MySQL, GIT, Maven. Sr. Software Engineer Oklahoma Gas and Electric - Oklahoma, OK, US October 2017 to August 2018 Project: Customer Platform Portal (OGE.com)  • Technical Platform: IBM WebSphere Server8.5, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JSR-286, WCM REST full services.  • Project Description: OG&E Electric Services serves more than 801,000 customers in Oklahoma and western Arkansas area, it service customers to maintain account, watch system outages through site, day to day analytics for usage, electric solutions to Business, Residential and Communities, providing access to enable, disable and transfer service to customers. Providing leverage to customers to optimize utilization, custom payment plans including variable and fixed monthly bills.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the revamping the existing websites with new look and feel using Spring MVC, Spring IOC/DI.  ? Created multiple static theme based on the user flows and maintained different profiles per page to make improve the performance of the web.  ? Extensively in implementing designing webpages standards and guidelines of ADA compliances and according to ADAA Act.  ? Involved in testing webpages using Nvidia tool and AXE plugin according to ADA compliances.  ? Consumed SOAP services for the backend transactions.  ? Used the virtual portlets to maintain multiple applications with single code base.  ? Integrated swifttype search to consume and display results based on the business requirement.  ? Personalized the home page using page level personalization.  ? Created new application of the Agents to tracking orders system using Spring Boot Application.  ? Used Spring JDBC and JPA Hibernate in DAO layer for handling few backend transactions.  ? Experience working in migration of the few of the Web application to Angular 1.5.  ? Integration of Content Management system into Angular application.  ? Experience working on redesigning the static page to AMP to improve the performance using WCM driven.  ? Experience working on the exposing the CBO Java custom services for the backend transactions using JAXB.  ? Experience working with various tools to test the performance of the website.  ? Used WebSphere WAS caching techniques such as servlet and dyna cache to improve the page performance.  ? Used GIT for code repository and version controlling.  Tools/Environment: WebSphere v8.5, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Java/J2EE, Spring IOC/DI, Spring Boot, JSP, Servlets, jQuery, Mustache Templates, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, RESTful WebServices, JDBC, DB2, firebug, Fiddler, Maven, IBM iSeries, Tomcat, MySQL, GIT, Maven. Sr. Web Developer - Java/J2EE, Angular, Portal developer Tracfone Wireless Inc March 2015 to September 2017 Project: Straight Talk, Simple Mobile, Total Wireless, GoSmart Mobile.  Project Description: TracFone Wireless is a prepaid wireless service provider with iconic group plans in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the US Virgin Islands own by TracFone Wireless Inc. is a subsidiary of Mexico's largest telecommunications company America Movil. TracFone Wireless operates as a mobile virtual network operator (MVNO), holding agreements with the United States' largest wireless network operators to provide service using their networks AT&T, T-Mobile, Sprint, Verizon, or unlocked GSM phones. Tracfone has activated more than Ten million subscribers since they opened in November 1997.  Responsibilities:  ? Used the Spring IOC feature to get Hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies also used Spring framework AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications.  ? Worked a per Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables.  ? Extensively worked with business analysts and product managers to help writing user stories in sprint planning.  ? Developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and enhanced response using twitter Bootstrap and Angular JS 1.5 and 2.0.  ? Extensively in implementing designing webpages standards and guidelines of ADA compliances and according to ADAA Act.  ? Involved in testing webpages using Nvidia tool and AXE plugin according to ADA compliances.  ? Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS 1.5 and 2.0s.  ? Developing system with accessibility according to WCAG standards.  ? Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework, Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security.  ? Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  ? Used JAVA 1.8 features like Parallel Streams, Functional Interfaces, Filters, Predicates and Lambda Expressions.  ? Implemented RESTful services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Services Architecture.  ? Consumed SOAP based Web Services.  ? Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations.  ? Experienced working with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  ? Configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures using Amazon Web Services (AWS) like VPC, EC2, S3, Cloud Front, ELB and Elastic Beanstalk.  ? Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  ? Used Hibernate in the persistence layer to persist data into both databases Oracle.  ? Created UNIX shell scripting for periodic generation of reports.  ? Used Eclipse Luna as IDE to develop the application and followed the standard features for debugging and running.  ? Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  ? Log4J was used to monitor the error logs and used GIT as version control tool.  ? Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.  ? Followed the Maven build life cycle to build the application and deployed into WebSphere application server.  ? Created Servlets and JUnit test cases and tested the application.  Tools/Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Hibernate, Oracle, WebSphere, Agile methodology, RESTful Web Services, AWS, Micro Services, JNDI, XML, SQL, Maven, RAD, Log4j, Mockito, GIT and JIRA. Sr. Java Developer MetLife, Inc September 2013 to February 2015 Project: Retail Producer Portal (RPP)  Project Description: The MetLife RPP (Retail Producer Portal) - CMS Re-Platform, Project aims to provide the business, a simpler, more adaptable content management tool that provides more flexibility than current version along with the enhancement of the Producer Portal in order to leverage the latest features. Content Management System enhancements includes Conversion from Vignette to IBM WCM, Strategic platform for The America's, Avoid out of support challenges with current system (Vignette 7.3), Provide end users (home office) with latest, industry standard features, Keep competitive advantage, Ensure end user satisfaction and Support requests/needs from Home Office customers. Producer Portal enhancement shall include replacing IDOL search with GSA (Google Search Appliance), Web Trends Metrics Enhancements, Mobile Design (Responsive), CMS metrics tool and migration of existing portlets to Java  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Involved in the front end using JSP, HTML, CSS, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Java Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSP, Spring and Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.  • Extensively in implementing designing webpages standards and guidelines of ADA compliance sand according to ADAA Act.  • Involved in testing webpages using Nvidia tool and AXE plugin according to ADA compliances.  • Involved in development of Agent Verification System using Spring MVC framework.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Used Spring AOP for logging, auditing, transaction management to distinguish business logic from the cross-cutting concerns.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.  • Developed applications in AngularJS and deployed into development, test and production environment successfully.  • Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  • Interfaced with the MySQL back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Used Spring DAO concept in order interact with database (DB2) using JDBC template.  • Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.  • Implemented quartz jobs for running the batch jobs based on the crone triggers configured in the spring files.  • Developed Unit /Integration test cases using JUnit tool.  • Used Gradle tools for building and deploying the Web applications.  • Used JIRA tool for tracking stories progress and follow agile methodology.  • Used logging techniques provided by Log4j tool for efficient logging and debugging.  • Developed the application using IntelliJ as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (CVS).  Tools/Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, AngularJS, JSP, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Apache Camel, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, Log4j, Web Services, WebSphere Application Server, MySQL, IntelliJ, Gradle, JUnit, JIRA, SVN. Sr. Java Developer EISAI. Inc January 2013 to August 2013 Project: EISAI Connections  Project Description: Eisai is a human health care (hhc). EISAI is looking for re-design the main corporate site. Migration of 2 existing sites running on different platforms into a consolidated IBM Websphere environment, enhancing their functionality with new features of websphere. With this task is the creation of new site following the same standards and exhibiting the same new features. The second task will be re-development and enhancement of the existing EISAI Portal with existing and required new features. Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design and Development.  • Involved in writing custom portlets with new requirements.  • Used the Spring IOC feature to get Hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies also used Spring framework AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications.  • Extensively in implementing desigining webpages standards and guidlines of ADA compliancesand according to ADAA Act.  • Involved in testing webpages using Nvidia tool and AXE plugin according to ADA compliances.  • Applied Custom styles for the site using CSS code and java script  • Involved in creating database.  • Involved in migration of database from default in IBM to Oracle.  • Implementing LDAP configuration using MS Active directory.  • Involved in implementing single-sign-on using Web seal.  • Work with testers to address reported problems and bugs and responsible for fixing the bugs raised by the QA team  Project: Medical Affairs  Project Description: To be recognized and respected as a Medical & Scientific Affairs Team with different Departments, that consistently delivers and exceeds on the most important objectives, by being focused, flexible and innovative, while demonstrating responsibility to the human health care mission.  • Understanding the Requirements through application walk through.  • Involved in preparing of design Document plan for the requirements using MS Visio.  • New requirement gathering from Client, Analysis of requirement.  • Design of new web pages and implementing custom rules.  • Developing portal site using default portlets with custom users.  • Work with testers to address reported problems and bugs.  Project: Travel Site  Project Description: The Travel page serves as a landing page in the "Employee resource" section of Eisai Connections. The page provides the department's information and content (e.g. compliance program, policies and procedures, training, etc.). All authorized users in Eisai Connections can navigate and access the page. Eisai Connections is the company's intranet, which is the portal WCM application running in IBM Websphere server. The administrators will use WCM to update content.  • Involved in requirement gathering from Client and Business Analysts.  • Involved in preparing of design Document plan for the requirements using MS Visio.  • Involved in integration of LDAP.  • Applying custom users to different portlets.  • Developing portal site using default portlets with custom users.  Work with testers to address reported problems and bugs.  Tools/Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, AngularJS, JSP, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Apache Camel, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, Log4j, Web Services, WebSphere Application Server, MySQL, IntelliJ, Gradle, JUnit, JIRA, SVN. Sr. Java Developer BancTec - IN November 2011 to December 2012 Project Description: BancTec is a global provider of Financial Services. Online Secured Transaction is one of their products for banking institutions which can manage secured transactions online of their customers. The individuals and business to this system allows customers to access a range of services for their accounts. Consumers/Customers can check credit limits, check account balances, perform account transactions such as fund transfers, Check processing, bills payable/receivable and receive alerts and notifications to mails.  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Pages (JSP), CSS and XML.  • Developed the Enterprise Java Beans (Stateless, Stateful Session beans, Entity beans) to handle different transactions such as online funds transfer, bill payments to the service providers.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS in MDB for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI.  • Extensively worked on JMS using point-point, publisher/subscriber messaging Domains for implementing Exchange of information through Messages.  • Responsible for creating PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Packages, and Queries for storing and retrieving data in database.  Tools/Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, AngularJS, JSP, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Apache Camel, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, Log4j, Web Services, WebSphere Application Server, MySQL, IntelliJ, Gradle, JUnit, JIRA, SVN. Java Developer Al-Futtaim Group November 2010 to September 2011 Project: Cairo Festival City (CFC)  • Project Description: At the heart of Cairo Festival City sits Cairo Festival City Mall, a super-regional shopping centre that redefines shopping and entertainment by creating a modern indoor-outdoor shopping, dining and entertainment destination that has never been witnessed before in Egypt.  • Requirement gathering from customer and Business Analyst.  • Extensively in implementing designing webpages standards and guidelines of ADA compliances and according to ADAA Act.  • Involved in testing webpages using Nvidia tool and AXE plugin according to ADA compliances.  • Involved in Application Architecture using different products of IBM.  • Involved in developing, SDLC process.  • Involved in creation of new database and database migration.  • Developing multilingual support to site.  • Involved in creating of content and populate on website.  • Involved in defecting fixing in Dev and QA environments.  • Involved in Unit testing.  Tools/Environment: IBM WebSphere Server7, Spring MVC, JSR 286, JSR 168, SOAP services. Java Developer Dubai Municipality February 2009 to October 2010 Project: Children City (CC)  Project Description: Children City (CC) is a website-built technology using IBM WebSphere 7.1 application server. This website is having multilingual (English and Arabic) support along with some excellent features like Poll, Font Indentation, Photo Gallery, Latest News, and 3 level navigation. This website also having admin functionality for the administrator to have a full control on the website's content  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design and Development.  • Involved in developing site using multilingual switching and applied Custom CSS for the site by writing own css code and java script.  • Extensively in implementing designing webpages standards and guidelines of ADA compliances and according to ADAA Act.  • Involved in testing webpages using Nvidia tool and AXE plugin according to ADA compliances.  • Involved in developing poll, count of visitors functionalities and worked with testers to address reported problems and bugs and responsible for fixing the bugs raised by the QA team.    Project: Dubai International Award for Best Practices (DIABP)  Project Description: Dubai International Award for Best Practices (DIABP) is a website built on technology using IBM WebSphere 7.1 application server. This website is having multilingual (English, Arabic, French, Spanish & Chinese) support along with some excellent features like Poll, Font Indentation, Photo Gallery, Latest News and 3 level navigation. This website also having admin functionality for the administrator to have a full control on the website's content  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design and Development.  • Involved in developing site using multilingual switching and applied Custom CSS for the site by writing own css code and java script  • Extensively in implementing designing webpages standards and guidelines of ADA compliances and according to ADAA Act.  • Involved in testing webpages using Nvidia tool and AXE plugin according to ADA compliances.  • Involved in developing poll, count of visitors functionalities, worked with testers to address reported problems and bugs and responsible for fixing the bugs raised by the QA team.    Project: Sister City (SC)  Project Description: Sister City (SC) is a website built on technology using IBM WebSphere 6.1 application server. This website is having multilingual (English and Arabic) support along with some excellent features like Poll, Font Indentation, Photo Gallery, Latest News, 3 level navigation, and count of visitors. This website also having admin functionality for the administrator to have a full control on the website's content.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design and Development.  • Applied Custom CSS for the site by writing own css code and java script.  • Involved in testing webpages using Nvidia tool and AXE plugin according to ADA compliances.  • Involved in developing poll, count of visitor's functionalities.  • Work with testers to address reported problems and bugs.  • Responsible for fixing the bugs raised by the QA team.  Tools/Environment: IBM WebSphere Server7, Spring MVC, JSR 286, JSR 168, SOAP services. Java Developer Dubai Police - Dubai, AE September 2008 to January 2009 Project: Dubai Police  Project Description: The Dubai Police is the most forward thinking and progressive Arab Police Force today! Comprising their ranks are fifteen thousand personnel of the highest educational standard of any organization. It has a huge no. of online services offered to citizens, other countries immigrants and tourists with diverse structure for different flavors of services with integration of other departments like traffic, CID. The services include fine payments, providing security to homes, events and many others. These includes each and every aspect of daily tasks of the Police department, which will be provided into electronic operations which enhance the operations implementation easy, speedy process and also user can do all from home itself no need to go for DP office, that's the way Dubai Police internet site is providing all the services electronically.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design and Development.  • Involved in developing poll, count of visitor's functionalities.  • Involved in developing portlets for different services.  • Involved in validating the forms using Java Script.  • Extensively in implementing designing webpages standards and guidelines of ADA compliances and according to ADAA Act.  • Involved in testing webpages using Nvidia tool and AXE plugin according to ADA compliances.  • Applied Custom CSS for the site by writing own CSS code and java script.  • Involved in designing Prototype of the site by using Java script and HTML.  Tools/Environment: IBM WebSphere Server7, Spring MVC, JSR 286, JSR 168, SOAP services. Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAXB, JAXP, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JMS, JNDI, JSF, JSP, JSTL, SERVLETS, STRUTS, DOJO, MVC, AJAX Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: Java, C/C++, PL- SQL.  Frameworks: Spring Boot, Spring 3.0, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, JPA, JDBC, JUnit.  JEE/J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSTL, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAXP, JAXB.  Content Management System  (CMS) Technologies: IBM Web Content Management, Word Press.  Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall.  Design/ Version control: SVN, CVS, GIT HUB, Rational ClearCase.  Portal Technologies: IBM WebSphere portal, Web Content Management (WCM), Life-Ray portal, JSR 168, JSR 286.  Application Servers: WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat.  Webservers: Tomcat, IBM HTTP Server.  Databases: Oracle, DB2, MySQL, SQL Server.  IDEs: Eclipse, NetBeans, RSA, RAD.  Build Tools: Maven, ANT, gulp.  Scripting Languages: JavaScript, Ajax, Dojo, CSS.