DevOps DBA DevOps DBA DevOps DBA - Acuity Brands Lighting Newnan, GA I am a seasoned IT professional with a breadth of skills and experiences that brings benefits and perspective to the organizations I consult. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps DBA Acuity Brands Lighting July 2016 to Present • Interfaced with numerous web app and firmware development groups to address database-related contention and query optimization issues.  • Built Azure DevOps(formerly VSTS) build and release pipelines tied to developers commits and pull-requests to support Agile CI/CD development model.  • Monitored and managed various Azure resource groups to make sure applications were adequately provisioned with databases, storage accounts, and app servers.  • Created GIT repositories in Azure and migrated code from other source control systems to facilitate adoption of Azure DevOps continuous integration technologies.  • Held daily scrums with fellow DevOps team members, met with various Product Managers to identify needs, created backlog items for those needs, and assigned items to various resources within DevOps group. DBA Consultant Yash Consultants December 2015 to July 2016 • Consulting a large insurance company on the migration of numerous legacy SQL Server 2005 environments to SQL Server 2012  • Performing impact analysis on migration of servers by surveying related database jobs, ETL processes, data warehouses, and datamarts.  • Evaluating SSIS ETL Jobs and stored procedures in Oracle and SQL Server to verify contained queries and updates are running optimally and adding indexes and table partitioning where necessary.  • Coding stored procedures to handle business rules for Group and Individual insurance enrollments for a wide range of product offerings. DBA AT&T Digital Life September 2015 to December 2015 • Assisted client with optimization of large scale SQL Server databases with long query response times.  • Met with several key developers to identify most commonly used stored procedures and frequently passed parameters and frequency and distribution of executions of those procedures throughout a business day to create a realistic workload to run in load testing situations against re-indexed databases.  • Reduced several critical queries' execution time by 90% by actively monitoring various dynamic maintenance views and noticing numerous missed opportunities for index seeks  • Provided additional recommendations for resizing of tempdb. Technical Consultant Veredus Corp May 2015 to September 2015 • Comprehensive migration of C# classes from using embedded Oracle SQL to MySQL SQL syntax in support of an acquisition effort by a major cable tv client.  • Spearheaded effort to convert classes to use Entity Framework 4 instead of embedded SQL.  • Creation of web services utilizing WCF 3.5 framework. Testing web services with SoapUI.  • Refactored and added additional functionality to C# DAO classes to accommodate new search functionality requested for application.  • Design and implementation of security features leveraging database stored procedures and triggers in PL/SQL for a Defense industry client.  • Implemented security changes to Oracle 11g database servers to comply with STIGs (Security Technical Implantation Guides), which included implementation of trigger-based auditing of data modifications to track changes made by system users, enforcement of strict password complexity, and multiple layers of authentication to ensure only individuals with proper clearance could access sensitive data. DB2 DBA/ Java Developer Health Language Inc October 2012 to March 2015 • DB2 9.7 and 10.1 instance and database creation and configuration (including auto-configure) in non-partitioned and partitioned database servers including multiple logical (MLP) and multiple physical partition (MPP) configurations.  • Database utility experience including reorg, runstats, rebind, export, import, load, auto-load, backup, restore and recover database utilities.  • Database backup and recovery experience with online full and incremental backups, online and offline transaction log archiving, restore and roll-forward (including redirected restore), and recover database utilities.  • Instance and database monitoring and tuning experience using the DB2 Health Center, Snapshot and Event monitors to monitor and optimize instance and database configuration parameters, table spaces, and buffer pools.  • Database and SQL statement access plan optimization experience with DB2's Explain, Visual Explain, and Design Advisor tools.  • Stored procedure (SP), user defined function (UDF), and user defined table function experience with DB2 SQL/PL.  • DB2 system, instance, and database security and auditing experience using table definitions, triggers, data replication, and automated monitoring and alerting of security events recorded by the DB2 Audit Facility.  • Extensive experience automating database maintenance and monitoring with shell scripts including automating system event logging, e-mail alert notification, and reporting using the DB2 utilities and Command Line Processor (CLP) with Powershell  • IBM Problem management, and resolution (PMR) experience with DB2 diagnostic log facility, administration notification log, trace facilities, db2 inspect, DB2 database analysis reporting tool (db2dart) and the IBM DB2 Lab.  • Coded Java classes to parse XML configuration files and populate Swing UI leveraging JDOM and SAX parsers and consume input and post back to XML files and relational databases.  • Developed a Web-based admin tool with JSP/Tomcat to perform common admin tasks.  • Utilized SoapUI to test and validate REST web services and subsequently incorporated Web service request into Java applications. Project Manager of Data Cleansing Effort Lockheed Martin - Global Training & Logistics January 2012 to October 2012 with intensive SQL querying)    • Lead a data cleansing effort for source software systems feeding transactional records into a SQL Server 2008 R2 data warehouse.  • Communicated with stakeholders from various departments of a Special Operations storage facility to identify operational procedures as it pertains to data entry standards and practices to develop baseline understanding of data being entered into operational systems.  • Performed an analysis of data format consistency utilizing T-SQL regular expressions; upon identification of data anomalies and their relative frequency, sought input from stakeholders to prioritize most urgent data quality issues and quickly set about devising strategies to bring data into conformance.  • Identified logically distinct areas of the data cleansing effort and delegated portions of work to subordinates. Followed up with subordinates to get status and participated in weekly status meetings to report progress to upper level management.  • Identified new sources (eg tables, views) of data in the source databases that were not being leveraged in Data Warehouse and identified and provided recommendations on enhancing the hierarchy in Data Warehouse dimension tables for enhanced drilldown and roll-up capability. T-SQL Developer/DBA Lexus Inc September 2011 to January 2012 • Tasked with coordinating with systems analysts and senior application end users to identify desired new functionality as well as enhancements to existing functionality. Took requirements, created functional requirements documentation and translated into T-SQL packages/procedures. Revisited frequently with analysts to report progress and receive timely feedback.  • Communicated with third party data providers to negotiate a means of receiving data (usually SFTP, some WSDL web services transfer and REST transfers) and defining formats of data to be transmitted (XML, comma-delimited, fixed format). Creating necessary SQL Loader files or external table definitions to transition data from files to database tables. Developed data-scrubbing and validating routines with robust data handling and logging.  • Upgraded a dozen SQL Server 2005 servers to SQL Server 2008 R2 and scripted numerous jobs via SQL Server Agent to launch every morning and check database development, test, and production environments for health and data/code set changes to stay informed on the state of all database servers.  • Assisted Web application developers with implementation of some JQuery javascript library to add enhancements to the interface of various application screens. Hand-coded some Javascript code as needed. Database Admin OSI Corp March 2010 to September 2011 • Responsible for 24x7 monitoring of 30+ production MS-SQL and Oracle servers.  • Proactively monitor session activity utilizing SQL Server's data management views and Oracle's Active Session History to identify resource-hogging procedures and either create index structures, advise developer on potential code improvements or move procedure (if run on a scheduler) to a more suitable timeslot so as to reduce resource contention and shorten execution time.  • Manage deployment of both database-side structures (tables, views, procs) and associated application modules and subsequent validation; roll back changes when necessary.  • Recoded some smaller departmental applications , developing user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS; Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the applications  • Automate numerous database administration tasks in the Oracle/SQL databases by creating Korn/Windows shell scripts to perform RMAN backups, exports/imports, alert log error monitoring, statistics updates. Alternatively, use SQL Server and Oracle job engines when necessary.  • Configure and maintain an Oracle Dataguard configuration and perform continuous monitoring to ensure proper transfer and application of redo logs. Perform routine failover and failback tests to ensure readiness in disaster recovery scenarios. Assist in minor RAC administration duties in coordination with RAC dba. Contract DBA JP Morgan Chase December 2008 to March 2010 • Provided Oracle 10g database and Solaris 10 administration duties for a development community of 80 programmers engaged in the development of a Money Wire Investigations application (US Dollar Clearing) and a Due Diligence application (SKYC).  • Participated in multiple production code deployments and maintained multiple UAT/Test environments.  • Coordinated tasks with counterparts in Mumbai, India to ensure successful implementations.  • Wrote numerous PL/SQL stored procedures to parse SWIFT and GFP error messages and populate corresponding tables with data.  • Used Oracle Grid control extensively to monitor database resource usage and preemptively correct problems before they became critical.  • Loaded test data from Production systems into Test environments for QA Teams.  • Maintained RMAN scripts, updating target databases and backup types to accommodate environment changes and new backup optimization strategies. Reduced backup time by 50% by switching from image backups to backup sets.  • Lead numerous daily agenda discussions on conference calls involving participants from offshore teams as well as other JP Morgan offices in Europe. Senior Software Engineer - Team Lead Comprehensive Behavioral Care April 2008 to December 2008 • Spearheaded an effort to convert all reporting functions from MS Access to a Business Objects/Oracle based platform.  • Configured replication to various regional offices employing Oracle Streams. Performed a rigorous preliminary setup and validation of source and destination databases to assure smooth operation of replication strategy.  • Performed database administration duties for the development and report servers including but not limited to login creation, assignment to server and database roles, creating indices for enhanced query performance, defining and executing a backup and recovery plan using transaction logs to facilitate point-in-time recovery capability, and setting up replication.  • Developed several Excel macro based tools to facilitate management's analysis of claims processing and utilization review.  • Actively participated in effort to safeguard PHI data according to HIPAA regulations, which included masking of person-identifying information when exchanging data with third party entities and populating data into internal data warehouse. Consultant/Crystal Reports Developer/Database Admin Veredus Corp August 2005 to April 2008 for PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLC    • Developed and supported Business Objects Web Intelligence Documents and Reports for Advisory, Assurance, and Tax lines of service.  • Performed extensive peer code reviews to verify accuracy of data and timely execution of SQL code.  • Developed views, stored procedures, functions and scripts in PL/SQL to simplify report development.  • Built custom session monitoring tools to provide insight into memory consumption, logical/physical disk reads/ SQL code of queries and Oracle background processes which helped us identify trends of low and high activity. This allowed us to schedule jobs more effectively and also to intervene earlier and help programmers develop better SQL code when inefficiencies were detected.  • Performed backups of our development server using Oracle's RMAN utility. Subsequently built Korn shell scripts that called RMAN to automate backups.  • Developed Web Intelligence universes using Universe Builder to allow Advisory and Assurance personnel to perform adhoc reporting.  • Created database Entity Relationship diagrams using ERWin that were used extensively in the organization.  • Met with business owners to define application requirements for a human resource allocation tool and subsequently developed program using Excel VBA.  • Conducted meetings with colleagues and subordinates to discuss project statuses and define goals/objectives.  • for our group and to facilitate the exchange of business rules and technical knowledge.  • Spearheaded an effort to acquire a 'true' development sandbox for our team by strengthening and fostering a good communication with our Server Group which ultimately resulted in our first true development environment. Education Bachelor's Skills database (10+ years), databases (9 years), MS SQL SERVER (3 years), Oracle (7 years), SQL (10+ years), Linux, Devops, Jenkins, Bash, Git Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Operating Systems: AIX, Windows 2012/2016, Oracle Enterprise Linux, RHEL 6/7/8  Databases: Oracle 11gR2, Oracle 12, DB2, SQL Server 2008/2012/2016, MySQL, Postgres, HBase  Database Tools: TOAD, ERWin, Embarcardero, SQL Developer  ETL Tools: SSIS, Informatica, Oracle Workflow, Perl Workflow  Web DBs: Quickbase, Zoho