Senior Application Engineer .Net/ Java Senior Application Engineer .Net/<span class="hl">Java</span> Senior Application Engineer .Net/ Java - Nike, Inc • With over 15 Years extensive experience in developing applications using .NET technologies.  • Possessed skills in Javascript, TypeScript, JQuery, Sencha Extjs 6.0.2 and Angular 1.3 and Angular 2 Angular 4, Angular 6, Angular Material.  • Have strong knowledge, experience and depth technical skills in Object Oriented Programming(OOP), Design Patterns(MVC, MVVM, MVP, Factories, etc) and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Have strong background and experience in .NET development for Web Applications using Asp.NET MVC 4, Asp.NET (Web Forms), Silverlight 4 (MVVM).  • Have strong background and experience in .NET development for Web Services using Web Services (SOAP), Web Api, and WCF.  • Have strong background and experience in creating LINQ database layer using API suc as LINQ to Entity Framework.  • Have strong background and experience working on UI tools such as Telerik UI Components, Telerik Open Access, Kendo UI and Sencha extjs 6.0.2.  • Have strong background and experience in TDD using built in Microsoft test runner, NUnit and mocking libraries such as Moq, RhinoMocks. Likewise, testing javascipts/typescript using QUnit and Jasmine.  • Strong background knowledge in MSSQL Reporting Services(SSRS).  • Have extensive experience in SCRUM AGILE Development.  • Possessed strong leadership qualities and is able to mentor and train junior developers.  • Have experience in Virtualization using VMWare HTML-Bridge SDK.  • Have experience in Point of Sale system integrated with payment terminal/device. Work Experience Senior Application Engineer .Net/ Java Nike, Inc - Beaverton, OR April 2019 to Present Technologies  .NET Framework 4.6.x, .NET Core 2, C#, Angular 6, Angular Material, Typescript 2.x, WCF, MSSQL, HTML, jquery, NUnit, Rhino Mocks, SpecFlow    Project Name: NikeStorePOS, NikeMobileAssistService, TenderAuthorization, MPOS  Project Description: NikeStorePOS is Nike, Inc. Retail Point of Sale system which is being used by Nike stores worldwide. NikeMobileAssistService is a new WCF application to be used by the new Mobile Assist POS which is an equivalent of NikeStorePOS but runs in IPad. TenderAuthorization is a service which is being used by both NikeStorePOS and NikeMobileAssistService. TenderAuthorization is the main engine that communicate to the vendor's payment terminal to do authorization, checking the status of the payment terminal, cancelation of the In-progress transaction, voiding of approved transaction, etc. MPOS is a test harness for testing NikeMobileAssistService. It was developed using HTML and jquery library.    Responsibilities:  • Develop and maintain new features for TenderAuthorization Terminal Api such as sale, refund, checking the current status of the payment terminal, cancelation of the in-progress transaction, implementation of fallback mechanism when doing sale or refund, etc.  • Responsible for integrating all TenderAuthorization new operations to the NikeMobileAssistService application.  • Responsible for creating the new version of MPOS using angular 6 and angular material.  • Perform code reviews using Bitbucket.  • Fix bug from time to time.  • Attend daily standup, story time, user story grooming, retrospective and planning.  • Implement 99% automation for NikeStorePOS using the new Terminal Api Tender Authorization Senior Software Engineer Portland General Electric - Tualatin, OR September 2017 to April 2019 Technologies  .NET Framework 4.6.x, .NET Core 2, C#, Angular 2.x - 4, Typescript 2.x Web Api, WSDL, MSSQL, Ready Api 2.x, Collaborator Enterprise, Git Extension, Fiddler, Jenkins, Karma, WebPack, ReportGenerator, F5, Jasmine, AppDynamics    Project Name: CSWeb, BizWeb, Agency Portal, PgeMessaging, Web Admin Tool  Project Description: CSWeb is for PGE residential customers. It allows the customers different options for self-service functionality such as start, stop and move service. It is also the main website they use to manage their accounts and setup their billing and payment options. They can also use the website to report an outage or get an outage updates. BizWeb is for PGE Business customers, a business customer can have multiple accounts and they can manage those accounts by using the BizWeb. Agency Portal is for customers, usually, residential customers, who qualify for state and federal relief on utility bills. They can seek help from any energy assistance groups to make the payments on their behalf. PgeMessaging is a job project to handle email and text messaging features by CSWeb, BizWeb and Agency Portal. Web Admin Tool is another internal application for the CSR to handle client's request.    Responsibilities:  • Develop and maintain new features, specifically Start and Move Service, Renewables Eligibilty, RootSite Login, Add/Remove custom groups, etc.  • Main Archietec of the Web Admin Tool  • Implemented the AppDynamics Support for the CSWeb  • Give real estimates during story time and planning.  • Fix bug from time to time.  • Attend daily standup, story time, retrospective and planning.  • Perform code reviews using Collaborator Microsoft Developer/Consultant Hitachi Data Systems - Santa Clara, CA February 2016 to September 2017 Technologies  .NET Framework 4.5.x, WCF Rest, C#, Java 1.7.9x, VMWare SDK 6.0, JQuery, Bootstrap, CSS3, HTML5, Microsoft Visual Studio 12, Spring Tool Suite 3.1.x , Sencha Extjs 6.0.2, Managed C++.    Project Name: UCP 2000 Converged Infrastructure  Project Description: UCP 2000 Converged Infrastructure is a plugin for VMWare vCenter to manage Servers, Storages and Networks.    Responsibilities:  • Develop and maintain WCF rest that consume managed c++ libraries that manages storages, servers and networks.  • Responsible for the UI development using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Bootstrap components.  • Work on VMWare SDK HTML-Bridge framework which uses java components.  • Work on the java REST Client that consume the WCF Rest.  • Investigate and Fix bugs reported by QA and customers.  • Analyze User Stories, design and develop modules based on the given user stories.  • Perform othe duties from time to time. Sr. .Net Developer/Consultant Diaspark, Inc - Round Rock, TX February 2015 to January 2016 Technologies .Net Framework 4.5.1, C#, Entity Framework, MSSQL 2014, Telerik UI, Telerik Open Access, MVVM, WCF RIA, Silverlight    Project Name: Life Cycle Mgt (LCM Tool)  Project Description: The LCM tool is a Silverlight navigation page application. It was built around five stage workflow to manage the progress of each unique asset, which is a combination of the Troux Application Name and CMDB Server AssetID, as it moves through the workflow. The five workflow are the following: Rationalize, Design, Infrastructure Delivery, Data/Application Migration and Decomm Submit. LCM Tool is used by Dell IT IM Eng-Refresh & Infrastructure team and by BPMs (App Owners).    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Silverlight and MVVM pattern.  • Designed and developed the project architecture.  • Analyzed requirements, designed and developed modules based on the given requirements.  • Wrote stored procedures, created and altered tables and other database objects.  • Developed WCF RIA.  • Implemented various components of the application using C#.Net, MVVM, XAML, Styles, MS SQL Server 2014 and MS Visual Studio 2013.  • Investigated and fixed bugs.  • Performed other duties from time to time (i.e. Documentations, Code Cleanup and improving the architecture).  • Responsible for the development of the whole application (Overall architecture) Sr. Software Developer Magenic, Makati - PH November 2012 to December 2014 Technologies  .Net Framework, ASP .Net MVC 4, .NET C#, Entity Framework, CSLA, MSSQL 2012, TypeScipt, Less, CSS, JQuery, Angularjs 1.3, Kendo UI, Autofac, QUnit, Moq, Microsoft Visual Studio 2012, Web Api    Project Name: Enabled Plus  Project Description: Enabled Plus is a Customer Relationship Management System of Renewal by Andersen that handles various key processes such as Appointments and Job Scheduling, Lead Records and Reporting. The existing Enabled Plus website performs many functions, but the current enhancement effort is focused on the customer service aspects for optimizing and enhancing both functionality and efficiency of a site in multiple ways so it serves customer needs better. The Enabled Plus 2.0 is a major initiative to re-architect the existing Enabled Plus website for improved maintainability, scalability and reliability purposes including a rigorous and repeatable testing foundation.    Responsibilities:  • Develop Single Page Application using Angular JS 1.3.  • Analyze User Stories and design and develop modules based on the given user stories.  • Work closely with a team of 30+ members composed of project manager, tech leads, developers , business analysts and testers.  • Develop Web API using Asp.NET MVC 4.  • Implement various components of the application using C#.Net, ASP.Net MVC 4, CSLA, Typescript, JQuery, QUnit, LESS, Kendo UI, Angularjs, Autofac, MS SQL Server 2012 and MS Visual Studio 2012.  • Write Unit test codes for Business Objects, Controller and View Model classes using Moq as the mocking framework.  • Write unit test codes for Typescript methods using QUnit as the testing framework.  • Investigate and fix bugs.  • Perform other duties from time to time (i.e. mentor junior programmers and performs code review).  • Responsible for the development of Lead Maintenance, Script Maintenance, Condo List Note, Job Board, Customer Note, Material and Labor Cost modules. Senior Software Engineer Magenic, Makati - PH November 2009 to September 2012 Environment .NET Framework, Silverlight, .NET C#, Entity Framework, WCF, MSSQL, Telerik, MVVM, Microsoft Cloud Azure    Project Name: Jonas Premier ERP  Project Description: Jonas Premier is a new construction ERP system running in the Microsoft cloud. A flexible Job Costing system makes it suitable for the simplest to the most complex jobs. Coupled with fully integrated back end accounting, a powerful T&M billing engine, plus progress (AIA) billing, subcontract management, purchasing, inventory control and integrated document storage, Jonas Premier is a complete solution.    Responsibilities:  • Work closely with a team of 15+ members composed of on and offshore manager, tech leads, developers , business analysts and testers.  • Implement various components of the application using C#.Net, Silverlight 4, MVVM, Entity Framework, WCF Web Service, Telerik, MSSQL 2008  • Write unit test codes for business objects, model etc.  • Investigate and fix bugs.  • Responsible for the development of as AR-Payment Terms, AR-Process Retainage, AR-Invoice, Bank-Bank Reconciliation, IM-Subledger, IM-Manage Warehouses, Subcontract-Change Order.  • Provide estimates of the likely timescales required to finish the tasks. Sr. Software Engineer Magenic, Makati July 2009 to October 2009 Environment ASP.NET Webforms, VB.NET, Javascript, JQuery    Projet Name: Celgene  Project Description: Events and Programs management for medical professionals. The modules includes Speakers Maintenance, Activities Maintenance, Calendar/Schedule Maintenance, Invitees Maintenance and Reports.    Responsibilities:  • Convert web pages using VB Script to Javascript.  • Ensure cross browser compatibility.  • Lead a two man team.  • Lead a SCRUM meeting.  • Communicates with staff or clients to understand specific system requirements.  • Implement JQuery UI for some some controls i.e. JQuery Calendar  • Provide estimates of the likely timescales required to finish the tasks. Sr. Software Engineer Compusource, Makati, Phillipinnes May 2009 to June 2009 Technologies ADO.NET, MS SQL Server 7.0/2000, VB 6.0    Project Name: Compusource MCMS Metal Centric  Project Description: MetalCentric software is designed to meet the specific demands of the Metal, Steel, and Pipe Service Center industries. A solution for improving customer service, order processing, order fulfillment, cutting optimization, document imaging, inventory management and much more.    Responsibilities:  • Implement various components of the application using VB 6.0 and by consuming the business service components created by our counter parts.  • Analyze User Stories and design and develop modules based on the given user stories.  • Communicates with staff or clients to understand specific system requirements.  • Provide estimates of the likely timescales required to finish the tasks.  • Investigate and fix bugs. Software Engineer Magenic, Makati July 2006 to May 2009 Technologies ASP.NET Webforms, WinForms, .NET.C#, ADO.NET, WCF, MS SQL Server 7.0/2000, ORACLE    Project Name: Frontline  Project Description: Frontline is a government to people platform (G2PP) which is a CRM application that tailored mainly to the needs of the government. Frontline is a client-server system which has multiple interfaces: Web and WinForms applications.    Responsibilities:  • Develop and maintain web services through .Net Webs Service(SOAP).  • Refactor business objects, data access objects, and stored procedures (MSSQL/ORACLE) of the CORE Product(Frontline) to conform to a newer design specification.  • Produce and execute unit test specifications and functionally test the business objects and data access objects.  • Practice test driven development that gives fast feedback of the correct behavior as the code is refactored.  • Became part of the Defects and Small Enhancement team that provide solutions to the reported defects and small enhancement requested by the customers.  • Produce test cases to identify the proper instructions to test the systems.  • Tests the unit programs based on the approved test cases.  • Collaborates with engineers or software developers to select appropriate design solutions or ensure the compatibility of system components.  • Communicates with staff or clients to understand specific system requirements.  • Provide estimates f the likely timescales required to finish the tasks.  • Visited the client's main office in Northern Ireland from October 2008 to December 2008 to:  * Observe Lagan's working practices and procedures  * Attend classroom based training  * Support and Maintenance Production Support Analyst Microsrv, Makati - PH July 2005 to May 2006 Technologies Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Oracle, Tomcat, Weblogic, CRON, PL/SQL and UNIX Shell  Scripts    Project Name: eSales - File Upload  Project Decription: is a web-based application that accepts registration of sales machines (cash register, POS, among others) and reporting of monthly sales per business taxpayer to BIR. Registration and Sales reports are submitted through file uploading. The data in the uploaded file is read by a java program and inserted to the oracle database. This java program runs through a CRON job in UNIX.    Responsibilities:  • Support e-Sales File Upload using Java Servlets and Apache Commons File Upload Library.  • Integrate the project to the existing e-Sales project which uses Oracle Database and Weblogic as application server.  • Fix, optimize, and enhance small projects and adhoc requirements per client's request. Programmer Cypress Manufacturing Ltd January 2005 to May 2005 Technologies Ansi C, INGRES, Unix    Project Name: MES  Project Decription: MES is a Machine Execution System used in Manufacturing of semiconductors.    Responsibilities:  * Responsible for developing procedures of various well defined business problems or portion of complex problems.  * Plan the computation of execution of process necessary for system solutions with high level of reliability and execution.  * Enhancement as well as fixing of MES bugs. Ensure smooth execution and installation of software fixes.  * Develop documentation and specification of program code  * Conduct User Testing  * Perform other duties as may be assigned from time to time Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Communication Foundation Development Systems Technology Institute 2004 Skills .net, Api, C#, Design patterns, Git, Html, Javascript, Typescript, Json, Silverlight, Asp.net mvc 4, Wcf, Reporting tools, Svn, Xml, Xslt, Ado, Database, Ado.net, Sql server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages C#.NET, Java 1.7.x  .NET Framework Technologies  ASP.NET MVC 4, ASP.NET Silverlight 4, WCF, Web Services (SOAP), Web API (REST) using MVC 4, Entity Framework, ADO.NET, LINQ, ASP.NET Web Forms, Win Forms    Design Patterns MVVM, MVC, Factories, Strategy, Singleton, SOA  UI Tools Telerik, Telerik Open Access, Kendo UI, Sencha Extjs  Web Programming Scripts and Frameworks  Javascript, JQuery, Angularjs 1.3, Angular 2.x, Angular 4.x JSON, Ajax, TypeScript 1.x, Typescript 2.x, Sencha Extjs 6.0.2, VMWare SDK 6.0    Database Technologies MS-SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, Oracle, MS-Access, MySql, Redis (NoSql)  Stylesheet Languages XSLT, CSS, LESS  Markup Languages HTML, XML, XAML, WSDL  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports 8.5, MSSQL Reporting Services(SSRS)  Source Control Tools Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe, SVN, GIT  Testing Framework Microsoft Unit Testing, Moq, QUnit, Jasmine, RhinoMocks, SpecFlow  Methodologies AGILE  Other Tools Collaborator Enterprise, ReadyAPI 2.1, Postman, Fiddler, F5, AppDynamics