Sr.UI Developer/Sr. FrontEnd developer Sr.UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Sr. FrontEnd <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr.UI Developer/Sr. FrontEnd developer Peoria, IL ? Over 10+ Years of professional experience i all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Applications Design, Development, Integration, Installation, Implementation, Maintenance, Testing, and Debugging of various client/server web applications using web technoloiges in various environments.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle and Software Development methodologies like Agile /scurm , Waterfall etc.  ? Strong understanding and working experience on various Design patterns like MVC, MVVM, Facade.  ? Good understanding of the Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions along with experience in Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and implementation.  ? Experience in developing enterprise-level UI Rich Web Application, Architecting scalable plateforms, Agile methologies using XHTML, HTML 4/ 5, CSS 3/ 4, DHTML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Angular 2/4, React.js, Node.js, Responsive Web Design, Kendo UI, YUI, Mobile UI, Dojo and Bootstrap.  ? Experience in developing mobile applications by using Phone gap/ionic, Sencha, Cordova.  ? Experience in developing Reactive Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular2 with expertise in creating User Controls, Web Forms and performing client side validations using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular.js.  ? Experience in CSS preprocessor LESS and SASS for dynamically styling Developed HTML templates and performed client-side Validation using JavaScript  ? Enhance the applications with new add-on features, using ReactJS framework on front-end and Node JS on back-end with ECMAScript 6 features.  ? Experience on with the cloud technologies like using Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, pivotal cloud Foundry ( PCF ) in various environments.  ? Experience with common front-end development tools such as Babel, Web pack, NPM,..etc.  ? Good working experience on different Spring Modules including Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring ORM, Spring Security and Spring AOP.  ? Strong Experience in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Margin, Table, Sprites, Behaviors, Psuedo Classes, Psuedo Elements and CSS Box Model.  ? Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MongoDB, Express.js, Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Expertise in using Design Patterns like MVC, Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Business Delegate, Service Locator and Session Facade.  ? Experience in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  ? Developed e-commerce app built with CanJS called Place My Order.  ? Application UI development for internal and external partners using CanJS and AngularJS.  ? Experience in designing, developing both Apple IOS and Android Hybrid mobile applications.  ? Extensively used Node.js for server side scripting and Node Package Manager (NPM) for updating the application from codebase.  ? Experiences on React JS to implement rich functions in various pages: form validation, crud, grid list, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced/custom directives, authentication, unit tests etc.  ? Developed REST architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  ? Developing and Integrating Front End Applications using Java, JSP Technologies.  ? Experience in working with Grunt , Gulp & Jenkins to build the application.  ? Good knowledge in working with Databases like Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL, PL/SQL (oracle), NoSQL databases like MongoDB, MariaDB, Redis etc., Web/Application servers like Apache tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, Apache/Nginix etc., IDEs such as Notepad++, Edit Plus, NetBeans, Eclipse etc.    ? Experience in configuration management systems like SVN, CVS, Mercurial and GIT-HUB, BITBUCKET.  ? Working knowledge on testing frameworks like QUnit, Mocha, Selenium, Jasmine and Karma  ? Good knowledge of in Unified Modeling Tools (UML) concepts and extensively worked in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Object Diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  ? Good Knowledge on Java technologies like Core Java, J2EE and Spring Mvc Framework.  ? Excellent understanding of the W3C web stfnandards and their underlying implementations by various browsers and have experience working on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome and making the web pages cross browser compatible.  ? Experience in interactive design and development and in effective interactive design solutions that meet business, project, and design goals, based on standards and guidelines.  ? Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment and Good written and oral communication skills and Interpersonal skills with a strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Work Experience Sr.UI Developer/Sr. FrontEnd developer May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Used MVC architecture of Framework for developing web applications and to simplify the code complexity.  ? Developed end to end application with agile methodology and daily stand-up meetings.  ? Performed form validations using reactive forms for sign in and inputting ticket rising information from Angular2.0 framework.  ? Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.JS, Angular 2.0, Node.Js, JQuery, Webpack.  ? Implemented SPA by using several in built core directives, expressions and modules in perspective of Angular2.0.  ? Developed a component that varies content based on the user's navigation by using router- outlet directive in Angular2.0.  ? Leveraged Angular2 resources for all data access, Encapsulating URLs, and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Developed Node JS Frameworks which will be interfacing with data stores as well as frameworks and services.  ? Integrated modules with designs and requirements by implementing Node JS.  ? Worked on Node JS to improve all server-side logic, maintain centralized database, and ensure high performance and responsiveness to requests from the front-end.  ? Developed event-based Node JS to perform AJAX operations on the server side.  ? Involved in developing UI pages using (Angular 2 and Angular 4) calling the Rest API from Backend.  ? Involved in developing the web pages using (Angular 2 and Angular 4) which are powerful in building the Single page web applications.  ? Used Typescript as compiler to compile typescript code into JavaScript, and used Typing to manage Typescript definition.  ? Connected server and database to update data information with Node.js and MongoDB.  ? Created MongoDB database schema design, store JSON format data, and retrieve data from database using Mongoose drivers.  ? Enhance the applications with new add-on features, using ReactJS framework on front-end and Node JS on back-end with ECMAScript 6 features.  ? Implemented Gulp build setup to be as reusable and centralized for web development of the project.  ? Altered existing UI layouts and created new layouts with SASS (CSS Pre-processor) to oblige new modifications in website design.  ? Worked with QA team and used testing frameworks like Jasmine, Karma, Mocha and Chai bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Used GIT for Version Control to track check-ins and rollback code.    Environment: HTML/HTML5,CSS2/3,SASS, Bootstrap, Node.JS, Angular.js, Angular 2, Angular 4, Typescript, JavaScript,ECMASCRIPT 6 Ajax, JSON, MVC, Restful Webservices, MongoDB, PL/SQL, Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai, Agile, SCRUM, GitHub, JSP, XHTML, DHTML, XML, SOAP, DOM, Gulp, Grunt, JQuery. Sr.UI Developer / Sr.Frontend Developer Caterpillar June 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Followed Agile/Scrum methodology of software development which satisfies the Customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS3/4, Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.  ? Responsible for styling the application using CSS3/4, SASS, LESS which targets the W3C standards in order to support Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox browsers.  ? Created a custom, single-page, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using AngularJS.  ? Trained in the development of hybrid mobile applications using AngularJS, Strong loop, Mongo, HTML & CSS.  ? Developed all client-side logical implementation part of application with Angular JS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree.  ? Worked on AngularJS Grids and UI components to develop Views/Templates and Used Angular JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Strong knowledge in Angular JS controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routings and in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  ? Experience in using Angular-CLI to create web application and to manage the build process and dependency management.  ? Designed Frontend Mobile applications in object oriented Typescript with standard Framework using Angular 2.  ? Create and build Android/IOS applications using frameworks such as Phone Gap and Cordova.  ? Created Responsive Layouts for multiple devices and platforms.  ? Spearheaded adoption of new principles such as responsive design, mobile first and adaptive design using Angular 2 libraries using Typescript.  ? Integrated Cordova Plugins like File, File Transfer, Device, In App Purchase, Barcode Scanner,  Media, Geolocation, Dialogs, Keyboard, Toast, Battery Status, Camera, Media-Capture, Photo Viewer  ? Designed and developed hybrid mobile applications using Ionic Framework and AngularJS.  ? The frontend was built using AngularJS, jQuery, JavaScript and Ionic libraries. For the backend used Java, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate to develop REST APIs. Used Spring ORM and Hibernate for data transfer.  ? Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  ? Used Node.js, NPM module, Grunt and Gulp to run the tasks and to properly build the project.  ? Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, ReactJS, NodeJS ) and REST based API  ? Build, test and deploy beautiful and functional iOS and Android applications using ionic framework.  ? Used JavaScript widgets to improve the mobile front end development.  ? Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Responsive Web Design (RWD).  ? Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Twitter Bootstrap and custom media queries, etc.  ? Experience with front-end work flow tools including npm , Grunt.Js and bower.  ? Using tools like GIT for version controlling, chrome developer tools for Debugging and Jenkins for deploying the code to different environments.  ? Coordinating and tracking all projects for seamless releases using Project Management System JIRA  ? Worked on Grunt.js as Task Runner , command line build tool and used Tortoise SVN for version control.  ? Used Adobe Creative Suite programs, e.g, Photoshop, Illustrator, Fireworks, Flash & Flex to mockup UI elements.  ? Used IE and chrome developer tools for debugging and fixing the front end issues and Used ALM, JIRA for Analysing and debugging issues.  ? Used Karma and Jasmine for unit testing.    Environment: HTML4/5,XHTML, CSS3/4, SASS,LESS, Java , J2EE, JavaScript, AngularJS , Angular 2/4,Node JS, JQuery, Webpack ,Responsive Web Design, Cordova, Bootstrap ,JSON, Rest Api , SVN, ALM , Grunt, Gulp ,Windows 7, Jenkins, GIT, Tortoise SVN, JIRA,Spring MVC, JSP,AJAX , Confluence ,RAD , Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Hibernate, Jasmine, Karma. SR.UI DEVELOPER / SR.FRONTEND DEVELOPER Wipro September 2011 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design.  ? Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree and Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  ? Debug the application using Firebug too traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM functions.  ? Worked on highly advanced user interface design and development using JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, HTML5 and CSS, LESS, SASS.  ? Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML session storage hence give user feature of running several session at one time.  ? Used React.js or developing single page web applications.  ? Implemented content switching using React.js routing and fetched data through asynchronous call. Created reusable input components like radio buttons, check boxes, text areas, textboxes in application level.  ? Designed and Developed React.js based UI frame-work which wrapper on top of Flux architecture and gulp enhanced workflow.  ? Worked on React.js as web server to create a highly scalable servers and Created non-blocking functions.  ? Developed and designed internet web applications and wrote application level code to interact with APIs using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Called REST web services through services to get JSON Object and modified the response object to display in DOM.  ? Worked on Knex and Mysql Database connection, handling data from back-end, and presenting data asynchronously to the users.  ? Worked on npm to manage the dependecies through command line.  ? Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  ? Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls.  ? Worked on Bootsrap to Create responsive web design interface that caters to different screen sizes.  ? Worked closely with back-end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of creating the best possible user experience.  ? Working on Git (BitBucket) version control and source tree. Versionone for defect tracking.  ? Worked on tools like Gulp, Grunt, Web pack and developed CLI applications using commander module, Developed Junit test cases for all use cases and executed them.  ? Worked on command line build tool like Grunt.js, Watchify and performed compilation and minification in the application.  ? Utilized JavaScript to build validation framework that consume error messages from JSON file and displaying them to UI.  ? Worked with Data Tables, a table enhancing plug-in for the jQuery ,JavaScript library, adding sorting, paging and filtering abilities to plain HTML tables.  ? Worked extensively on various pages to make them responsive with all kinds of resolutions using bootstrap.  ? Used JSlint to check code Quality.  ? Worked on tools like Mocha ,Chai for execution of test cases  ? Code Reviewing and Guiding the Teammates during the development.    Environment: HTML4/5 , CSS3/4 , LESS, SASS, AngularJS , Node.js,React.js, Angular 2.0 ,jQuery ,JavaScript ,JSON, Rest Api , Mysql, Grunt, Web pack , Gulp ,bootstrap ,Jenkins, Git , DOM, Versionone , Mocha ,Chai ,Windows 7, UI DEVELOPER / FRONTEND DEVELOPER HSBC July 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project.  ? Developed HTML, CSS and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Involved in developing the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for CMS project, it includes HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX which were used for UI development.  ? Maintain Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design custom mediaqueries etc.  ? Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML , XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  ? Good experience in developing Angular.js applications with extensive server calls using AJAX and strong hold in handling the server data and exceptions to provide interactive user experience.  ? Developd Responsive UI Application and HTML Wireframes using HTML5 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS3 Media Queries, Ajax, and Bootstrap.  ? Developed & Customized UI JavaScript Plug-ins using JQuery, Object Oriented JS and JSON.  ? Used jQuery core libraries for the logical implementation part at the client side of the website.  ? Developed and tested the application to make it section 508 compatible.  ? Analyzing, Debugging and Fixing the Front End UI issues assigned through MANTIS bug tracking tools.  ? Fixing Cross Browser/Environmental issues.  ? Deployed and tested tested application on environment using Jenkins and Git as version control.    Environment: HTML 4 /HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, RWD, Angular JS, Angular JS 2, Bootstrap Twitter Frameworks, Angular UI, MongoDB, Node JS, My SQL, XML, Restful web services, Jasmine, Sublime Text3, Chrome Developer Tools. JAVA DEVELOPER HSBC May 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC Analysis, Design and Development as a technical lead and coordinate with team using Agile Methodologies  ? Participating sprint meetings and having discussions with product owners related to Business requirement and finally allocating sprint requirements to the team members and also take some part of development on to my side and do code reviews.  ? Developed user access module of different internal and external applications (Presentation layer) using Struts and Spring Framework.  ? Involved in working with J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Factory, DAO, and Business Delegate) and Model View Controller Architecture with JSP and Spring IoC  ? Developed UI and backend applications using Struts, spring, Hibernate, Java, EJB, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and AJAX.  ? Used spring for dependency injection for plugging in the Hibernate DAO objects for the business layer.  ? involved in writing JSP's/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Used software versioning and revision control system SVN to maintain current and historical versions of codebase.  ? Using Jasmine and karma, JIRA test runner extensively for unit testing for end-to-end testing.  ? Involved in configuration of StrutsMVC, and Integration with ORM Framework (Hibernate).  ? Created role based HTML navigation menu wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  ? Used JavaScript and jQuery plugins to achieve different functions and form validation.  ? Used SQL and PL/SQL Programming extensively to talk to Oracle database.  ? Database connection, handling data from back-end, and presenting data asynchronously to the users.  ? Responsible for Debugging issues from client side especially with IE ,Mozilla, Chrome and safari.    Environment: HTML5,CSS3 , Java, EJB, JSP, HTML, DHTML , Servlets, JavaScript, jQuery ,BootstrapXHTML, Object oriented JavaScript, JSON, pluck, live-fire, Angular.js, Ajax , SVN, Eclipse, Spring,Hibernate, Restful Web Services, Apache Tomcat, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, Maven ,SVN , Junit, karma, JIRA,Jasmine. Skills AJAX (10+ years), Bootstrap (9 years), CSS (9 years), database (7 years), GIT (9 years), HTML (10+ years), HTML5 (8 years), JavaScript (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), JSON (10+ years), MongoDB. (6 years), Rest (7 years), SASS (7 years), SQL (5 years), testing (6 years), UI (10+ years), user interface (10+ years), Web Design (4 years), Webservices (5 years), XML (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating System Windows 7/XP/Vista/2000, Mac, Linux, UNIX  SDLC methodologies Waterfall, Agile/Scrum  Web Development Technologies HTML/HTML5, DHTML/XHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS3/CSS4, JSON, JavaScript , coffescript , JQuery, PHP, Python and AJAX  UI Frameworks  Angular.js, Angular2/4, Backbone.js, React.js, Node.js, Ember JS, Ext JS, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design (RWD), Foundation, Skeleton, JQuery, JQuery UI, JQuery Mobile, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, npm, Webpack    Web Services Soap, Rest/Restful  Cloud Technologies Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, pivotal cloud Foundry ( PCF )  CSS Co-Processors LESS, SASS, Stylus  IDE/HTML Editors Sublime Text, Notepad++, Atom, Visual Studio Code Beta, Eclipse, Net Beans, MS FrontPage.  Mobile Technologies Phone Gap/ionic, Sencha, Cordova, JQtouch, Senchatouch, Mobile UI, Android, IOS, Silverlight, ActionScript.  Designing and Animation Tools Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe Flash, Adobe After Effects, Atomic, Adobe Dreamweaver CS6, Fireworks CS6  Web Application servers Apache tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, Apache/Nginix.  Testing/Debugging/Bug Tracking Tools Selenium, Karam, Jasmine, QUnit, Mocha ,Firebug, Google Chrome Web Debugger, Yslow, IE developer Tools, JIRA, BugZilla  Database Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL, PL/SQL (oracle), MongoDB, Redis, PostgreSQL  Version Controls & Other tools SVN, Git,GitHub, Version one, bitbucket ,ALM , Grunt , Gulp , Jenkins