Sr. DevOps Engineer Sr. DevOps Engineer Sr. DevOps Engineer - Maiden Global • Over 8 years of Experience IT industry with major focus on Release management, Software Development, Configuration, Build and Release Engineering, DevOps Engineer, and Automation.  • Good understanding of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) in Agile, scrum, and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in Administration/Maintenance of source control management systems, such as Sub Version (SVN), Perforce, TFS, GIT and knowledge of Clear Case.  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, RDS, EBS, ELB, Auto-Scaling, AMI, IAM through AWS Console and API Integration with Puppet Code.  • Responsible for creating multi-region, multi-zone AWS cloud infrastructure.  • Worked closely with development teams and performance test engineers for EC2 size optimization.  • Experience of Migration & deployment of Applications with upgrade version of Applications.  • Configured SonarQube code quality tool and integrated it with Jenkins.  • Implemented SonarQube to analyze code quality metrics, to verify the coding standards and setup quality gates to allow/fail builds as per requirement.  • Involved in the functional usage and deployment of applications in Web Logic, Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat Server.  • Migrated CVS Version Management tool to Subversion. Experience in working Ubuntu, Red Hat, UNIX, windows.  • Good working experience with databases like MySQL, Dynamo dB, NoSQL, Wordpress, Mongodb and involved in creating stored procedures, functions, triggers and complex queries.  • Automating Web Sphere EAR file deploys through Cruise Control, Jenkins, Team City, and Bamboo.  • Worked in an agile development team to deliver an end to end continuous integration/continuous delivery product in an open source environment using tools like puppet & Jenkins.  • Expertise on all aspects of puppet components with knowledgeable to create POC's for enterprise organizations, setting up puppet repo's (local & remote) working with both hosted and standalone server versions.  • Experience in using Nexus and Arti factory repository Managers for java builds. Experience in using monitoring tool like Nagios.  • Expert in deploying the code through web application servers like Web Sphere/Web Logic/ Apache Tomcat/ JBOSS.  • Designed, built, and deployed a multitude applications utilizing AWS stack (Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SQS, IAM, and EMR), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling  • Automated OpenStack and AWS deployment using Cloud Formation, heat and Puppet.  • In-depth knowledge of computer applications and scripting like Shell, Python, Ruby, Perl, JavaScript and XML.  • Familiar with integrating JUnit, PMD and other code quality Tests as a part of build process.  • Experience working with Puppet Enterprise and Puppet Open Source.  • Experienced with Amazon AWS Cloud Administration which includes services like: EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, OPS Work, Security Groups.  • Expertise in writing Bash Scripts, Pearl Scripts (hash and arrays), Python programming for deployment of Java applications on bare servers or Middleware tools, Jinja2, Boto3.  • Provided support to issues reported by dev/customer support teams on platform availability and usability  • Managed Pager Duty schedules and supported 24X7 on-call escalation path for releases and P1 incidents  • Managing and supporting Tomcat and J Boss application servers.  • Worked on Report Creation from TFS using SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Expertise in trouble shooting the problems generated while building, deploying and in production support.  • Efficient in working closely with core product teams to ensure high quality and timely delivery of builds.  • Excellent communicative, interpersonal, intuitive, analysis and leadership skills with ability to work efficiently in both independent and team work environments. Work Experience Sr. DevOps Engineer Maiden Global - Mount Laurel, NJ August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on tools like Bitbucket, Jira, Terraform, Ansible, Stash, Confluence, Jenkins.  • Used scripting languages like Python2 and Jinja2.  • Worked on Nginx configurations and deployed through Jenkins to all the environments.  • Build and performed Jenkins jobs for deploying using ansible playbook and bitbucket.  • Experience with deploying applications with upgraded versions.  • Experience with monitoring and logging tools like App Dynamic and Splunk for monitoring network services and host resources.  • Experience in centralized log tools (Splunk, ELK) and Automated Logstash (ELK Stack) as part of Server Build. Built Elasticsearch (ELK Stack) cluster in multiple data centers for High Availability.  • Strong Server Build skills and building client/server services like NFS, DNS, DHCP, HTTP/HTTPS, SSH, LAMP, VNC, Sendmail, Qmail.  • Experience in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) and the implementation of micro services in PCF.  • Ensured, successful architecture and deployment of enterprise grade PaaS solutions using Private Cloud Foundry (PCF) as well as proper operation during initial Application migration and net new development  • Wrote and implemented Perl script to modify LDAP database and to create custom cloud watch metric.  • Implemented Chef Recipes for Deployment on build on internal Data Centre Servers. Also re-used and modified same Chef Recipes to create a Deployment directly into Amazon EC2 instances.  • Monitored servers in Cloud watch during deployment and handled troubleshooting steps.  • Created alarms for EC2 and RDS instances using Python2 and Boto3 scripting languages.  • Modified and created ansible playbooks to automate jobs through Jenkins and EC2 using Python2 and Jinja2 scripting languages.  • Implemented environments, roles, data bags in Chef for better environment management.  • Create and maintain deployment pipelines for multiple environments.  • Experience administering Linux systems (CentOS, Ubuntu) and web architectures (NodeJS, Nginx)  • Worked on terraform to create ec2 servers through ansible playbook.  • Developed custom Jenkins jobs/pipelines that contained Bash shell scripts utilizing the AWS CLI to automate infrastructure provisioning  • Experienced with Amazon AWS Cloud Administration which includes services like: EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, OPS Work, Security Groups.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, and GITHub and AWS  • Good knowledge on Routers and Switches, Subnet, VLAN, TCP/IP, VPN, OSI model and Firewall (checkpoint), HTTP, DHCP, DNS, SSL/TLS.  • Worked with performance test engineer's team for giving permissions and access to EC2 servers.  • Troubleshooted deployments during releases in pre-production and production environments.  • Experience using databases like MySQL, MongoDB, MSSQL and Oracle.  • Setting up ETL for environments and Configuring RabbitMQ.  • Expertise in integrating Terraform with Ansible, Packer to create and Version the AWS Infrastructure.  • Wrote deployment recipes for infrastructure management (Terraform)  • Experience in Automating private and public cloud configuration using Terraform.  • Implemented Terraform modules for deployment of applications across multiple cloud providers.  • Designed Terraform templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates and migration from traditional to cloud environment.    Environments: AWS, Jenkins, Jira, Bitbucket, EC2, RDS, IAM, Ansible, Terraform, Docker, Chef, GITHub, Route53, SNS, Python2, Jinja2, ELB, Splunk, Redis, Nginx, Apache2, Celery, Linux, Jabber, JRipper, Slack, RabbitMQ, New Relic, ETL. Sr. DevOps Engineer Yellow Pages - Henderson, NV October 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed build and deployment processes for Pre-production environments.  • Writing Manifests/Modules for Installation and Updating of Yum repositories on the Server using Puppet infrastructure.  • Configured Route 53 by using CFT templates, assigned the DNS mapping for the AWS servers and trouble-shoot the issues of the load balancer's, auto scaling groups and Route 53.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  • Automated Weekly releases with Maven scripting for Compiling Java Code, Debugging and Placing Builds into Maven Repository.  • Installed Configured and Upgraded Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x to 5.x and configured various patching schedules to meet patching criteria quarterly.  • Developed automation scripting in Shell using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers.  • Used Puppet to automate Configuration management and to manage Web Applications, Config Files, Data Base, Commands, Users Mount Points and Packages.  • Experience writing puppet manifests for apache installation and configuration as well as for various deployments.  • Created Docker images using a Docker file, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes.  • Used Docker coupled with load-balancing tool Nginx to achieve Continuous Delivery goal on high scalable environment  • Experience in designing and deploying AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), auto scaling groups.  • Containerization of Web application using Docker and Kubernetes and Database maintenance.  • Involved in writing parent POM files to establish the code quality tools integration.  • Collaborated with development support teams to setup a continuous delivery environment with the use of Docker.  • Involved installing and managing different automation and monitoring tools on Red hat Linux like Nagios, Splunk and Puppet.  • Used Kubernetes as a open source platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of applications containers across clusters of hosts, providing container centric infrastructure.  • Kubernetes to deploy applications quickly and predictably.  • Used ServiceNow as a CRM for the release management and incident management and change management processes.  • Docker can be integrated into various tools like AWS, Puppet, Vagrant, Jenkins & VMware containers.  • Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications in the agile process.  • Experience migrating SVN repositories to GIT.  • Developed automation scripting in Python (core) using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers.  • Configured and installed monitoring tools Grafana, Kibana, Log stash and Elastic Search on the servers.  • Automated the cloud deployments using Puppet, python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Business data analysis using Big Data tools like Splunk, ELK.  • Configured SonarQube code quality tool and integrated it with Jenkins. Implemented SonarQube to analyze code quality metrics, to verify the coding standards and setup quality gates to allow/fail builds as per requirement.  • Created and tracked the release improvement process to be applied across all IT domains and initiates new projects related to release management.  • Releasing code to testing regions or staging areas according to the schedule published.  • Participated in all Product Release and Patches.    Environment: AWS Cloud, AIX and Windows, BMC Remedy, Shell, Python, Web Logic Server, JDK1.7, XML, SVN, Jenkins, Maven, GIT, Jira, SQL, J2EE, Puppet, Perl, Cruise Control, UNIX, Windows NT/2000 and Web Sphere, Tomcat, Apache, Oracle, Ubuntu, Centos, Aws, Elastic load balancer, S3, Cloud watch, IAM, RDS, Storage gateway, SonarQube. DevOps Engineer AAP - Hopewell, VA February 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created shell scripts for automation of different projects including SQL Database deployments to different environments like DEV, SIT, UAT etc.  • Worked efficiently with Applications Development and Support group to implement, test and rollout new patch releases.  • Involved in Migrating applications to the AWS cloud.  • Suggested tools and related implementation to engineering teams regarding cloud based services.  • Executed QA services for enhancing efficiency of technologies and related updates for cloud storage applications.  • Designed Puppet Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process.  • Installed and configured monitoring tools Nagios for monitoring the network bandwidth and the hard drives status.  • Developed automation scripting in Python (core) using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers.  • TDD for chef recipes/cookbooks with test-kitchen, chef spec, server spec.  • Created Shell scripts for automation of build and release process.  • Experience installing Linux (OEL & RHEL) using ISO images on VMWare Environment.  • Maintained Splunk, ElastiCache, Log stash and Kibana stacks for log aggregation and alerting.  • Experience in partially administering ALM (PIVOTAL TRACKOR) for issue management.  • Created Perl & UNIX scripts for build and Release activities in QA, Staging and Production environments.  • Provided support to issues reported by dev/customer support teams on platform availability and usability.  • Managed Pager Duty schedules and supported 24X7 on-call escalation path for releases and P1 incidents  • Executed user administration and maintenance tasks including creating users and groups, reports and queries.  • Kept track of all the releases and request of the developers through Infrastructure management tool.  • Involved in design, configuration, installation, implementation, management, maintain and support for the Corporate Linux servers RHEL 4x, 5.x, CENTOS 5.x as well as Windows 2003/2008 server.    Environment: AWS cloud Jenkins, GIT, ANT, MAVEN, JIRA, Python, JAVA/J2EE, Web Sphere, Nagios, Puppet, Unix/Linux, Windows, Ruby, Perl, Shell, Jira, Apache Tomcat, XML and Java/J2EE. Devops Engineer SunTrust - Atlanta, GA December 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented and maintained monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers such as EC2 and storage such as S3 buckets using AWS Cloud Watch.  • Defined dependencies and plugins in Maven pom.xml for various activities and integrated Maven with GIT to manage and deploy project related tags.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component Ant projects with Nexus repositories and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Integrated Subversion (SVN) into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process. Configured SonarQube code quality tool and integrated it with Jenkins  • Software Build and Deployment: Performed regular software release build and deployment based on defined process and procedure.  • Designed highly available, cost effective and fault tolerant systems using multiple EC2 instances.  • Developed and scheduled bash shell scripts for various activities (deployed environment verification, running database scripts, file manipulations, Subversion (SVN) . Created Shell scripts for automation of build and release process.  • Implemented Chef Recipes for Deployment on build on internal Data Centre Servers. Also re-used and modified same Chef Recipes to create a Deployment directly into Amazon EC2 instances.  • Written wrapper scripts to automate deployment of cookbooks on nodes and running the chef client on them in a Chef-Solo environment.  • Automating infrastructure in AWS with Chef, Ruby, and maternal unit, Created EC2 Instances and VPC network and assigned Roles and permissions via IAM key management.  • Implemented rapid-provisioning and life-cycle management for Ubuntu Linux using Amazon EC2, Chef, and custom Ruby/Bash scripts. Bootstrapping instances using Chef and integrating with auto scaling.  • Designed and implemented Chef, including the internal best practices, cookbooks, automated cookbook CI and CD system. Written multiple cookbooks in Chef.  • Developed chef Modules for installation & Auto healing of various CI&CD tools like Jenkins, MSSQL, Nexus etc. these modules are designed to work on both windows and Linux platforms.  • Expert in installing and configuring Continuous Integration tools such as Bamboo, Build Forge, Cruise Control and Hudson for build and deployment automation.    Environment: SVN (Subversion), Anthill Pro, ANT, Maven, Chef, Devops, Jenkins, Clear case, MS Build, Unix, Linux, Perl, Bash, Ruby, Cruise control, AWS, Chef, SonarQube, SharePoint, Bamboo, Hudson, JIRA, Shell Script, WebSphere. Build & Release Engineer Intertek - Houston, TX December 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Configuration of CI/CD tools and installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing a complete automation solution.  • Primary responsibilities include Build and Deployment of the java applications into different environments like Dev, INT, QA and PROD.  • Performed SVN to GIT migration with careful analysis and migrated all branches, tags, along with commit history using GIT -SVN utility.  • Integrated Subversion (SVN) and Ant with Jenkins to implement the continuous integration process.  • Integrated with Sonar Qube reporting dashboard to run analysis for every project.  • Worked on the transition project that involved migration activities to Maven from ANT to standardize the build across all the applications.  • Used Nexus tool to manage the repository in Maven and used the same to share the snapshots and releases of internal projects.  • Develop multiple CHEF cookbooks and recipes and Roles to automate the deployment of the applications to different Prod/Perf/QA Environments and also for Auto scaling by monitoring the Load on stacks.  • Used Maven as build tool on Java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code.  • Created the branches in Subversion (SVN) to implement the parallel development process.  • Managed Users and Groups in Subversion (SVN) and troubleshoot client spec issues and user issues.  • Deployment and server bounce process is automated by creating the scripts using WebLogic Scripting Tool (WLST)  • The build artifacts like wars and ears are deployed into a WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic Application server by integrating the WLST scripts to Shell Scripts  • Maintained all the Linux environments for deployments. Directed the Release Management Calls to synchronize with the Developers, Testers and DBA teams for successful Release.    Environment: Sun Solaris, UNIX, windows, CVS, Perforce, Java, Eclipse, Ant, Jenkins, Maven, Tomcat, Apache, MySQL, Wordpress, SVN, JIRA Build & Release Engineer Express Scripts - Franklin Lakes, NJ October 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to the agile process.  • Deployed puppet for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Implemented puppet modules for server housekeeping.  • Actively involved in architecting the puppet infrastructure to manage servers in different environments.  • Work done in Tomcat, WebLogic and WebSphere Application servers for deployments.  • Used JIRA to track issues and Change Management.  • Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures.  • Used both GIT and BIT bucket source control systems to manage code.  • Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using GIT source control.  • Understanding of developing and testing enterprise products, with current focus on cloud based application and giving solution to challenges imposed by multi data center deployed SaaS products and their needs for DevOps tools and automation.    Environment: SVN, GIT, Jenkins, Maven, Nexus, Puppet, WebLogic, TOMCAT, Ruby Scripts, XML, UNIX, JIRA. Jr. Java Developer NATCO Pharma Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked in an Agile project as a java back end developer.  • Developed web applications using Java, Spring framework and Restful web services.  • Developed a component using spring advanced features with a new architecture that supports  • micro web services which serve as a back-end for Set Top Box to play the content.  • Developed web based applications using JAVA/J2EE and Spring MVC framework.  • Used HTML5, CSS and JavaScript to design registration and login pages.  • Well acquainted with Cucumber, Junit and other mock frameworks as part of automation and unit testing.  • Worked with cross functional teams to assist with non-functional testing, integration testing and configuration management.  • Good working experience in distributed object-oriented component analysis and design according to industry leading framework on Web-logic and TOMCAT Servers.    Environment: Java 6, J2EE, JSP, Apache Tomcat, HTML, CSS, Jira, REST, XML Web Services, Eclipse, SOAP, Junit, ANT, Eclipse, Web Logics