AWS Cloud Architect AWS Cloud Architect AWS Cloud Architect - Career Education Corporation Hoffman Estates, IL Over 15+ Years of experience in software Design and Development.   As a certified AWS Cloud Architect with vast experience in architecting and strategizing solutions for migrating applications to AWS platform.  • As an AWS Architect with knowledge of Architecture and AWS services like S3 bucket, EC2, API gateway, lambda functions, Security Group, IAM, Cloud Formation, Jenkins, Cloud Front, SES etc.  • Promoted AWS Serverless Computing aspect and written LAMBDA functions using Java, Node.js, Python and MYSQL database  • Build and configure a virtual data center in Amazon Web services cloud to support Enterprise Data warehousing and data lake hosting including VPC, Public and Private Subnets, Security groups, Route tables, Elastic Load balancers.  • Analyzed current projects portfolio and provided recommended actions for the in-flight and future planned projects as part of the transformation program planning.  • Strong knowledge in AWS VPC, Route 53, ELB, S3, EBS, IAM, EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Formation, Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon Redshift, Dynamo DB, Lambda, Amazon SQS, SWF and SNS, AWS OpsWorks, AWS CodeDeploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Node.js, Python, Ansible, Chef, Puppet, Agile.  • Experience in creating and editing Unix Shell scripts and CLOUD FORMATION scripts which creates the infrastructure as deployed code.  • Extensive IT experience As Architect, Tech Lead and Design, Development, Implementation of mid to large scale applications.  • Designed and Implemented solutions in IaaS, Paas, SaaS models of cloud service.  • Involved in implementing Azure services as part of multi cloud strategy.  • Build and configure a virtual data center in Amazon Web services cloud to support Enterprise Datawarehousing and datalake hosting including VPC, Public and Private Subnets, Security groups, Route tables, Elastic Load balancers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AWS Cloud Architect Career Education Corporation - Schaumburg, IL March 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on creation of Cloud formation scripts to create the AWS instances.  • Written LAMBDA functions using Java, Python, Node.js, Python and MYSQL database  • Cloned and configured the AWS EC2 and added Elastic IP, Elastic Load Balancer, and DNS (Route 53) in the AWS environment.  • Created SSL policies for ELB to automate the cipher selection in AWS.  • Use Amazon RDS MySQL to perform basic database administration.  • Set up Dynamo DB for NoSQL data for other teams on lightweight Docker containers with elastic search and quick indexing.  • Established and administrating TFS (Team Foundation server) for new generation products developed in Java environment.  • Designed, Installed and Implemented Ansible configuration management system.  • Used Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users, Mount points and Packages.  • Promoting CI/CD culture collaborating with Development, DBA, QA, Support and Business Operations.  • Responsible for all Team Foundation Server and SharePoint administration activities, Installation, Configuration, Migration, Troubleshooting and Training.  • Setup TFS build environments and a variety of CM specific environments for UAT,QA,DEV, Prod and DR. And creating and maintaining build scripts using Team Build.  • Performed migration of Team Foundation Server environment to a centralized location using Hyper-V, Virtual Machine Manager and TFS Lab Management that includes Team Explorer Everywhere for migration.  • Maintained high availability clustered and standalone server environments and refined automation components with scripting and configuration management (Ansible)  • Managing GIT for legacy products also automated the weekly deployments with Jenkins and maintaining Maven's pom.xml scripts.  • Deploy production packages to web servers and application servers according to business needs and manage cluster of app servers and monitoring its performance periodically.  • Handling admin tasks in Linux OS such as server restart, application installation setting up monitoring dashboards for appserver.  • Used JIRA custom workflows to track issues and Jboss app server to deploy the application.  Performing server's health checks on daily basis, by logging into UNIX system and monitoring logs, and processes.  • Worked on installation of Docker using Docker toolbox.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Participate in multiple projects architectures and strategic decisions meetings to architect the new software systems or modify the existing ones.  • Provide architectural consultation to solution and application architects utilizing best practices, design patterns and standards for designing Build, Design and Support Cisco Cloud architecture environment using Open stack.  • Develop knowledge of all architectures of engineering applications and help document them for business analysis for future projects.  • Configure and build Open stack Havana, Icehouse using Ansible and Puppet scripts.  • Configure and Maintain chef storage using C USC servers.  • Configuring and implemented an OpenStack SDN infrastructure to enable massive dynamic scaling of compute and storage resources.  • Configuring and implemented OpenStack Nova to provision virtual machines on KVM for compute.  • Configuring and implemented OpenStack Glance using Chef as a backend storage.  • Designed and implemented OpenStack Horizon.  • Designed and implemented OpenStack Keystone to provide unified authentication between OpenStack Nova, Swift and Glance APIs using IDM solution, ldap and hybrid drivers.  • Designed and implemented the Openstack Neutron API with the SDN controller application to create a virtual network overlay on the Cisco Nexus 5000, 7000 and 9000 switches.  • Designed and implemented OpenStack Cinder to provide block storage.  • Periodically working on LSI and CMIC code upgrades for cloud infrastructure  • Maintaining scripts for trial Project cleanup for open stack resources cleanup.  • Working on Products like Cloud Cruiser and PPM.  • Maintaining GIT repos and Jenkins for builds.  • Migrating l3 networks, routers and VM's across compute nodes and Network nodes.  • Working on monitoring tools like Nagios and Zabbix  • Configuring Ha-proxy and Keep Alive. Senior AWS Cloud Architect Capital One - Rolling Meadows, IL February 2012 to March 2014 Environment: AWS (IAM, EC2, S3, EBS, Glacier, ELB, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, SNS, SQS, Route53, RDS), Git, Chef, Splunk, Bash, Shell, XML, .Net, Dynamo DB, RHEL 4/5/6, CentOS, Open SUSE, Apache Tomcat, Amazon RDS, Auto Scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Amazon VPC, Route 53, Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic IP, IAM, Amazon Machine Image{AMI}, NAT Instance, Security Groups, NACLs, Glacier, RRS, SWF, AWS CLI.  Senior AWS Cloud Architect  Capital One - Rolling Meadows, IL  February 2012 to March 2014  Responsibilities:  • Configured AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) Group and users for improved login authentication.  • Launching and configuring of Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring the servers for specified applications.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS  • Migrating an existing on-premises application to AWS  • Experience with CodeBuild, CodeCommit, CodePipeline , API Gateway, CLI,Yaml,CloudFormation and Serverless Deployment.  • Implementing and controlling the flow of data to and from AWS.  • Worked on Build & Release activities for technologies like Java, Oracle & ETL.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Linux (Ubuntu, Red hat/SUSE, CentOS).  • Install and configuration of Dockers.  • Responsible for design and maintenance of the GIT Repositories, views, and the access control strategies.  • Worked in setting up the repos to various projects in GIT.  • Scripted Linux repository database comparisons using Python, Ruby, and Shell.  • Used ANT and MAVEN as a build tools on java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code.  • Created the ANT scripts and extension of existing ANT scripts for deployment of applications to HUDSON.  • Responsible for build and deployment automation using VM Ware ESX, Docker, Kubernetes containers and Chef.  • Maintained CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies with Jenkins.  • Tracking the bugs in project using Jira.  • Deployment and Configuration of application server Tomcat deploying Java and Web Application.  • Automated the front-ends platform into highly scalable, consistent, repeatable infrastructure using high degree of automation using Chef,Ansible, Vagrant, Jenkins, and cloud Formation.  • Research and implement new tools such as Kubernetes with Docker to assist with auto-scaling,continuous integration, rolling updates with no downtime.  • Setting up Change Management process and standardizing the policies for various applications.  • Using Confluence for technical documentation, setting up a knowledge base, setting up an intranet and Confluence for software teams. AWS Cloud Engineer JPMorgan Chase Delaware Technology Center - Wilmington, DE May 2010 to January 2012 Environment: AWS(IAM,EC2,ELB,AMI's,Cloudwatch,Cloudtrial,NACL) Red hat Linux 7.x, AIX and Windows, AWS, Chef, Shell, Python, WebLogic Server 11g, IBM WebSphere MQ 6.0, F5 BIG-IP Load Balancers, Apache Tomcat 7.x, Configured plug-ins for Apache HTTP server 2.4, LDAP, JDK1.7, XML, SVN, GitHub. Firewalls (Palo Alto, checkpoint), McAfee, Nessus.  AWS Cloud Engineer  JPMorgan Chase Delaware Technology Center - Wilmington, DE  May 2010 to Jan 2012  Responsibilities:  * Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services. Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2; auto-scaling; and VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts, and are able to quickly evolve during development iterations  * Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with Infrastructure as code (Terraform)  * Architected and implemented real time data analytics platform by using kinesis, firehose, lambda &S3.  * Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, Autoscaling Groups(ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, CloudFormation, Route 53, CloudWatch, CloudFront.  * Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.  * Used security groups, network ACL's, internet gateways and route tables to ensure a secure zone for organization in AWS public cloud.  * Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  * Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  * Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  * Possess good knowledge in creating and launching EC2 instances using AMI's of Linux,RHEL. Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's, whenever a new GitHub branch gets started, Jenkins, our Continuous Integration server, automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it, The Docker container leverages Linux containers and has the AMI baked in. Converted our staging and Production environment from a handful AMI's to a single bare metal host running Docker.  * Created maven archetypes for generating fully functional REST web services supporting both XML and JSON message transformation.  * Developed several REST web services supporting JSON to perform tasks. REST web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  * Hands on Experience with best practices of Web services development and Integration.  * Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  * Created Java DAO utility classes mapped corresponding configuration xml configuration files. Java Developer Tata Consultancy services - Noida, Uttar Pradesh March 2004 to April 2010 Environment: AWS(IAM,EC2,ELB,AMI's,Cloudwatch,Cloudtrial,NACL) Red hat Linux 7.x, AIX and Windows, AWS, Chef, Shell, Python, WebLogic Server 11g, IBM WebSphere MQ 6.0, F5 BIG-IP Load Balancers, Apache Tomcat 7.x, Configured plug-ins for Apache HTTP GitHub.  Java Developer  Tata Consultancy services - Noida, India  March 2004 to April 2010  Responsibilities:  • Expert in analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC).  • Developed middle tier using Servlets  • As application developed using Spring frame work and involved all MVC components to complete the development.  • Given support in all SDLC phases to application.  • Performed configuration changes in UNIX shell script and deployed application UNIX environment.  • Deployed and managed applications in web Logic server.  • Increased the performance by reducing the programming effort to design and implement APIs with the help of Collection frameworks.  • Performed unit testing of application with Junit.  • Responsible for the design and development of the application framework.  • Designed and Developed UI's using JSP by following MVC architecture and Spring Framework.  • Designed and implemented views using HTML, JSP. Education Bachelor of Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Skills .Net (2 years), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (10+ years), Apache (10+ years), AWS (10+ years), chef (10+ years), database (7 years), Dynamo (7 years), EC2 (10+ years), HTML (6 years), Java (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), MAVEN (2 years), Python (10+ years), Security (3 years), Tomcat (10+ years), UNIX (10+ years), Virtual Machine (7 years), VM (2 years), WebLogic (7 years), WebSphere (7 years) Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect