Technical Architect, Sr. Developer Technical Architect, Sr. <span class="hl">Developer</span> Technical Architect, Sr. Developer ? More than 13 years of hands on experience in Java JEE development  ? Involved in full SDLC in Agile methodology and DevOps best practices  ? Experience in technically architecting a solution end-to-end w/ right tools  ? Quick to evaluate technologies via research & quick POC applications  ? Extensive knowledge of various Open Source Frameworks and Libraries  ? Passionate in learning and adopting new emerging technologies  ? Fully focused on code structure, cleanliness, readability and quality  ? Full stack developer - able to work with any technology on any tier Work Experience Technical Architect, Sr. Developer BA Continuum Private Limited November 2016 to March 2018 Team Size: 5  Environment: Java, REST, MicroServices, OkHTTP, Spring 4, Junit 4, JMockit, Oracle, Eclipse, Spring Boot, Maven 3    Details: The firm had created a single monolithic framework of reusable components for various applications. I had the reponsibility to modularize the APPMOD components such that they are loosly coupled and can be used independantly of each other. I also wrote Unit Tests and Integration Tests to ensure the stability of those components.    Contribution: Architect, Technical Architecture, Hands on Development - Code Refactoring, Framework evaluation BA Continuum Private Limited October 2016 to March 2018 Implemented various APPMOD components for common issues  + Stabilized Activiti based framework to orchestrate Business Process API  + Created Spring Boot based Microservices architecture  + Wrote end to end Integration Test suite for Microservice based webapp  + CI implmentation on internal Git, BitBucket, JIRA based workflow Java Technical Architect BA Continuum Private Limited October 2016 to March 2018 Refactored legacy framework code to make it modularized  + Wrote MicroServices based simple application to test the framework  + Wrote JUnit and Integration Tests for framework components  + Created Whitepaper on naming Software Artefacts for API Components  + Developing reusable components Architect, Developer CitiusTech HealthCare Technologies February 2016 to September 2016 Team Size: 8  Environment: Spring Boot, REST, Angular UI, jQuery, Bootstrap, Spring OXM, Eclipse    Details: Merge Healthcare needed a rewrite of existing .NET based desktop application into a Cloud aware Web interface for the LDAP configuration wizard. The Web interface would assist a Merge Admin user to create an XML output file using the LDAP configuration wizard to help connect and map to an existing customer (hospital) User store.  After evaluating the requirement and the need for faster time-to-market, I selected Spring Boot and jQuery for the development. We created a lightweight POJO based model to be marshalled into the XML based on the target output format.    Contribution: Architect, Technical design document, Hands on Development, Maven project and build setup, Jenkins Setup, Framework evaluation CitiusTech HealthCare Technologies January 2016 to September 2016 Implemented a REST based Public API interface over legacy services  + Evaluate and finalize REST API Managers for custom mediation  + Built a Web based Wizard for LDAP configuration using Spring Boot  + Create Technical design document for LDAP configuration application  + Code reviews, code refactoring, team mentoring Solution Architect, Project Lead CitiusTech HealthCare Technologies January 2016 to September 2016 Implemented a REST based Public API interface over legacy services  + Evaluate and finalize REST API Managers for custom mediation  + Built a Web based Wizard for LDAP configuration using Spring Boot  + Create Technical design document for LDAP configuration application  + Code reviews, code refactoring, team mentoring Architect, Developer CitiusTech HealthCare Technologies January 2016 to February 2016 Team Size: 4  Environment: Spring Boot, REST, WSO2, JUnit, Spring Test, Mockito, Swagger    Details: Ability had many legacy and acquired Web Services (both SOAP and REST) for Claims settlements. They needed to create a single Public API interface for all the existing and new clients so that they could monetize their legacy and acquired Web Services.  I evaluated WSO2 as a API Provider and Mediator for custom logic and message transformation. Based upon the analysis, suggested the client to go for home grown implementation for Mediation and use WSO2 only for Service versioning. I wrote REST API interfaces and added Spring 4 based JUnit Test cases for testing the REST Services. Also, created a client branded Swagger integration with the newly created APIs.    Contribution: Architect, Hands on Development, Build Environment Setup, Jenkins Setup, Framework evaluation Architect, Developer JP Morgan Chase August 2015 to November 2015 Team Size: Individual Contributor  Environment: Spring Boot, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Jetty, HTML5, Jersey, REST, JPA    Details: Control Tower is expected to be a web based wrapper of the Deployment Engine that provides a RESTful interface to various features that utilize the power of Deploy Engine in the DevOps space. The application is split in two parts, the MVC and the RESTful interfaces. I made it so to facilitate anyone using directly the REST services without going through the Web UI.  I created the wireframes, got them approved, implemented the project setup, wrote Java code, evaluated various Javacript libraries, wrote Java unit tests and did the development.    Contribution: Requirement Analysis, Design, Hands on Development, Build Environment Setup, Deployment Configuration, Library evaluation Developer, Maintainer JP Morgan Chase April 2013 to November 2015 Team Size: Individual Contributor  Environment: Windows 7, Jenkins 1.509, Java 1.7, SVN WebKit    Details: Automatic Deployment Engine needed a GUI interface for the Admin Users who wanted to do application and database deployments using the Deploy Engine. The Deploy Engine had 23+ parameters each with distinct set of allowed values. The Admin Users could do mistakes while configuring their deployments so I created a Jenkins Plugin to help them easily do the deployments.  The plugin would check out the sources from SVN, parse the configuration files, make a memory model of the configuration and lay out on the UI for the user to edit or modify. The modified configuration settings were saved to an XML.    Contribution: Requirement Analysis, Confluence Documentation, Design, Hands on Development, Setup and Configuration, Maintenance JP Morgan Chase March 2013 to November 2015 Designed and developed various useful configurable Jenkins Plugins  + Developed a Test Automation framework using Selenium  + Configured Master-Slave Jenkins cluster for Production Build, Deployments  + Proposed ideas using latest technologies to help address ops issues  + Created a Dashboard application to analyze & report Build / Deploy trends  + Automated common pain points in DevOps space for the team Associate Java Developer, Individual Contributor JP Morgan Chase March 2013 to November 2015 Designed and developed various useful configurable Jenkins Plugins  + Developed a Test Automation framework using Selenium  + Configured Master-Slave Jenkins cluster for Production Build, Deployments  + Proposed ideas using latest technologies to help address ops issues  + Created a Dashboard application to analyze & report Build / Deploy trends  + Automated common pain points in DevOps space for the team Developer, Designer JP Morgan Chase June 2014 to December 2014 Team Size: 2  Environment: D3, jQuery 1.8, Java 1.7, Oracle 11, Jenkins 1.509, PERL, Windows 7    Details: Deploy Engine tool performs hundreds of deployments in a day. It was required by the Management and other stakeholders to know the status of those deployments for various applications across the releases in various environments.  I created the Deployment Dashboard web application that polled the Audit database used by the Deployment Engine and transformed it into a data model that was used to lay out various reports as per the User selection. The reports could be something like, number of deployments in a given period in an environment for a release. The number of combinations that could be used were quite so many and the web application took care of dynamically determining data based on selection criteria.    Contribution: Requirement Analysis, Data Model Design, UI Design, Hands on Development, Setup and Configuration. Ness Technologies October 2008 to March 2013 Lead a team to deliver a challenging JEE web application  + Customized SlickGrid and JQuery for massive client side data tables  + Setup the development environment with automated deployments  + Developed POCs to evaluate and pick the best breed of tools for the project  + Fixed code issues and developed high performing JMS based reporting  + Became a go-to-guy for critical client facing application in production Technical Lead Ness Technologies October 2008 to March 2013 Lead a team to deliver a challenging JEE web application  + Customized SlickGrid and JQuery for massive client side data tables  + Setup the development environment with automated deployments  + Developed POCs to evaluate and pick the best breed of tools for the project  + Fixed code issues and developed high performing JMS based reporting  + Became a go-to-guy for critical client facing application in production Tech Lead, Developer Ness Technologies February 2012 to October 2012 Team Size: 6  Environment: JSF1.2, Seam2.1, Hibernate3, JBossEAP5.0, Maven2, Oracle11, MySQL5    Details: We did not know JSF or Seam, and we had a Fixed Bid project to do with timeline already defined. The challenge was to deliver in time a complete rewrite of the legacy Desktop application into a Web Application with security and full feature set.  I lead the team to design and develop Test Management module in AMS that had ability to create, modify, delete and copy a Test which is a representation of some finite number of questions called Items and complex algorithms surrounding various parameters to assess the Performance of the child taking the Test.    Contribution: Requirement Analysis, FSD formation, Documentation, Design, Hands on Development, Team mentoring, Build Automation Pegasus October 2011 to January 2012 Tech Lead Ness Technologies January 2010 to September 2011 Team Size: 4 + 1  Environment: Java, Beehive, WebLogic Portal 10, Hibernate3, Perforce, Oracle11    Details: A Portal application having 3 different Producers (EASE, CMOS, and Admin) that cater to various needs of a Pearson Proprietary application. Challenge for me and the team was to respond to High Availability and High Quality end user needs in a tight schedule eliminating any Technical issues to which we accepted and met very well. I will never forget the Defect Burn charts and the exercises we had to do to maintain the daily counts of fixed defects.  I worked on Clinical application that had two interfaces, Ounce and Work Sampling both of which do the Assessment of Performance of Students in various age categories based upon distinct Functional Areas and Performance Indicators.    Contribution: Requirement Analysis, Design and Impact Analysis, Hands on Development, Team collaboration, IDE Customization and Tweaks for productivity, Setup and Configuration, Status Reporting. Individual Contributor Ness Technologies January 2010 to September 2011 Team Size: 2  Environment: Java1.6, Quartz, Spring2.5, Weblogic10, Hibernate3, Perforce, Oracle11    Details: Architecture of the Scheduler application included two components, Java Web Service client Web Application and PL SQL procedure. For each configured Job, the Scheduler used to invoke the Candidate Management Organization System Web Services to fetch the student data based on customer configuration and populate the Staging Temp Tables in Oracle Database. Once the Staging Data was ready, the Scheduler had to invoke the PL SQL Procedure called Admin Finalization Engine to create a Snapshot of the Students data so that the Clinical Web Application could query that Snapshot to build live Reports at the School or a District level.  Scheduler was a complex piece of software. Much as we loved it while developing, was very painful due to the Operative Reasons while maintaining it.    Contribution: Requirement Analysis, Data Layer Design and Spring Beans Configuration, Packaging and Deployment architecture in a HA environment, Configuration and Collaboration Ness Technologies September 2009 to January 2010 Ness Technologies April 2009 to September 2009 Ness Technologies October 2008 to April 2009 LionBridge Technologies April 2005 to October 2008 Developed an awesome new Pluggable Look and Feel & Themes  + Created event based Logging & Exception handling framework w/ JBoss-AOP  + Rewrote entire Servlet based application into JSP Servlets modular webapp  + Drove a high visibility code fix project in short time for application stability  + Supported the application issues & worked on RFPs System Analyst, Sr. System Analyst LionBridge Technologies April 2005 to October 2008 Developed an awesome new Pluggable Look and Feel & Themes  + Created event based Logging & Exception handling framework w/ JBoss-AOP  + Rewrote entire Servlet based application into JSP Servlets modular webapp  + Drove a high visibility code fix project in short time for application stability  + Supported the application issues & worked on RFPs    Projects Tech Lead and Sr. Systems Analyst Ness Technologies June 2008 to September 2008 Team Size: 4 + 1  Environment: JBoss AOP 1.2, Struts 1.3.8, JBoss AS 4.2, DB2    Details: Customer needed a robust home-grown framework to handle Exceptions and implement customizable Logging at Runtime. We poposed use of AOP for both Exception Handling and Logging thereby reducing the overall impact on the Customer Facing application e1.  I evaluated various AOP frameworks including AspectWerkz, AspectJ and JBoss AOP and finally picked up JBoss AOP as it supported both Compile-Time as well as Load-Time weaving and had the best integration possible with JBoss AS and provided better flexibility in terms of control and maintenance. JBoss AS uses JMX MBeans extensively and we could use that to control the AOP feature in a configurative manner at Runtime.    Contribution: Requirement Analysis, Technology Evaluation as per the Underlying Technology Stack, Packaging and Deployment architecture in a Clustered environment, Configuration and Status Reporting. LionBridge Technologies January 2008 to June 2008 LionBridge Technologies November 2007 to December 2007 Success Maker Enterprise LionBridge Technologies April 2006 to November 2007 Systems Analyst and Programmer LionBridge Technologies January 2006 to April 2006 Team Size: 1  Environment: Tomcat 4.0, Java 1.4, XML, Castor    Details: The application needed to produce an XML called ims-manifest and also had to form the hierarchical directory structure on the hard disk. Once the ims-manifest was ready, the entire content along with the XML files was placed in a ZIP Archive and uploaded to a Web Share location where the Publishing Framework had access.  I learnt and used Castor to form XML objects from the Java Beans so that I could write them in a file and later ZIP it. At that time, the concept of Marshaling and Un-Marshaling using Java was the most interesting part in this project for me.    Contribution: Requirement Analysis, Code Implementation including Design, Packaging and Deployment, Client Query Resolution. Sr. Software Engineer LionBridge Technologies April 2005 to December 2005 Team Size: 5  Environment: Tomcat 4.0, Java 1.4, Ant, Applets, JFC / Swing    Details: Challenge in this project was to create a Pluggable Look And Feel in Java, which was not only different than the Default PLAF provided by Sun Java Development Kit, but also is visually appealing, easy and user-friendly with the School going kids. We had to adopt new methods to formulate custom components.  Some of the interesting components we did back then in 2005 were, a Scroll Bar having both the handles at either of the ends or a Tree Table with Expansion and Collapsing feature. One of the major challenges of the Applet and Java Technology then was the way AWT/JFC components used to look under Mac and Windows and we have to ensure that the looks are as much similar as possible.    Contribution: Coding in Java 2D API and JFC, Unit Testing    Other Interesting Projects worked upon:    Non- Java  Graphics Editor in Visual Basic 6  English Language Parser in Visual Basic 6 using Artificial Intelligence  Automated Media Checker for Web Pages in Visual Basic 6 for Pearson  Complete Automation of IIS 6 using VB Script on Windows 2003 Server  Installable / Upgradeable Setup program using Install Shield 12 and Install Script    Java - JEE Education B.Sc. in Computers Sardar Patel College - Chandrapur, Nagpur, IN 2004 DAC C-DAC 2000 SSC Jubilee High School - Chandrapur, Nagpur, IN 1997