SDET SDET SDET - # Capital One Bank Odenton, MD • 10+ years of technical expertise with emphasis on QA and Testing.  • Expertise in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and QA Life Cycle.  • Proficient in analyzing Business/System requirements and use cases.  • Proficient in developing Test Plan, Test Cases, Test scripts and Traceability Matrix with extensive experience in manual and automated testing.  • Ability to grasp new requirements quickly and creating comprehensive test case suite to verify the requirements.  • Experience with QA Testing Methodology and QA Validations to ensure the Quality.  • Actively involved in conducting various tests such as functional, regression, integration, system testing and User Acceptance testing.  • Expertise on BPM (Business Process Management) products like FileNet.  • Proficient in using Test Management Tools like Test Director, Quality Center for Test Planning, Requirement Management, Defect tracking and Reporting.  • Good experience with automated testing tools like QTP and Parasoft SOATest, SoapUI.  • Defect tracking and change management using Clear Quest, Test Director/Quality Center.  • Experience in documenting the testing process using MS-Office tools including Word and Excel.  • Experience in executing Queries to validate data in the backend on Mainframe, Oracle and MySql.  • Experienced in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, and AJAX.  • Expertise in testing and validating XML, XSD, XPath Syntax for Web Services with protocols like MQ, HTTP, SOAP Messaging  • Worked in various facets of Software Development Life Cycle, Software Test Life Cycle, and good working knowledge on software engineering models like Agile, V-model, Scrum and RUP.  • Expertise on Windows/Unix/Mainframe environments.  • Participated in Walkthroughs, Defect Review, Risk Analysis, Weekly Status, Go No-Go meetings.  • Lead the team in Onsite/Offshore model in coordinating testing efforts across multiple projects.  • Able to work independently as well as a good team player and interacts with the stake holders.  • Possess good communication skills, self-motivated, proactive, task oriented and quickly adapt to new technologies/processes/ methodologies.  • Highly motivated, result oriented professional with a short learning curve and excellent analytical and communication skills. Work Experience SDET # Capital One Bank September 2015 to Present Team: Sprint Team Ninja    EASE is a cross-LOB application designed to give users the ability to manage all of their accounts in one application. It consists of three "layers" of pages called L1, L2, and L3. The L1 page is the core page which users go to upon login. It lists all of the accounts across all LOB's for the particular user as cards that users can click on to go to an L2 page. The L2 page is for a given account context and LOB, and for Credit Card it is the transactions page which also includes payments information. This is the first Card specific page, and is the portal to all Card related work. It always has the context of a single card account. The last level is the L3 pages, which are implemented as modals over the L2 page and perform the more detailed specific tasks, for example making a payment. SDET Sprint Team Ninja February 2015 to August 2015 The Funds Forecast product will give the estimate of your lowest projected available balance in the next 31 days so you have a clearer view of how much you can actually spend or save. Funds Forecast uses a predictive analytics engine to analyze transaction history, identify recurring bills and deposits, and provide a future view of your available balance. Middleware QA Analyst Sprint Team Helios January 2014 to January 2015 The purpose of this project is to integrate the Retail and Direct/360 core middleware components by building a new eAPI interface which will solve the business need of the Client/Channels(ex: IRIS, Transcend, Agies , Transite, Mobile etc.) to assist both 360/Retail Customers on the common platform. Middleware QA Analyst Direct Gateway August 2013 to December 2013 Team: Sprint Team Helios    The purpose of this project is to componentize DGW, which is currently a monolithic single deployable WAR file running in Tomcat container into few well defined components. Each component comprising a group of related services is a deployable WAR file.  • Worked on across Web/Mobile GUI, middleware domains (eAPIs - REST/SOAP), backend systems (Profile/Fidelity, CST/ECR, Hadoop/MongoDB) for the multiple features.  • Proactively engaged with the Business and Product owners to help analyze the requirements and help in design.  • Worked on pre implementation research in terms of understanding existing flow, middleware service calls and the inputs/outputs involved for new API development.  • Reduced dependency on the System teams for Test Data by gaining access and knowledge on key backend systems in a short duration.  • Performed initial debugging procedures by reviewing configuration files, logs, or code pieces to determine the breakdown source  • Experience in performing the backend testing on Profile DB, Mainframe Fidelity (IMPACS, SAVINGS), Hadoop, NoSQL (Mongo DB) to validate the changes made through Web Services.  • Handling all the Production Promotion tasks (e.g. Dry Run Validation, Regression Testing and Release support).  • Worked on build and deployment tasks of eAPI in all lower regions and making sure that the correct version of code is being maintained across all the regions.  • Validated SiteCatalyst implementation on Transite for Funds Forecast product.  • Performed ADA testing for the UI stories on EASE Web.  • Validated eAPIs for mandatory checks of Auditing and Entitlements.  • Following the ATDD (Cucumber-JVM) approach in the automating the UI Stories by using the in-house grown Glue Framework.  • Responsible for testing the Profile 24 Month feed and daily feed in Hadoop environment.  • Performed MQ testing for funds forecast product.  • Tested Hystix implementation of the eAPIs using JMeter.    Environment: Java, Profile, Mainframe (Fidelity), VBScript, QTP v10, HP ServiceTest, SOAtest, SoapUI, Excel, Quality Center v10, GIT, Tortoise SVN, WebLogic, UNIX. QA Analyst Department of Social Services (DSS) - Columbia, SC April 2013 to August 2013 The Child Support Enforcement Program (CSE) is a federal, state, and local partnership that helps families by encouraging self-sufficiency which includes supporting their children. Federal regulations require all states and territories to have a child support enforcement program.    Responsibilities:  • Analysed Business Requirements and Use Case documents and developed Test Plan and Test Cases for Manual Testing and documented them along with the test results.  • Analyzed system requirements and developed detailed Test Plan for System Testing.  • Initially performed Manual Testing of the application using numerous Test Scripts  • Conducted Functional, System and Regression testing during the various phases of the project.  • Involved in Functional Test to verify that each business function operates according to the external and internal design specifications.  • Prepared test data for the System Test and Regression test cases.  • Tested the Interfaces by running the batch jobs and integration procs.  • Responsible for weekly status updates showing the progress of the testing effort and open issues to be resolved.  • Involved in tracking, reviewing, analyzing and comparing Defects using Quality center, JIRA.  • Preparing the Defect reports and interacted with developers for Debugging  • Responsible for Black Box Testing of Application  • Verify that requirements are testable and generate testing objectives.  • Validated data at back end using SQL Queries.  • Participated actively in the Software issue Management (SIM) meetings with the Developers for fixing the defects.  • Performed the smoke test on a weekly basis for every version of the release.  • Developed the automation test script to perform the smoke test.    Environment: .Net, Windows 7, SQL Server Management Studio, QTP 10, Quality center, JIRA. SOA Web services QA Analyst # Software Transformations, TX February 2008 to March 2013 Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) web services project is the multi-tier middleware Services for different Channels, which will access, multiple databases, third party services and legacy code base. Legacy Channels are the old webMethod consumers which use mediation to communicate with the Shared IFX Services. The Channels can call Shared Services through a web service/http calls based on their requirements. The execution of a Shared Service includes a chain of filters. The business logic is implemented as a service and it is the last of the filters that has to be executed. The filters include Security Filter (for user authentication), XML binding filter, and View Filters.    • Analyzed Business Requirements and Use Case documents and developed Test Plans and Test cases.  • Involved in design and creation of test scripts for Parasoft SOATest automation.  • Formatting the XML request and responses in SoapUI tool with required elements as per the test scenarios.  • Validated the Build version and Environments backend properties using the SoapUI.  • Involved in parameterization of SOAP requests in Parasoft SOATest.  • Created a VBScript compatible with Quality Center to run SOA tests  • Used descriptive programming to initiate SOA Tests from QTP.  • Crosschecking the test cases in Quality Center with the test cases in SOA Test Suite using QTP.  • Automatically updating the test cases in Quality Center with the status obtained after running SOA Test (Quality Center API)  • Using QTP, regression testing was implemented for Legacy Operations  • Created testing status reports for each release.  • Coordinated with Offshore and Onsite in providing the inputs related to testing queries based on triage calls.  • Assure test data required for SOA test cases.  • Backend testing on Mainframe Fidelity (IMPACS, SAVINGS) to validate the changes made through Web Services.  • Involved in Unit, SIT, Regression and BAT Testing  • Worked with Excel and Word macros for data preparation and status reports  • Involved in build release analysis for changes and defect fixes.  • Creating dynamic defect reporting for all the failed test cases  • Attended weekly report meetings and presented progress updates.  • Used Sharepoint application for Document Management.    Environment: Mainframe (Fidelity), VBScript, QTP v10, Parasoft SOAtest, SoapUI, Excel, Quality Center v10, SourceForge, CVS, XML, WSDL, Tortoise SVN, WAS 6.1, IBM Data Power, ESB.    # RIB - Retail Internet Banking is a web based application for Internet banking online enrollment of the customers.    Role: QA Automation Engineer  • Developed QTP scripts for enrolling a user using descriptive programming  • Confirming the enrollment process by back end testing  • Developed macros to validate the data provided by business users is in required format, according to the test case  • Providing test case status reports to upper management  • Troubleshooting existing QTP scripts for changes in the application  • Established proper error reporting for enrollments  • Assisted in performance testing of RIB    Environment: Mainframe, .Net, VBScript, TOAD, QTP, VBA Macros, MS Project, Excel, Word.    # Call Center (Ticket Tracking Web Application) this is a web application, to track the Call Center tickets to track the customer's inquiries and problems about the products that they have.    Role: Analyst/ Developer  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and PHP.  • Involved in designing page layouts for the application  • Involved in Unit Testing, System Testing and Back End Testing  • Backend testing on MySQL Server using SQL (TOAD)  • Trained the business users with workflow of the ticket items.  • Daily status reports on defects and the changes implemented    Environments: MySQL, TOAD, Quality Center 10, QTP 10, VBScript, XML, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, Excel, Word, VBA    # Basel - Data Mart:  Comparing databases which were converted to conform to Basel rules that are a norm for many financial company.    Role: QA Analyst/Automation Engineer  • Automating the source and target database comparisons using QTP  • Automating the database connections dynamically with the data provided  • Preparing SQL queries for database testing  • Trained Business users in using Quality Center to run QTP tests  • Parameterize queries to compare different data  • Defect reporting with dynamic data from QTP execution using QC API  • Create a front end with the query results for manual intervention in comparing the results  • Automatic defect reporting with the user confirmation in quality center  • Object oriented implementation of SQL Queries in QTP using VBScript    Environments: Oracle, MySQL, Quality Center 10, HP-QTP 10, VBScript, XML, SQL, SQL Developer, TOAD    # ALSCOM is a web application for creating loans in different Lines of Business. There are several loan types available on this application.    Role: QA Automation Engineer  • Developed QTP scripts to automate the application process  • Used Descriptive programming, Universal function libraries to create tests  • Created data required for test cases  • Developed the Automation Architecture for script development, multi-tiered reusable Actions, and VBScript functions  • Training business users to create data for test cases and running scripts  • Involved in preparing the test machines to run tests from QC  • Involved in transition from QTP 9.5 to QTP 10  • Validating the application submission  • Created recovery scenarios for unexpected pages    Environment: Mainframe, Citrix, .Net, VBScript, Excel (VB Macros), QTP 9.5 and HP-QTP 10, Quality Center.    # ENCORE - TELLER is windows based Teller application for customer information and the accounts associated with the customer.    Role: QA Analyst/Automation Engineer  • Automated the application for performance testing.  • Developed scripts in QTP using descriptive programming  • Prepared sample data for the scripts  • Trained business users to run QTP Scripts  • Provided reports on the response times for each request on the Teller  • Used Quality Center as repository for testing results  • Implemented object oriented development of QTP scripts    Environments: QTP, QC, VBScript, XML, Mainframe, VBA, ActiveX.    # FileNet Performance:  Commerce Bank integration was a major integration which impacted several applications.    Role: SME/ QA Engineer.  • Helped in providing data required for Performance testing  • Worked on FileNet applications for different tiers of the applications processes  • Involved in developing QTP script for Kofax Batch Upload windows based application  • Checking data submitted in one application (CIA) can be accessed through other application (LRW)  • Developed a status report using excel to track the process of uploading the application, to report to performance team intermittently.  • Created VB macros to consolidate results after uploading    Environment: FileNet, Kofax Batch Upload, QTP, Excel, VBA Macros, VBScript    # QMO Teamsite  Developed web application for Intra-net websites for different teams in the QMO (Quality Management Organization) department.    Role: Analyst/ Development Lead  • Involved in Business Requirements and Use Case documents creation.  • Involved in developing web pages.  • Developed application using PHP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Understand the existing testing process through documentation and discussions with members of testing team.  • Automated a nightly run for checking website information and report defects  • Created validation QTP scripts for the data entered  • Developed a user manual for QTP installation customized for TDBank.    Environments: MySQL, TOAD, Quality Center 9.2 & QC 10.0, QTP 9.5 & QTP 10, VBScript, XML, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, MS Project, Excel, Word, VBA QA Analyst Lead # Software Transformations, TX December 2006 to January 2008 As a result of the merger between Commerce Bank (CB) and TD Banknorth (TDBN) this initiative is to provide TDBN with the same level of functionality as CB for the file imaging and storage services by utilizing FileNet Panagon workflows. By integrating TDBN data into FileNet Panagon, TDBN will have the capabilities to collect, organize, scan, file and manage paper documents for multiple lines of business throughout the organization.    Responsibilities:  • Documented FileNet related Test Cases and Test Scripts for the all the different workflow applications.  • Performed Manual Testing of the application using numerous Test Scripts on the modules namely:  CIA, LRW, WAM, C-Tracking and RFV.  • Involved in Integration testing of the system.  • Conducted Functional, System and Regression testing during the various phases of the development  • Involved in GUI and Functional Testing to verify that each business function operates according to the external and internal design specifications.  • Mentoring the Commerce resources on FileNet applications.  • Responsible for daily and weekly status reports and showing the progress of the testing effort and escalating critical issues to be addressed.  • Tested all the back-end customized windows services which are established to migrate the work item details to different channels.  • Involved in tracking, reviewing, analyzing and comparing Defects using Quality center.  • Preparing the defect reports and interacted with developers for debugging.  • Conducted and Participated in Defect Review meetings.  • Created QTP Scripts to automate the workflow on different applications and supported performance testing.  • Created reports for the response times of the transactions.  • Involved in deciding the scope of testing a business requirement.  • Conducted Smoke Testing of the environments for each build that is released to test environment.  • Involved in the Test Execution Strategy to reflect the inter-dependencies of the modules that are tested across the line.  • Worked closely with the Business and Development teams in the analysis and design phase.  • Involved in Data Conversions testing.  • Supported the PCoE Team by creating the QTP Scripts to upload huge amounts of Test Data for performance testing.    Environment: IBM Filenet P8 Suite , ASP.Net, VB.Net, MSSQL Server, Oracle 10g, Quality Center 9.2 , QTP 9.5 , VB Scripting, Kofax, Panagon Capture, FileNet Visual Workflow, FileNet eProcess, Windows 2000. Java J2EE Developer # Soft Trans Pvt Ltd February 2006 to November 2006 Description: The HR department is maintaining the details of the employee and other related details in HRIS. It is internal application for all Sierra Atlantic (HRIS).All HR related activities will be done using this application. The users logged in on their specific roles. If the employee is newly joined the user logged in as HR and able to create new profile for the particular employee. After creation of profile employee can log in and he is having his own credentials .The manager can also login and he can set KRA (Key Result Areas) for all employees who are reporting to him. Based on KRA's he can get the Appraisal and Variable pay.  Once the user is logs in he can be able to see different tabs like Personal, Kra, Appraisal, skill set, address etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing the application.  • Developed the Login screen so that only authorized and authenticated administrators can only access the application.  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using JSP, and HTML.  • Involved in client side validations and server side validations.  • Involved in writing Sql Statements to fetch data from database.  • Developed reports by implementing the features like grid and pagination.  • Eclipse used as Java IDE tool for creating EntityBean classes.  • Followed the coding standers to write the code.  • Involved in unit testing and integration testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE, JDBC, EJB, Ant, WebSphere Application Server, Oracle, Clear Case, Clear Quest. Java J2EE Developer # Soft Trans Pvt Ltd April 2005 to January 2006 Description: My Sierra is internal project for Sierra Atlantic which is used by all Sierra Atlantic employees globally. This is having the modules Like Leave Application, Conference Hall booking and Employee Lookup etc. Employees able to apply leave through this portal and all employees able to book conference rooms through this portal. Employees can book Conference room through the Conference room booking provided on the homepage. Employees can view status of the conference room. In Sierra Conference room booking application different actors having different privileges.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement analysis and design, development of the application using Java Technologies.  • Developed User Interface using JSP, JSTL and HTML pages. XML and Jsp's are used for reports  • Configured Oracle connection pool, which is included in Oracle JDBC driver JAR file, to allow concurrent access to the database and optimize performance.  • Prepared the Documentation of the project to understand the system efficiently.  • Coded Java Script for Client side validations.  • Wrote SQL queries using SQL for interacting with database  • Oracle 8i is the main repository for the data.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat Server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JavaScript, JDBC, Windows, Oracle, Apache Tomcat, UML, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML. Education Master's Skills C#, C++, HTML, PHP, SVN, QA, Quality Assurance, Selenium, Java, Python Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Dos, WINDOWS-98/2000/XP/2003, UNIX, Mainframes  Languages C, C++, C#, VB.net, ASP.net, SQL, Java, J2EE, PHP.  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL server, MS ACCESS, Sybase, DB2  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, Java Script  Test Management Tools  Mercury Test Director (7.5/8.0), Mercury Quality Center(9.2/10), ALM, Rational Requisite Pro, Rational Test Manager, HP QucickTestPro(QTP), UFT 12.00, Parasoft SOATest, SoapUI, HP Service Test 11.52.    Testing Tools Mercury Tools: QTP (9.5/10.00), Rational Tools: (2002/2003/7.2)  Defect Tracking Tools Bugzilla, Clear Quest, JIRA, ALM QC  Web Servers BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, IIS, Apache, Tomcat., JBoss  Version Control Tools CVS, ClearCase, SVN.