Payments Agile Product Owner and Manager Payments Agile Product Owner and Manager Agile Product Owner and Product Manager Ottawa Lake, MI I am an experienced IT delivery and operations manager, agile product owner, and product manager, including over ten years of experience in IT leadership positions across the technology life cycle, including planning, implementation, and ongoing operations. I am a strong communicator comfortable working with all stakeholders, from all levels of executive management, to vendors, regulators, and business and technology team members. I have had the opportunity to lead multiple IT teams, ranging in size from 8 through to 20 individuals. These teams have collectively been involved in all aspects of the IT life-cycle, giving me experience in managing project and program delivery as well as operational and business-as-usual activities. I have also been a driver and leader of a transition in project methodology from standard waterfall practices to Enterprise Agile, emphasising collaboration, flexibility, and speed to market. Work Experience Payments Agile Product Owner and Manager Macquarie Group, Banking and Financial Services - Sydney NSW September 2017 to May 2019 Placed in the payments feature team by senior management to recover a challenged strategic partnership and improve the delivery quality and cadence of the team. Delivered a series of critical payments capabilities including the implementation of an industry wide real-time payments scheme (Next Payment Platform). Asked to perform a dual Project and Product role in June of 2018, taking on accountability and ownership of the various payment capabilities used within the organization.  • Delivered key payments capabilities including implementation of real-time payments, digitization of cheque payment processing, and substantial technology improvements for legacy payments capabilities.  • Planned, forecasted, and managed an annual IT program budget of between $8M and $15M.  • Defined delivery plans, including agile epics, features, and stories and delivery timelines for a variety of payments projects delivered both internally and in partnership with external vendors.  • Defined the vision and strategy for the organizations' payment capabilities, leveraging my skills and experience along side input from senior executives, sales and operational staff, and direct customer feedback.  • End to end team management including elements of role planning and hiring, mentoring, direct line management, and career management for 12 to 16 individuals.  • Revived a strained partnership with a key technology provider through contract renegotiation and development of a "ways of workings" plan and engagement model.  • Establishment of a payments product-specific Profit & Loss model to better track the effectiveness of the various payments products and identify opportunities.  • Negotiated with regulators, including the Reserve Bank of Australia, to ensure organizational compliance and optimized outcomes for the organisation.  • Accountable for whole lifecycle of the payments capabilities, from defining new features to implementation and through to operational support and BAU activities. Cards Agile Product Owner / Technology Program Manager Macquarie Group, Banking and Financial Services - Sydney NSW August 2015 to September 2017 Requested to lead the Credit and Debit card IT delivery and operations team following the conclusion of the Core Banking replacement program in August 2015. Led team and associated business group through an organization-wide Enterprise Agile transformation in 2016. Delivered several key business initiatives including Apple and Google pay, a new white-label credit card product, and a new digital rewards program.  • Coordinated the efforts of over five external providers and an internal IT delivery and operations team to successfully implement multiple initiatives including Apple Pay, Google Pay, a new white-label credit card product, and a new digital rewards program.  • Planned, forecasted, and managed an annual IT program budget of between $5M and $7M.  • Directly managed our scheme-compliance through regular meetings with VISA and Mastercard.  • Led the Enterprise Agile transformation for the Credit and Debit Cards IT and business teams to ensure the principles of Agile were understood and the desired flexibility and speed to market was achievable.  • Worked closely with the product management team to define the strategy for our card platforms and capabilities, coordinating delivery activities to ensure realization of the strategy.  • End to end team management, including hiring, mentoring, and line/career management for 10 to 14 individuals.  • Accountable for whole lifecycle of the credit and debit card products, from defining new features to implementation and through to operational support and BAU activities. Payments Domain Expert / Business Analyst Macquarie Group, Banking and Financial Services - Sydney NSW May 2014 to August 2015 Invited to join the Core Banking Program as a Payments Domain Expert and Business Analyst in May of 2014. The aim of the program was to replace multiple outdated ledger systems with a single solution for the organization. Primarily responsible for the design of business logic and integration of payments capabilities into the new ledger system.  • Defined the business logic mapping payment data into the new ledger system.  • Worked closely with various business stakeholders including product, operations, marketing, and sales to ensure that the new payment integration would improve the data quality and usability across the organization.  • Coordinated activities between delivery teams to ensure the delivered outcomes matched the original business intent.  • Supported the quality analytics teams to ensure that all payments capabilities were working as expected. Technology Operations Manager Banking and Financial Services February 2008 to May 2014 Promoted to manager of the IT Operations team working with the Business Banking division in May of 2014. New responsibilities included budget planning, forecasting, and management, team leadership and management, and demonstration of continuous operational improvement. Promoted to Associate director in June of 2011.  • Led organization-wide technology recovery activities following significant industry disruption.  • Defined and implemented recovery plans and principles for all technology systems in the Business Banking area.  • Planned, forecasted, and managed an annual IT operations budget of roughly $5M.  • End to end team management for between 8 and 12 individuals.  • Leveraged a cost savings initiative started in another area of the organization to move roughly half of the onshore operations team to an offshore location, resulting in substantial annual savings. Technology Operations Analyst Programmer Macquarie Group, Banking and Financial Services - Sydney NSW April 2005 to February 2008 Hired as an Operations Analyst Programmer shortly after receiving my legal permission to work in Australia. Promoted from Manager level to Senior Manager in June 2006 and given basic line management responsibilities for two direct reports.  • Defined and delivered small enhancements to applications used by the Business Banking area.  • Performed detailed data analytics and reporting to aid business operations and decision making.  • Performed critical system recovery activities in response to application or technology failures or other service disruptions.  • Provided direct assistance to business users encountering issues with software and systems. Java Developer Standard & Poor's - New York, NY August 2000 to March 2004 Joined the Standard & Poor's global website redevelopment project as a contract Java developer in August of 2000. Offered a permanent role with the team within the first eight weeks of the project. Worked on enhancing web publishing capabilities including the implementation of the first Content Management System and comprehensive search engine within the organization. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in Computer Science Fordham University - Bronx, NY June 1999 Skills Agile Scrum (3 years), Technology Program/Project Management (4 years), Agile Product Owner (3 years), IT Operations Management (8 years)