Advanced Decision Vectors - IT Specialist Advanced Decision Vectors - IT Specialist Advanced Decision Vectors - IT Specialist - WORK HSTORY Springfield, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Advanced Decision Vectors - IT Specialist WORK HSTORY - Alexandria, VA March 2018 to Present Java web developer using Eclipse IDE, SQL- Developer, GitKraken, Spring-boot, Maven, Jenkins, Thyme-leaf, Spring MVC, Tomcat with Java 8, JPA, Oracle 12 RDBMS and Bootstrap framework for new development work in java. Develop forms using Thyme-leaf templates in HTML5 with Bootstrap, and business logic in controllers, and models using data transfer objects, and services for database access using JPA repositories. Perform DML and queries on backend Oracle database for unit testing of the application. Senior .NET Developer LEIDOS - Alexandria, VA March 2017 to March 2018 Develop web application using Microsoft MVC 5, ASP.Net Core, Visual Studio 2017, Bootstrap, Java Script, jQuery, Ajax. Utilize Mercurial and Git for Source Control. Also maintain an Microsoft Access tool utilized in-house modified for windows 10 upgrade. Senior Java Developer INNOVATIVE PROTOTYPES - Washington, DC June 2015 to March 2017 Tech lead and assign work to programmers. Analyze system integrations, change requests for enhancements, bug fixes, and internal changes to determine, recommend modifications to the existing web based system. Perform both front end and back end development, modifying existing software to correct errors, to adapt it to new hardware, or to upgrade interfaces and improve performance. Such as: Adobe Flex front end utilizing Flash Builder, Java backend code using Eclipse, Ant, and administration of releases to local, testing, and production JBOSS environments. Maintain and create services and Java Dao's using spring JDBC Template to interface with an Oracle 12c database environment. Create and maintain Oracle 12c packages, procedures, functions, tables, triggers, sequences. Java Developer GROMELSKI & ASSOCIATES - Manassas, VA April 2015 to May 2015 Developed jUnit tests for a web application by utilizing development tools such as Eclipse, Maven, GWT, Git, Jenkins, and Version One as a story boarding tool. In an agile environment. Senior .NET Developer NES ASSOCIATES - Fort Meade, MD October 2014 to March 2015 Maintained a .Net Web Front End Application, HTML, XML, .Net Framework 3.5, Oracle driver interfaces, Visual Basic .Net code behind, ASP.NET pages. Also, maintained, an exchange web services java application, Eclipse, JDK 1.7.0_72, SOAP, XML, Git, Maven, maintained pom.xml files for maven builds. Also maintained Bourne shell scripts which interfaces with a cross domain enterprise for file transfers. Software Engineer SYNEREN TECHNOLOGIES - College Park, MD May 2014 to September 2014 In an Agile environment, helped configure a COTs product to be used for the Navy to track mishaps, and accidents to improve prevention through this system. This required some knowledge of XML, and the COT's specific scripting language to configure the product. Also, helped produced a Software Development Plan and an Interface Requirements Specification, and review the Software Requirements Document. Applications Architect EDSI - Falls Church, VA March 2008 to November 2013 Converted a Pro*C application to Java SE 6 application: utilized vectors, file I/O, system calls to the SCP command line utility, and methods for reformatting flat ascii files: utilized NetBeans and standard JDK library. Converted a VB6 MAPI application to a Java Web Services Client: utilized Maven to test, and build JAR module, Git to maintain versions, JUnit to create and perform automated tests, log4j to update logs, IntelliJ community version IDE to develop code, utilized spring dependency injection and standard JDK libraries, JAXB to marshal Microsoft Exchange schemas, interfaced with a Microsoft Exchange Server to process inbound and outbound email message traffic, and convert the body of the SOAP messages to flat ascii files. Maintained complex Bourne shell scripts which transferred the ascii flat files generated by the client over a cross domain solution (Guard) which was bi-directional. Maintained a Pro*C application for parsing the ascii flat files from the cross domain solution into an Oracle 11g database, which called stored procedures and utilized embedded SQL statements along with C language code to process inbound flat ascii files and parse the data in the files into appropriate staging tables, where another process, again a Pro*C application would put the data from the staging tables into the designated tables so it could be utilized by the Web application and the provisioning community at the Defense Information Systems Agency. Assisted in enhancing and asp .net web application in vb.net: corrected hyperlinks, commented code, added functionality to code behind vb.net modules. Senior Software Engineer Paloma Systems Inc - Fairfax, VA August 2006 to March 2008 Performed a conversion of an application from Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications and Microsoft ACCESS to Oracle 10g PL/SQL Procedures and Functions. Analyzed the VBA code and drew flow charts and pseudo code of the logic and translated that code into PL/SQL procedures and functions. Utilized SQL Navigator for development and running the procedures, as well as to produce data flat files which could be imported into an excel spreadsheet. Also loaded tables with legacy data and new data for the procedures to use using Oracle command line Loader utility and shell scripts. Created Procedures, Functions and Packages to manipulate data using SQL functions within the code, such as: trunk, round, substring, etc. Converted all Procedures to dynamically run and created the SQL statements on the fly with execute immediate statements. Produced CSV files SQL Navigator and SQL statements from data tables which could be loaded into excel spreadsheets. Senior Software Tester MSGI CORPORATION - Falls Church, VA March 2006 to June 2006 Performed functional, technical, and ad-hoc (negative) testing while recording accurate and clearly detailed defect documentation for the product developers, utilized documentation delivered with each component release for the planning, execution, and preparation of tests cases for the Theater Medical Information Program as part of the Development Test and Evaluation Team. Software Tester INFORMATION MANAGEMENT RESOURCES - Alexandria, VA August 2005 to December 2005 Supported Army Test and Evaluation Command, reviewed documentation for adequacy, content, accuracy, completeness, user comprehension, attended conferences pertaining to the project, provided analysis and recommendations for the point of contact at the Army Test and Evaluation Command. Software Tester INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANTS - Tysons Corner, VA May 2004 to May 2005 Performed Independent Verification & Validation and maintained a requirements document & Traceability Matrix. Created and executed test scripts, reported defects using Test Director, verified if automated test scripts would run in Win runner, provided input to test reports, provided input to deliverables reviewed for the U.S. Army, supervised the user acceptance testing, performed interface, and functional testing. Software Tester NORTHROP GRUMMAN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - Reston, VA June 1997 to May 2004 Responsibility for maintaining quality software through rigorous testing of the system, analyzed IRS forms (IRP, 1040EZ, FTD), performed functional testing of each incremental build sent to the IRS, reported defects using PVCS, created regression test cases for each IRS form & performed regression testing, updated traceability matrix, performed peer reviews of test cases, maintained test case library, performed verification testing of each installation package sent to the IRS, verified the integrity of the test environment before testing using setup scripts. Software Tester AUTOMATED CONCEPTS - Reston, VA February 1996 to June 1997 Analyzed technical documentation which described the data transfer language used to communicate with financial banking devices, created test cases in HTML, performed integration test of data transfer applications using a simulator, performed SQL queries on an Informix database to verify results, performed Regression tests with the actual devices (Microsoft Money) and customer service applications, reported defects using Remedy. System Administrator STATCOM - Washington, DC October 1995 to February 1996 Performed some system administration such as tape backups, troubleshooting printer and desktop problems and producing administrative utilities for purging shadow password file, troubleshot Progress database problems by rebuilding indexes, running diagnostics, image file truncation, making backups of development and training databases, performed help desk functions for users of the Armed Forces Acquisition System. Senior Software Engineer SEMA INC - Alexandria, VA May 1994 to January 1995 Analyzed design specifications for the Financial Order Processing System (FOPS) used by the United States Treasury Department, developed program modules in Informix and C language, performed SQL queries on the FOPS development database, performed unit testing on FOPS program modules Senior Software Engineer ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS - McLean, VA June 1992 to May 1994 Supervised one junior software engineer, developed programs in Informix and C language, analyzed user change requests, managed code releases and eliminated redundant programs from being developed or modified using Unix Source Code Control System (SCCS), established separate environments for development, testing and production. Senior Software Engineer THE ORKAND CORPORATION - Silver Spring, MD November 1988 to June 1992 Supervised software engineers, produced a design specification & programming specifications based upon the FIPS pub standard of the Unemployment Insurance Services Regional Monitoring System, maintained the legacy regional monitoring system through C code and bourne shell scripts, utilized IEW Case tool to prepare functional requirements models through data flow diagrams, entity relationship, relational database, diagrams and generated report and screen formats, developed enhancements in Informix and ported them to other operating systems, analyzed mathematically challenging specifications and prepared programming specifications for the development of the US Navy Inventory Management System Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Strayer University 2004 Bachelor of General Science in General Science Villanova University 1983 Associate of Science Valley Forge Military College 1980 Skills Comptia security plus (3 years), Java J2Ee, Java, Hibernate, J2Ee, Spring Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: LT Commendations: Navy Achievement letter Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ December 2014 to December 2017