Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Austin, TX • 8 Plus years of experience in analysis, design, development, implementation and testing client, server and enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Extensive experience in Android application development.  • Good understanding in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.  • Proficient with common Android Framework API's (Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps).  • Experience in implementing native libraries in application by using Android SDK and Android NDK.  • Experience in using Fragments, Activity workflow, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs and view controls, and Loaders.  • Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous Programming in Android (such as Thread pool, Tasks and services). Implemented the monetization of apps, which has capabilities to do in-app purchases.  • Good mobile and web design skills using Activities (android), HTML 5, Java Script, AJAX and XML.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Design (OOD), analysis (OOA), modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Worked extensively in developing mobile-based and advanced web-based applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, Struts, spring, Hibernate, JDBC, UML, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JDBC, and Oracle.  • Proficiency in developing applications using Struts frame work, spring and hibernate.  • Worked on with AndroidAPI's (SMS, Content Provider, Google Maps, API SQLite, and Web View).  • Worked on GUI applications using Java SWING and AWT, Java Native Interface (JNI).  • Experience with source code control management like subversion (SVN), GIT and GIT HUB,  • Expert in writing client side validations using validation framework, Java Script and usage of Shares preferences  • Knowledge in working with audio and video codec's like .3GPP, MPEG-4.  • Experienced in programming skills in Java including Plug-in Architecture, HTML, CSS and XML.  • Designing and implementation of User Interfaces and Navigation elements.  • Excellent debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, IntelliJIDEA, IDEA, Android Studio and RAD.  • Experience in various methodologies like of SDLC like Agile development and waterfall development.  • Experienced in developing apps involving RSS feeds.  • Extensive experience in requirement analysis, functional analysis, excellent conceptual and logical thinking.  • Experience in performance optimization of Android applications and exposure to tools such asTraceView, Lint, and Hierarchy Viewer.  • Ability to grasp and master new technologies, excellent analytical and problem solving skills.  • Able to take initiative; work independently and also as a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer VISA - Austin, TX April 2017 to Present Project Name: Visa Express Checkout    Description: Visa Checkout is an SDK which enables merchants to quickly build and implement a native in-app checkout experience for iOS and Android-based devices. Developers using the SDK to integrate Visa Checkout as a payment method can enable consumers to complete purchases on-the-go in a fast, simple and secure way on their iPhones or Android phones. With Visa Checkout, you can securely pay online by entering a single username and password, eliminating the hassle of entering your personal card and shipping details in multiple fields.    Responsibilities:  * Responsible for complete design, development and development testing for software projects and also and also interacting with other team members and performing quality reviews of the work of other team members.  * Used Android Studio for development and Dalvik Debug Monitor Server, Android Virtual Device, and Android Debug Bridge as debugging tool.  * Used Asynctask, to get Response from RESTful web server. And used SQLite to cache the data received from the RESTful web services.  * Google Analytics are implemented for page tracking.  * Used web views, list views& populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  * ImplementedCamera APIand card.iolibrary for Scanning theCredit/Debit Card.  * Implemented Google Maps API for address Suggestions.  * Utilized web-services (HTTP based, XML, SOAP, JSON or other services), in order to tie our applications to critical server-side APIs.  * Active Participation in Sprint Planning and Sprint Status. Participate in sprint planning meetings by estimating the tasks to design, build, and development test software. Attend daily huddles to report progress and barriers to progress.  * Design/Development/Development Testing. Create the design for a given technology that effectively meets the requirements/stories.  * Involved in Understanding the requirements/stories, and perform the appropriate gap analysis for a particular platform/technology.  * Responsible for development, test the software according to the functional specifications, design, maintainability, and coding and efficiency standards. Complete development tests within each sprint according to acceptance criteria and system component integration needs.  * Involved in Working closely with the Solution Quality Analysts by providing debugging and testing assistance as needed to meet sprint objectives.  * Involved in creating the technical documentation (assets) in the code per coding standards and assist as needed in the documentation creation for the products customers. Create the artifacts needed to ensure the software is migrated efficiently through the needed environment life cycles.  * Implemented Version control through GitHuband used JIRA for Bug Tracking.    Environment: Android Studio, Android SDK, Android NDK, ADT-Plugin, Eclipse IDE, Java, SQLite, GitHub, XML, Apache Tomcat, DB2. Developer Analyst (Android Developer) AON Hewitt - Lincolnshire, IL April 2016 to March 2017 Description: This app lets you manage your benefits-related Flexible Spending Account while you're on the go! Use this app to quickly submit claims and attach required receipts from anywhere. Submit health or dependent care claims and take a photo of your receipt on your mobile device. Upload the photo and send it with your claim to receive your reimbursement fast.    Responsibilities:  * Requirements Elicitation, Understanding, Analysis, & Management. Understand the requirements/stories, and perform the appropriate gap analysis for a particular platform/technology.  * Responsible for complete design, development and development testing for software projects and also for coaching other team members and performing quality reviews of the work of other team members.  * Used Android Studio for development and Dalvik Debug Monitor Server, Android Virtual Device, and Android Debug Bridge as debugging tool.  * Responsible in making use of the REST services, getting JSON response and GSON parsing them to get the required information.  * UsedAsynctask, to get Response from RESTful web server. And used SQLite to cache the data received from the RESTful web services.  * Used Google Analytics for page tracking.  * Maintain the Session Management forthe app. And Supporting screen orientations (landscape and portrait).  * Used web views, list views& populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  * Responsible in make use of Camera API for capturing and uploading the documents, and added E-signature feature.  * Participation in Sprint Planning and Sprint Status. Participate in sprint planning meetings by estimating the tasks to design, build, and development test software. Attend daily huddles to report progress and barriers to progress.  * Design/Development/Development Testing. Create the design for a given technology that effectively meets the requirements/stories.  * Build and development test the software according to the functional specifications, design, maintainability, and coding and efficiency standards. Complete development tests within each sprint according to acceptance criteria and system component integration needs.  * Testing & Debugging - Work closely with the Solution Quality Analysts by providing debugging and testing assistance as needed to meet sprint objectives.  * Documentation and Deployment - Create technical documentation (assets) in the code per coding standards and assist as needed in the documentation creation for the products customers. Create the artifacts needed to ensure the software is migrated efficiently through the needed environment life cycles.  * Used Subversion (SVN) for branching and merging new features without disrupting mainline development on trunk.    Environment:Android Studio, Android SDK, Android NDK, ADT-Plugin, Eclipse IDE, Java, SQLite, Subversion, XML, Apache Tomcat, DB2. Android Developer Sears - Chicago, IL July 2015 to March 2016 Description: Sears and Kmart are m-commerce applications that provide a fast, easy and a convenient way to shop a variety of products from a mobile device. They provide a fun ecommerce experience where users can manage their online accounts, find help from a personal shopper, manage their shopping cart, track the status of their orders, find local ads, deals and nearest store locations for store pickup etc.    Responsibilities:  * Participated in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for proper analysis, development, testing, deployment and enhancement of the code.  * Played a key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and AndroidSDK.  * Designed complex User Interface screens using views and widgets.  * Used fragments to build small re-usable pieces that are easier to manage and allow for a more fluid visual design and also can adapt to tablet and phone resolutions.  * Used Android NDK to create the library files to be used by Services to access Native applications  * Implemented sorting options for search items based on categories (Relevance, Price, and Rating).  * Enhanced search functionality by adding auto fill and search history features.  * Implemented item level and order level savings break down options, user will able to view their discounts and savings for items they are purchasing.  * Created a local database using SQLite to store and retrieve the data (generally for the recently browsed products).  * Used shared preferences to store and retrieve persistent key value pairs across user sessions.  * Redesigned the cart checkout process with enhancements such as the accordion-style interface that acts as guide to complete user purchase.  * Enhanced the store pickup, shipping and delivery features to improve the process of checking in-store availability and online purchasing through apps.  * Used subversion for branching and merging new features without disrupting mainline development on trunk.  * Created a pop-up notification for alerting users of items that might still be in their cart (up on closing the app).  * At order completion, provided capability for guest users to create their online profile using info provided during the guest checkout flow.  * Involved in debugging and porting the application on various mobiles.  * Implemented Fragments in Activities.    Environment: Android SDK, Android NDK, ADT-Plugin, Eclipse IDE, Java, SQLite, Subversion, XML. Food Delivery Waiter.com - Dublin, CA January 2014 to June 2015 Android Developer    Description: The application allows us to search for restaurants nearby, order for delivery, pickup and to makes reservations online. It also offers to see what are in the restaurant menu, reviews, and explore coupons. Waiter.com offers delivery for restaurants that do not have their own delivery services. It offers Waiter Points rewards system, and order items for the future delivery (for the whole upcoming week).    Responsibilities:  * Designed and Implemented Views and Layouts for User Interaction.  * Developed the UI layers for Activities and implemented Fragments within UI.  * Used Multi-threading to implement parallel processing.  * Worked in Agile environment and participate in different phases of the project cycle like design and development.  * Used GPS services to get the exact location.  * REST web service interaction utilizing OAUTH authentication and JSON  * Extensively tested alpha releases with JUNIT 3 and Robotium.  * Worked closely with another mobile app developer, leading the other platform development.  * Used Android SDK 4.3 (Software Development Kit), Eclipse IDE (Integrated Development Environment), Dalvik Debug Monitor Server, Android Virtual Device, and Android Debug Bridge for development and debugging tool.  * Involved in the redesign of front end of web-site.  * Used design pattern like singleton and adapter.  * Used version control GIT.    Environment: Android SDK 4.3, Java 1.6, SQLite 3.0, Eclipse IDE 3.6, ADT Plugin, GIT, RESTful, Google Maps API, HTML5, CSS. Android Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN January 2013 to January 2014 Description: This Application provides a quick and easy way of managing the shipments. Helps the user to Track the status of the package, customizes the shipments and deliveries, finds the nearest FedEx locations, as well as helps the user to view the ship date and the expected arrival date, and also allows the user for a scheduled pickup.    Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed mobile application for Android mobile devices with extensive user interface development.  * Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  * Used web views, list views& populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  * Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  * Integrated location based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest stores.  * Implemented SQLite databases to monitor shipments.  * Implemented customized web view component to load an SWF file and HTML data.  * Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the xml files.  * Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.s  * Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  * Worked on debugging the application using Log cat, DDMS  * Tested the application on various Android devices    Environment: Android SDK 2.2, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Android API's, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, SQLite, GPS service, Log cat, Windows 7. Java J2EE Developer Sovereign Bank - Hartford, CT January 2011 to December 2012 Internet and Mobile Banking    Description: Sovereign Bank is implementing Internet and mobile banking system supplied by Finland-based Meridian Product Suite (MPS). Sovereign Bank customers will be able to check balances, prepare account transfers and browse transaction details through internet banking as well as through their mobile phones even when their mobile devices are offline. Meridian Product Suite (MPS) framework was designed to cater the need of banking and financial industries. This system has various modules like Bank Account Management, Bills and Payments, Loans, Credit Cards, Investments and Portfolio Management. Meridian Design Center tool helps to design and develop all these modules.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of application modules  * Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, CSS  * Have developed stateless session enterprise java beans.  * Implemented the project using IDE Eclipse.  * Used JSP, HTML, Java Script, Angular JS and CSS for content layout and presentation.  * Created data access layer using SQL and PL/SQL.  * Used JMS for Point-to-Point asynchronous messaging for high transactional Banking operation.  * Worked on JQuery, AJAX, JASON and JSF for designing highly user interactive web pages.  * Implemented AJAX for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between the client and the server.  * Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistency.  * Implemented the integration with the back end system with web services using SOAP  * Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.  * Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  * Developed JSF components, implemented event handling using Java, JSF and JavaScript for various modules.  * Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL.  * Involved in the bug tracking and Unit Testing using JUnit framework.  * Developed ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in an application server.  * Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed.    Environment: Core java, Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Angular JS, Hibernate, SQL, HTML, Springs, JQuery, JNDI, JMS, PL/SQL, JBOSS, ANT, XML, Java Script, CSS, Windows, Eclipse, Log4j Java Developer Meridian Soft - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to November 2010 Description: This Application allows the customers to post their orders through Web. Various operations relating to their orders such as expediting, canceling, splitting the order lines can be done through the web itself Status of their order is also displayed upon request.    Responsibilities:  * Actively involved in analyzing and collecting user requirements.  * Wrote Specification for the development.  * Wrote JSPs, Servlets and deployed them on WebLogic Application server.  * Wrote Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, views for backend database access.  * Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and Java Script for client side validations.  * Proficient in doing Object Oriented Design using UML-Rational Rose.  * Participated in Server side and Client side programming.  * Wrote SQL stored procedures, used JDBC to connect to database.  * Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using JDBC and performed configuration of JAVA Application Framework  * Created a user Interface through HTML and JSP, Standard Tag library.  * Involved in developing various Servlets.  * Tested and validated the application on different testing environments.  * Used DB2 as the database and wrote SQL & PL-SQL.    Environment: Core Java, JSP, HTML, Servlets, Java Script, DB2, SQL, PL-SQL, JDBC, MS Excel, UML, Apache Tomcat. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU Skills JAVA (7 years), ECLIPSE (6 years), TESTING (5 years), XML (5 years), ANDROID (4 years), Android Studio, Android SDK, Android NDK, ADT-Plugin, Eclipse IDE, Java, SQLite, GitHub, XML, Apache Tomcat, DB2. Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Technologies Java JDK 1.2/1.3/1.4/5/6,J2EE (JSP 1.2/2.0, Servlets 2.3/2.4, EJB 2.0), Android SDK 2.2, Spring 2.1, Spring 3.0, JDBC 3.0, JavaScript 1.8.x,CSS3  Android App  Mobile Development    SDK 2.x, 3.x, 4.0,4.2 Android, API - Activities, List Views, Adapters, SQLite, Horizontal scrolling, Notification Manager, Contact Content Provider, DDMS, Location, Map, HTTP Client, JSON based Web Services, Camera API, Facebook API.    Debugging and Testing Tools JUnit, DDMS, Logcat  Markup Languages HTML 4.0.1, HTML5 and XML 1.0.  Application Servers JBoss 3.2/4.0/5.0, Tomcat 5.5/6.0/7.0, WebSphere 6.0  IDE Eclipse 3.x, NetBeans 5.x/6.x/7.x, MyEclipse6.0/7.1/8.0, Oracle J Developer 10g/11g, Microsoft Visio 2007.  Data bases SQLite 3.6, Oracle 9i/10g, MySQL 4.0/5.0/5.5, MS-SQL Server 2005/2008  OS Windows (2000/XP Professional, Windows 7, Windows 8), Ubuntu, Fedora, Macintosh