SQL Server DBA, Apple iPhone/iPad & Visual Studio/C#/RHEL BASH/Powershell Developer SQL Server DBA, Apple iPhone/iPad &amp; Visual Studio/C#/RHEL BASH/Powershell <span class="hl">Developer</span> Expert Artificial Intelligence System Developer & Systems Architect, Oracle Developer & DBA,System Admin Germantown, MD Oracle and Artificial Intelligence System Developer and Systems Architect  • Capabilities Include Web and Oracle Database Development, Systems Integration, Oracle DBA, System, and Network Administration, Migrations, Conversions, ETL and RICEW, Installations & Documentation of complex mission critical systems  • Specialize in large complex enterprise computer systems, Subject Matter Expert (SME) knowledge of all layers of the technology stacks for modern multi-vendor complex enterprise computer systems.   • Fast Results. Able to quickly identify and fix problems, integrate new systems, upgrades, conversions and security  • Development experience in Web, Database, Networking, Financial, Medical Applications, Artificial Intelligence  • Recognized for implementing challenging technological specifications on time    • ORACLE: Enterprise Manager, Oracle E-Business Suite, Applications, Financials, HR, Manufacturing, Discoverer, Developer, Designer, Pro*C, SQL, PL/SQL, DBA, SOA, RAC, Fusion MiddleWare, WebCenter, Portal, Forms, Reports, ADF, ODI, BI, Erwin, Golden Gate, ETL, RICEW, FNDLOAD, SQL*Loader, DataPump, TOAD, MySQL  • UNIX: XWindows, JSP, JavaScript, PHP, HTML, XML, MVC, Tomcat, Eclipse, Apache, RHEL, Solaris, shell scripting  • Microsoft: Windows, PowerShell, Dot.NET, Office, SQL Server, Visual Studio, C#, VB, Citrix, MOSS, SharePoint, InfoPath, asp.net, Access, Excel, Visio, System Administrator, Server 2008, Server 2003  • Programming languages: Perl, C, C++, Java, J2EE, Assembler, Ada, REXX, Fortran, Pascal, Basic, Snowbol, CLists   • Vendors: Sybase DBA & Developer, Cold Fusion, SAS, Informatica, Informix, Crystal Reports, MQ, Drupal, WebSphere, Cloud  • Security: DISA Security hardening STIG and remediation, HP Fortify source code security analysis Work Experience SQL Server DBA, Apple iPhone/iPad & Visual Studio/C#/RHEL BASH/Powershell Developer Private Joint Venture company 2019 to Present SQL Server DBA, Apple iPhone/iPad & Visual Studio/C#/RHEL BASH/Powershell Develope r Develop computer security vulnerability systems to automatically login to any size list of computers to perform security scans. Unbox Apple Mini Mac, set up network and develop software in Apple and multiple VMs for Linux and Microsoft Windows 10. Created'multiple versions of the software for Microsoft Windows, all of the Apple iPhones and iPads and RHEL Linux using Fedora and Apple IOS for AT&T or BSD or other Unix distributions.    Created complete systems from design, code, test, demo from scratch new C# and Microsoft Visual Studio and PowerShell, and BASH computer security STIG software. Create delivery package in a single executable file for the ultimate easiest to install and run on Microsoft & Apple & Linux or Unix.    Created STIG software system to simultaneously scan entire networks of computer systems for any mix of customers, such as a world wide network of workstations up to the largest mainframe size computer system for multiple levels of security, any mixture of US Government DISA military standards, US Government NIST civilian standards, and/or commercial standards or any other custom standards on each computer in the batch TCP/IP and hostname computer list.  Created PowerShell and RHEL BASH scripts to output security scan results reports in XML and text output and created ability to display web browser pages from PowerShell scripts. Sr Technical Advisor, Virtual Reality Game System- Arduino/C++/Unity/(UE4) Developer DC Arch Angels 2017 to Present Created Virtual Reality systems for Medical Doctors to teach children with learning disabilities and computer VR Virtual Reality computer games. Wrote custom wireless interfaces with Arduino and C++ and Unity and Unreal Engine 4 (UE4) for experimental pre-releases of Japanese VR gloves. Downloaded the VR glove manufacturer's documentation and demonstrated that my wireless interface to a VR gun the children could pull the VR gun's trigger. Delivered proof of concept and waiting for new version of VR glove that is not pre-release that we can buy in mass numbers of VR and AR computer games.    Advise Angel investors and venture capitalists on merger and acquisitions and business advice. Participate in Shark Tank style investor meetings to give feedback to and questions for investment pitches from companies seeking money. Travel internationally to meet with investors and companies seeking money and international government officials.    Sell investment services internationally, their USA and overseas international office space, apartments, legal services, meetings with government officials, politicians, investors and partners, USA work Visas for their families. President Plus Computing Corporation 1992 to Present Create Plus Computing Corporation with my wife. No employees, we do everything for 27 years all by ourselves, we make all the sales.   Develop computer systems. Win contracts. Do all the work in these contracts.  We compete with the big companies (Oracle, IBM, SAIC, etc.) and we win or they win and we do all the work Oracle DBA & Oracle WebLogic Integration with IBM WebSphere & IBM Maximo & Adept Developer & Visual Studio/Visual Basic/Oracle Developer US Coast Guard 2017 to 2018 Visual Basic/Oracle Developer Urgent contract to quickly upgrade US Homeland Security Websites for new enhanced computer security. Upgrade Shore Asset Management (SAM) and Coast Guard - Technical Information Management System (CG-TIMS) using COTS products and custom interfaces to protect from compromised security vulnerabilities in a few weeks for very aggressive end-of-year deadline.    Upgrade IBM Maximo and Adept application upgrade using IBM WebSphere integration with Oracle WebLogic.  Re-design and change all the custom in-house developed interfaces to the COTS systems and interfacing with the underlying raw Oracle database tables, programs and procedures. Upgrade Oracle and Windows on workstations and server and MS-IIS Web server. Create new Oracle load programs to convert old database to new database structures. Upgrade Oracle AutoVue.    Create new documentation of all this work & train team of computer professionals how to do the work & since there was no time to spare, helped them move the changes to the TEST, STAGE and Production and Standby Recovery VMs.    Create new suite of Windows VM computer servers for Production, Disaster Recovery, Test, Development and Stage environments, each with Oracle database servers and Web Servers. Install all the COTS systems and Security Hardening STIG vulnerability remediation for US Government database Authority to Operate on the government secure Coast Guard DHS network using CAC access smart cards and Microsoft Active Directory security interface and migrate the existing government data to each of these 5 copies of the new SAM and TMIS systems.    Use Visual Studio to upgrade Visual Basic DotNET ASP Oracle OCI program interfaces and Java and C# programs to new Windows OS and new Oracle 12c RDBMS. Update and debug Legacy in-house custom reporting system that allowed complex database queries into the COTS raw data that changed technology and needed to be  re-engineered for all the changed tables and columns in the underlying COTS systems.    Identify network issues, permissions access and deny access, create firewall rules and create network tickets to allow network traffic between the servers and the users. Debug network errors and identify solutions and work with network security teams to create working systems. Oracle DBA & Data Modeler & Oracle Data Warehouse Developer US Navy 2017 to 2017 Create MicroSoft Project Plan, create PowerPoint presentation to convince US Navy to sign contract. Install Oracle and Oracle Data Warehouse Builder. Create Installation Install Documents with every step and parameter when Installing Oracle Database and Oracle Data Warehouse Builder. Create Visio Diagrams of the proposed database logical and physical design for the entire system. Create Visio Diagrams of the Subject Matter and the Objects and our solution. Oracle DBA & Oracle Pro*COBOL, Oracle*Forms Migration/Upgrade to Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) BASH from Oracle 11i to 12c US Army Reserves/ National Guard 2016 to 2017 ORACLE DBA/ Developer to perform upgrade of Reserve Component Automation Systems (RCAS) including Automated Fund Control Order System (AFCOS), General Fund Enterprise Business System (GFEBS), Standard Army Financial System (STANFINS), & Standard Installation/Division Personnel System (SIDPERS)  ?       Upgrade from Oracle 11i RDBMS systems to Oracle 12c   ?       Upgrade Oracle*Forms 11i to 12c  ?       Upgrade Legacy UNIX Bourne shell scripts to Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)  ?       Upgrade security to 2017 US Military STIG cyber security including changing all file directory locations  ?       Upgrade from MicroFocus Pro*COBOL to GnuCOBOL to GnuC & NetCOBOL installing & testing & converting  ?       Upgrade from using vi editor & print statements for debugging to Oracle Developer 12c IDE debugging  ?       Upgrade from no source code control to Oracle Developer 12c IDE team GIT & Subversion Baselines  ?       Test upgrade of RCAS system with Full-System End-To-End testing & verification using live data  Supporting 54 different customers from each of 50 States & Territories with different agendas & needs Oracle Developer, SAS Developer, Artificial Intelligence & Hadoop Apache Spark Developer US Treasury Financial Crimes FinCEN 2016 to 2016 Developer Create data mapping for new SAS & Oracle datasets. Create Views & analyze new datasets of financial information to track financial crimes such as money Laundering for Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. Create Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) massively parallel data analysis programming with Spark & Scala to identify money laundering. Load data into Model nodes with edges to find connections. Identify opportunities to implement Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Natural Language processing & other technologies to identify money laundering & financial crimes. Oracle DBA US Navy 2015 to 2015 Create Daily morning status report, fix hidden security problems, repair crashed network equipment, recommend improvements, weekly software updates, update documentation & improve reports. Windows PowerShell & Linux BASH script developer & Windows Administrator & Oracle DBA US Coast Guard 2015 to 2015 Oracle DBA installed Oracle on Windows & RHEL, Windows System Administrator install & configure Apache. Write 3 Oracle Windows PowerShell Applications & 3 Oracle Linux BASH Applications to:  ? Discover all Oracle & Apache servers on the US Coast Guard Network & create XML database & export to analysis software.  ? Create XML database of all Oracle & Apache servers on the US Coast Guard Network cyber-hacking known  vulnerabilities & export XML database to analysis software.  ? Change system configurations to harden systems to prevent cyber-hacking known vulnerabilities of all Oracle & Apache servers on the US Coast Guard Network & to export change log to XML database to analysis software. Oracle DBA and Oracle WebLogic Fusion MiddleWare DBA US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 2014 to 2014 MiddleWare DBA Design and implement Oracle Data Warehouse and new Reporting systems and upgrade Agent Laptop Investigator Support System to digitize legal documents in support of law enforcement case tracking and workflow signatures. Install Oracle database, install application software. Oracle DBA and Oracle WebLogic Fusion MiddleWare DBA US Federal Reserve Board 2013 to 2013 Upgrade Oracle to latest available patch level. Apply patches and security certificates and create detailed instructions and perform software upgrades. Create Unix crontab scripts to start and stop Oracle Fusion MiddleWare and WebLogic, encrypting user names and passwords and setup and use Enterprise Manager and WebLogic Administrator Console for server farms. PHP Developer SAN Business Consultants 2012 to 2012 Created interactive Green-Yellow-Red bar charts of Renal medical data using PHP and Flash and Drupal to visually show OK-Warning-Danger status of patients. Oracle DBA & Java & Oracle Developer US Veterans Administration 2011 to 2011 Review Java Medical Application system processing HL7 messages using Oracle and compare to specifications and evaluate state of project compliance. Install and configure Eclipse, Maven, JDK. Reverse engineer Java system and create ERD diagrams and create IV&V reports for different releases of the software. Write analysis of java programs and the hospital patient registration system. Oracle DBA and Oracle Developer and Perform STIG security hardening US Defense Medical Systems 2011 to 2011 Perform STIG security hardening and DBA tasks for AHLTA Theater Oracle database and Microsoft VB dot net system. Analyze delivered VM systems, determine reasons for installation failure, fix application, perform security hardening and create STIG reports for DISA. Attend Fortify training and analyze security taints using Fortify security scanning software. Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer US Defense Medical Systems 2011 to 2011 Enhance Oracle AHLTA Medical Application ADM system processing hospital patient information system, converted PL/SQL search code to use BIND variables and other requested enhancements. Oracle DBA & SQL Server DBA & Oracle Developer Install and security US Defense Medical Systems, Blood Database 2010 to 2011 Oracle DBA & SQL Server DBA & Oracle Developer Install and security harden and perform DoD DISA STIG testing and remediation of all security issues for DoD Medical Blood Database systems. Install COTS Mediware Blood Management System on numerous RHEL LINUX UNIX Servers, MS-Windows 2008, Vista Oracle, Oracle Application Apache HTTP Server, Oracle Web Forms Server, and MS-SQL Server databases, print and Identity servers, identify and remediate security issues and pass DoD DISA STIG tests to allow Military Medical personnel to test and field Blood Management Database systems to integrate into battlefield medical operations. Create Informatica system to convert Legacy Informix RDBMS to Oracle.   SQL-Server DBA & SQL-Server Developer Database Systems Integration US Defense Medical Systems 2010 to 2010 Specialist for Military Veterinarian Database to diagnose Progress to MS-Sql Server interface errors to track K-9 animal medical database systems. Provide analysis and correctional recommendations for dropped records and orphan data problems. SharePoint & Oracle Discoverer & Oracle Developer & Oracle Federal Financials Developer US Department of Homeland Security 2009 to 2009 Create SharePoint InfoPath database of Discoverer Oracle Financials report change requests, analyze, code & test reports, review & update Discoverer reports. Create systems documentation for DHS Reports, Database Dictionary, Crontab jobs. AIM Documentation. Oracle Financials Developer & Oracle Developer & Oracle DBA Census 2008 to 2008 Create software for collecting & managing new database interface system between the US 2010 Census nationwide Handheld Data Collection Devices and legacy Census database systems. Take ownership of Defect Action Items, analyze, code & test PL/SQL stored procedures, review & update PL/SQL packages for performance enhancements to take advantage of partitioning, create & perform unit tests, prepare & test new program change installation instruction packages & scripts, update documentation to reflect changes. Oracle Developer & Oracle Financials Developer Medicaid 2007 to 2007 Oracle Financials Developer for Oracle Financials State Government Medicaid system. Designed & developed enhancements to Oracle Financials AP, AR. & GL system including Interface table processing, PL/SQL, Concurrent jobs, Request Sets, and DSDD, MD-50, MD-70, BR-100, documentation, proposals. Oracle Manufacturing & Oracle Warehouse & Oracle Developer & Oracle Financials Developer Anchor Hocking Glass 2007 to 2007 Prepared for multiple company mergers, reviewing legacy systems to be converted into Anchor Hocking's Oracle Financial (PO, AP, GL, AR, INV, WIP, BOM, QA, and WMS) E-Business Suite, outline and create level of efforts estimates for the Extract, Transform, and Load processes, begin data mapping process for key data elements. Oracle Developer & Oracle Federal Financials Developer for Oracle Federal US Department of Education 2006 to 2007 Oracle Federal Financials Developer for Oracle Federal Financials system. Designed & developed enhancements to Oracle Financials system including security, merging multiple legacy PL/SQL systems, Alerts, Concurrent jobs, Value Sets, Unix programming, DDD and documentation Oracle Developer and Oracle Financials Developer www.GXS.com 2006 to 2006 Oracle Financials Developer for GXS Oracle Financials system. Designed and developed enhancements to Oracle Financials system & integration of Peregrine ServiceCenter COTS workflow system using Oracle Alerts & Extensions & APIs & Advanced Queuing & PL/SQL & MD-50. Oracle Financials Forms Application Developer US Department of Defense 2005 to 2005 Oracle Financials Forms Application Developer for US Air Force Financials system. Created simple and very complex forms for a multi-year world-wide Air Force Budgeting and Finance system using Oracle Forms and PL/SQL and Stored Procedures on Unix servers. Oracle Forms Developer & Oracle Developer & Oracle Financials Developer www.Barrick.com 2005 to 2005 Oracle Financials Developer converted Custom Timesheet Forms to work under Oracle Financials using Oracle Forms and PL/SQL and Stored Procedures on Unix servers. Artificial Intelligence Developer US Treasury Comptroller of Currency 2004 to 2004 Migrate expert system that predicts Bank Failures to new version, make Y2K Compliant, document & debug using Guru AI language to predict bank failure probability for all US banks. Upgraded O/S & upgraded Guru AI version, completed testing & documentation of all work. Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer & Oracle Financials Developer US Department of Defense Medical Systems 2002 to 2004 Upgraded Oracle DBMS from 8i to 9i RAC & 11i, includes several different Unix servers for Oracle Financials Applications Production, Test, Development, Demo, Training & other versions. Converted SQL-Server programs to PL/SQL, helped design data synchronization system between hundreds of DoD Military Medical Information systems, & created documentation including ERD, UML, MD50, & design documents. Updated several Oracle systems with new PL/SQL code for each release of application, compiled, debugged, & tested PL/SQL stored procedures, packages, triggers, types, etc., moving data between test, development & production servers, managing different systems with updates and patches as required. Installed multiple 9i RAC & non-RAC systems on Unix & PC servers including tablespace & Veritas SAN configurations. Updated system design to meet Department of Defense Security requirements, ran STIG tests & submitted STIG reports to allow Web database systems to go into worldwide production acceptance. Oracle Developer & SAS Developer Capital One Credit Cards 2002 to 2002 Oracle Developer & SAS Developer for very large decision support Risk Analysis system on Mainframes, Unix, & PC. IBM JCL & Unix programming & data conversions with Oracle data loader, PL/SQL & SAS from multiple very large Cobol mailing lists & FICO scores to manage risk. Oracle Manufacturing, Oracle HR & Oracle Developer & Oracle Financials Developer BAE Systems 2001 to 2001 Oracle Manufacturing, Oracle HR & Oracle Developer & Oracle Financials Developer Integration of new JAMIS Oracle Web Timecard System with Oracle Financials & Oracle Manufacturing including creating custom PL/SQL & Pro*C Labor Distribution system, including Oracle Financials System Administration, programming, testing & documentation. Citrix & Oracle Discoverer, Oracle Developer & Oracle Financials Developer Concert Communications Corp (AT&T/BT Joint Venture) 2000 to 2001 Citrix & Oracle Discoverer, Oracle Developer & Oracle Financials Developer support for worldwide network of Oracle Financials, Noetix, Oracle Application Desktop Interface & Oracle Discoverer users including Citrix thin client. Interfaced with AT&T, British Telecom, Ignite, & other corporate division personnel from around the world including currency conversions of US$, Euros, & other currencies, VAT tax refunds, and other financial considerations of large multinational systems. Oracle Developer, Development, Tuning & Optimization NASD/FINRA 2000 to 2000 Oracle Developer Development, Tuning & Optimization for Web CRD Oracle RDBMS application version 2.0 of National Association of Stock Dealers’ Central Registration Depository (CRD) Website to eliminate unsatisfactory performance using PL/SQL, SQL, Toad, & Enterprise Manager. Guide team of developers to utilize new features of Oracle 8 RDBMS to increase performance. Analyze PL/SQL programs to eliminate errors and suggest improvements. Analyze database installation factors & suggest utilizing new Oracle 8 features to DBAs & management. Oracle Developer US Postal Service 2000 to 2000 Oracle Developer created Web Employee Timesheet System using Oracle RDBMS PL/SQL, SQL*Forms, SQL*Reports & other programs to complete system development, resolve all Trouble Reports & other user acceptance test concerns.  Unix Systems Administrator & Sybase Developer www.COS.com 2000 to 2000 Unix Systems Administrator & Sybase Developer for www.COS.com production website, responsible for maintaining & implementing improvements to multiple sets of Unix servers using Solaris & Linux programming environments, including Veritas backup & recovery, documentation, user account management, user support, Sybase SQL procedure development, tape processing, debugging Linux mount errors, migrating code into production, obtain price & performance quotes for switches, cooling systems & Unix servers. Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer Washington Gas Energy Services 2000 to 2000 Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer of Oracle Web Application for customer sales application using Oracle 8i, Designer 2000, Oracle SQL*Forms, PL/SQL stored procedures, HTML & Microsoft Word mail-merge for WGES. Implement changes to resolve all issues encountered during User Acceptance Testing C Language Developer & Unix Developer & Oracle Forms Developer & Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer US National Institutes of Health (NIH) 1998 to 1999 C Language Developer & Unix Developer & Oracle Forms Developer & Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer for large multi-platform Oracle installation using IBM MVS & DEC Alpha Unix hosts & NT network. Daily database support for dozens of Oracle databases for multiple agencies of the US government including US bi-weekly payroll database, including exports, backups, recovery plans, assist users, tablespace & user account maintenance. Created Unix shell scripts, IBM JCL, REXX, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, Pro*C, Automated Operations systems, Control-M scheduler, ISPF, TSO, & other processes. Provided expert advice, documentation, Web pages, & support activities. Supported Y2K testing & achieving Y2K compliance. Created installation checklist & assisted in migration from Oracle 7 to 8 and preparations for Oracle8i migration, including analyzing all software & hardware requirements. Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer US NASA 1998 to 1998 Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer at NASA using Unix and Oracle on IBM RS6000 AIX and Silicon Graphics IRIX, Windows 95 and Windows NT to operate the Earth Observing System Satellite Oracle databases. Installed Oracle on dozens of NASA supercomputers, monitored the CMVC Trouble Reporting and Enhancements Requests System and implemented the resulting PL/SQL application software changes to installation scripts for multiple NASA application types across diverse types of configurations and performance specifications. I wrote a DBA Manual to document exactly how to perform all these tasks. Oracle Forms Developer & Oracle Developer George Washington University 1997 to 1997 Oracle Forms Developer & Oracle Developer at George Washington University using Unix and Oracle Developer 2000 on IBM RS6000 AIX, Novell Netware and Windows 95. Programmed SQL*Forms, PL/SQL, SQR, Pro*C, and Unix application to fix final testing bugs found before implementation of custom modifications for George Washington University student and alumni systems including accounts receivable and payroll functions.  Sybase Developer & C Language Developer & Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer Value Behavioral Health Insurance 1996 to 1997 Created Unix, Oracle, Sybase, 'C' & MS-Access systems on IBM RS6000 AIX, Sun Solaris, & Sequent servers, WWWeb, and Novell Netware and Windows 95. Programmed PL/SQL Stored Procedure Packages, SQL*Load, SQL*Plus modules, DBA tasks, & Unix shell scripts to process production data interfacing with Java Intranet Web page applications to provide standard and ad-hoc management reporting systems, Quality Control Survey Database Systems and Insurance Benefits Database Systems. Migrated various production Oracle systems from Sequent & Sun to RS-6000, including creating 'C' programs to read binary encoded native Cobol indexed files using only sequential access, planning DBA tasks, & documentation. Interfaced Oracle applications with Sybase & AS/400 gateways. Programmed PL/SQL, 'C', & Unix Crontab scripts to mirror Sybase, Cobol & AS400 data to Oracle for integrated reports. Created mission critical database conversions & reports quickly to give risk advise on corporate takeovers. MS-Access Developer & Oracle Forms Developer & Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer TRW 1996 to 1996 Created TRW's U.S. Treasury Telecommunications Network System’s Contract Billing Systems & Aestra's Dispatch COTS Software contract using Oracle on Sun Solaris & Windows NT. Developed Contract Billing Issues document, evaluated Telecommunications Billing Vendor proposals, wrote Billing Systems specifications and sample SQL programs, and assisted selected vendor with issues under a tight schedule during contract startup. Developed SQL*Forms 4.5 and MS-Access 7 applications to manage Oracle databases. Installed Oracle server & tools including Designer2000, Developer 2000, Discoverer 2000, ODBC, and other tools on NT and Sun platforms. CoAuthored Database Administrators Supplement manual. Wrote Unix shell scripts using Awk, Sed, Grep, etc. Wrote SQL programs, Database triggers, and other Oracle objects for database applications and converting legacy system data into Oracle. Assisted users to learn MS-Access programming and general PC questions using MS-Office tools Excel and Word. Attended training in Aestra's Dispatch application for Trouble Tickets, Service Requests and Service Order system. Used Oracle Designer 2000's tools to reverse engineer Hewlett Packard Openview, Aestra's Dispatch and other table schemas into Oracle Database Repository. Oracle Warehouse Developer & Oracle Discoverer Developer & Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer IRS 1995 to 1996 Oracle Warehouse Developer & Oracle Discoverer Developer & Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer of Data Warehouse for US Internal Revenue Service using Oracle and IEF CASE models. Converted IEF Data Models into Oracle Tables, develop conversion plans, documentation, and map physical database conversion from Cobol, Informix, DB2, and Oracle to new and converted the data into Oracle tables and columns. Evaluated Esperant, Crystal Reports, Oracle Discoverer DataQuery and DataBrowser GUI client database software and reporting tools and produced sample reports and screens and distributed samples via IRS network for demonstrations and installations. C Language Developer & Oracle Developer MCI www.1800musicnow.mci.com 1995 to 1995 Created Pro*C, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, & CDE systems on IBM RS6000 AIX/Unix with HACMP and DEC Alpha, and TCP/IP socket programming using 'C' language, AIX scripts. Created complete Oracle Database Stored Procedure Package in PL/SQL & Pro*C to process Web Shopping Carts and manage customer orders for 1-800-MUSICNOW. Created System interfaces to the Internet Web Pages & touch-tone telephone units (VRUs) with voice prompts commands thru TCP/IP Sockets. Created Interface to Internet Web Pages, VisaNet servers and Tax servers to process credit card sales using Oracle Distributed Computing Environment (DCE). Attended Advanced MS-Access training. Sybase DBA, Sun System Admin, Sybase Developer Cordant Corporation 1995 to 1995 Sybase DBA, Sun System Admin, Sybase Developer for Aurum Helpdesk application software. Installed Solaris on Sun file server, installed Sybase DBMS, installed Aurum application software, installed Accell/SQL DBMS software, converted databases from old computer database system into Aurum, provided assistance in configuring software to meet corporate needs, including changing old data to fit new database, adding indexes. Wrote database administrator manual other manuals. Wrote database administrator manual, Database Dictionary & other manuals. Client/server application ran on a Novell network using PC/TCP to connect to the Sun Sybase server. PC client used Accell/SQL & Unify Vision. MS-Access Developer & MS-Excel Developer US Army RCAS for Boeing 1994 to 1995 Developer of a US Department of Defense (DoD) Government Contract Proposal Pricing System compliant with the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), created Proposal Tracking System & updated cost accounting data into new Pricing System. Work with team developing and supporting database application, including developing user interface Screens, Processing, and Reports,  analyzed Maintenance Pricing Model, reported on Errors & Omissions, and estimated dollar impact, converted mainframe cost accounting data into new Pricing System, imported data from other sources, and developed software. Assisted with computer and network issues. C Language Developer & Unix Developer & Oracle Forms Developer & Oracle DBA & Developer Halliburton Nuclear Utility Services 1994 to 1994 Oracle Developer to track Nuclear Power Plant Worker Safety Exposure data for the US Department of Energy. Create & debug SQL*Forms, Case*Dict, Pro*C, and Oracle CASE products. Assisted the Unix system administrator, wrote shell scripts, and used XWindows. Sybase Developer Black & Decker 1993 to 1994 Created an Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) Sales & Marketing application using Sybase MS-Windows Client/Server environment on Vax, using Novell 486 PC Windows Development Environment and UNIFACE, to replace the old IBM Cobol and ISPF system. Sun Unix System Administrator & Unix Developer & Web Developer Verizon / C&P Telephone / Bell Atlantic 1993 to 1993 Sun Unix System Administrator & Unix Developer & Web Developer Created WWW-HTML automated disaster recovery system for Sun Unix network for use by non-technical C&P help desk personnel & was Unix System Administrator for five state, 6000 node Sun wide area network. Used Shell scripts, FrameMaker, and HyperText programming for online help system. Used Sun workstations, X-terminals, Tivoli, Wollongong Network Management System, Unix, and Kerberos, to correct workstation, file server, and software problems including diagnosis, problem resolution, and client interface. Advanced support contact for IBM mainframe based problem tracking system. Problem resolution included using diagnostics on Sun Workstation, File Servers, Routers, Gateways, and Terminal Servers. Attended Unix shell script training. C Language Developer & Oracle Forms Developer & Oracle Developer US NASA for Boeing 1993 to 1993 Created NASA Space Station Freedom payload requirement tracking, change requests, & trouble reports & Boeing procurement & contract databases. Created Oracle SQL*Forms, Pro*C, TSO, JCL, ISPF, 3270, and Endeavor application systems on NASA IBM mainframe, created Oracle procurement and contract databases to replace Macintosh 4th Dimension (4D) to convert to run on an IBM Mainframe. During this project, the team migrated the system from Oracle version 6 to version 7. The development environment was Ungerman-Bass TCP/IP Network of PCs, VAX & IBM 309x. IBM JCL & SAS Developer & Unix Developer & MS-Access Developer AT&T 1992 to 1993 Created Sales & Billing Management Reporting & Analysis systems. Created AT&T finance systems using Windows, dBase, Excel, Paradox, and Access. Maintained, improved and converted Billing Management system on IBM TSO using JCL, Clists, Ramis, SAS, Syncsort, and ISPF to collect, sort, merge, and process information sets on a monthly & Ad-hoc basis. Created systems to download desired multi-system corporate information into PC based analysis system & created analysis & reporting & information processing systems for non-technical use by AT&T management & business analysts. Reacted quickly to create Ad-hoc report whenever requested, while creating monthly reports & maintaining on-line interactive datasets on PC-LAN & UNIX for reference by any AT&T user. Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer & Dbase Developer & Windows System Administrator US NOAA 1990 to 1992 Oracle DBA & Oracle Developer & Dbase Developer & Windows System Administrator for the nation wide Department of Commerce Financial Analysis & Commitment Tracking System program (FACTS) & Electronic Administrative Support Interface (EASI) systems. Re-wrote the Mainframe FACTS system from DEC-20 computer using 1022 database & created an ORACLE FACTS system using an IBM 3090 computer. Again converted system from IBM 3090 to DEC VAX using ORACLE. Analysis, programming and testing of ORACLE programs that download to PC based FACTS system. Analysis, programming, installation, support, and troubleshooting of PC based FACTS subsystem using dBase/Clipper language, including Blinker, Funcky, Grumpfish, Flipper, and other third party libraries, which runs on stand-alone and networked PCs (including Novell, Banyan, X.25, 3Com, LANTastic, VAX, and AT&T Starlan networks). Produced system documentation using SNAP documentation program. Assisted NOAA in selecting, installing, and testing Network Management Software, and X.400 electronic mail systems. Provided analysis, programming, and support for the Electronic Administrative Support Interface (EASI) system using the dBase-3/Clipper and 'C' languages. Rewrote EASI Travel Order subsystem for LAN multi-user environment and simplified the user interface. Added government form capability (CD370, CD29, CD435) from plain paper with HP laser printers. Provided programming and support for Elite forms management software.  C Language Developer & Clarion Developer CSX Railroad 1990 to 1990 Created a worldwide financial budget system. Developed CLARION and 'C' language programs to manage finances for shipping and transportation hubs & created interface programs between the IBM based Millennium database and IBM compatibles for a worldwide financial budget system including custom IRMA 3270 board programs. Artificial Intelligence Developer & Unix Systems Administrator US Department of Defense (DoD), Joint Chiefs of Staff 1988 to 1990 Artificial Intelligence Developer & Unix Systems Administrator for the Auto Force Generator (AFG) expert system that generates Time Phased Force & Deployment Data (TPFDD). This expert system allows a planner to enter and maintain rules for governing of Combat and Support forces. It then applies these rules to a specific Operational Plan to generate a TPFDD. AFG is linked to the Worldwide Military Command and Control System (WWMCCS) and interfaces with the Joint Planning System (JOPS). AFG was implemented on an IBM PC using the GURU artificial intelligence system. Hardware included a Novell network of Compaq 386s, VAX 8650, and IBM WWMCCS Information System (WIS) workstations. Software included GURU, UNIX, MS-DOS, Novell Netware, WordPerfect, WonderPlus, Microsoft Windows, Fastwire, Fastback, PKARC, CrossTalk, PCtools, and various other packages. Trained military personnel & co-wrote User Manuals & Test Manuals. Attended SYSCON training in Ada & C+ +. Unix System Administrator & Unix Developer & IBM JCL & C Language Developer US Federal Aviation Administration 1987 to 1988 Upgraded Air Traffic Management System UNIX operating system & application system on nation-wide network, conducted Operational Testing using Apollo DN570, DN560, DN300, DN580T, DN3000 using UNIX on an Apollo Network interfacing with the Interfacility Flow Control Network, PDP-11, and IBM 4341 and IBM 3081s and IBM PCs, Token Rings and Leased Lines, 'C' language, UNIX Shell Scripts, Pascal, JCL, WYLBUR and Data-scopes. Responsible for installing new version of UNIX operating system & upgrading the FAA Air Traffic Management application software on the nation-wide HP/Apollo FAA workstations & network, including maintenance programming and troubleshooting, hardware problem diagnosis, user assistance by telephone, conducting Operational Testing, Configuration Management, resolving problems and creating software releases. Attended UNIX system programming training at the Apollo Computers, Inc. Headquarters. Wrote test plan, conducted tests, wrote test reports, got FAA approval to go forward with upgrades, installed upgrades, all in a challenging environment. DBase Developer US Housing & Urban Development 1987 to 1987 Created an inventory of the computer systems used throughout HUD, made system operational, converted systems from dBase to Clipper, and converted systems from single-user PC programs to LAN application systems, managed database updates, analyzed systems, recommended solutions, co-authored Requirement Analysis Document, programmed & created quarterly publication of the Database contents for reports from HUD to US Congress. SAS Database Application Developer DBS Corporation 1986 to 1986 SAS Database Application Developer to create systems to analyze legal data, programmed & processed hundreds of magnetic tapes using SAS and created graphic charts and tables from this data for US Department of Justice court cases & publications Dbase Developer & Fortran Developer Congressional Quarterly 1983 to 1986 Analysis & application programming & analysis of Database, Publishing, Data Telecommunications, & Billing Systems & ATEX Publishing System. Upgraded Congressional Vote Analysis System, created invoice systems, conversion programs & procedures between the various business systems & integrated systems with Cobol & created the Washington Alert System, as well as support for company-wide user problem resolution. Attended training classes for Computer System Documentation. Learned & used Yourdon/DeMarco system design methodology. Customized & maintained Cobol systems. Fortran Developer & Assembler Developer AT&T 1982 to 1983 Fortran Developer & Assembler Developer of telephone databases & publishing telephone directories on VAX 11/780 using FORTRAN, VAX system services package, and custom database and graphics programs including ISAM, Direct Access, Macro-11, and proprietary Database and Graphics packages. Created computer systems to allow telephone personnel to remotely update database over leased lines, and created reports for their various monthly international telephone Rate and Routing Guides and created microfiche and publication proof sets for large production printing under strict deadlines. Attended training classes in Jackson system design methodology & the Science of Programming through the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). 4 Publications & Technical Editor & Fortran Developer & IBM JCL & clists & MODCOMP US NASA 1980 to 1982 4 Publications & Technical Editor & Fortran Developer & IBM JCL & clists & MODCOMP programmer Worked at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center's World Data Center for Rocket & Satellite Data / National Space Science Data Center. Database programming and graphics on IBM mainframes and MODCOMP minicomputer using FORTRAN, CLISTS, Tektronix graphics terminals, graphics packages, JCL and TSO of satellite images, maintained satellite image databases, created programs & performed processing of satellite & astronomical data from worldwide sources. Technical Editor for monthly NASA Spacewarn Bulletin https://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/spacewarn/ . Co-authored 4 NASA government scientific publications. Attended training classes for SNOWBOL, TSO, JCL, and NASA systems. 3 Publications & Medical Research Assistant & DEC 10 & IBM JCL & Fortran Developer US National Institutes of Health 1977 to 1979 3 Publications & Medical Research Assistant & DEC 10 & Wylbur & Fortran Developer & IBM JCL operating Medical Computerized Axial Tomography (CAT Scanners) X-RAY machines. Co-authored 3 scientific publications in Medical Physics, IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science, & Radiology. Attended training classes in MLAB, Pascal, Fortran, & Curve Fitting. Developed IBM 360 programs using Wylber and DEC-10 programs to analyze medical data and produce statistical analysis and graphs and photos for NIH research papers and scientific publications. Used radioactive samples and medical detectors to help design new PET scanners and other CAT scanner and NMR scanner research, including designing printed circuit boards and designing hardware logic schematics for new nuclear scanner systems and soldering components onto circuit boards. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Maryland Project Management Montgomery College Business University of Maryland Smith School of Business graduate school Skills DBA, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Sybase, RAC, Rman, Sql Database, Oracle Database, ETL Links http://www.KittenHoneyFarm.com http://www.pluscc.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/williamsheridan/ Certifications/Licenses Beekeeper from State of Maryland Publications Data Users Note: Lunar maps available from NSSDC Documentation for the machine-readable version of the 0. 2-A resolution far-ultraviolet stellar spectra measured with COPERNICUS Search Capabilities for the Catalogue of Stellar Identifications CSI 1979 Version SpaceWarn Bulletin (Technical Editor) https://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/spacewarn/ Progress toward Quantitative Computed Tomography Evaluation of edge-induced streaking artifacts in CT scanners Tissue signatures with dual-energy computed tomography