Developer/Consultant <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Consultant 20 Years Computer Science Developer with 4 years Laravel Experience Houston, TX Experienced enterprise integration architect with over twenty years of progressive experience and a solid track record of success on more than twelve enterprise software development projects. Possesses core competencies in: planning and leading commerce systems integration projects; defining layered, distributed, service-oriented enterprise architectures. My methods in completing projects are due to my military disciplined, agile programming and lean software development methodologies in organizations. Experienced in object-oriented design and programming, development with XML and web services technologies and software requirements elicitation and development on the Open Source platform. Highly effective at creating project vision, articulating strategy, building consensus, mentoring, and facilitating communication. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer/Consultant Texas Integrated Services - Houston, TX May 2007 to Present Contracted to work on various projects. Implemented an agile development process with a few developers of varying experience/skill levels, and mentored junior developers in new technologies.    Technologies: C#, JAVA, C++, ASP.NET, PI, APTIFY, Laravel 5, PHP, ROR, MS SQL, PostSQL, MySQL, WINDOWS 2003, 2010 SERVER, ORACLE, FREEBSD, VMWare Server, Workstation, EXSI 5, WireCast, Video Production(NashvilleRadio.TV) Owner, Self Starter and Developer Malairte Bitcoin LLC - Houston, TX 2015 to January 2019 Malairte Bitcoin LLC  Owner, Self Starter and Developer  Malairte Bitcoin LLC is a cryptocurrency analysis and research platform designed to offers transparent information on each cryptocurrency and effectively support your investment decisions. Developing the High-Frequency Trading Service was Bittrex Exchange's first fully automated trading system.  • Built a quant trading system for 5 different Bitcoin Exchanges • Implement different API's into different algorithms to run 24 / 7 • Built custom security mods in C++ to add to the Apache Server  Technologies: PHP 7.X, CURL, CSS 3,Vue.js, Angular.js, Laravel 5, MySQL. PostGRESQL, Ubuntu, LintMinux    Texas Integrated Services in Houston, Texas PHP Programmer XO Communication - Dallas, TX March 2007 to April 2007 Contract PHP Enterprise Developer  XO Communication, Dallas, TX  Reason for Leaving: Contracted Ended    Served as a contract PHP Enterprise Developer for a web applications and services for XO Communication. Total redesign of a corporate management level custom review report. Worked with the executive staff to gather there requirements and wants. Worked in a solo environment on a Sun Box w/ Solaris 2.9 64bit. Oracle 10g, PHP5 • Integrated w/ Net Alert, Net Cool, Help Desk • Total rewrite database schema • Total rewrite flowchart • OOD Documentation  Technologies: PHP 5, Zend, Oracle 10g, Solaris 9, LDAP, SMS Gateway, Extreme Programming, Google API, SMTP, POP3, OOP PHP Programmer Noridian - Fargo, ND September 2006 to November 2006 Contract PHP Enterprise Developer, Noridian in Fargo, ND  Reason for Leaving: Contracted Ended    Served as a contract PHP Enterprise Developer for a web applications and services for Noridian. Total redesign of a corporate management level custom review report. Worked with the executive staff to gather their requirements and wants. Worked in a solo environment on a Red Hat Enterprise platform, PHP 4.3 / Postgresql Platform.  • Medical Security Health Compliance • Total rewrite database schema • Total rewrite flowchart • Documentation    Product:  The call center staff needed to input their work activities and time taken to perform each activity. When they have finished updating their list of work activities, their superiors had to approve it. The system will then generate data for these employees and their superiors can see the individual work contribution to the company in terms of: 1. The list of activities that they perform, 2. The time taken for them to perform each activity, 3. Their priority in terms of time given to each activity, 4. Their core activities based on their time distribution, and 5. The financial impact of each activity to the organization.  6. The training required to perform better 7. The re-engineering required to assist the individual to perform better    Technologies: PHP 4, Zend, Postgresql, Red Hat, LDAP, Extreme Programming PHP Programmer Progress Rail - Albertville, AL May 2006 to September 2006 Contract PHP Enterprise Developer, Progress Rail in Albertville, Al.  Reason for Leaving: Contracted Ended    Served as a PHP programmer for Progress Rail. Implemented and extended the functionality of the corporation customer web site. Worked with the project manager one on one to understand and develop the wanted functionality of the program. The project was ahead of time with no delays for the timely release. Worked in an eXtreme Programming team environment on and Oracle 9i database and a Red Hat Enterprise platform, PHP 4 / Apache 2.1 Platform, CVS.  • Program Analyses and database design • PHP Programmer 4 functionality • Sarbanes Oxley Compliance • Update OOP functionality • Documentation    Product:  Additional product functionality that needed to be implemented to the corporate product due to public purchase of Caterpillar under the Sarbane Oxley rules.    Technologies: Sarbane Oxley, eXtreme Programming, PHP 4, Apache 2.1, CVS, Red Hat, CVS, Zend E-5 Programmer US Coast Guard 2003 to 2006 Camp Kodiak IT Director for Mary's Hair Accounting Mary's Accounting Firm - Houston, TX May 2001 to May 2003 Reason for Leaving: Company Down Size    Served as an IT Director for Mary's Accounting group. Improved business processes and supported critical business strategies by directing the development, implementation, and maintenance of business applications systems. Formulated business systems architecture plans, estimates costs, and ensures projects meet strategic needs. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures in the accounting world. Relied on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals to support a successful implementation. Successfully implemented an agile development process with many developers of varying experience/skill levels, and mentored junior developers in new technologies. Performs a variety of tasks. Leads and directed the work of others.  • Technical project leadership in Data Mining/Data Warehousing applications • Team building, resource allocation and personnel management • Budget allocation and reporting • Project tracking • Interface with Marketing and Sales business partners    Products:  Every system was a customized product due to the environment that the company was already involved with.    Technologies: Apache 2.X, IIS 5, 6, PHP 5, PHP 4, AJAX, Java 2, HTML, SOAP, Tomcat, JBOSS, Oracle Database 10, 9, 8, MySQL 5, 4, Cold Fusion 5, 4, VBScript and Java Script. Platforms: Windows 2000 Advance Server, Windows 2003 Enterprise, Windows XP, 2000 Workstation, 98, Exchange 2003, Oracle Database 10i, SQL 2000 - 2003, CRM (custom project written in PHP, MySQL 5, 4), LDAP Server, WAP Server (Exchange eMail), OWL, Dot Net 2002, ASP, C#, VB. JSP / Java Programmer McData - Broomfield, CO October 2000 to May 2001 Reason for Leaving: Dot Com Stock went to 140 => 0.20    Served as a Java Programmer/Analyst: Perform system analysis and programming activities associated with designing, developing, and maintaining complex business applications on the web. Work in a project/team (XP) environment to design, code, test, implement, and maintain production applications. Developing, testing, implementing and maintaining web-based applications. Experienced using Java, HTML, Oracle, People Soft, Cold Fusion and Java Script. Company downsized due to stock prices. Company was bought out by Brocade Inc. Cold Fusion Developer / Product Manager Hostworks March 2000 to October 2000 Technologies: Java 1.3, ELB's, J2EE, Oracle 8, People Soft5.6, Cold Fusion 4.5, Java Script, Solaris 7, Vignette Technologies  Cold Fusion Developer / Product Manager for Hostworks: 3/2000 - 10/2000, Cold Fusion Developer / Product Manager Project Manager / Cold Fusion Developer Quarks, Hostworks, Buchanan Associates - Denver, CO January 2000 to October 2000 Buchanan and Associates, Denver, Co.  Reason for Leaving: Contracted Ended    Served as a Product Manager / Cold Fusion Developer for Buchanan and Associates. Served as a Cold Fusion Developer for Hostworks to designed and developed online purchase & sale order processing e-commerce web applications for dot.com enterprises. Successfully implemented an agile development process on a team of five developers of varying experience/skill levels, and mentored junior developers in new technologies.  • Senior Consultant • Planned and managed projects to schedule.  • Increased Sales by 40% • Increase productivity over 30% • Built e-commerce applications to mesh with client wishes and company structure.    Technologies: Consultant, Sales, eXtreme Programming, Cold Fusion 4.5, MsSQL 2000, IIS 4 Squad Leader US Army 1994 to 1997 Leadership Training  Ft. Sill, Ft. Carson, Ft. Bliss, Ft. Hood, Ft. Peterson Education Computer Science Degree in computer engineering University of Houston Dec - Houston, TX 2003 to 2006 Skills ASP (6 years), C+ (8 years), JAVA (7 years), ORACLE (8 years), PHP (10+ years), Node, Javascript, Jquery, AWS, C#, Jquery, Nodejs, Javascript Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 August 1993 to August 1997 It was a blast as a 13-B Branch: United States Army Rank: E-5 Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vpfj47vesxxyqzut Data Analysis — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ouerlh-kglhz4oly Search Engine Optimization — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yliwcoamiuaywd7m Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills:  Microsoft Products:  2003 Enterprise,  2000 Work Station,  2000, 2008 R2 Server  ISA Server  Exchange 2003, 2000  Virtual Desktop  OWL    MS Language:  ASP.NET  APTIFY  ASP  VB 6.0  Visual Interdev  VB.NET  ASP.NET  C++  C#  C  Linux Platform:  Solaris 10, 9  FreeBSD  Fedora  Red Hat  Debian  LDAP Server    Open Source:  Ruby on Rails  AJAX  SOAP  PHP 7.X  PHP 5.X  PHP 4.X  Go  PERL  CGI  ADSI CDO  MTS  XML  WAP  JAVA  J2EE  J2SE  SWING  JSP  HTML  EJB  RSS  CURL  MCRYPT  SMS Gateway  Google API    Product Servers:  Aptify E-Commerce  Apache 2.X  IIS 4, 5, 6, 7  People Soft 5.6  JBoss  Tomcat  JRUN  SOAP  PI  Fast CGI  PHP 4, 5, 7  Laravel 5  Zend  Weblogic 6.0  QMAIL  Vignette Technologies  Cold Fusion 4.5, 4.0  Macromedia Products  Oracle Databases  Postgresql 8, 7  MySQL 5, 4  VMWARE Server, Workstation  SVN  CVN  Squirrel Mail  Ultradev  Dreamweaver  VMWare Server, Workstation, Exsi 5    Adobe Products:  Reader  Photoshop 7,CS5  After Effects  Premier Pro