Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Plano, TX Summary:  • Stephen has excellent hands-on programming experiences and skills for resolving complex problems and technical challenges during the past twenty years, in all phases of the software development and mathematical analysis.  • Java as his primary progtamming language for over 15 years; but C/C++, Python, Javascript are also on the review and coding level.   • Used Java frameworks: Restful services, Spring/Hibernate, Multithreading/concurrency on the platform of Java 1.8 participating in code review, building and carrying regression tests by using Subversion, Pre-commit in Eclipse, Jenkins, Conductor and AUTOSYS and manipulating databases (Sybase and Db2) with DB client.  • Excellent Working experience in JSP/Struts and as full stack web application programmer.  • Has modified Maven BOM files and the modifications include Java source files, application property files, token files, SQL files, Linux scripts, automated building and testing system files.  • Established the bulk development environment including Spring Boot 2, Hibernate 5, MySQL and Restful services within Eclipse and Tomcat.    Core Strengths:  • Hands-on Programming  • Optimization and Quantitative Analysis  • Software Design & Development  • Mathematical Modeling and Programming  • AI and Embedded Applications  • Web Application Design and Development Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Capgemini - Jersey City, NJ March 2018 to June 2018 I worked as a Java Developer at the Clearance and Settlement Unit of Goldman Sachs. Daily work includes:  -- Existing application modifications due to their database restructuring and upgrading;  -- Modifications include Java source files, application property files, token files, SQL files, Linux scripts, automated building and testing system files;  -- Using Java frameworks: Restful services, Spring / Hibernate, Multi threading/concurrency on the platform of Java 1.8;  -- Participating code review, building and carrying regression tests by using Subversion, Pre-commit in Eclipse, Jekins, Conductor and AUTOSYS;   -- Manipulating databases(Sybase and Db2) with DB client;  -- Modification of Maven BOM files;  Sr. Software Engineer CLEVA Electric Appliance - Suzhou, CN October 2013 to September 2017 CLEVA is one of the main manufacturers of house lawn tools such as LawnMaster, VacMaster, DuraVac, Hoover, etc. (please refer http://cleva-na.com/).   --Manufacturing Control System. It uses Java Frameworks and Web Services.  >Lead a team of three Java developers. Accomplished both front and back-end design;  >Established the bulk development environment including Spring Boot 2, Hibernate 5, MySQL and Restful services within Eclipse and Tomcat;   >Programmed Java multi-threading to call SOAP API clients and the distributed commitment of changed SOAP data and local Java objects to the local database MySQL;  -- An autonomous self-driving lawn mower. The project is an embedded application built on FREESCALE’s ARM chips while using MQX as RTOS. The programming language is C and IDE is IAR. An APP running on an Android cell phone is also implemented.   >Lead the software implementation team composed of three developers and one testers; I am responsible for the overall software implementation;  >Designed software architecture, algorithms and mathematical formulas, as well as their bulk of implementation with the target of GS and UL certification (EN 60335-1 Annex R);  >Accomplished detail designs of each software module of the entire system; achieved several inventions such as resilient dual data transfer protocols over Ethernet , the overall state machine;  >Major designer and Coder of low level data communication protocols between MCUs and modules;   >One of the major solvers of academic challenges like learning, positioning, mathematical modeling and path finding; Machine Learning involves geometrical data training etc;  >Implemented A* algorithm to find the shortest path to the charging station;  >Refined and optimized mathematical formulas, especially Gaussian quadrature to estimate uncertainties;  >Programmed a couple of modules like State Machine, Electrical Power Management;  >Designed the implementation of the mower’s APP on Android;  Sr. Software Engineer and Team Leader YIXING JINJIU Software Co - YIXING, CN April 2007 to September 2013 YIXING JINJIU is a software development company. The team consisted of eight people. I was the team lead and a programmer.  --Designed, Programmed and managed a Java based Web application, using Java, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, Spring and MySQL; Responsible for the in-time delivery of the whole project and requirements from its customers; Built the initial bulk development environment within Eclipse; Delivered 10 major releases to its customer;  --Designed, Programmed and managed a C++, Java and Corba/Orbix based project – GEM300 which is used on semiconductor lithography equipment. As the technical lead, I solely designed all of its logical flows, algorithms; programmed its SECS II communication protocols in Java and its corresponding JNI module;  --Chaired all technical meetings between the development team and customers. Software Consultant Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) - Austin, TX May 2004 to February 2007 The project involves the customization of MES, ERP and CRM systems for AMD’s 300mm IC production lines located in Dresden, Germany (now part of GLOBALFOUNDRIES).  --Various customizations of the manufacturing execution system - SIVIEW using ORBIX C++ on both UNIX and Window platforms to satisfy various special business logics of 300mm wafer manufacturing lines.   --Designed, programmed and documented a Java based web application – lot shipping system using Java/EJB, JSP, Struts, Business Logic Objects, Hibernate and Oracle Database within Tomcat/Eclipse; fulfilled all requirements including in-time deliveries;  --Chaired meeting with customers and wrote technical requirement documents. Sr. Java Web Developer UnitedHealth Group, Uniprise Division - Basking Ridge, NJ January 2003 to April 2004 eServices Electronic Eligibility System (E3) involves an n-tier web application. The front end uses Struts while its backend uses IBM MQ for data exchange. JMS is used for retrieving from and posting to IBM MQ server. It also uses EJB session beans and JDBC to manipulate data from databases.  ---Implemented the front end (design and coding) using JSP, front end beans, action classes;  ---Programmed complicated components using multithreading in core Java and JDBC;  ---Programmed JMS and XML data processing using multithreading;  ---Used WebSphere Test Environment for debugging and testing; Coded Ant script to perform tasks from compiling Java codes and generated EJB jar files to deployment;  ---Programmed Apache Ant script to automate the bulk load development process from compiling to deploying;  ---Designed and developed application of Integration Broker in Java;  ---Certificate of completion of training on SeeBeyond eBI Suite - e*Gate 4.5, Blaze Advisor 4.5. Senior Software Developer FJA - Manhattan, NY March 2001 to December 2002 FJA-US is a software development company.  ---Accomplished the development of various programming tasks for a Java based web application;  ---Implemented its back-end, XML-formatted data processing, control servlets, Statistical Reports and their printing into PDF format in Java and Java frameworks;  ---Programmed Java Session beans, JSP, Servlet and other backend units;  ---ZV Project in C++ - a CORBA/Orbix based administration system for insurance industry  -Co- developed project plan and specifications; Interfaced with marketing team for project requirements ;  -Project analysis and design; Coded IDLs and server classes for Orbix;  -Developed XML processing in C++, which imports data from XML string and updates database, retrieves data from database and exports them into XML string;  -Implemented DB access layers (embedded SQL), and business object layer; Staff Software Engineer IBM, Microelectronics Division - East Fishkill, NY April 1997 to March 2001 I was a software developer for IBM’s manufacturing lines.   --TAP2.0 – the project integrates all manufacturing equipment with a MES system to form a real time production floor control system for 8 inch wafer production lines at East Fishkill, New York  >Developed Equipment Connect Systems for various kinds of equipment using Python;   >Designed and Implemented GEM/SECS communication interface over TCP/IP protocols using C++;  >Developed a generic testing program for debug and test of equipment control software;  --IBM 300mm Wafer FAB Project – It integrates various kinds of most advanced IC manufacturing equipment with the line information system for 12 inch wafer production lines  >Researched and developed a job scheduling systems used on manufacturing lines in core Java;  >Designed and hands-on programmed message routing and event system, production data communication between computer nodes; RMI interface to the MES system;  >Implemented sophisticated multi-threading system, networking and data processing;  >Participated in the designing and planning of the overall 300mm production line which involves material automation system, floor layout, MES system, MSP programming and their integration;  >Re-engineered and Customized MES - SiView for the IBM 300mm FAB in C++ and Java; Education M.S. in Computer Science University of Oklahoma December 1996 PhD in Computational Mathematics University of Oklahoma - May, OK May 1996 B.S. in Computational Mathematics Nanjing University Skills JAVA (10+ years), C++ (6 years), DATABASE (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), C (8 years), Software Development (10+ years), Javascript (6 years), Data Analysis (1 year), Mathematics (10+ years), Statistics (5 years), Artificial Intelligence (2 years), Object-Oriented Design (10+ years), Agile (5 years), Python (3 years), Linux (2 years), AWS (1 year), Git (3 years), Android (2 years), CSS (3 years), Spring Boot (3 years), Restful Services (2 years), Hibernate (5 years), JPA (2 years), Angular.js (1 year), Node.js (Less than 1 year), Spark (1 year), struts (4 years), HTML 5, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bingjun-zhou/ Certifications/Licenses Sun Certified Java Programmer Additional Information TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS    Languages:  Java, C/C++, SQL , Python, Javascript  Framework:  Spring, Hibernate, RESTful, Angular.js, Node.js, Struts, JSP, EJB, Hadoop, Spark, AWS, JUnit  Database:    MySQL, DB2, Oracle, Sybase, etc  Others (Intermediate and Novice):  Maven, Tomcat, Jekins, Conductor, Autosys, DevOps, Gradle, Agile, Scrum, Orbix, ARM Chips, Kinetis Design Studio, IAR, Processor Expert, Embedded Application