Technical Specialist - Middleware Consultant Datapower Technical Specialist - Middleware Consultant Datapower Technical Specialist - Integration IIB Datapower and Cloud Toronto, OH • Over 6+ years of experience in administration, development, testing, support and implementation of enterprise applications using IBM DataPower, WebSphere Application Server (WAS), MQ, WMB  • Extremely strong in XML/XSL, XSLT, XPath, XML Schema, WSDL, Web Services, SOAP, REST, WSRR.  • Familiar IBM enterprise integration solution pattern and users cases with IIB10/9, BPM, SIB, WESB and Datapower.  • Extensive experience in planning, installing, configuration and administration of IBM middleware infrastructure using Datapower, IIB/WMB, MQ and WAS  • 10 years' experience in IT infrastructure operation familiar with ITIL process for change, incident, problem currency and configuration management  • Solid developer background with deep understanding of Web service standard and implementation: SOAP, Restful, WS-policy, Micro Service and API integration Work Experience Technical Specialist - Middleware Consultant Datapower eHealth Ontario October 2016 to Present Responsibilities: Acting as IBM Datapower SME contributes to major middleware infrastructure innovative projects for eHealth Digital Health Delivery Platform:  ? Lead POC initiative of corporate integration project with IBM Datapower, WTX and IIB integration build prototype model to validate and evaluate technology component capacity to ensure major principles meet the business expectation  ? Analysis users case, provide middleware domain expertise input to Architecture document - Layer 3/4 network diagram, Node profile Diagram, Dataflow diagram, logical/physical application design  ? Developed IIB message flows, which performed XML/XSLT transformations, CWF-TDS transformations and conversions from one format to another, SOAP/HTTP XML to IMS (MRM) mappings and transformations.  ? Migrate ESB components previous deployed on Datapower to IIB10, replace DP MPGW services including non-xml transformation and database integration components with IIB workflow.  ? Design and Build Datapower services (MPGW, AAA and WSP) as security gateway to secure the both application and transportation communication  ? Created WSDLs, Implemented SOAP and RESTFUL web services in Message Broker in order to bridge legacy health care application  ? Develop and configure B2B service with health care participates, integrate heterogeneous data (HL7, HIPPA, X12, XML) using WTX mapping.  ? Utilize various data integration methodology to handle binary data such as DFDL, MRM, stylesheet, FFD and external WTX map for income message mapping, develop stratagem to deploy integration components onto Datapower or IIB.  ? Provide and leading engineer effort implement integration solution using Datapower, WTX for applications with different communication protocol such as http/s, ftp, MQ, smtp and AS1/2.  ? Manage SSL proxy profiles and security objects including Identity and crypto profile, certificates, keys. Setup proper profile to secure the communication between client Datapower and backend services.  ? Develop XSLT to enable content based URL routing, message augment, mediation and schema validation.  ? Participate integration projects, define and implement data integration solution using advanced Datapower transformation features, perform data convention between XML, JSON, Cobol Copy Book, EDI, Text based message formats.  ? Develop HTTP/s transactions, SFTP, FTPS, MQ, Oracle Database and Web Service integrations using MPGW on Datapower XI52 appliances  ? Review and quality assure the Datapower deliverable is in compliance with corporate regulation and follow the development practice, includes XSLT stylesheet, Service policy, MPGW, FSH, SSL profile, Web service policy, XML manager etc  ? Configure Front Side Handler and Back-End Connectivity including HTTP, HTTPS, JMS, MQ Resource, SSH Setup involving various XML Threats.  ? Migrate Datapower deliverables (domain, services, security objects) to higher environment, fix all type of issue during the deployment  ? Build and integrate non-function components by leveraging existing ministry of health infrastructure: monitoring, data security, user authentication, logging, intrusion detect, audit, devops.  ? Evaluate, planning and implement multiple layer governance model, define user's role and security guideline by leveraging LDAP authentication of eHealth.  ? Gathering of information and performing of preliminary analysis, investigation of architectural alternatives with this Enterprise Architecture and draft Architecture Contextual Diagram  ? Evaluate application logical design; recommend physical technology components in order to realize the logical design. etc SAML 2.0, IDP federation broker, Active directory, STS, Datapower, Node JS,  ? Create MPGW service and related security objects to realize content and transportation layer encryption to meet security standard.  ? Design and implement Datapower AAA policy to enable federated SSO by integrating SAML2.0 and WebSphere based LTPA token  ? Author of implementation guide, build book and operational guide  ? Provide middleware admin and support for eHealth DHDP platform, main responsibilities including installation, upgrade, configuration, deployment, and administration of various middleware technologies including IBM SOA/BPM, WebSphere ND, IIB, Datapower XI 50/52, Tomcat, TDS, Enterprise reporting system built on Informatics and Cognos.  ? Perform on-call duty responsible to mission critical application errata's, coordinate resource and lead troubleshooting efforts for quick fix.  ? Responsible for overall application Performance Tuning in various perspective: JVM, Network, , firewall, authentication, data layer to address the users concern. Middleware Specialist IBM Canada March 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities: Offering middleware admin and support for IBM global account. Participant enterprise integration project to offer consultant service in deferent project life cycle, Implement, design, deployment of business process application, Datapower and WAS.  Technology Skills: WAS ND 7/8/8.5.x, BPM, WPS, Datapower XI52, MQ, ESB, Oracle  ? Lead engineer effort design, build and implement integration solution for industry client (insurance and banking) with IBM WebSphere integration product - Datapower XI52/xc10, IIB, MQ, WTX.  ? Define and coding Datapower services and security policy such as SSL profile, AAA, MPGW, WAF and Web service proxy using XLST, XSD and XML manager  ? Worked on configuring MPG's, Web service Proxy, XML Firewall interfaces to perform protocol transformation and routing. Implemented Message throttling  ? Configured integration securities like SSL, XML threat protection, Digital signature Encryption, Decryption, AAA for required Policies Processing for security.  ? Perform installation, upgrade, configuration, deployment, and administration of various middleware technologies including IBM Datapower, WPS, WAS ND, Tomcat, TDS.  ? Implemented JSON API's integration using Datapower MPGW, transformed JSON API's to SOAP based web service calls to integrate with backend applications like WebSphere Message Broker, WPS.  ? Install, configure WebSphere Datapower appliance, manager user security, develop firewall/XMLservice policy and deploy to various environment  ? Automate Datapower Deployment use shell scripts, Ant, and Configuration manager  ? Develop Datapower service (MPGW and WEB Service Proxy) and components for various users' cases such as XML transformation, security attack protection, AAA, Auditing, SLM Management and Non-XML transformation.  ? Implemented MQ integration using Datapower MPGW, transformed async MQ calls to backend Web services on WebSphere Message Broker and WAS based applications.  ? Involved in the planning and designing the business workshops based on Scrum/RUP/Agile methodologies  ? Built WebSphere Application Server ND topology with IHS, identity manager, setup SSL utilizing WebSphere plug-in, profile customize tools, ikeyman and certificates to secure server communication Middleware specialist November 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities: Offering consulting service as planning, analysis, documentation of processes and functionality for operational projects in the Road User Safety Division Business Area of the Road User Safety Division. As well as provide operational support and work on the Operational Assignments to deliver changes as required.  Technology: WebSphere, Weblogic, Informatic, cognos, IIS, Solaris, AIX, Tomcat  ? Acting as middleware SME to analyze, review, and provide options and recommendations on project deliverables/tasks required and impact.  ? Provided support for UNIX/Windows applications and participate in the planning, analysis, documentation of processes and functionality for operational projects in the Road User Safety Division Business Area of the Road User Safety Division.  ? UNIX/Windows Support and Troubleshooting, Monitoring and troubleshooting of the UNIX/Windows applications  ? Pro-active systems usage and capacity monitoring of Windows Servers  ? Assessing and testing RFC's content and updating as necessary  ? Participation in release (RFC) promotions/implementations  ? Responsible for Windows application, middleware and middleware incident resolution management  ? Support and maintain the MTO application on various platforms. Middleware Specialist Capital Market of BMO financial Group July 2013 to July 2014 -12 month contract  Responsibilities: Provide infrastructure support in IBM WebSphere Middleware expertise area for various BMO Capital Market projects in various environments  Main Technology: WAS 6, 7 and 8.5, Tomcat, BPM, Linux, AIX, Oracle, IHS, Cognos, WESB , Oracle, IBM Tivoli directory service, Informatics, BI/DW  ? Acted as Middleware SME, offered consultant service in infrastructure area to assist detail requirement define, system design, non-function requirement, project sizing and scope manage  ? Gathered and analyzed project requirements, determine optimized hardware resource, OS, Middleware topology to meet project requirement  ? Handled deployment of J2EE applications to WebSphere Application Server, installed EARs, WARs and configured application specific JVM settings, Web container parameters using the Admin Console or Jython scripts.  ? Built WebSphere Application Server ND topology with IHS, identity manager, setup SSL utilizing WebSphere plug-in, profile customize tools, ikeyman and certificates to secure communication  ? Deployment of BPM advanced server, install and configure deployment environment.  ? Perform daily administration tasks, problem determine, process deploy, manage template, instance and resolve performance related issue.  ? Configured JDBC resource, run SQL scripts against oracle server to build database schema for Application  ? Developed process/script to automate installation of WebSphere Application Server, MQ, IHS  ? Resolved WAS, MQ, application tickets escalated from various source, identify root cause, created and implemented change record to fix the issue.  ? Performed admin tasks of Middleware platform including software update roll out, performance tuning, application release control, certificate renew, and healthy check  ? Worked with project manager, development team and vendors to assess, research, analyze and document business and system's needs  ? Performed regular maintenance tasks of WAS environment through Web console, Command line tools and Jython scripts  ? Setup, configure and manage message middleware objects - Queue manage, trigger, topic, local queue, remote queue, transmission queue, alias, MCA and connection channels  ? Involved in research, prototyping and engineering of new application installation and testing  ? Assesses, researches, analyzes processing issues using best practices, systems tools and techniques  ? Automated FixPack/eFixes installations, daily backups, log archival and other tasks using scripts.  ? Installed and configured remote WebSphere plug-in for IBM HTTP Server. Manually updated plug-in files for IHS servers located in DMZ Senior System admin IBM Canada Global Service Delivery December 2009 to January 2013 3 years contract  Brief responsibilities: Provide Platform and Middleware infrastructure support / consult service to IBM e-hosting clients, focus on Insurance, investment and Manufacture Company  Main Technology: Solaris 8,9,10, Windows 2003/2008, , Shell, scripting, Weblogic 11G, Websphere App Server 7/8/8.5, MQ, IBM Tivoli, DB2, IIS, Datapower, IHS, Oracle, SAP business object, Cognos , J2EE  ? Deployed middleware infrastructure (Weblogic 11g or WAS 7/8) into UAT and Prod, installed product binary, configured running environment, managed resources/security and developed application deployment strategies.  ? Developed Jython/WLST scripts to automate application deployment, update, performance monitoring and resource management  ? Review and Valid application descriptor, troubleshooting abnormal during application deploy  ? Application deployment and resource configuration: JDBC, JMS and other EIS according as well as security mapping as per application statement and descriptor  ? Monitor and fine tuning of JVM to optimize performance through various tools and technique  ? Responsible for production environments admin tasks Server build, Harding, patching, package management, performance monitoring  ? Performed Administration tasks in virtualization infrastructure (Vsphere 4.1): manager VM, hosts, provision storage and resource, patching and update, configure network, user access control.  ? Developed and tested shell scripts to facilitate administration tasks: roll out update, collect server information, system monitoring, backup and regular healthy check  ? Problem determination - using a variety of tools and techniques for anticipating, recognizing, and resolving technical, organizational and operational or process problems  ? Receiving, evaluating and responding to APAR, software scan finding and non-compliance report as well as plan and implementing action plan to address the faulty    Hewlett-Packard Canada Technical Analyst - Level 2 HP Markham Data - Imperial, CA November 2006 to July 2009 2006 Nov- 2009 Jul) Brief: Performed L2 daily operation tasks in HP Markham Data center for e-hosting clients: CIBC, TD , GM Imperial Canada and UHN in 24X7 production environment in Windows and Unix expertise area  ? As change management owner responsible for testing& deployment infrastructure changes  ? Installed, configured and tested OS, Patches, AD, DNS and server hardware in UAT/Dev/IST  ? As discipline lead respond and addressing system alert generated from HP OVSD  ? Provided L2 support resolve issue escalated from tire one support  ? Regular meeting with delivery manager and clients review service level and performance  ? Productively performed services incidents trend analysis, problem identification and responsible to workout resolution to achieve high level Service Level Agreement Middleware Infrastructure Advisor DELL Computer Corporate - Shanghai, CN March 2003 to May 2006 Brief: Offer middleware infrastructure administration, implementation and consulting service to Dell commercial application and integration projects  Technology: WAS 6/7, MQ, ESB, J2EE, WPS, J2EE, WSDL , MQ  ? Performed daily admin task of middleware environment including WAS,WPS, ESB, MQB and Tomcat. Responsibilities covering software install, configure, patching, performance monitoring, problem management  ? Participated multiple Integration projects to implement WebSphere SOA pattern, including WESB, WMB and Process server, offered consulting services to BA, Project management and developer.  ? Offer WebSphere support service throughout software development and test, including JVM performance tuning, troubleshooting escalated issues to ensure middleware infrastructure meet design expectation  ? Involved in development project representing infrastructure, gathering, sizing and analysis project requirement and produce implement documents.  ? Responsible to resolve Middleware and infrastructure problem escalated by testing, business,  ? Help desk and address the issue in timely manner  ? Implemented WebSphere infrastructure as per implementation design and document the process  ? Managed middleware resources: JBDC, JMS , RAR, JAAS, Certificate to satisfied application requirements  ? Developed Wasadmin and Jython scripts to automation application deployment, update, performance monitoring and resource management  ? Responsible for application software life cycle administration including: version control, software update testing, deployment, patching management, issues reporting.  ? Responded to Middleware escalation from Help desk, business user and developer. Identified and resolved medium to highly complex production problems for support of applications  ? Conducted security compliance activities per contractual security requirement  ? Escalated technology issues to the appropriate application support and technology infrastructure groups JAVA /SQL Application developer Haixia Information System - Shanghai, CN 1998 to 2003 Brief: developed order management, POS, employee attendance management, on-line shopping application for retail industry clients  Technology: J2EE, Eclipse, SQL server, Oracle 8, JSP, C ++, SQL plus, Struts, Ant  ? Provision of technical requirements specifications, design of software module interfaces, and data models necessary for product customization and prototype.  ? Created database program in SQL Server, Oracle Database manipulate data accumulated by Internet Transaction.  ? Designed, developed and configured software applications (interfaces), servers, and software components customized to meet specific needs and requirements  ? Developed Javascript behavior code for User Interaction.  ? Designed and developed web site application using J2EE, XML, EJB, Servlets, JSP under the Apache Struts Framework.  ? Designed and developed EJB components and deployed under the Apache Tomcat application server  ? Designed and developed the JSP pages with HTML, Core Java, JavaScript, and CSS and accomplished the front end validations Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science NanChang University 1992 Skills Iis, nginx, Security, Web server, Websphere, Docker, Jenkins, Middleware, Oauth, Python, Scripting, Swift, Xslt, Data modeling, Database, Db2, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    IBM and integration: Datapower XI50/52,WMB/IIB9 and 10, WTX, ESB, IBM MQ, Informatica 9.X, SSO with SAML, LTPA, Kerberos, IBM WSRR  B2B Data modeling: EDI FACT, X12, HIPPA, AS2/3, Swift  DevOp CI/CD: Ansible, git lab/github, Jenkins, Maven, Delivery Pipe line, AWS code deploy, eclipse, Junit, testing, Docker Data Center, Kubernetes  IBM WebSphere Middleware Suite: IBM WAS ND (6/7/8.5), MQ 5/6/7, WMB 7/8, IIB9/10,  Datapower XI52, XC10, WESB, BPM/BPS, Mobile First Platform  Operating system: Linux (Redhat, centOS, uBuntu ), Solaris 8/9/10, Windows Servers  Security infrastructure: PKI/PMI, SSL, Saml SSO solution, OAuth, LTPA, Kerberose  DW/BI: SAP Business Object, IBM Cognos, Informatics ETL  Web server: IHS, Apache, IIS, Nginx  Database: Oracle, Oracle 11g , SQL server, My SQL, Access, DB2, AWS RDS, Dynamo DB  Scripting Languages: Python, Troposphere, AWS BOTO3, UNIX Shell Scripting (awk, bash, expect, ksh, sh), Java script, XSLT  Server Software: Tivoli, MySQL, HP OVO, IBM Tivoli endpoint management, e-trust