Sr. Manager / Delivery Director Sr. Manager / Delivery Director IT Delivery Director Atlanta, GA * Himansu (HT) possess 20+ years of IT experience in software execution, integration and innovative delivery with 12+ years leadership role and a motivated achiever with demonstrable ability to recommend enhancements to business processes.  * HT has technology background and recognized program management skills, P&L capabilities and consistently delivered complex large-scale programs in onshore/offshore operating model and coached & mentored senior executives, development, testing teams for higher maturity.  * HT is an experienced Design thinking and Agile leader expertise in value-creation based digital transformation and delivery. He is an Agile practitioner for last 9 years and successfully transformed 5 Fortune 500 companies through adoption and transformation and led delivery of enterprise scale programs in scaled model and several product releases.  * Exceptional problem- solver with keen ability to resolve technology issues, provide for system enhancements, analyze/define business processes for improvement, define, design, develop, and implement highly successful automated solutions, as well as find solutions where others have failed.  * HT is certified project manager, design thinking, scrum master, agile coach and scaled agile program transformation consultant. Work Experience Sr. Manager / Delivery Director Accenture Technologies October 2015 to Present Company/Project: North Carolina State  * Responsible for Program delivery, adoption of scaled agile digital transformation and coaching in State Department of Health Services in $100+M account.  * Leading team of 140+ people for delivery of case management program ($41M) across 100 counties in adoptive, value based delivery.  * Pre-sales and solutioning of agile portfolio transformation, design thinking and Devops automation in multiple other accounts.  * Facilitated community of practice and knowledge sharing hub as continuous improvement and sustained model for the enterprise.  Company/Project: TransUnion  * Conducted gap analysis of roles and defined agility delivery process. Created agile roadmap and processes for successful adoption. Partnered with executive team to define and scope transformation goals, team structure, roles and responsibilities of all levels of organization and transition plan.  * Facilitated program increment (PI) execution including big-box planning, scrum of scrums, and inspect & adapt sessions consisting of 6 agile teams (72 team members+ Devops, business owners and sponsors, total~ 110), and modeled the process across other value streams in enterprise. Accountable for annual $12.2M budget.  * Provided agile coaching; team and product owner trainings for moving from waterfall to agile using onshore-offshore teams.  * Led maturity assessment and improvement for 350+ team members across organization towards high performing mode.  * Led design thinking and innovative way for development and releases of new products like digital marketing and quote exchanges. Agile Program Director Cognizant Technology Solutions October 2012 to September 2015 Company/Project: Ernst & Young, Audit Transformation Program (Atlas)  * Managed development and delivery of Audit Transformation program ($28M account) across 3 countries in scaled agile model using .Net and Azure technologies.  * Led team of 80+ associates along with integration with 3rd party vendor. Successfully completed 3 release trains for go-live of the application. Prepared training materials and conducted role based trainings on Scaled Agile Model.  * Defined process and led delivery of new scaled agile framework for Cognizant Agile practice.  * Published case study on successful scaled program delivery of 400+ geo-distributed associates across trains.    Company/Project: Aon, Benefits Administration Platform  * Led migration of Benefits Administration platform to support mobile and responsive design.  * Helped establishment of new Aon Portal Delivery center of excellence and led teams to implement benefit administration solutions. Created release roll-out plan in-compliance with regulations and standards. Program Manager Wipro April 2010 to October 2012 Company/Project: MasterCard, Risk Management Platform  * Managed the delivery of Risk Management Platform (MCOM - 9 Major applications used by issuer/acquirer banks worldwide, $5.4M) program in scaled agile model for MasterCard Worldwide including support for mobile platform.  * Led team of 63 members in onshore and offshore team structure. Responsibilities include Operating Plan, Implementation Roadmaps, Allocation, Budget Ownership, Design and Development Execution, Testing, Go-Live.  * Received commendation for Fastest Turnaround and Best Performing Capability.  * Added 4 new opportunities ($16M) into this account, developed proposals and participated through RFP/RFI closure.    Company/Project: CVS Caremark Pharmacy, Pharmacy Benefit Applications production support  * Led production support of Pharmacy Benefit Claim processing management applications along with transition process from vendors.  * Helped setup of near-shore model; hired 80+ local resources for Atlanta Development Center.  * Defined service level agreement (SLA) for $38 million, 5yr contract.  * Initiated dynamic data masking program for the first time for cost effective offshore delivery model maintaining personal (PII, PHI, PCI) information within US geography.    Company/Project: BestBuy, Customer Account Program  * Led implementation of signature customer account program and Reward zone application using Amazon AWS technologies.  * Delivered 12 e-commerce projects of various sizes and integration of 09 different applications using agile delivery model within budget and schedule for customer facing applications for unified view of customer information and personalized marketing program. Eleven projects were closed on schedule maintaining more than 95% CSAT (customer satisfaction index).  * Created training materials on all aspects of agile practices, mentored agile thinking and advised executives and senior and functional management on best practices. Development Director Cyspan Inc - Atlanta, GA February 2006 to April 2010 Company/Project: Cross key Banking solutions, Card & Asset Management Application  * Led design, development of multiple PCI compliant online commercial banking applications for Tapiola (Finland) and Alands Banks (Sweden) and led distributed teams located in USA, Finland, India for delivery in iterative model.  * Directed and assisted design teams to meet the requirements and ensured the success through work plans, priorities, and tasks, reporting of accomplishments & quality management. Sr. Java Developer/ Architect - Sakai (Oncourse) Indiana University - Indianapolis, IN August 2001 to February 2006 * Developed different Tools for Sakai (an Open Source Learning Management Environment based on Community Source model) like Site management, user profiling, message center, and service migration utilities based in J2EE technologies using spring and JSF stacks.  * Developed Sakai framework standards, policies, and procedures for coding and operational mapping and played key role in implementation in Indiana University, making as worldwide standard.  * Associated in installation of Student Information System modules in Banner ERP application. Manager- Design Control System National Thermal Power Corporation - Delhi, Delhi September 1994 to December 2000 * Project design for control logics, open interface interconnection, configuration, tuning of all the controls in Distributed Computing systems of various vendors including Siemens, Hitachi HIACS-MULTI Turbine controller, Yokogawa Centrum CS-3000, ABB-P13/P14 and PLCs (Allen Bradley, Siemens, L&T) with focus on zero operator intervention.  * Initiated the proposal for incorporation of Availability based Tariff in various T&D stations of NTPC Education M.S. in Computer Science Indiana University PGDFM in Finance Management IGNOU Scaled Framework Academy ICP