Managed Lead Managed Lead Managed Lead - Capital One Home Loans Plano, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Managed Lead Capital One Home Loans - Plano, TX September 2015 to Present Plano, TX Sept '15 - Current    Capital One is a leading financial organization with 4 different lines of business that implemented Salesforce - Auto Finance, Home Loans, ING Sharebuilder, Cards and Banking.    Capital One also has a Salesforce Center of Excellence team that helps in planning, implementation and solutions across all lines of business.    Project: Salesforce Implementation for Capital One Home Loans  Role: Master Salesforce Developer  Key Responsibilities:  • Service Cloud - Built Visualforce Pages with Lightning Design System, AngularJS and JavaScript Remoting to navigate / search across million lead and opportunity records.  • Implemented Canvas Apps for integration of Capital One apps within Salesforce - this gave the Sales reps (Loan Officers) to launch any internal Capital One application from within Salesforce (Such as Loan Pre-qualification, Loan origination, Rate quotes all within Salesforce)  • Implemented Automated Test Driven Development (ATDD) for Salesforce end-to-end testing along with regression, which is a first amongst Salesforce implementations across several large enterprises.  • Developed Round-Robin Lead Assignment, Lead Duplicate processing logic and Lead nurturing with Apex triggers, daily scheduled batch jobs as well as declarative assignment rules.  • Developed Lead Scoring Rules to manage Lead priorities in the Pipeline. Currently implementing Artificial Intelligence tools for Predictive Lead Scoring.  • Managed Lead aggregation from different sources including web (Zillow, Lending Tree), third party apps, and cross-sell and other integration platforms.  • Implemented Case management automation including email to case, auto response rules, workflows, fax to case as well as manual entry cases.  • Developed Salesforce1 mobile apps for Distributed Sales as well as Integration of Salesforce1 with actions using Visualforce pages.  • Enhanced UI using Angular and BootStrap frameworks. Currently implementing Lightning frameworks.  • Developed Reports and Dashboards to measure key metrics for C-level executives.  • Developed REST and SOAP based web-services for integration with internal enterprise API platforms for Loan fulfillment using XML Secure Gateway. Salesforce Developer and Administrator (for 800+ licenses) Chase Payment Tech - Dallas, TX June 2015 to September 2015 Dallas, TX Jun '15 - Sept '15    Chase Payment Tech is part of the Chase Bank Credit Card Terminal Payment Processing. The Salesforce Org was for both US and Canada locations.    Project: Salesforce CPQ, Apex &VF Development, and Administration  Role: Salesforce Developer and Administrator (for 800+ licenses).  Key Responsibilities:  • Developed Approval Process automation for Legal, Finance and Sales approvals of Chase Paymentech terminal sales to small and large scale business customers.  • Integrated APPTUS Configure-Price-Quote tool for Terminal and Accessories.  • De-duping of data by syncing with backend systems and maintaining Salesforce as a System of Record.  • Wrote custom code for Round Robin Lead management based on Agent Experience and Availability.  • Developed workflows for new contract agreement sign-offs with Finance, Legal and Sales leaders.  • Created Web-to-Lead for Chase Payment Tech Canada and several other Chase sites.  • Integration with Mulesoft for Lead aggregation, scheduled jobs and bogus leads identification and purge  • Developed Record Types, Workflows, Validation rules, Approval Process and several other administrative processes.  • Evaluated different options for Salesforce data encryption at Field level, record level, platform level using both out of the box solutions. Also developed a POC custom AES256 encryption using Salesforce APEX. Salesforce Architect/ Developer and Administrator (for 200+ licenses) Cambium Learning group - Dallas, TX January 2013 to May 2015 Dallas, TX Jan '13 - May '15    Cambium learning group develops products (both educational books and software). Our primary customers are parents, teachers, and large schools districts throughout US, Canada and few other countries. This project was to have a lean Online E-Commerce Store with all Customer Accounts, Products and Orders maintained in Salesforce and also integrate with downstream fulfillment and shipments. This project caters to the entire ERP cycle in addition to the CRM processes also on Salesforce.    Project: eCommerce, Salesforce Order processing and ERP Integration.  Role: Salesforce Architect/ Developer and Administrator (for 200+ licenses).  Key Responsibilities:  • Implemented an end-to-end customized ERP solution integrating our Online store with Salesforce and downstream order fulfillment and processing systems (all developed solely using Salesforce and DBAmp on MS SQL Server)  • Architected and developed a custom ETL solution for processing our online store e-Commerce orders using Salesforce Http callouts and Scheduled batch jobs. (Replaced Dell Boomi $30K/ year savings).  • Created custom solutions for Sales Rep Incentives (commissions), YTD Quotas, custom CPQ and E-mail services.  • Developed REST services to create Salesforce contact records for new online customer registrations.  • Wrote APEX SOAP and REST services to integrate Salesforce with processes within our company as well as external systems. (For example: Tax calculations, Commit taxes to State etc.)  • Developed code in C# using Enterprise WSDL to connect to Salesforce. Used this code to migrate inventory data from daily Excel reports into Salesforce - part of this information was used to communicate to customer via email.  • Created Scheduled batch jobs to overcome Governor limits and run several aggregation processes and web services.  • Integrated with HubSpot (Marketing app) for lead management, analytics and marketing via workflow outbound messages and also configured several AppExchange apps.  • Created custom Visual force pages for Configure, Price and Quote custom solutions inline with our product offerings.  • Created Visual force sites for Web-to-Lead, Account address management etc.  • Implemented Approval processes, Email-to-case, auto-response rules, auto lead assignment rules, email templates, workflows, email alerts, field updates.  • Created reports and Dashboards for C-level management daily reviews and email alerts.  • Practiced best practices for Salesforce development for example such as Single Trigger per Object, Custom settings, Single utility class, Scheduled batch jobs (asynchronous processing) where necessary and avoid governor limits as a whole as well as Code refactoring.  • Utilized SQL Server along with DBAmp for Data backups and integrated with downstream systems for Order fulfillment (Such as Oracle JDE along with Ship confirmation with DHL, FedEx and UPS web services) Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Agilent Technologies - Santa Clara, CA March 2010 to December 2012 Santa Clara, CA Mar '10 - Dec '12    Agilent Technologies (A spin-off from HP) is a top medical instrument provider. Agilent acquired Varian instruments and as part of the acquisition needed to migrate their legacy CRM to Salesforce.    Project: Migrated from Legacy CRM to Salesforce, Administration and Custom development  Role: Salesforce Developer/ Administrator  Key Responsibilities:  • Moved legacy CRM data to SalesForce. CRM customization to implement latest marketing requirements while maintaining existing infrastructure.  • Utilized Data loader and import wizard to import leads, contacts, accounts, tasks & opportunities.  • Created new fields, workflows, validation rules, User profiles, security and management, approval processes and maintenance of different reports (summary report, matrix report, tabular report) and Campaigns (Campaign Hierarchies) in Salesforce.com  • Created APEX classes and Custom Triggers based on business requirements.  • Utilized SOAP based Web services to extend Salesforce functionality. All code written in Java.  • Developed Custom Visual Force pages, Batch Apex and Bulk record updates within Governor limits.  • Migrated data between Developer, Test and Production sandboxes using change sets and Eclipse/ Force.com IDE.  • Lead and initiate building the solution design (process/system enhancement) working closely with cross-functional business teams. Java developer for several AMAT processes/ tools Applied Materials - Santa Clara, CA June 2004 to February 2010 Role: Java, Visual C++, Embedded C, MATLAB, Visual Basic    Applied Materials (AMAT) is world's number 1 semi-conductor instrument maker. Joined here as an intern and continued into a full-time position in various roles support AMAT tools, robots and software systems. During my 6-year tenure, I worked on different Java applications for User interface development and consuming WSDL based web services. I also developed applications using Visual C++ 6.0 as well as Embedded C for microprocessor programming on a Embedded Windows XP card. I also used MATLAB (as an intern) for data processing and analysis.    Key Responsibilities:  • Developed Java Swing graphical interfaces as front-end GUI to communicate with embedded programs with DLL libraries for a Semiconductor equipment system.  • Developed Web Services using JAX RPC, JAX WS and RESTful services. Published WSDL documents into repository for consumption. Strong knowledge of developing both SOAP/XML and Annotation based Web services.  • Developed Embedded C code to perform machine vision and image processing. This data is later used to calibrate Semiconductor Robots.  • Developed code in MATLAB and Visual C++ to perform data analysis on large amount of log data generated on product tools for diagnostics.  • Tested and verified new software for reliability cycling and bug reporting. Continuous improvements to implement new processes and code updates.  • Wrote documentation for software usage and debugging.  • Managed several Linux servers for data backups and wrote custom shell scripts for data mapping and analysis. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (Less than 1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), Apex (9 years), Asp (Less than 1 year), Asp.net (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (3 years), C (2 years), Eclipse (2 years), Force.com (2 years), Http (2 years), Java. (8 years), Javascript (3 years), Linux (5 years), Ms sql server (2 years), Rest (6 years), Soap (10+ years), Sql (2 years), Sql server (2 years), web-services (10+ years), Xml (9 years)