DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - Collabera Irvine, CA • 10+years of IT Industry experience with DevOps/SCM/Build/ Deploy Engineer and Release Management.  • Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like Subversion (SVN), CVS and GIT/Stash on Linux, UNIX and windows environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Engineer Collabera - Irvine, CA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Release Engineer for a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases.  • Developed and implemented software release management strategies for various applications according to agile process.  • Build scripts using ANT and MAVEN build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Deployed java applications to application servers in agile continuous integration environment and also automated the whole process.  • Designed and Developed Jenkins build deployments.  • Managed Sonatype Nexus repositories to download the artifacts (jar, war & ear) during the build.  • Used Shell scripts to automate the deployment process.  • Worked on infrastructure with Docker containerization.  • Collaborated with development support teams to setup a continuous delivery environment with the use of Docker.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT/MAVEN files in case of errors or changes in the project environments.  • Installed and configured GIT and GITHUB.  • Implemented and maintained the branching and build/release strategies utilizing GIT.  • Implemented pre and post hooks in GIT.  • Hands on configuration management using Chef.  • Configured and monitored multiple servers using Chef. Defined Chef Server and Workstation to manage and configure nodes.  • Installed Chef Server Enterprise on premise/workstation/bootstrapped the nodes using knife and automated by testing Chef recipes/cookbooks with test-kitchen/chef spec.  • Used Chef and other configuration management tools to deploy consistent infrastructure code across multiple environments.  • Used JIRA for change control and ticketing.  • Designed and developed the tools to allow efficient configuration management, build and release of software developed in J2EE, XML and DB2 databases.  • Deployed the build artefacts into environments like QA, UAT and production according to the build life cycle.  • Automated the build and release management process including monitoring changes between releases.  • Documented the entire build and release process and provided support.  • Developed, maintained and distributed release notes for each scheduled release.  • Provided periodic feedback of status and scheduling issues to the management.  • Kept track of all releases and request of the developers through infrastructure management tool. Sr. DevOps AWS Engineer Rodan + Fields, LLC - San Francisco, CA February 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Documented and published complete migration process of Subversion (SVN admin dumps) to UCM ClearCase (VOBS).  • Integrated Eclipse IDE with different versioning tools like Clear Case, SVN, CVS, and GIT.  • Performing all the build and release management activities for this project by administrating and integrating Source Code control systems like SVN and Perforce into build system like AnthillPro.  • Extensive experience with Perforce. Experience with SVN/CVS, and Git Software Configuration tools (Source Control).  • Automated the cloud deployments using Ansible, python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Created TFS SharePoint sites for our developer teams for Document library.  • Our Continuous Integration stack consists of Git, Jenkins CI-CDX, the Docker Trusted Registry, and Open Shift Enterprise.  • Used OpenShift to improve application security by putting admin consoles on different Docker containers accessible only from unusual port numbers.  • Supported and Administered TFS for creating new user accounts.  • Part of the DevOps team responsible for containerization efforts and migration of Java apps to OpenShift Container Platform.  • Created AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT, EC2 instances, ELB, Security Groups.  • Worked on core AWS services such as Setting up new server (EC2) instances/services in AWS, configuring.  • Created Custom Reports for Visual Studio Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Managed and supported AWS Security related issues, such IAM and S3 policies for user access.  • Installed, configured multiple operating systems and provisioned similar instances on AWS cloud.  • Configured and administered AWS (Amazon Web Services) EC2 (Elastic Cloud Computing) resources such as instances, EBS volumes, snapshots, elastic load balancers, AMI's, security Groups, elastic IP's, Key pairs and Amazon Cloud watch for different zones in development, testing environments.  • Created and maintained AWS Virtual private cloud (VPC), subnets, Internet Gateways, Route Tables under AWS Cloud Environment.  • Enabled ELB to automatically route traffic across multiple instances and multiple Availability Zones.  • Deployed large source code bases on to TFS server from external environment.  • Created S3 buckets for EC2 instances to store all the content including HTML pages, images, CSS files and Java script files.  • Created the cloud formation template to spin up the EC2 instances.  • Construct Ansible Modules/Functions to Support Solaris IPMP (IP Multipathing) on Solaris.  • Develop and update Docker containers for various log management nodes.  • Application Setup and QA Testing on Docker Container.  • We used Gradle and Docker to create a Docker container that had our Java application running in it.  • Integrated JIRA in with SVN and dealing with its administration in change management process.  • Resolved crucial issues related to Linux server, Ansible and monitoring for Dev environments.  • Converted and automated builds using Ant and Maven. Scheduled automated nightly builds using Hudson and maintained Continuous integration effort with Hudson along with scheduled builds.  • Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and Dev environments needs. And also configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Enabled Cloud Foundry support on Azure through open source collaboration which enabled millions in cloud spend.  • Experience in working with Selenium IDE and Selenium Web Driver using testing.  • Enabling customers to better manage software development, deployments and infrastructure with tools such as Ansible, Jenkins and GITHub.  • Used Power Shell for DevOps in Windows-based systems.  • Insisted & migrated projects from Cruise Control to the Jenkins CI tool and ANT, NAnt to Maven.  • Worked with optimization of server resources, Amazon Elastic Cloud instances and website security, Mule ESB (EAI)/Service Mix, Web services /REST, Amazon AWS, Ansible.  • Integrated Build dependencies and dependency blocking strategy in Bamboo.    Environment: SVN(Subversion), Anthill Pro, ANT, NAnt, and Maven, Ansible, Dev Ops, Jenkins, Clear case, MS Build, Unix, Linux, Perl, Jython, Python, Ruby, Cruise control, Gradle, AWS, MongoDB, Azure, Sonar, Hudson, Git, JIRA, Shell Script, Weblogic, Selenium. Sr. DevOps AWS Engineer Allied Informatics, Inc - Russellville, KY September 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Documented and published complete migration process of Subversion (SVN admin dumps) to UCM ClearCase (VOBS).  • Integrated Eclipse IDE with different versioning tools like Clear Case, SVN, CVS, and GIT.  • Performing all the build and release management activities for this project by administrating and integrating Source Code control systems like SVN and Perforce into build system like AnthillPro.  • Extensive experience with Perforce. Experience with SVN/CVS, and Git Software Configuration tools (Source Control).  • Automated the cloud deployments using Ansible, python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Created TFS SharePoint sites for our developer teams for Document library.  • Our Continuous Integration stack consists of Git, Jenkins CI-CDX, the Docker Trusted Registry, and Open Shift Enterprise.  • Used OpenShift to improve application security by putting admin consoles on different Docker containers accessible only from unusual port numbers.  • Supported and Administered TFS for creating new user accounts.  • Part of the DevOps team responsible for containerization efforts and migration of Java apps to OpenShift Container Platform.  • Created AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT, EC2 instances, ELB, Security Groups.  • Worked on core AWS services such as Setting up new server (EC2) instances/services in AWS, configuring.  • Created Custom Reports for Visual Studio Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Managed and supported AWS Security related issues, such IAM and S3 policies for user access.  • Installed, configured multiple operating systems and provisioned similar instances on AWS cloud.  • Configured and administered AWS (Amazon Web Services) EC2 (Elastic Cloud Computing) resources such as instances, EBS volumes, snapshots, elastic load balancers, AMI's, security Groups, elastic IP's, Key pairs and Amazon Cloud watch for different zones in development, testing environments.  • Created and maintained AWS Virtual private cloud (VPC), subnets, Internet Gateways, Route Tables under AWS Cloud Environment.  • Enabled ELB to automatically route traffic across multiple instances and multiple Availability Zones.  • Deployed large source code bases on to TFS server from external environment.  • Created S3 buckets for EC2 instances to store all the content including HTML pages, images, CSS files and Java script files.  • Created the cloud formation template to spin up the EC2 instances.  • Construct Ansible Modules/Functions to Support Solaris IPMP (IP Multipathing) on Solaris.  • Develop and update Docker containers for various log management nodes.  • Application Setup and QA Testing on Docker Container.  • We used Gradle and Docker to create a Docker container that had our Java application running in it.  • Integrated JIRA in with SVN and dealing with its administration in change management process.  • Resolved crucial issues related to Linux server, Ansible and monitoring for Dev environments.  • Converted and automated builds using Ant and Maven. Scheduled automated nightly builds using Hudson and maintained Continuous integration effort with Hudson along with scheduled builds.  • Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and Dev environments needs. And also configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Enabled Cloud Foundry support on Azure through open source collaboration which enabled millions in cloud spend.  • Experience in working with Selenium IDE and Selenium Web Driver using testing.  • Enabling customers to better manage software development, deployments and infrastructure with tools such as Ansible, Jenkins and GITHub.  • Used Power Shell for DevOps in Windows-based systems.  • Insisted & migrated projects from Cruise Control to the Jenkins CI tool and ANT, NAnt to Maven.  • Worked with optimization of server resources, Amazon Elastic Cloud instances and website security, Mule ESB (EAI)/Service Mix, Web services /REST, Amazon AWS, Ansible.  • Integrated Build dependencies and dependency blocking strategy in Bamboo.    Environment: Subversion, GIT, Shell scripts, Perl scripts, ANT, MAVEN, Jenkins, Chef, JIRA, Nexus Maven, LINUX, UNIX, Windows, Java, J2EE. Build and Release Engineer Spireon - Irvine, CA March 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Release Engineer for a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases and implemented Continuous Integration Process.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and mitigate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN).  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes  • Experienced in setting up Continuous Integration environment using Bamboo  • Used the continuous integration tool Bamboo to automate the daily processes  • Provided end-user training for all Subversion (SVN) users to effectively use the tool.  • Build and Deployed Java/J2EEweb application server in an Agile continuous integration environment and also automated the whole process.  • Created and maintained the Shell deployment scripts for WebLogic and web application servers.  • Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of the build and release process.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT/MAVEN files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements.  • Worked on Confluence to share knowledge with other teams  • Performed integrating, Junit and code quality Tests as a part of build process.  • Perform periodic system audits on all environments to ensure that only controlled versions of software reside all environments.  • Responsible for the development and maintenance of processes and associated scripts/tools for automated build, testing and deployment of the products to various developments.  • Managed Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between projects.    Environment: Subversion (SVN), Bamboo, Confluence, Java/J2EE, ANT, MAVEN, Web Logic, Shell Scripts, Junit, JXML, UNIX, Windows XP, Oracle Build and Release Engineer PAREXEL International LLC - Horsham, PA September 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the Development Team in the design phase and developed use case diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Worked with the Architects on SDLC process being the owner of post development environments.  • Coordinating the resources by working closely with Project Manager's for the release and Project Manager for all the Operational Projects.  • Carried Deployments and builds on various environments using continuous integration tool.  • Source code configuration tools Subversion and GIT used for different projects.  • Developed and implemented the software release management for the release of web applications.  • Wrote ANT and MAVEN Scripts to automate the build process. Configured Bamboo for doing the build in all the non-production and production environments.  • Used Shell to automate the deployment process.  • Performed Load/Functional testing using Mercury Load runner and HP QTP.  • Designed a customized Status Reporting tool used currently, based on the specific requirements using J2EE/Struts and WebSphere Application Server with DB2 as Database.  • Coordinated all the IT projects successfully by resolving release interdependencies.  Environment: Subversion, GIT, Bamboo, Java/J2EE, JDK, ANT, MAVEN, DB2, UNIX, Windows XP, Web Sphere, HP Quality Canter. Java/J2EE Developer True Find Staffing - Duluth, GA March 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Designed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams and Object Diagrams in the detailed design phase of the project using Rational Rose 4.0.  • Developed presentation layer of the project using HTML, JSP 2.0, JSTL and JavaScript technologies.  • Developed complete Business tier using Stateless and Stateful Session beans with EJB 2.0 standards using Web Sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD 5.0).  • Used various J2EE design patterns, like DTO, DAO, and Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Singleton and Factory patterns.  • Consumed Web Service for transferring data between different applications.  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate 3.0framework as the persistence layer for interacting with Oracle 9i.  Environment: Java 1.5, JSP 2.0, HTML, JavaScript, EJB 2.0, Struts 1.1, JDBC 2.0, IBM Web Sphere 5.0, XML, XSLT, XML Schema, JUnit 3.8.1, Rational Rose 4.0, Ant 1.5, UML, Hibernate 3, Oracle 9i and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Git (5 years), Html (5 years), Maven (7 years), Oracle (5 years), Unix (7 years)