Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Vanguard INC 16+years of experience in design, development, implementation and managing of financial applications product in Corporate and Retail Banking, e-Remittance, ACH, Cash Management and Revenue and Billing Systems using Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS and third party software's on Windows, Unix and cloud platforms.    • Extensive experience in managing and supervising the complete implementation with team for prestigious clients in banking sector like GE Money Bank US, First Caribbean Bank, North Carolina Dept. of State Treasurer, HDFC Bank India.  • Experience of working on different development methodologies like Agile/Kanban, Waterfall and TDD.  • Managed off shore resources on several projects, collaborating weekly with these resources and developers. This was done in an agile environment using JIRA as the tool and Scrum methodology.  • Strong experience in J2EE Technology with in-depth knowledge in JSP, Servlets, EJB, Java Script, JDBC/ODBC, HTML5, XML, XSLT, XPATH, CSS3, SAX, DOM.  • Diverse experience working on tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud configuration, Netflix Eureka, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Restful Web Services.  • Strong understanding, development and implementation experience of web/integration architectures (REST, Web Services, Messaging, etc.).  • Experienced in developing database to create its objects like tables, views, functions, triggers, and stored procedures packages using PL/SQL in Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MySQL.  • Proven skills working at client place, client interaction and ease in grasping newer technologies. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Vanguard INC - Malvern, PA October 2016 to Present Revenue Recognition and Billing is application that aggregates the revenue collected in various departments for their products and services to the clients and generates the billing information. This information is sent to SaaS bases third party application.  Role and Responsibility:  • Developed REST based service to get list of the items available in catalogue based on categories using Jersey REST API, Java, JSON, Tomcat and Oracle.  • Design and Developed Payment module, which is linked with employer's departmental, hierarchical information. Based on this employer can purchase up to certain amount.  • Designed and developed the REST based service to post the payment information to third party payment gateway.  • Extensively used Java collections API and various data structures for developing modules.  • Worked on Spring Batch for conversion of Mainframe data into client application using Spring Batch, JDK 1.8, and XML, Oracle 12g database.  • Configured the POJOs with backend tables in Hibernate to achieve the associations.  • Integrated the Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate to fetch data from database and avoid the redundant database access statements.  • Developed the JUnits tests case for the entire Master Data file using Cucumber, JUnit 1.4, JDK 1.8, Spring STS suite tool and Tomcat.  • Experience in using build/deploy tools such as Jenkins, SonarQube for Continuous Integration & Deployment for Microservices.  • Participated in Scrum story building session, managed some scrum meetings in Agile development environment.  • Migrating legacy application into AWS cloud application.  • New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry.  • Designed and developed web responsive single page application for Back filling of the billing information using  Angular JS framework, Node.js, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS.  • Migrating existing application into microservices architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot, Spring Cloud, Netflix (eureka) and AWS.  • Configure Jenkins, Sonar Dashboard for continuous development.  • Created detailed Testing module architecture for automating the Test case using Selenium, Cucumber, JUnit, Mockito, PowerMock and EasyMock. Senior Software Developer IbleSoft INC - Piscataway, NJ April 2016 to September 2016 BoxOn Logistics is the premier logistics Freight Forwarding software application has been designed and developed in order to fully assist Freight Forwarding companies to move on successfully with their business operations.  Role and Responsibility:  • Developed Authentication module for individual client with separate password/login as per their profile using Java 1.7, Oracle 12g database, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Developed the Alerts/Notifications function to send the PDF/Excel invoices for various jobs, clients per period. Java 1.7 Mail, Apache Third party libraries for PDF/Excel attachments were used for this function.  • Worked on various reports for Management, sales report, invoices reports using Oracle 12g database, HTML, JavaScript, and JDK1.7.  • Worked on configuration and integration of various Rules for logistic transfer, payments, shipping, etc. using REST based web-services, Jersey REST API, JDK 1.8, Tomcat application server, Oracle 12g database.  • Used Hibernate framework for data persistence, involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations for data persistence. Technical Manager Oracle Financial Services Software INC - Edison, NJ January 2014 to March 2016 Oracle's Digital Banking is a product for retail, consumer, corporate, investment, digital banking, asset management and investor servicing. FLEXCUBE Direct Banking product is a multi-channel e-banking platform with support for customer touch points like Internet, Mobile/PDA, IVR, and ATM etc. It also offers support for multiple delivery channels with a wide range of functionality.  Role and Responsibility:  • Designed the architect, analysis and managed development of User registration module with REST Service API calls to authentication engine using open source OAuth, Spring, Hibernate and Java api with Oracle as database based on SOA architecture.  • Used AngularJS and Node.js as the development framework to build a single-page application for Account Opening module using Angular JS objects like Route Provider, Http, Factories and Scope in application and HTML5, CSS3.  • Designed and developed on Responsive Data table, Responsive Images using Bootstrap, CSS and HTML for building Responsive web site.  • Used Agile methodology and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Used various design patterns for module design and development such as Singleton, MVC, DAO, DTO and Factory, Business Delegate.  • Configured and setup Kdb+ tick database for storing market data that captured from live sources i.e. Bloomberg, Reuters, etc. Also, designed and develop feed handlers using core java making it light weight, scalable and parameterized configurable.  • Designed and developed the interfaces in Java, KDB internals for the historical data repositories in order to generate the various reports. Worked on high performance queries in order to simulate and clean large data in very efficiently and viable time. Sr. Consultant Oracle Financial Services Software INC - Edison, NJ January 2012 to November 2013 Oracle's Digital Banking is a product for retail, consumer, corporate, investment, Digital banking, asset management and investor servicing. FLEXCUBE Direct Banking product is a multi-channel e-banking platform with support for customer touch points like Internet, Mobile/PDA, IVR, and ATM etc. It also offers support for multiple delivery channels with a wide range of functionality.  Role and Responsibility:  • Designed architect, analysis and developed DDA loan account interface using Java, PL/SQL, Oracle, and SQL for Silicon Valley Bank.  • Follow all the Quality Related Activities and Involved in supporting various QA teams.  • Developed the data interfaces through oracle Pl/Sql, Oracle 10g/11g, UNIX. Sr. Software Engineer Glen Rock, NJ June 2009 to December 2011 e3bank is online investment and retail bank who's principle is to build prosperous and sustainable enterprise through sound investments in people and in planet.    Role and Responsibility:  • Done Requirement Analysis, development and integration of FLEXCUBE Direct Banking application with third party interface using Web Services, EJB using Secured Socket Layer (SSL) technology for communicating over SOAP based HTTP protocol.  • Developed interface with Bill Pay module of FLEXCUBE Direct Banking application with third party interface iPay using Web Services, J2EE, WSDL, and SSL with Triple DES 196 bit encryption model for encrypting the request for communication over HTTP/HTTPS protocol.  • Done analysis, designed architect and development of Consumer Credit Report function for Account Opening module by integrating with eFunds's Chex Security Systems to get credit report of customer by doing OFAC check, ID Verification, Identity Theft validation by KBA and give final score by QualiFile. This was developed using JDK 1.5, Web services, WSDL, HTTP, SOAP and JMS.  • Developed Captcha technology, used in User Registration form in Account Opening module of FLEXCUBE Direct Banking application using JCaptcha API.  • Developed Multifactor Authentication User authentication module using Oracle Authentication Adaptive Manager (OAAM) with native API integration.  • Credit verification of customers like OFAC was done using Chex Systems during account opening module of FLEXCUBE Direct Banking application.  • Developed Penny Credit validation technology for Account Funding in Account Opening module.  • Designed and developed Check Image retrieval function to retrieve image from third party application VSOFT using J2EE and retrieving image in byte array format using Java API for e3Bank and NCDST. Sr. Software Engineer NCDST - Raleigh, NC October 2008 to May 2009 NCDST implemented a new Core Banking System (CB$), replacing the old legacy systems that had been utilized for over 20 years. CB$ provides NCDST's various customers (agencies, universities, community colleges, and local school systems) with a secured web-based online banking component like Positive and Stop Pay, Retrieving images for paid warrants, Tax payment, Funds Transfer, etc. This project was technical upgrade from Webpsphere application server from 4.0 to 6.0 and database server from Oracle 8i to Oracle 10g.  Role and Responsibility:  • Deployed application on Clustered environment on IBM Websphere Application server 6.0. Configured SSL certificate on IIS webserver and IBM Websphere application server.  • Designed and developed Warrant Image retrieval function to retrieve check image from third party application using Java, Web-Services, integrated with C++ based Unisys Check image server.  • Used EJB Timer Bean to post Positive pay and Tax payments transactions to host core banking application.  • Worked on the JDBC connectivity using connection pooling and data sources configuration to get connection objects using JNDI lookup. The JAAS service of Websphere is used for database password security.  • Developed the Message Driven Beans to handle the asynchronous response from core banking system.  • Involved in Queue configuration on IBM MQ and JMS configuration on Websphere for MDBs.  • Facilitated demonstration/user acceptance testing and defect fixing. Sr. Software Engineer FCIB - First Caribbean International Bank November 2007 to September 2008 First Caribbean is a major Caribbean bank offering a full range of market-leading financial services in Corporate Banking, Retail Banking, Wealth Management, Credit Cards, Treasury and Capital Markets.  This project was Support for day-to-day activities. The main objectives of this application are as below:  Funds Transfer, Wire Transfer. Enquiry modules like account activity, account inquiries, standing instructions and also Customer Services.  Role and Responsibility:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis of new enhancement and preparing the requirement specification documents.  • Coordinated with the client for day-to-day operations and technical and functional issues. Sr. Software Engineer GE Money Bank - Stamford, CT October 2006 to October 2007 GE Money Bank is virtual Online Bank; it has features like Online Account opening, Funds Transfer, CDs, Account Enquiry and Bill Payment.  Role and Responsibility:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis of new requirements and preparing the requirement specification documents.  • Coordinated between the offshore development team and the onsite team for the requirement analysis  and new releases.  • Developed Session Beans for online account opening and registration module.  • Modified existing Servlets to interface with external system for user information validation.  • Developed Entity Beans and Session Beans for communication with core banking system.  • Developed the Message Driven Beans to handle the asynchronous response from core banking system.  • Worked on the presentation and UI components using XSL, CSS and JavaScript with Builder design pattern.  • Worked on the JDBC connectivity using connection pooling and data sources configuration to get connection  • Involved in Queue configuration on IBM MQ and JMS configuration on Websphere for MDBs. Sr. Software Engineer IIMS - Bayer Pharmaceuticals - Pittsburgh, PA June 2006 to October 2006 IIMS is a safety tracking system for Bayer employees with workflow. The IIMS system is a complete rewrite of the legacy Lotus Notes system. The goal of this project was not only to replicate the original functionality using a different technology, but also to enhance the workability of the system.  Role and Responsibility:  • Developed a search module which will display the criteria depending upon the role of user using Java, JSP, Servlet and AJAX.  • Developed and designed the Admin module which has different configuration based on role of user  using Java, JSP, JavaScript, and HTML.  • Wrote various store procedure for application.  • Worked as UAT support and was responsible for releasing and maintaining the versions on CVS. Sr. Software Engineer CDS - Hewitt Associates - Chicago, IL October 2005 to March 2006 Common Data Store (CDS) is a Hewitt proprietary database-centric product. It is data integration architecture designed to accepts input from various distributed systems - either real-time or batch, feeds the data warehouse for reporting, PeopleSoft, myHr web based application thus maximizes the availability of data even when the supporting application is unavailable, optimizes performance and eliminate dependency on co-hosting applications.  Role and Responsibility:  • Developed and deployed interfaces to exchange data between various applications hosted by Hewitt, client  Marriott, and different vendors with CDS using automated jobs and processes.  • Developed interface to make webservice call to vendor applications which generate review ratings for employees  using WSIF 2.0, WSDL, AXIS, Apache SOAP, XML, JAVA, etc.  • Designed and Developed interface to pull zip file from vendors ftp server for every five minutes, unzip it, which is excel sheet, reformat that in xml and put in JMS queue to load in PeopleSoft. Worked on Apache  Commons suite to get file from FTP server, java.util.zip for unzip and retrieve file as excel sheet, Apache  POI for getting data from style sheet, JMS for putting in queue along with XML, SAX, Java Threads, IO, J2ee.  • Worked on Compensation module for myHr web based application which calculates Bonus amount, Merit  Increases, Lump sum amount of associates using JSP, Servlet, J2EE and XML. Sr. Software Engineer at Work Flow Manager Verizon Wireless - Dallas, TX February 2005 to September 2005 Work Flow Manager tool is developed for one of the call centers for Verizon, which supports customers with different media interactions i.e. Email, Voice, Chat, Web orders. WFM along with Genesys Universal Routing Solution provides optimal handling of different media knowing exactly the status of agent and distributing various tasks to agents based upon their skill sets. WFM was integrated with Genesys CCPulse to handle certain status of Agents like Break, Adherence, etc.  Role and Responsibility:  • Involved in development of two major modules of WFM, i.e. Submitting the different media task and Chat  using Genesys Internet Contact Solutions 6.5.  • Worked on Genesys ICS API for submitting email task to email server. Worked on MST Server, URS and TServer on this module.  • Involved in development of routing strategy. Developed strategy for skill based routing depending  upon the jurisdiction and priority of task assigned to particular agent.  • Configuration of Genesys application in Configuration Manager.  • Worked on Session beans, Servlets, JSP for pushing the tasks to Genesys servers.  • Design and developed ANT build script for building the project.  • CCPulse+ Reporting tool.  • Created custom statistics in Stat Server to show Adherence/Out of Adherence, Break state in CCPulse.  • Created different filters to handle events in Stat Server in order to report it on CCPulse. Associate Consultant I-Flex Solutions Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2004 to February 2005 First Gulf Bank has various channels such as ATM, IVR, CRM, NetBanking.To effectively monitor and process transactions from their various channels they need channel integrator.  Role and Responsibility:  • Developed interface to communicate Channel Integrator (CI) and GLOBUS on principle of Request/response mechanism, where CI will initiate an XML request to GLOBUS and will receive an XML  response over TCP/IP protocol.  • Developed CI-IVR, CI-CRM interface which is XML message based interface over HTTPS. Sr. Java Developer eCams - Kuala lumpur, MY January 2004 to June 2004 eCams is a Corporate Account Management System, which is a tool to help bank's corporate clients keep track of banking transactions with convenient and secure access to their banking data and efficient hands-on management of funds. The modules in eCams are Accounts, Payments, Disbursement, Trade Finance, Liquidity Management, Float Analysis, Forex, Treasury Services and Administration modules.  Role and Responsibility:  • Developed and implemented Accounts, Payments, Disbursement, Liquidity Management modules.  • Designed and Developed Bank Reconciliation module for eCams in order to reconcile the transaction of clients. Sr. Java Developer Enet - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2003 to December 2003 Enet is an Internet based, fully secured and online electronic delivery channel, which provide the bank's corporate clients with convenient and secure access to there banking data around the world.  Role and Responsibility:  • Designed, Developed and Maintained Disbursement module which generates the file in specific format  which is used for check printing using, Threads and Multipart file uploads.  • Developed Email Advice Thread which send mail after every transaction and consolidated transaction advices  at the end of the day using Java Mail API, Threads.  • Developed and maintained Enet with Reliance SAP system through user interface in Core Java to send  payment, DD/Cheque printing files to bank in encrypted format using MD5 algorithm.  • Developed dynamic formats for the shipping agents of JNPT. The Bank user defines the payment screen  for Shipping agents with appropriate mapping, display order & validations for doing payments.  On successful authorization of these payments the debit and credit advices gets generated and sent to the respective users. Sr. Java Developer IndiaLink - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2002 to December 2003 This is Electronic Remittance project providing the facility of transactions for an NRI's to transfer -money in just one day. Remitter will go to exchange house and will register himself and can send money to India within 24 Hours in metropolitan cities and in maximum 48 hours in India.  Role and Responsibility:  • Developed and Implemented SQL Injection, which involves checking of the illegal characters in request  Parameters before any SQL query is fired to the database.  • Designed, Developed and Maintained Transaction module through which any no. Of payments can  be done in one file upload, using Threads and Multipart file uploads.  • Developed User interface module that is responsible for doing various options of transactions  using Servlets, Java Scripts and HTML.  • Client interaction, Customer Support and Bug fixing. Sr. Web Developer at Credit Financing System Atcom Software Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2000 to March 2002 United Finance Credit Finance System (UFCFS) is a system to manage growing financing/leasing business. UFCFS involves Proposal, Pricing, and Portfolio sub-systems.  Role and Responsibility:  • Utilized Servlets for form processing at server side.  • Provided multiple accesses to the system-using concept of multi threading.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Development using JSP, HTML, JavaScript. Education Bachelors of Science University of Mumbai Skills Spring, Java, Linux