Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer New Hope, PA Professional with over 20 years of software and engineering experience is  seeking a full time senior software developer position in the field of software  programming, design, electrical or computer engineering. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Mistras, Triple - Princeton Junction, NJ 2013 to 2019 Design, implementation and support real time acoustic  system for power boilers pipes leak monitoring (WCF, WPF, C#). Design, implementation and support new generation of software for natural gas and coal  power plants. Design algorithms for pipe leak location inside power boiler. Design  the software for automatic leak sound recognition. Design the firmware for measurement pipes wall thickness based on turning fork frequency analysis (atmel  studio). Senior Engineer VEECO MOCVD Systems - Somerset, NJ 2010 to 2013 Design, implementation and support real time temperature  measurement and control system for different type of reactors (WCF, WPF, C#).  Design, implementation and support scanning pyrometer software. Design  algorithms for create temperature, reflectivity and wafers profile images in real  time. Design and implementation software for post process analysis. Customer  support in China, Singapore, Korea. Senior Software Developer AT&T - Florham Park, NJ 2008 to 2010 Design, implementation and support of the "Parents  Locator System (PLS)". Design of a cross-platform GUI for client side using Yoix and Server software (Perl) for Database interface with SFTP communication  support. Encryption/Decryption algorithm design and implementation for storage of personal information. Senior Software Engineer Solid State Equipment Corporation - Horsham, PA 2006 to 2008 Design and implementation of a network based  Industrial Equipment Control software. Design and implementation of SQL Server  Dbase and software for remote access and graphical presentation of the industrial equipment process parameters in real time. Software design for  industrial equipment setup and configuration. Tools: C#, Visual Studio 2005. Software Developer Tri-State NDT Inc - Staten Island, NY 1996 to 2006 Design and implementation of a fully automated system for Eddy Current Non Destructive Testing: Hardware/Robotics controls, Digital  Processing of Eddy Current data, Defect detection, Filtering using Neyman- Pearson algorithms, wavelet transforms and various time, frequency and  statistical methods, Design of the graphical user interface for robotics control, data capture, data processing and report generation. Using C++ with a multi  threading for separate data input, store and graphical presentation. Responsible for Rebuild the Project on a .Net platform  Visual Studio .Net 2.0, Visual Studio 2008. Software Design Team Leader/Project Princeton Technology Group Inc - Ewing, NJ 1998 to 2002 Project Manager/Team Lead - Responsibilities included High Level System  Design; Small Design Team coordination, management and support;  Frequent Customer Interaction; Design for mass production.  Projects Completed:  1. Phillip Morris Corp. Industrial Printer - Software interface design, communication protocols over TCP/IP, Graphical User Interface for an  assembly line, high volume industrial printer. C++ MS Visual Studio 6.0 for Windows CE. Software/Firmware Development Consultant Iniven Inc 2000 to 2000 2000 - Firmware and Software Design for a Power Plant  Digital Teleprotection system. Design a multithread application on a C++ for NIOS and Borland Delphi for Windows Application.    Software/Firmware Development Consultant  Projects Completed:  1. Norland Products Inc. Automated, non-contact interferometer for fiber  optics - GUI and Image Processing algorithm design and implementation  for quality assessment of fiber optic connectors. Borland C++ Builder for Windows.  2. Limo 5. "Automobile Black Box" - Design of a GPS based system for automobile accident data recorder. Accelerometer monitoring, video  processing and storage, GPS interface, communication protocol design.  MS C++ Visual Studio 6.0.  3. Shop 2000 Automated Vending - Robotic Control System Design, Firmware and GUI for an automated, un-manned convenience store. . MS  C++ Visual Studio 6.0. Software Developer Heart Rhythm Instruments Inc - Metuchen, NJ 1998 to 2000 User Interface and signal processing software design for Heart Rate Variability monitoring and analysis system. Borland Delphi, Windows  OS. Software Developer - Design of various Java applets and tools Future Graph Inc - Philadelphia, PA 1998 to 1999 for educational web  based software. Electronics Engineer Central Materials Research Institute - St. Petersburg, RU 1985 to 1995 Projects Completed:  1. Automatic system design for curvature measurement of 130mm tank  cannons*.  2. Design of a data collection and parameter measurement system for high  speed galvanization lines for barrels of large caliber aircraft cannons*.  3. Control systems design for high speed galvanization line "Contour-5"*.  * - Some details are classified. Education M.S.E.E. Saint Petersburg Electrotechnical University - St. Petersburg, RU 1983 to 1985 B.S E.E. in E.E Saint Petersburg Electrotechnical University - St. Petersburg, RU 1979 to 1983 Skills LADDER LOGIC, MICROPROCESSORS, MOTOROLA, ALGORITHMS, ALTERA, FIRMWARE, LINUX, PSPICE, REAL TIME, SIGNAL PROCESSING, WAFER, FREESCALE, CONTROL SYSTEMS, FPGA, MICRO CONTROLLER, PCB MANUFACTURING, VHDL, INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, .NET, VISUAL STUDIO