Senior Architect (Systems Integration) Senior Architect (Systems Integration) Senior Architect (Systems Integration) - ATRIA Consulting Stamford, CT • Design, Develop and implemented Service Orientation Architecture in the domain such as ERP, CRM, eGovernance.  • Experience in implementing micro web services in integrated enterprise application environment.  • Worked on Struts and Spring-Hibernate web application development.  • Design & Develop MIS reporting system based on business object using Crystal report environment.  • Design Develop and implemented database solution for integrated application environment (Database Structures/Database Trigger/ Function / Procedures)  • Experienced SDLC Software development life cycle methodologies, Agile methodologies such as Scrum.  • Worked on various J2EE applications on application servers such as WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  • Sound knowledge in migration of systems, projects upgrades and migrating applications from application servers.  • Proficient in documenting Business Requirements, Functional Requirements, Business Process Flow, Business Process Mapping, and Modelling.  • Experience in planning, development and implementation of concurrent enterprise wide solutions in a highly demanding and constantly changing business environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Architect (Systems Integration) ATRIA Consulting - White Plains, NY April 2014 to Present Project: Jail Management Data Transfer Web Service  A secured web service gateway design and develop to share highly secured and sensitive data with vendor application.    Project: DCMH (Department of Community Mental Health) A secured web service interface to share mental health data with different branches of criminal justice division (Correction/Probation). Data shared includes mental health data, criminal background data.    Project: WatchList System  ALERT system for various branch of Criminal Justice department. Purpose is to keep watch on sensitive criminal history data and send tlcalert as soon as any suspicious activities get triggered.    Project: Document Generation System  Web service based custom formatted Document Generation System for various sub system across Westchester County. Currently PINs and LIMO application using it. Web service based document sharing system which allow department to share any binary formatted data such as documents, pdfs and image files among them either directly using document search or through any custom build application by using web service client APIs.    Project: TLCLimo a online ecommerce website design & develop using struts framework to serve citizen of Westchester County to apply various transportation licenses and permit at TLC (Taxi and Limousine Commission of Westchester County).    Responsibility: Role involve collaboration, conceptualization, planning, and designing to establish and maintain an Enterprise Architecture. Work involved mainly develop and design process of bringing together the component sub-systems into one system and ensuring that the subsystems function together as a system. Involved in requirement gathering, analysis & design and development of application.    Technology: JAVA, J2EE, Restful API for web service development, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, json, jdbc, xml, oracle, pl/sql, IBM Websphere, Eclipse, Maven and SVN JAVA/JSP/J2EE DEVELOPER IQTech Pros - White Plains, NY November 2011 to March 2014 Project: The Integrated Probation Registrant System (IPRS)    The Integrated Probation Registrant System (IPRS) is NY State mandated system used to update the DCJS which maintains a central database for all counties under NY State. It is used by the Westchester County probation department to capture new offender case registrations, case closing, case transfer, moving violation and change in offender address.  Role & Responsibility:  • Collaborated with State and participating Counties in schema design.  • Implemented SOAP based web services using JAX-WS to exchange message between County and State.  • Created Initial test plan and developed test cases and test scripts manually.  • Experienced in testing Web services using SoapUI tool.  • Involved in design and development of web service for offender transferring operation.  • Designed reports for daily, monthly and quarterly transactions using Crystal Reports by creating DB views and complex co-related sub queries. PROGRAMMER ANALYST Nutech Information - White Plains, NY March 2004 to November 2011 Project: Westchester Criminal Justice Warehouse Search Application (CJData).  Designing, Developing and Maintain Criminal Justice Data Warehouse Search System, based on Java J2EE & Struts Framework. It's a comprehensive search system which looks into 9 data sources (PROBATION, CORRECTION, SEX OFFENDER, CRIMINAL FINGERPRINT, NON-CRIMINAL FINGERPRINT, PISTOL, ALECS, PAROLE) and show detail history of any criminal & Search transaction Audits. Initially the application is based on Struts 1.x, but as time went taking into account the growing user requirements and manageability of the application we enhance the same to 2.0  Role & Responsibility:  • Involved in requirement gathering, analysis & design and development of application.  • Implemented struts framework to have flexible control layer and standard data access technologies like pojos and daos.  • Develop and design Action Class, Action Forms, Java Server Pages and EJB consist of business logic.  • SOAP based web services exchange data messages between County and State.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers & Functions.  • Involved in migration from oracle 10g application server to IBM Websphere  Environment /Technology: Rational Rose (RAD) Development Tool 7.x, soa, plsql, oracle, jms, axis, jws jdbc, Eclipse 3.2 & MyEclipse 5.0/9.0, Oracle 9i / 10g application server, IBM Web sphere, IBM MQ Series for JMS, Jdeveloper, SVN for source control & Maven    Client: Merck Inc, NJ USA  Project:  Maintained Career Section of www.merck.com Involved in Migration Project from Window to Unix. Involving in Conception & Designing of One Merck Adapter Project. The purpose of this project is to provide consolidation of Physician Information within the different channels in Latin America. The main purpose was to avoid inconsistency in the physician profile e.g. personal and professional data, which is gather through different channels such as sales representation, call center and websites and in different format to. We have started designing a Web Service based application to meet the above need.    Role & Responsibility:  Involved in requirement gathering, analysis & design and development of application Java Bean, XML and standard data access technologies like JDBC and EJB.  Environment: Jbuilder IDE, Oracle database, Apache Server and Axis 1.1 Soap Engine. Project Leader Vora Information Technologies Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra - IN August 2002 to January 2004 Project: Worked on Electronic Grocery Ordering System (EGOS) & Product Network System (PNS) of USA client called Ingot Tech. Inc.  EGOS is a tool which will be used by the consumer to purchase the product of his like.  PNS, it's a web based interface provided to the registered vendor, to maintain there online virtual shop on the site.  SETU is a simple single window system, designed to issue various certificates and documents issued by Maharashtra Govt. to its citizens  GRIEVANCE is a simple system, designed to register complaints by the citizens. This module has in build workflow involved into it.    Role & Responsibility:  The contract was such that NNMC ask us to change the platform, initially this project was developed by us on Lotus Notes Technology. The major time of us was involved understanding the functionality of the current system and incorporate all by adding value to it in the current web based system. So my role was to understand requirements of users, who can be officer of NNMC, designing framework of the system using UML designing tool, and designing and development.  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP,SERVLET, JDBC, IBM DB2 database , IBM Web Sphere and Soft Modeler (UML Designing Tool) Project Leader Ajax Communications Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 2000 to August 2002 Project:  Ajax Knowledge Sphere, a knowledge management system, which features multiple modules build on top of a robust and scalable intranet system  A Samarth Internal Reporting System, a system which helps field officer of Samarth Pharma Limited, to keep in touch with head office which is remotely located.  Document Management System, A java based document management system, which helps in storing document at central place in categorized manner with proper security checks. The system was having key word base search facility for locating document.  Orion Family Concept, a system that is designed to take care of functioning of multi level marketing system. It covers function like, member registration and there maintenance, collection data and mis, commission distribution etc.    Role & Responsibility:  Here I am managing a team of seven software developers who handled development and implementation of various software projects. Responsibilities include, Understand Client Requirements, System Analyzing, designing and development.  Environment: Java/J2EE, EJB, jsp, servlet, jdbc,Web Logic application server, Java web server, ASP, IIS and MSSQL Programmer Analyst Repro India Limited New Bombay, Maharashtra - IN November 1997 to February 2000 Project:  Market Plan Module is a starting point of system at Repro. Market Plan Module, is designed to build the system Which provide projection of marketing plan for the financial year, depends upon the information provided by various Business heads, group heads and marketing executive on the basis of past history of client and there jobs. On the basis of this marketing plan, annual marketing targets are set. This target further divided into weekly, monthly &quarterly targets. Following modules provides all combination of reports of actual sales Vs targeted sales.  Bill of Material Module , Integrated Inventory Management and Purchase Order , Production Planning and Control and HRD    Role & Responsibility:  As a Programmer analyst, I was responsible for understanding the functioning process of all department of Repro India Limited. Responsibilities include, Understand user requirements, and give them solutions, which may in the form of software or simple workflow implementation.  Environment: Developer 2000 and Oracle 8. Education Bachelor of Commerce in Finance/Economics/Accounting & Statistics Mumbai University Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, Web Services (RestFul / JWS) (5 years), Database Management (Oracle) (10+ years), Cross Application Systems Integration (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Languages: Java, J2EE, JSON, JavaScript, AngularJS, XML, PL/SQL , Serlet /JSP  • Frameworks: Struts, Spring, JPA, Hibernate  • Application / Web Server: IBM WebSphere, Tomcat, Oracle Application Server (9as and 10g) & Web logic  • Database: Oracle, MS SQL Server and MS Access  • Web services: SOA using JWS, RESTful API  • Defect Tracking: Bugzilla, JIRA  • Architecture: MVC, SOA, AOP, Java J2EE design patterns.  • Development Methodology: Agile, Waterfall  • Tools: Eclipse, MyEclipse, MS Visio, Rational Requisite Pro, MS Office Suite, MS Project, SharePoint, Crystal Reports, Toad, Postman, JDeveloper, Power Builder, MS Excel.  • Source Control: Subversion