Sr. MuleSoft Solution Lead, Sr. Tech Lead/Architect Sr. MuleSoft Solution Lead, Sr. Tech Lead/Architect Sr. MuleSoft Solution Lead, Sr. Tech Lead - TIAA, USA / Accenture Charlotte, NC Diptendu is Senior Technical Lead at Accenture technology. He has over 12 years of extensive experience in Software Design, Development in Enterprise, web-based application, and product development based on Java-JEE technology. He is well versed in Core Java, JSP, Servlet, Spring(core, MVC), Hibernate, SOAP and REST Web service  Diptendu has over 4 years of extensive hands on experience in Design, Development, Architect of Mule API, mainly in On-Premise, Cloud hub and AWS. He is well versed in Mule 3.x, Mule 4.x, API Gateway, Runtime Fabric, and API-led Connectivity.    Diptendu has worked major clients including TIAA, Bank of America, Best Buy, Bristol Myers Squibb, State of Massachusetts, British Telecom, General Motors, Nissan Motor UK, OCTANNER USA, and TNT Netherland. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. MuleSoft Solution Lead, Sr. Tech Lead/Architect TIAA, USA / Accenture April 2018 to Present USA  Project: DLZ  Project Duration: April 2018 - Till date  Work location: USA  Role: Sr. MuleSoft Solution Analyst, Sr. Tech Lead    Project & Assignment Description  Technologies - Core Java 8, Mule ESB 3.8.7, Mule 4.x, AWS Aurora RDS, Runtime Fabric, Web Service(REST/SOAP), Hibernate3.0, Spring core, Spring MVC, JSON/XML, Oracle  Involved in architect and design integration flow, building Mule// Java services/API that meets various business objective.  Responsible of design and development of below 2 different layers work.    Services Layer: Working with technologies Mule 3.x,4.x, Core java, RESTful web service, Oracle and Aurora DB with AWS  1. Using API-led Connectivity migrated legacy REST service into Mule, Implemented System API's to unlock the data from different source system, which integrates with Oracle & AWS RDS Aurora. These API pull Participant profile, Participant accounts, and advisor information and user preference data from different stored procedure. System API's implemented with technology agnostic code to deploy on premises and AWS platform without code changes.  2. Designed, Developed Channel specific Experience API. Implemented Process API which aggregate the System API's response and build capability for participant data, currently 2 different channel using the same process API, these API's deployed AWS VPC using RTF.  3. Designed and Implemented Mule API to consume data from Kafka Topic to handle real time streaming for personal data and account change data from MDM, using Apache Kafka Client APIs and Avro schema, and update to TIAA Bank system as well as Publish to Kafka topic.  4. Cyber Ark implementation in Java and Mule to protect OAuth2.0 secret, DB password, also get PingFed access token and hold till expiry.  5. API design in Design center using RAML, applying policy using API manger, Custom Security OAuth2 policy, publish asset in Exchange, API deployment in AWS using Runtime Fabric container, adding policy in API deployed using Runtime Fabric.  6. IBM MQ 8.0 integration with Mule API's    UI Layer: Working with technologies Core Java, Spring Core, Spring MVC, FTL, Hibernate, Oracle  1. Redesigning the existing web application developed in Spring MVC, which consume spring based RESTful web service. The target UI web application is going to consume the RESTful Process API's developed in Mule. The UI business logic is going to move to Mule API, in order to keep same UI code across all channels in AWS cloud and on premise. Sr Mulesoft/ Java /Tech Lead/ Developer/Architect Bank of America, USA / Accenture March 2016 to March 2018 Project & Assignment Description  Technologies - Core Java 8, Mule ESB 3.5,3.8, MQ 7.5.0.8, Web service(REST/SOAP), Hibernate3.0, Spring, JSON/XML, Salesforce, Oracle    My independent contribution involves gathering and solidifying the requirements from client, capture in design documents, and create LLD. Implement Java and Mule based integration with different source system, also I am responsible of coordinating an offshore development team, review the work and deliver and present all deliverable to client.    Involved Design and Development of the below major integration service using Java/J2EE and Mule ESB technology    1. Risk Rating: - Implemented Mule API to integrate with IBM MQ and Salesforce. The Risk Rating Scorecard Application in downstream is a web-based interface used to generate Facility Risk Ratings for borrowers in accordance with the standard Rating philosophy. Target state post the Facility information to Mule service, Mule API validates, applies transformation and finally sends the information to downstream provider through IBM MQ (WMQ connector). Target state call another Mule service to receive the FRR to evaluate the rating of Borrower, the Risk rating data finally update into salesforce.    2. Deposit accounts retrieval: - This component is a composite service façade that will return a list of deposit accounts from core banking systems. Implemented Mule API which aggregate data from 2 different downstream web service , getting list of accounts, and retrieving the account details from another call and finally update the aggregate data to salesforce    3. CRM smart Form - Implemented Mule API which integrate Appian CRM data and Salesforce to receive new loan request. New Loan request received from Appian CRM, after successful validation, Mule API will return an acknowledgment to Appian and the information will send to salesforce asynchronously.    4. Client Details - This Mule integration service calls multiple downstream web service to retrieve the client information aggregate those in customize response and return to target state.    5. JWT OAuth- This Mule API developed for authorize and authentication of consumer request to any service. It has 2 parts one is generating token and other is validating token. When consumer call any Mule service, consumer needs to pass a unique token, service will invoke JWT to validate the token, on successful, consumer is allowing to call resource    6. Party update - This integration service receives the update party information validate it, and pass to downstream for updating client information    7. Shipping information - This integration service will retrieve return label from downstream    8. AML KYC - This integration service calls downstream web service and return the response with KYC status as well as Jurisdiction and product information    9. Document Vault - This is a composite Mule service, The MQ listener consume the messages from local Queue which is running in cluster Queue manger. Listener receive the message in XML and transform to JSON and send to integration service, the integration service is then validated the JSON message and vault the document to salesforce and audit the response to audit table    10. Using Multithreading define max active thread, idle thread, reading file and send to server for parallel asynchronous processing. Implemented Multithreading in Mule java in custom transformer on Listener and MQ connectivity.    11. Developed scan bar code vaulting, client put scan bar code document into windows share drive, a java component developed to pick the files regular basis and transfer to Linux NAS, The files from NAS poll and process for document vaulting in salesforce using Java and Mule. Software Developer and Team Lead Best Buy, USA / Accenture March 2015 to October 2015 Project: Multi Channel  Project Duration: March 2015 - October 2015  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Software Developer and Team Lead    Project & Assignment Description  Technologies - Core Java, Multithreading, JSP, Groovy, JAX-RS, Angular JS, Hibernate3.0,    I have Designed and Developed requirement in different releases, which include Application design, Data model design, setting up environment like Dev, QA, PERF, manage offshore development team, and deliver work product on estimated time with quality code.  Some of deliverable as follows:  1. Involved in Arc Admin Page Data Model Design and Application development  2. Design and developed end to end System processing time page and functionality in Arc Admin.  3. Designed and developed Location based Turn off /Turn on functionality across all layer along with Data model.  4. Involved in sql migration and DB environment set up with different ARC release  5. Managing offshore development team, to make sure the deliverable delivers within estimated time with quality code.  6. Developed thread pool of monitor like Batch job monitor (responsible for monitoring ARCH_BATCH_JOB table to keep looking any records status 'Registered' . If monitor find any such records it will fetch that record and republish it), Location capacity monitor thread (monitors the ARC_LOC_CAPY table. to identify the location's current capacity), Region monitor thread (responsible for keep monitoring the specific type of file set). The framework contains monitor manager and Runner which is use to create the Thread pool using Executors framework, managing thread lifecycle and shutdown Software Product Development Lead Capability / Accenture July 2013 to March 2015 Project: Capability  Project Duration: July 2013 - March 2015  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Software Product Development Lead    Project & Assignment Description  Client used to create KPI and scorecard using a GUI based application, in order to save time and accuracy the entire process has been automated and builds an automation tool.    Technologies used Core Java, Multithreading, JAX-WS web service, JAX- RS, JDBC, Spring MVC and Oracle 11G    1.Independently Designed and Developed an automation tool. End user just run a command from a command prompt, which invoke the automation tool and create the KPI, scorecard, build Objective and KPI node, create action link, create Score card, create Scorecard View and then add the view to OBIEE Dashboard page, the entire process will take less than a minute.  High level application design perspective, I created controller layer which will call from client class, controller has a web service client wrapper, so controller consume/call web service using web service wrapper. Controller communicates with Service layer, and Service layer communicate with DAO layer. Build Java object model with one-to-many and many-to-many relationship manually. Using JDBC API created object model and get entire data set as an Object from DAO layer. In the service layer build the SOAP request with input from java object model and consume required web services.    2. Implemented a reusable tool using Java which take input from a different app server logs as a unstructured data, this data is then parsed and transformed as .csv format, later on, these data store as a structure data in a database which used in BI report.    3. Developed a Java JAX-WS Web service application using AXIS2 engine, which connect to ORE, using JDBC and return a Graph, This graph is then convert into Base64 encoded String, which is the output of Web service.    4. Developed a reusable tool, Commenting, which is a Web application build using Java, JSP, Servlet, Spring - MVC, Oracle. This tool use to Integrate with OBIEE to Post , Display, Override, Archive user's Comment from Report  Reading Hadoop(HDFS) high volume csv unstructured data, transforming into structure data and writing back to File system/Hive using Java Multithreading and concurrency with Blocking Queue algorithm, to analyze the data and generate the report Application Specialist Bristol Myers Squibb, USA / Accenture November 2011 to June 2013 Project: TRECnet  Project Duration: November 2011 - June 2013  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Application Tech Support Practitioner    Project & Assignment Description  Project: This is a web based post marketing application. The Objective of this application is to provide additional information to Health care professional based on the enquiry about the product/medicine which already launched. The Siebel CRM application would capture the enquiry question and Java Documentum Content Management system creates the response information for the enquiry and sends it to user. Worked independently from offshore in a challenging environment to handle the application used by 10 different regions (34 countries) across the globe.    Technologies used Java1.6, JSP, XML, Web -service, Documentum, HPQC    Role: Senior Developer  Role Description:  - Responsible for preparing requirement analysis, Estimation, Design, Build, Unit testing, Deployment script and SME review, and complete the requirement as per timelines.    - Independently worked from offshore to handle critical application build in very complex System (using Java and EMC Documentum API) which use across the globe over 34 countries. The role includes Release management, Service management, Production support, Ticket management, customer interaction, SME support. The details is as below    - In Release management responsible for SRP update, requirement gathering, update & review FDD, update & review detail design document, prepare unit test script and review, coding, code review, unit test execution and review, SME support for system test, review system test script, UAT support, create deployment script, post production activity.    - In Service Management, responsible for SLA and status reporting, Incident Management, Problem Management, minor enhancements and emergency release.    - In Quality management, responsible to maintain quality of coding to follow Accenture coding guidelines. There is a review conducted in every stage to make sure quality is maintained.    - In Ticket management I was responsible for resolving Urgent and medium ticket within SLA and communicate to client. Create change request for Data change; execute the change request in development, system test followed by Production environment. - As part of production support I was responsible for monitoring application deployed in US and UK docbase server in all environment, thread, memory leak and other environmental issue, also responsible to setup meeting with any urgent issue to tier1, LCMO, Business lead, and infrastructure team, also direct interaction with user across the globe, mostly user belongs to Germany, France, USA, China, Australia, Korea and United Kingdom.    - Involved in Knowledge Transition from incumbent vendors/client organization to team and Accenture people developer activity, conducted class room Training. Also as part of value creation, to improve performance of the application, I build reusable tool using Java, Documentum which save lot of effort and created value to the client. Delivery Excellence Practitioner Bristol Myers Squibb, USA / Accenture August 2011 to November 2011 Project: My Trial  Project Duration: August 2011 - November 2011  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Delivery Excellence Practitioner    Project & Assignment Description  Project: This is a web based application. The Objective of this application is to create a dashboard system, where in user can login to the dashboard and find all applications used in R& D space at a glance.    Technologies used Java1.6, JSP, Hibernate, Strut, Portlet, WebSphere Application Server, Oracle, and Clearcase7.0.1    Role: Senior Developer  Contribution: I developed a new portlet, and updated existing portlet. I was responsible for Requirement Analysis, Estimation, Design, coding ,update Technical DDD, update UT script, unit testing also responsible for Code review/code quality maintain Senior Software Developer TNT, Netherlands/Mahindra Satyam - NL December 2010 to April 2011 Client/Company: TNT, Netherland / Mahindra Satyam  Project: TNT  Project Duration: December 2010 - April 2011  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Software Developer    Project & Assignment Description  Project: This is a web based development project, Objective of the project is to allocate and manage consignment number range. Consignment number is unique for every shipment.    Technologies used: Java1.6, JSP, Spring MVC 3.0, Spring core, Hibernate3.0, java script Apache Tomcat, Junit, Tortoise SVN, Oracle.    Role: Developer and application support    Description: I was responsible for Analysis, Coding, unit testing, code review and bug fix. Senior Software Developer OC Tanner USA/Mahindra Satyam June 2010 to November 2010 Client/Company: O.C. Tanner, USA / Mahindra Satyam  Project: P42 Budget  Project Duration: June 2010 - November 2010  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Software Developer    Project & Assignment Description  Project: This is a web based development project, Objective of this project is to create a tool to plan budgets and spend over defined periods of time for appreciation /reward of their employees based on their (business unit or personnel) organizational hierarchy.    Technologies used: Java1.6, Multithreading, JSF, JPA, EJB, JBOSS Seam 2.1.2, XML, Oracle, Tortoise SVN and Junit    Role: Developer  Contribution: I was responsible for developing below two use cases.    Create New Budget: Implement a framework that provides the users of P42 application (both internal and external) facilities to create a new budget for any specific customer by specifying budget start & end date, business hierarchy, shipping & tax amount, and at the same time the user can associate the budget with one or more programs and/or campaigns and select global administrators/segment administrators/ segment viewers to access the budget tool from external hub.    Edit Budget: Edit budget functionality is intended to provide the facility to the user of P42 application, to modify any budget configuration which is incomplete, enabled, active or expired state. Both internal and external user can modify the properties of a budget for that particular customer based on permission. The user can edit properties like name, timeframe, amount etc.    Contribution in design phase:  Design: This module is in development phase, during design phase of this project I was involved to design create new Budget, Edit budget use case, TDD which includes UI element details, display rules, navigation rules, action, validation, DB mapping details, and Seam components details. Also created classes required as well as method and steps of the methods, Class diagram etc.    Contribution in development phase  Development: I developed these 2 use cases using Java 1.6, Ice Faces, JBOSS Seam framework (JSF and EJB 3.0) , Java Persistence API, Oracle 10G Software Developer OC Tanner/Mahindra Satyam August 2009 to June 2010 Client/Company: O.C. Tanner, USA / Mahindra Satyam  Project: P42 External Hub  Project Duration: August 2009 - June 2010  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Software Developer    Project & Assignment Description  Project: Project P42 is a Web based Application that runs on JBOSS application server an "Integrated Appreciation Offering" that O.C. Tanner wants to offer to its clients. It aims at providing a solution that Combines features from performance, recognition and incentive, has Ability to service domestic and international locations.    The Technologies involved are Java1.6, Multithreading, JSF, EJB, JBOSS Seam 2.1.2, XML, Oracle, SVN, Junit, JPA    Role: Developer  Description: Development  I have developed following use cases using Java 1.6, Ice Faces, Seam framework (JSF and EJB 3.0 with Oracle 10G) Java Persistence API.    Receive Menu: User navigates to the Receive menu to view appreciation received, reward points deposited, be redirected to redemption page or Program Page to view the award catalog for a program. The user can access the receive menu at any time within external hub. To provide the facility to External Secured Users who can navigate through the Receive menu and can view or redeem the items of appreciation like reward points, awards, e-products etc.    Give Menu: To provide a User Interface where the user can give appreciation / nominate through the Hub landing page and on any page within the external hub.  Give Menu allows user to give appreciation / nominate from the Hub landing page / any page from within External hub. Feature sets like e-Cards, e-Buttons, Air-thanks and Nominate and corresponding program are displayed under the Give menu.    Alert API: A central repository is required to be defined for storing the Alerts created by different components in the system. To communicate to the central repository for creating or clearing or retrieving alerts common API is required to be exposed so that different component could trigger the Alert actions  Use of Java Thread to load configuration and properties.    I was also responsible for unit testing of these modules as well. Software Developer General Motors/Mahindra Satyam March 2007 to July 2009 Project: VIMS  Project Duration: March 2007 - July 2009  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Software Developer    Project & Assignment Description  Project: Vehicle Incentive Management System is an application of General Motor to control and maintain the incentives provided for all vehicles manufactured by GM. When Customers purchase the vehicle, GM provides some incentive to customer. VIMS application gets some of the business-related data of GM from other applications and thereby, sends the incentive related data to dealers all over the world.    Technologies used: Java1.4, Multithreading, JSP, EJB, Web service, WebLogic application server, Oracle    Role: Developer and application support    Contribution: I was responsible for (Release work) development role and Backend activity.    Development role includes  - Analysis of the specifications and requirements provided by the clients  - Design/Modification of the design pattern.  - Coding using Java J2EE, Struts, EJB Servlets, JSP, UNIX scripts, PL/SQL.  - Testing, Deployment.    I developed more than 30 MERs/Defects for VIMS application, below few of them highlighted for example:    1. Division: Vehicle services fetch division info from custom table instead of Web Service  To develop this, created service layer using EJB session bean that is called using session façade, created DAO layer and modify Data layer.    2. Expand Text Fields up to 16000 characters to store in database. Author needs to store in DB up to 16000 characters for some of the text field. For this added text and validate using JavaScript to accept 16000 characters in JSP page.    3. Session management while printing bulk program: When dealer select more than one programs and go for printing, color of the program change, and it will retain throughout the session. For this added new component in JSP and added new JavaScript validation. And for session management, added session value of HttpSession object from Strut Dispatch Action class    4. Extended ASCII character validation: while creating incentive program validate text field throughout the application that input field should not accept any    5. Implemented on Cache and loading configuration and properties using Java Thread Software Developer General Motors/Mahindra Satyam May 2008 to June 2009 Project: CISS  Project Duration: May 2008 - June 2009  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Software Developer    Project & Assignment Description  Project: The goal of the Consumer Incentive Syndication System (CISS) is to provide a centralized platform that collects incentive and other special promotion information from across the GM organization, automatically processing it so that it can be published in real time through a wide variety of consumer facing channels (web, email, mail fulfillment, etc.) The CISS application is based on a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) where in each core functionality is exposed as a standard web service.    The Technologies involved are Java1.4, JSP, EJB, Web service, Oracle, PVCS,    Role: Developer and application support    Description: I was responsible for development of publishing Service functionality in Service layer, testing and deployment and responsible for solving the CR and MER Software Developer Nissan Motor, Europe / Mahindra Satyam October 2006 to January 2007 Project: STX  Project Duration: October 2006 - January 2007  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Software Developer    Project & Assignment Description  Project: STX was a web based development project for the client NISSAN MOTOR. NMUK Parts control has reviewed procedures for recording Stock Transactions.    Technologies involved are JAVA, Multithreading, JSP, Java script, XSLT, XML, Websphere5.1, SOA and JAVA Web service with Strut framework , PVCS    Role: Developer  Description: I worked as a developer on the three different modules (Booking in Error and Stock transfer) and common Report generation part. I have developed Presentation layer, Controller layer as well as Service layer across all three modules.  I was responsible for few use cases for Analysis, development and unit testing.    Below use case I developed and unit tested.    1. Booking in Error - A supplier delivery does not exactly match the corresponding RAN and the supplier has not informed NMUK. This is also used to record errors after the parts have been booked in.  2. Stock Transfer- Stock Transaction following a Stock Transaction document (stock request) - Suppliers, Engineering, Trials or Service Parts request a number of parts.  3. Report - Common for the entire module.  All modules have common add, amend and delete functionality. On add data is populated to JSP page, from mainframe service based on part number. By using SOA framework application call corresponding Java web service, and finally data are stored in Oracle database. On amend and delete data is retrieves from oracle database using SOA. Associate British Telecom/ Tech Mahindra - UK February 2006 to August 2006 Project: BT eCommerce (Back End System, Free View and calling plan/Feature POC  Project Duration: February 2006 - August 2006  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Associate    Project & Assignment Description  Project1: The BT.COM ecommerce platform will make calls to different backend systems for processing data related to customer and for placing and processing the order. The Strategic Transaction Automation Architecture (STAA) is a J2EE platform developed by Applications Integration to simplify the deployment of business logic and access to CSS and other legacy systems such as CAMSS and COSMOSS. Client access to the STAA services is made via an EJB Router which presents a J2EE Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) as a WSDL / SOAP service over a variety of transports including HTTP, RMI    Technologies used: Java, Spring core, Web service, Junit    Contribution  I am working as a developer on the three layer Service layer, Transformation layer, and protocol layer, which maintain in spring framework. I also created all test classes and tested with JUnit.    Project 2: Free view Checker is invoked from Consumer presale page to check whether Free view is available for that user or not. Free view Digital TV pre-sale page will invoke functions to check whether you can receive digital TV through your existing aerial simply by entering your postcode.    Technologies used: Java, Spring, Junit    Contribution  I worked as a developer on the three layer Service layer, Transformation layer, and protocol layer, which maintain in spring framework. I have also written all test classes and tested with JUnit.    Project 3:  This is POC of calling Feature service, which invoke from open source struts framework .Spring framework used for DAO layer. Customer will opt to change his currently selected calling plan and add-on by using the functionality of change calling plan.    Technologies used: Java, Jsp, Servlet, Strut, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle    Contribution  I developed presentation layer as well as DAO layer which invoke from strut action class through spring framework. Team member PwC, US IT/ Total Solution Group June 2005 to January 2006 Project: Annual Compliance Confirmation  Project Duration: June 2005 - January 2006  Work location: India  Assigned Role: Team member    Project & Assignment Description  Project Description  This Project actually is one of a set of applications that support the Independence Office, a group responsible for ensuring independence across employees of the PwC enterprise. The scope of this application is to create a multi-tier application that allows for PwC employee's portfolio data to be entered and reviewed in order to verify on-going Independence. This is a web based application and will be used for audited individuals to enter and edit their portfolio information. Further, it allows Back Office personnel the ability to review this audit information, making determinations if any sanctions are required, and providing this feedback to auditees.    Technologies used: Java, jsp, servlet, EJB, Hibernate, WebLogic workshop, WebLogic application server, Oracle.    Contribution  Projeect1- Annual compliance confirmation - I was working as a developer on the Sanction and Reported Matter parts of this project. I began working in the backend with EJB modules and hibernate also, working on WebLogic specific tag-library, netui, Jpf etc. as the architecture of the project desires. Some of the features I developed like Sanction Legacy Search, Reported Matters Pagination with Sorting etc. I am now been working in the production support of the project fixing bugs whenever detected and sorting out the change requests as and when desired by the client.    Projeect2- Finance site redesign: - My responsibility was to implement Ballot Box functionality. These include a Ballot Box (Interactive poll) module by which user can vote online and Ballot Box Administrator Module by which Administrator can create a new question or modify an existing question or activate or deactivate a question.    Projeect3- Self-audit prototype development - I have involved in Prototype designing using power point and HTML. Education M.Sc. in applied Mathematics and Computer Programming Vidyasagar University Post Graduate Diploma in Advance Computing C-DAC Skills Mule ESB 3.x, 4.x (4 years), Java, Hibernate, Spring, API Gateway, Cloudhub, AWS, Runtime Fabric (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/diptendu-gorai-71908030 Certifications/Licenses Mulesoft certified (MCD) Additional Information Skills  Skill Proficiency Yrs of Exp Last Year Used  Core Java P4 - Expert 12 Years 2019  Java Enterprise Edition P4 - Expert 7 Years 2019  Hibernate P4 - Expert 5 Years 2019  Spring-Application Framework P4 - Expert 5 Years 2019  Spring-MVC P4 - Expert 4 Years 2019  Mule ESB P4 - Expert 4 Years 2019  Java Servlet P3 - Advanced 8 Years 2018  Java Server Pages (JSP) P3 - Advanced 8 Years 2018  Apache-Struts P3 - Advanced 5 Years 2015  Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) 2.x P3 - Advanced 5 Years 2013  Jira/Jenkins P3 - Advanced 4 Years 2019  JUnit Testing Framework/ Mockito P3 - Advanced 5 Years 2018  Unix/Linux P2 - Proficient 4 Years 2018  Oracle-Database P2 - Proficient 7 Years 2019  Java API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS) P4 - Expert 4 Years 2018  Java Server Faces (JSF) P2 - Proficient 2 Years 2014  Java Persistence API (JPA) P2 - Proficient 2 Years 2010  JAX-RS with Jersey P4 - Expert 5 Year 2018  Groovy P2 - Proficient 2 Years 2015