Information Technology Officer Information Technology Officer Information Technology Officer - FMC Technologies Dallas, TX • Over 9+ years of experience as a software developer in designing & developing Rich User Interface applications, integrating with various Databases, Client-Server applications and as a Java developer.  • Experience with multiple Servers like IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Jboss and Apache Tomcat.  • Proficient in developing various open source frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF1.2 and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans and RAD.  • Good exposure to building Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) using open source implementation like Apache Axis, RESTful API.  • Complete understanding of Object Oriented Features Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  • Expertise in OOP and OOA&D principles and methodologies.  • Proficient in source control with SVN, CVS, VSS.  • Working knowledge of Unit and automated testing.  • Hands on experience in UML Modeling, Rational Rose and Design Pattern (J2EE) like Singleton Factory Method, Facade, Front Controller, Delegate Pattern, MVC Architecture.  • Experience in various methodologies like Agile, Test Driven Development, SCRUM, and Pair Programming.  • Proficient in using Instruments for memory leaks/ memory management and performance analysis.  • Experience in working in UNIX (Solaris & Linux), Mac OS-X and Windows Environments.  • Experience in developing Web based GUI's using XML parser, JSON, CSV, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript , Action Script, Angular JS, JQuery, EXT JS and Ajax  • Experience in using various markup languages like XML, JavaScript, C++, HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in MVC, MVP and MVVM.  • Worked closely with product managers, customers and other stakeholders to proactively gather and understand usability concerns and areas for improvement to achieve user-friendly design, performance improvement, documenting code, refactoring, continuous integration and deployment, and unit testing in JUnit.  • Working knowledge of operating systems like Windows XP, 2003, Vista, 7 and 8.  • Thrives on co-ordination, problem solving, dealing with ambiguity and having good inter personality skills.  • Experienced with the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process, which includes designing and implementing the software, debugging, fixing and maintaining the software.  • Excellent programming skills and development experience with JDK 1.7, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Swings, UI, EJB, Java Beans, GWT, JMS, JDBC, XSLT, JUnit and Web Services.  • Experience of working in all areas of project development starting from gathering requirements to project deployment and post production support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology Officer FMC Technologies - Davis, CA, US March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Drove alignment between the business and IT by serving as the primary IT interface with business units, representing the business across the IT organization and providing strategic consulting to both IT and business leadership  • Built and maintained strong relationships across the company, actively participated in business unit leadership team  • Established, tracked and communicated metrics to verify solutions deliver value in-line with expectations  • Controlled the Life Cycle Management and Accountability of ICT assets, distributed throughout the Headquarters and Field Office locations.  • Managed the daily operation of the UNDP IT Service Centre ensuring that the most efficient service and support is provided throughout UNDP and is being performed within established guidelines, Service Level Agreements, procedures and time frames. The incumbent is largely responsible for the quality of IT services received by UNDP staff.  • Acted as the focal point for all IT-related service and support requests. Assessed incidents and level of priority based on impact (to the wider IT environment and the Organizations business needs) and urgency (against competing incidents). Ensured management, resolution, escalation of all recorded "Incidents" within established time frames/SLA's.  • Established workflow processes for the efficient processing of incidents and the hand-over of incidents throughout the various UNDP units to ensure a seamless and efficient service to customers.    • Overseen the delegation of work direction to the 11 Service Unit Technical staff and external contractors.  • Enforced policies and equipment distribution in relation to computer, printer, scanner, laptop and peripheral device distribution throughout the HQ and field offices.  • Ensured that new equipment is duly inspected and ready for use. Tested, analyzed, diagnosed and repaired computer hardware/software problems.  • Greatly reduced operational risk by developing and implementing IT disaster recovery plan and associated processes  • Delivered projects utilizing both agile and traditional project management methodologies Director of Information Technology Farm Fresh To You - Sacramento, CA, US January 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Enabled company to quadruple customer base in 3 years through legacy system performance improvements  • Transformed the company by implementing digital technologies, better processes and a customer-centric approach to technology services  • Designed and delivered digital solution that instantaneously captures new customer data (legacy paper-based system  • took 1 to 14 days) and instantly engaged with new customers both in the solution and via email  • Involved in complete cycle of design, coding and unit testing for developed modules.  • Involved in gathering business requirements, creating mockups of the design, use cases, UML relationship diagrams. Attended numerous requirement sessions to understand detailed customer requirements for the functional area.  • Coordination with onshore and offshore team members for accurate functional knowledge acquisition.  • Involved in the design of the system architecture, inter - relation of different systems and process to implement a new mechanism to generate corresponding in PDF format using Adobe Live cycle.  • Designed presentation pages using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and CSS. Used JSON/XML as the data transfer methods.  • The new application layer was implemented using spring using dependency injection, and POJO. Generated XML data for the creation of PDF using JAXB. Used JMS to drop messages to a queue for asynchronous communication between different systems.  • Built, inspired and developed motivated team from 2 to 30+ developers, DevOps engineers, project managers, network  • and help desk practitioners reporting directly or through managers including employees and onshore/offshore  • contractors  • Worked hands-on, when needed, as lead troubleshooter, problem solver and incident manager to resolve system  • outages and failures across 8 locations  • Ensured service resiliency through implementation and regular testing of Disaster Recovery functionality Java/J2EE Developer AT&T - Richardson, Texas, US October 2014 to January 2016 AT&T is one of the leading and fast growing companies in the telecommunication sector. It is the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone service in United States and also provides broadband subscription television services.    Responsibilities:  • Involve in daily stand up and sprint planning sessions as part of AGILE Scrum Methodology.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Fusion Frame work.  • Successfully implemented Web services and exposed the service to the inter application communication.  • Worked on different Web services (SOAP, XML).  • Study the project requirement and functionalities in both business and code level.  • Coordinate with business and onshore team for clarification and make sure that the project is designing as per requirements in all stages.  • Responsible for creating DAO, DTO and implementations required by the core processes and as well as UI.  • Responsible for UI module and involved into full life cycle of the application as I need to co-ordinate with onshore teams by assigning work, and perform code integration, testing and deployment.  • Participating in meetings with business teams, understand requirements for 3 weeks duration as our project follows monthly deployments. We do daily stand-up calls with onshore team.  • Implemented the front end using HTML, BootStrapJS, JavaScript and used Ember JS to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON object.  • Responsible for creating Action classes, Formbeans, Service classes and bug fixing.  • Perform code review along with other developers in team and follow best practices if suggested.  • Responsible for code update into SVN and support for automated builds successful.  • Perform and verify the functionality make sure it should work for all required browsers.  • Finally responsible for our code should be in UAT environment so that testing teams/business will use it.  • Responsible for update JIRAs by changing the stories status like open, progress and closed.  Environment: Windows 7, JAVA, Oracle, Spring MVC, SpringORM, SOAP webservices, Tomcat server, Maven, JavaScript, HTML, EmberJS, NodeJS, BootStrapJS, JSon, Unix , Maven, Log4J, Apache Axis, JUnit, Tomcat7. QA Analyst MVP Healthcare - Schenectady, NY, US September 2012 to October 2014 MVP HealthCare migrated to Salesforce as a customer relationship management tool for all incoming claim adjudications across various states. As a QA, I was involved in understanding business requirements, the business processes and design the End to end testing strategy for the service cloud.    Responsibilities:  • As part of testing in Test Sandbox environment customized the Salesforce application as per the client's requirement.  • Involved in Preparation of Test Procedures, Test Scenarios, Test Cases and Test Data.  • Tested the company's Salesforce CRM application  • Involved in gathering customer requirements from business user teams spread over the Sales, Marketing  and Service cloud.  • Involved in creating gap analysis document, clearly identifying the data, business process and work flows of the organization.  • Involved in finding the gaps of the requirements and acting as the Scrum master for all the Sprints.  • Preparing Test Strategy and Test Plan for all the applications.  • Analyzed Business requirements and solution specification documents to design Test Plans, Test cases.  • Defined requirements in Quality Center and mapped with the respective test cases for traceability.  • Designed the Test Strategy, Test Plan, Test cases, created RTM, Test Results documents.  • Verify that for rejected data proper error logs are generated with all details  • Performed Test Plan/Test case review meetings during testing phase.  • Performed execution of test cases manually using Quality Center.  • Wrote SQL queries to compare source to target data.  • Performed data validation testing, wrote test cases based on business scenarios.  • Designed test data using MS Excel sheet for testing the application with positive and negative inputs.  • Conducted Configuration, System and Integration Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Performed sanity / smoke testing for each release.  • Maintained multiple versions of test sets and worked on regression testing.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC.  • Used QC for tracking, analyzing and documenting QA Analyst Summa Care - Akron, Ohio, US January 2010 to September 2012 They used Facets for managing and processing healthcare claims. The company wanted to implement HIPPA 5010, ICD10 especially for EDI 835/837 Transaction. The company wanted to enhance member and claim module as per new requirement. As a, QA Analyst, I was involved in various kinds of testing of the Facets application modules like Enrollment, Membership and Claims.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Business Analyst and QA Lead in reviewing and analyzing the business requirements Documents and functional requirements. Worked on AGILE methodology.  • Interacted with business analysts, users and developers to prioritize user functionality issues.  • Prepared Test Cases based on business requirements and business rules for HIPPA EDI Transaction 834, 276/277, and 820.  • Tested all HIPAA transactions for multi version support (4010 and 5010) and validating the database to file elements.  • Performed Smoke Testing, Sanity Testing, Positive, Negative and functional testing while keeping track of the testing effort in QC.  • End to end testing of FACETS Billing, Claim Processing and Subscriber/Member module Performed Security Testing on the application.  • Analysis the testing activities as per the planned forecast for the given projects.  • Performed functional, sanity and smoke testing on the application to ensure that it met the functional requirements.  • Performed Regression testing to ensure that new changes in the application did not break any existing functionality.  • Logged and reported the defects, determined repair priorities and tracked the defects until resolution using QC.  • Participated in daily stand up, Sprint review and Retrospective meeting to discuss the progress.  • Assisted business users in defining UAT test cases and plans; Established and maintained test cases and test data in QC.  • Used Quality Center for various reports to provide clarity on QA progress during testing.  • Identify processes and systems to enable to trade files with non ICD-10 complaint trading partner. Monitor and resolve testing issues.  • Tested HIPAA regulations in Facets HIPAA privacy module.  • Documented the test results and reported the status of assigned test tasks and issues to project QA Lead.  • Conducted Back-End Testing Using SQL Commands.  • Actively participated in walkthroughs and enhancement meetings  • Maintained Test Matrix and Requirement Traceability Matrix. Jr. QA Analyst Department of Health & Human Services - Augusta, ME, US March 2009 to January 2010 The State of Maine Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) has selected Unisys and its Maine Integrated Health Management Solution (MIHMS) for processing State of Maine Medicaid (MaineCare) claims .The Data HubIn order for MIHMS to process Medicaid claims correctly, it needs information about individuals, eligible to receive medical insurance through MaineCare. The Data Hub will be the conduit through which eligibility data is passed from the state eligibility source systems to MIHMS.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Data Hub Testing which included testing Data Exchange (Demographic & Enrollment Segments) Requirements, Data Management (Reconciliation & Information Management) Requirements and Architecture (Performance, Security & Standards) Requirements  • Extensively worked in the AGILE development environment with frequently changing requirements  • Created High Level Test Scenarios, Test Cases and Test Scripts for Data Hub requirements as described in RSD (Requirement Specification Documents) and DSD (Design Specification Documents) as well as HIPAA and HL7 regulations like 834, 835, 837, etc.  • Created Baseline Database tables to load updated Source Eligibility Data; Created related baseline test scripts in order to test the future releases of the application  • Performed and monitored Daily Data Run process in Cybermation; validated data load using complex SQL scripts execution in Oracle SQL Server  • Validated if MIHMS files are loaded to Momentum FTP Server as Data Hub Daily Run Process, Validated and verified MIHMS files according to MIHMS file format mentioned in RSD  • Validated Eligibility Source Systems data, analyze source system testing and if any testing gaps are identified, created and documents tests for demographic and enrollment records, including physical, clinical and provider data  • Gathered Data Hub requirements, created test cases and test scripts, and developed automation test scripts in Quality Center  • Assisted SMEs in validation of MIHMS daily error report files and other testing required for UAT  • Responsible for creating Automation Process for Data Hub Reconciliation Testing using Oracle SQL Server; Created Oracle packages and SQL Procedures for Reconciliation Automation Testing  • Involved in Eligibility Source System Testing using Mainframe which includes creating and updating existing source data in Mainframe  • Extensively involved in Data Hub Back-End Testing using Oracle SQL Server; performed daily process testing using SQL scripts execution and logged test results in Quality Center  • Created and executed test scripts for approved Change Requests, logged their test results and related documentations in Quality Center  • Responsible for defect tracking and bug reporting using Quality Center; interacted with developers and Business Analysts to discuss and resolve defects  • Involved in daily defect review meetings to review the status of defect fixes and upcoming build releases  • Verified and validated all the build or release related issues and resolve them through discussion with business analysts with the users' approval. Education Master of Science Stanford University Bachelor of Science Computer Science in Harvard University in Cambridge Skills Ajax (2 years), JavaScript (3 years), JSON (3 years), SQL (5 years), XML (3 years) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Programming Languages JAVA, C++, Visual Basic, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies Java Servlets,JMS,JTA, JSP, JDBC, JPA, JavaBeans, JNDI, EJB (Session beans, entity Beans)  Frameworks Struts 2.0/1.2, spring 3.x/2.5, Hibernate 3.0 and JSF  IDE's Eclipse3.x/4.2, RAD 8.0/7.x/6.0, NetBeans  Databases Oracle 11g/10g, DB2, SQL Server and MYSQL  Web Dev. Technologies HTML5, CSS 3,JavaScript, Ajax, XML, DOM, SAX, DTD, XSD, JSON, jQUERY  Version Control SVN,CVS,VSS, StarTeam, IBM ClearCase, GIT  Tools and Utilities Log4j, JUnit, ANT,MAVEN,Putty, Edit Plus  Web Application Server WebLogic 11g/10.x/9.x/8, Apache Tomcat and WebSphere 6.0/7.0/8.0 Messaging Systems: JMS, IBM - MQ Series  Web Services SOAP, REST  Operating Systems Windows2000/NT/XP, UNIX/LINUX, IBM Z/OS