Sr. Software Engineer [Consultant] Sr. Software Engineer [Consultant] Sr. Software Engineer [Consultant] - Accenture Granite Bay, CA To seek a challenging position developing and/or testing enterprise class applications using my J2EE skills. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer [Consultant] Accenture March 2019 to Present Member of a small team working on the CalHEERS project. The CalHEERS system provides a health insurance exchange that processes new member applications, handles eligibility changes and performs reconciliation tasks.  • Migrated code from a monolithic architecture to a micro-services based architecture using the Command design pattern. Created and executed JUnit tests for the various micro-service components.  • Implemented new REST endpoints for a micro service and tested them using Swagger UI and Postman.  • Used Spring JPA to map domain objects to the corresponding database tables.  • Used SoapUI to test the JAX-WS XML-based SOAP endpoints exposed by the application.  • Investigated and resolved defects arising from Assembly testing, Integration testing and System testing.  • Investigated high volume errors logged in Production and recommended ways to avoid them.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, J2EE Design Patterns, Spring, Spring Boot, Tomcat, XML, JSON, JDBC, JPA, JAX-WS, SOAP, REST, Eclipse, Maven, Git, Rational Team Concert (RTC), Oracle11i, SQL Developer, Log4j, SQL, JUnit, Postman, SoapUI, Microsoft Teams, Unix shell scripts. Sr. Software Engineer [Consultant] Williams-Sonoma Inc December 2016 to January 2018 Member of a small Agile Affinity team supporting Williams-Sonoma's eCommerce websites for their six brands. The Spring-Maven based web application works with the Oracle and Cassandra databases. The code resides in Git and Subversion repositories.  • Developed automated tests for the desktop and mobile (iOS, Android) versions of the web application using an in-house framework based on JUnit and Selenium. External systems were mocked as needed.  • Implemented and tested (using SoapUI/Postman) new REST endpoints for several existing web services.  • Incorporated PayPal and Venmo as payment options on the mobile and desktop versions of the web app.  • Productized a java-based tool to migrate data in a Cassandra database using the DataStax protocols.  • Created the relevant documentation using Markdown and posted them to Confluence (Wiki) pages.  • Participated in the Agile process - two week Sprints/Backlog Grooming/Sprint Demos/Sprint Planning.  • Collaborated with the Marketing team to define the requirements on several mini-projects.  • Developed performance/stress tests for select REST-based web services using the Gatling tool.  • Contributed to implementing a new approach for defining scoped application settings using Java annotations.  • Resolved merge and build issues as reported by Jenkins jobs.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, J2EE Design Patterns, Spring, Spring Boot, JavaScript, HTML/CSS/FTL, Jetty, Tomcat, Scala, XML, JSON, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, IntelliJ IDEA, Maven, Ant, Git, Subversion, Oracle11i, Cassandra, SQL Developer, Log4j, SQL, JUnit, REST Assured, Gatling, Postman, DataStax, GEMS, SoapUI, JIRA, Confluence, Unix/MacOS, Unix shell scripts. Sr. Java Developer [Consultant] Apple Inc November 2015 to November 2016 The Manufacturing Quality Management (MQM) team at Apple collects build information for all their products across all their manufacturing sites worldwide to use in fraud analysis and detection. The suite of in-house apps is Java-based and uses Spring and Spring Batch frameworks in conjunction with an Oracle database.  • Migrated a Java/Spring Batch flat file processing application to the latest dependency versions. Fixed defects and added functionality to the application, including the ability to be deployed using XLDeploy, and did it ahead of schedule.  • Underwent a rapid knowledge transfer of a Java/Spring Batch application to help deploy it to production sites worldwide and to support critical activities with the end-users.  • Developed a tool to extract sql BLOB data from Production databases at manufacturing sites worldwide and stage their contents in a local database.  • Attended several in-house Big Data seminars in preparation for migrating the in-house MQM applications to that eco-system.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, J2EE Design Patterns, XML, JSON, JDBC, JNDI, IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, SQL Developer, Maven, Git, SourceTree, Oracle11i, Log4j, SQL, JUnit, Spring, Spring Batch, Unix/MacOS, Unix shell scripts. Sr. Technical Specialist [Consultant] CalPERS October 2007 to April 2015 CalPERS (the largest state government pension fund in the U.S.) was replacing several legacy systems with a single Web-based J2EE solution system that improved and automated their entire business.  • Worked with the stakeholders to gather requirements and prepared thorough General Design documents in several functional areas. Prepared Detailed Design documents within the given timelines.  • Designed and implemented new code modules to meet the design specifications. Incorporated unit tests early in the lifecycle to ensure minimal defects in the code.  • Designed, developed and executed System Test scripts for various parts of the application. Resolved system test defects in the code base, as well as, production issues in the released code.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, J2EE Design Patterns, Servlets, XML, JDBC, JNDI, Ant, Clear Case, Oracle11i, Log4j, JavaBeans, Apache Tomcat, SQL, HP Application Lifecycle Management (ALM), Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, Unix/Windows, Eclipse, TOAD, SQL Developer, Unix shell scripts. Sr. Java Developer Innotas Inc September 2006 to August 2007 Innotas has a J2EE web-based Project Portfolio Management (PPM) product delivered via the SaaS model.  • Prepared the project plan and requirements document for integrating parts of PPM with Salesforce.com. This enabled Innotas to be certified as a Salesforce.com partner.  • Interacted with the business users of a large multinational bank to gather requirements for integrating their project data into PPM. Assisted in architecting the solution and implemented significant portions of it using the CastIron appliance and server side code using J2EE.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, J2EE Design Patterns, Servlets, XML, JDBC, JNDI, Ant, CVS, Log4j, JavaBeans, Apache Tomcat, SQL, Web Services, Apache Axis2, Apache ADB, SOAP, WSDL, Eclipse, TOAD, Unix/Windows, Unix shell scripts. Sr. Java Developer [Consultant] - CA Independent System Operator CAISO March 2006 to September 2006 was developing a Business Associate Portal Interface (BAPI) that would allow its customers to have web-based access to their settlement data in a timely manner.  • Gathered and documented the business requirements by reviewing the existing documentation and interviewing the internal stakeholders. Prepared the Use Cases document for the project. Evaluated various alternatives and wrote up a design document that recommended the most cost effective approach.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, JBoss, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, Actuate, Unix/Windows, TOAD, Perforce, PVCS, MS Visio, MS Project, RUP/UML, Eclipse, Unix shell scripts. Project Manager/Technical Lead/Sr. Java Developer [Consultant] WAPA December 2003 to March 2006 Western Area Power Administration (WAPA) was developing a new power billing system (PBS) and several other peer systems. PBS is a J2EE application that follows the MVC architecture.  • Streamlined the development activity by designing portions of the database schema, the J2EE based MVC architecture and defining the development environment for PBS. Wrote up a nightly Ant build script and administered the project source code using CVS.  • Took over as the hands-on Technical Lead of the development team when the PBS project schedule was in jeopardy. Restructured the team and work assignments to successfully motivate the team to implement Phase 1 of the solution within the original PBS project schedule.  • Later as Interim PBS project manager, prepared the project schedule and resource allocations to keep the project on track while continuing with my development activities.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, EJB, JSP, JavaScript, Apache Struts, Tiles, HTML, J2EE Design Patterns, MVC, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Ant, CVS, Log4j, JavaBeans, SQL, Unix/Windows, WebLogic, PL/SQL Developer, Unix shell scripts, MS Project, RUP/UML. Project Manager Telecommand Software and Services March 2003 to December 2003 The California Department of Fish & Game (DFG) was implementing a new web-based J2EE application called Payment and Procurement System (PPS).  • Managed a team of developers while simultaneously performing hands-on development on PPS. Reviewed requests for new features from the business analysts and determined their impact on the project and its schedule.  • Improved the efficiency of the team and resolved defects in a timely manner by configuring and maintaining open source tools, like Ant and Bugzilla. Developed a nightly build script.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, J2EE Design Patterns, MVC, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Ant, CVS, Log4j, Bugzilla, JavaBeans, SQL, Unix/Windows, TOAD, Unix shell scripts, MS Project, RUP/UML. Senior EJB Engineer Nevik Networks Inc December 2002 to February 2003 The product was a web-based J2EE application that allowed a phone subscriber to manage the features on their phone lines.  • Designed and implemented: EJB modules for a MVC architecture; a nightly build process for the application; a common configuration template to install and configure a local WebLogic server.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, EJB, JAAS, J2EE Design Patterns, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, MVC, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Ant, CVS, Log4j, Bugzilla, SQL, Unix/Windows, TOAD, Unix shell scripts. Project Lead/Senior Software Engineer Kovair Inc April 2000 to October 2002 The VIP Center is Kovair's flagship product. It is a J2EE web-based application in the CRM space.  • Designed and implemented key features and sub-features of the VIP Center using Java technologies.  • Managed a team of onshore and offshore employees working on a sub-feature of the VIP Center. Delivered substantial new functionality on-time.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, EJB, J2EE Design Patterns, Apache Tomcat, Jonas EJB server, MVC, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, JavaMail, Ant, CVS, Log4j, Bugzilla, SQL, Unix/Windows, TOAD, Unix shell scripts. Software Development Engineer - Various HP Divisions Hewlett Packard Co January 1986 to March 2000 • Team member on various Java based projects, as well as C++ and COM based projects.  • Managed the team responsible for system testing IBM's Customer Information Control System (CICS) on the HP-UX platform.  Technologies/Tools Used: Java/J2EE, JavaBeans, JAAS, J2EE Design Patterns, Apache Tomcat, MVC, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Clear case, SQL, Unix/Windows, TOAD, Unix shell scripts, C/C++, CORBA, MS COM/DCOM, LDAP, RMI, Visual SourceSafe. Education MS Computer Science in Computer Science San Jose State University - San Jose, CA MS Civil Engineering in Civil Engineering University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI Skills Java, Spring, Javascript