Project Manager, Module lead, Developer Project Manager, Module lead, <span class="hl">Developer</span> Project Manager, Module lead, Developer Work Experience Project Manager, Module lead, Developer Industrialization Of Support December 2015 to September 2017 TCS in house best practice initiatives) in the project and became the first project across the entire platform to do so.  • Initiated and owned 100% shift of L1.5 team from IT executives to BPO executives in a staged approach. This resulted in huge cost reduction and resource leverage.  • Proposed and delivered a continuous improvement initiative - a java based tool named ISP (Integrated support portal). This acted as a one stop portal for support related activities where the support executives documented SOP and KEDB. This helped in quicker issue resolution, implementation of a standard practice, better leverage of L1 team and time savings. The ultimate goal was to integrate the tool with a chatbot which will automatically handle the frequently occurring issues there by cutting down intervention of the L2 team.    Customer  A major UK bank  Project Description  An Environment support project which focused on support and maintenance of the pre production environment from DEV to NFT where the applications would be tested before being deployed into LIVE. There were four major areas in the project namely Environment Support, Configuration Management, Service virtualization and Defect Triage.  Role  Project Manager, Module lead, Developer  Period Associate consultant Tata consultancy services April 2010 to September 2017 Developer eMaintPro July 2013 to September 2015 01/07/2013 to 30/09/2015  Achievement  Earned customer goodwill by excellent contribution towards team/ process/ automation. Proposed, developed and delivered a continuous improvement initiative which resulted in a java based tool - eMaintPro which automated most of the monotonous and time consuming support activities. This helped in quicker issue resolution, time savings and cost reduction. This tool went on to win many awards at both corporate level and client level.    Customer  A major US bank  Project Description  A test automation project which focused on automating and testing GUI / Non-GUI applications. It involved development and maintenance of two major components - a test executor developed using Java and STAF, and a test case management tool developed using .NET. Project is aimed to support multi platform and multi language framework and also provide reusable utilities to support test automation. Test case dependency, video recording and playback, schedulers were also tracked and integrated with JIRA.  Role  Developer  Period Java, Swings, Rational performance tester Tata consultancy services April 2010 to December 2011 Achievement  Excellent client recognition and appreciation throughout the project duration for the contribution    Customer  A major Canadian financial institution  Description  Support provided for the day to day activities for document processing. Handling tickets, issue resolution and status reporting. Played onshore support executive for 6 months.  J2EE based tools were developed to automate the manual work done by the QA team. Tools developed were both standalone tools (built using core java and swings) and web based tools (built on struts framework).  Role  Developer, Support analyst  Period  01/07/2007 to 31/03/2010  Technical Skills  Java, J2EE, Struts, Postgres, Eclipse, Pgadmin, Geronimo, Sonar    Customer  A major software concern  Description  This project involved the company's home grown banking product which is used by banks to manage core banking as well as e-banking. The major focus being refactoring of this product, understanding the existing code and refactoring it into a new architecture that is easy to maintain and reusable.  Role  Team lead, developer  Period  01/08/2006 to 30/06/2007  Technical Skills  Java    Customer  A major software concern  Description  This project involved the company's home grown banking product. The focus here was to develop a fully functional Alert System for Banks. The functionality of this Alert System was to send alerts for user transactions with respect to their bank account.  Role  Developer  Period  01/10/2005 to 31/07/2006  Technical Skills  Java, JavaScript, EJB, HTML, JSP, WSAD    Customer  A major logistics company  Description  This project dealt with development of an application that handles the movement of shipments from source to destination and also the associated invoices and payments.  Customer  A major transport and logistics company  Role  Developer  Period  01/01/2005 to 31/08/2005  Technical Skills  Core Java, EJB, Struts, TOAD, JSP, Weblogic Technical analyst Infosys Technology Limited September 2004 to March 2010 Education H.S.C. in Others St. Joseph 1985 Bachelor Of Technology in Information Technology Engineering college - Chennai, TAMIL NADU, IN 1984 SSC in management St. Joseph 1984