Sr. Java Consultant Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Consultant Sr. Java Consultant - Honeywell Intelligrated Suwanee, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Consultant Honeywell Intelligrated - Alpharetta, GA July 2016 to Present Project: Pick-to-Light  Pick-to-light helps agent to operations that have integrated several machine-controlled or collaborative picking operations. Pick to Light order picking is essentially a network of displays called pick SKU that mount on a bay or aisle channel and use an activity color indicator and alpha numeric display to direct the operator to pick locations. The pick tag displays the item and quantity required to pick. Pick to light, (PTL) is ideal for high density less than case each picking applications and typically uses either a cart or a gravity conveyor to start an order at the initial pick zone. The picking process is a pick and pass of the required items across one or several pick zones. Picking can be performed directly to the shipping to a tote in carton flow bay or aisle. Implemented and debugged pick to light functionality which integrates hardware with software.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Actively involved in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement-gathering, design, coding, testing.  • Using several Java 1.8, J2EE design patterns like DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Front Controller and MVC- Model to develop application.  • Using Micro services to build individual components of the application.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework-IOC/DI, Spring MVC, Servlets, POJO and Hibernate framework.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, LESS, jQuery, Web sockets, Angular and JavaScript and Type Script.  • Extensively used Selectors in jQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Involved in Creating RESTful Services using NodeJS and Express framework.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSP, Spring, and Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate - Database connectivity.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Experience in working with web server Tomcat 8.  • Worked on identifying present Scripted syntax Jenkins pipeline style.  • Implemented PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, triggers, DDL and DMLSQL queries  • Utilized Spring's integration Hibernate ORM for back-end database processing transactions.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, RAD, IntellijIdea and Spring STS.  • Good Hands on Experience performing Unit Testing on the applications using Mockito.  • Reported bugs and tracked defects using JIRA.  • Using Git version control tools to manage source repository.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8, Spring Framework, Microservices, Spring MVC 4, Core Java, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.X, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, RESTful, XML, Java Beans, JavaScript, Eclipse, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML, LESS, Type Script, sql server, Tortoise SVN/Git, BitBucket, Putty,Jenkins, Toad, Node JS,Confluence. Sr. Java Consultant Aflac - Columbus, GA November 2015 to July 2016 Project: EIB (Enterprise Integration Bus)    Aflac has added offerings such as accident/disability, short-term disability, hospital intensive care, hospital confinement indemnity, long-term care, specified health event, life, dental and vision, has the largest on-site child-care facilities, offers a broad line of insurance policies. Enterprise Integration Bus provides the capabilities to produce leaner applications which leverage shared services promoting re-use, driving down the cost and time-to-market.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business Analysts to converted business requirement to technical requirement.  • Involved in all the Agile meetings like Iteration Planning, Daily Scrum meetings and Iteration Retrospective meetings.  • Automate building and deploying Microservices using Docker Container/Images.  • Using SpringBoot which is radically faster in building MicroServices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Worked on SOA and web services to get the data and configured RabbitMQ queues on server.  • Services communicate with each other using a light-weight communication, such as REST over HTTP or AMQP.  • Experience in working in TFS and Git repository.  • Worked in Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit.  • Content Based Routing/Splitter/Aggregator using Apache Camel.  • Used Gradle and Maven to build the application.  • Used Jenkins to deploy the services to develop and QA environments.    Environment: Java 1.8, Linux, Docker, MongoDB, RabbitMQ, J2EE, Mockitto, Junit, Spring Boot, TFS, Restful web services, Postman, GitHub, Gradle, LOG4j, python, AngularJS and Apache Camel, AMQP. Java & J2EE Support and Developer AT&T - Alpharetta, GA August 2013 to October 2015 Project: OPUS - SALES    OPUS (One Point Universal System) is an AT&T system exclusively for its employees to effectively activate, assist their customers with wireless and wireline accounts, and perform POS (Point-of-Sale) activities. The application is primarily used in AT&T retail stores; however the users of the OPUS application are the sales reps in the ATT Company owned retail stores. Within the application we have modules like welcome center, sales, activations, exchange, upgrades, and sales transaction history and other inventory functions.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Developed the application using Struts MVC 2 architecture.  • Extensively used spring framework for application layers MVC, Web services and Integration.  • Designing and developing REST based Web service calls using JERSEY  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, Java Script, Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO..  • Integrated UI to Business logic layer Angular JS to Rest layer.  • Implemented Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, SpringMVC, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JSON, AngularJS and JQuery  • Designing of database components using SQL Stored Procedure and PL/SQL.  • Used Maven for Project management and build automation.  • Used Git as version control to check in the code, Created branches and tagged the code in Git.  • Automated builds using Jenkins and integrated with SONOR.    Environment: Java 1.7, Struts1.2, C++. Spring, WebLogic 11g, SOAP Web Services, XML, Hibernate, WebLogic, Maven, , Eclipse and UNIX, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.JS, JSP,AJAX. , docker, Oracle11g, MongoDB, Git, Jenkins. Senior Java Consultant Intercontinental Hotels Group - Alpharetta, GA January 2012 to July 2013 Project: Merlin Portal 1.0 Enhancement  Merlin 1.0 is to leverage the collective knowledge of their corporate intranet community to surface important and relevant, real time information for users in order to support them in their everyday tasks, customized for their particular job and function. There is also a recognized value in capturing daily employee interactions - from social media, to document views, to browsing behaviors - and analyzing that data to discover insights about the enterprise user base.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Analysis and Design for most of the major modules.  • Involved in designing and developing enhancements per business requirements.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Used SQL for accessing the oracle database using JDBC problems and mentoring the business users.  • Developed PL/SQL , Stored Procedures, JavaScript and JQuery code.  • Developed database components for interaction between the Spring MVC and the database.  • Deployed the application on Web logic Application Server.  • Played an active role in testing the application by writing test cases for different scenarios. Used JUnit testing tool to test the code.  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolving defects.  • Worked on persistence layer using O/R Mapping tool Hibernate with Oracle Database.  • Involved in unit testing of core functionality using Junit.  • Implemented the log functionality by using log4j API.  • Involve in Unit testing and Integration testing.    Environment: Java1.6, JSP1.2,,Spring MVC ,Hibernate3.0, HTML 4.0/5.0, JavaScript, Query, Oracle 11g,SQL ,Log4J, Junit, Application Server, Eclipse 3.1, Subversion, Web Services(SOAP), etc. Java Consultant Blue Cross BlueShield - Chattanooga, TN June 2011 to December 2011 Project: Blue Core - Hipaa 5010 Upgrade  A mandatory 5010 upgrade (Health Care Industry HIPAA standard) needs to be implemented on the following applications. BlueCORE is CAQH CORE-certified application compliant to CORE operating rules. It provides in-state and out -of-state member information for clearing houses and providers. This application performs eligibility benefit (HIPAA Standard 270/271) and claim status (HIPAA Standard 276/277) transactions in response to the submission of inquiries. This application provides the information in both real-time and batch mode.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Review architectural issues and provide solutions to improve business efficiency.  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / SOAP Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Creating and implementing the business logic and business components of the system.  • Implementing the standards on the integration applications which are accessed by Providers to view patients Eligibility/Benefits/Claims information.  • Enhancing the current 270/271 Eligibility and 276/277 Claims Transactions.  • Provided leadership for service-oriented architecture (SOA) initiative by designing and developing web service interfaces to outside vendors and to internal systems.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.    Environment: Java/J2ee, JSF, Struts1.2, EJB 2.1/3.0, JSP, RAD7.5, Websphere7.0, Websphere MQ Series, JMS, SQL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JQuery, MDB, JavaScript, XML, Maven, JSTL, Sybase, DB2, SQL Server, JUnit, Unix, Toad, Log4j. Java Consultant Verizon Wireless - Alpharetta, GA April 2010 to May 2011 Project: Centralized Escalation Reporting Systems (CERS)    Centralized Escalation Reporting System (CERS) to consolidate complaints from Verizon Telecom, Verizon Business, fMCI, and Verizon Wireless to provide all senior executives with seamless access to executive complaint support across all LOBs. Executive complaints are defined as complaints worked on behalf of Senior Vice Presidents (SVPs) and above.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Enhancements, Support and Testing of application modules.  • Responsible for the creation of the Design Documents (Low-level and High-level).  • Review requirements, designs, tests and code.  • Developed the Application on JBoss Seam 2.2.0 (plug-in to IntelliJ Idea 10.2.0).  • Used POJOs instead of the stateful session beans using seam.  • All the results were kept in the Seam session scope.  • Developed the web application front end GUI using JSF 1.2 framework modules with RichFaces.  • Have worked with the batch processing to process the case in different format.  • Have created the façade classes to communicate with the Hibernate 3.0.  • Written Shell script in UNIX for production Environment for Deployment and Scheduling Tasks in UNIX.    Environment: JBoss Seam, JSF, RichFaces, Java/J2ee, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, myEclipse7.5, IntelliJ Idea 10.2.0, JBoss 4.2.2.GA, JMS, AJAX, SQL, CSS, SDLC, JavaScript, JSON, XML, ANT, Maven, JSTL, UML, Oracle 10g, JQuery, JavaScript, JUnit, Unix, Toad, Log4j. Java Consultant Assurant Solutions - Atlanta, GA February 2007 to March 2010 Project: Agent Desktop  Agent Desktop interfaces with other applications, both inside and outside of Assurant. Client websites are public facing web sites that we maintain and are developed for or in partnership with our clients. Staples, RadioShack, Best Buy Canada, Hudson Bay Co. is some of the larger partners that we maintain a web presence for. The sites offer some combination of product and warranty information as well as methods for Customers to register their Extended Service Contracts or to check the status of Incidents created in Agent Desktop.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  • Author design documentation that demonstrates the validity of the chosen flow against the projects requirements, IT standards and desired long term enterprise future state.  • Developed Session and Entity beans for encoding the business logic and handling different transactions.  • Extensively worked on Spring framework for developing the control logic and interacts with Domain.  • Used Webservcies (SOAP, WSDL) to communicate Flex and Hibernate and DAO classes.  • Designed web pages using JSP, Struts, XSL, HTML, DHTML, AJAX and client side validation with JavaScript.  • Responsible for the creation of the Detailed Design Document by using Generated wireframes.  • Developed the Application on Adobe Flex Builder 3(plug-in to Eclipse) this plug-in is taken care by eclipse.  • Developed the web application front end GUI using ActionScript 3.0, MXML, Spring MVC framework modules.  Environment: Adobe Flex 2.0/3.0, MXML, Action Script 3.0, Wireframes, Java/J2ee, Struts1.2, JSP, Spring 2.0, Hibernate3.0, Eclipse3.2, EJB 2.0, IBM Websphere6.x, web services, JMS, AJAX, SQL, JQuery, CSS, SDLC, JavaScript, JSON, XML, ANT, JSTL, UML, Oracle 10g, DB2/400, Rational Rose, JavaScript, JUnit, Log4j. Programmer Analyst General Motors - Detroit, MI May 2006 to January 2007 Project: Fusion and Global Vehicle Configuration  This project is to move the already running stable Latin America websites to General Motors (GM) custom made environments. Basically, all these websites are running in different servers, so to have a better control and maintenance, websites are migrated to GM server. For migrating the websites, a list of constraints is met and followed them for completion.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Developing uses cases, sequence diagrams, class diagram, and flow charts.  • Migrated Fusion modules from .Net platform to Java Platform.  • Responsible to communicate with legacy systems using Global Vehicle Configurator  • Worked extensively with Log4J for logging the application events, applications exceptions and debugging statements. Responsible for overseeing the Quality procedures related to the project.  • Oracle Configuration Developer (OCD) used to create Schema.  • Developed JSP, Servlet and test them using GM Server environment.  Environment: J2EE 1.4, Java, Servlets, JSP, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, GM Application Server, Struts 1.1, VSS, Oracle 9i, J2EE Enterprise Edition. Education M.C.A Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Madurai Kamaraj University - Madurai, Tamil Nadu Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, Javascript, Node, Angular, Jquery Additional Information • Overall 14 Years of experience in all aspects of Software Design ,Development, Business Analysis, Technical Documentation, Analysis, Database engineering, Testing, UAT, Training.  • Experience in building Front end frameworks applications using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Ajax, and Adobe Flex 3.0, KendoUI, AngularJS, ReactJS and Bootstrap.  • Experience in full lifecycle software development like User Interaction, Business & System Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Builds, Configuration, Production or Customer Support, Maintenance, Enhancements to existing software.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE, JSF, AJAX, C++, JDBC, Servlets, EJB, JSP, XSL, XML, Excel, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS Adobe Flex 3.0, and Log4j.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) with XML(SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) , REST based Web Services and Apache Camel.  • Proficiency in deploying Web applications WebSphere, JBoss, Apache Tomcat and BEA WebLogic.  • Hands on experience in various RDBMS like DB2, PL-SQL, MySQL and Oracle, SQLServer.  • Experience with container based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Dockerhub and Docker registries.  • Strong experience in UML, Agile Methodologies and frameworks like Hibernate, Spring, and Apache Struts.  • Profound knowledge of object-oriented methodologies, database application design, web site development and maintenance.  • Experience in developing Spring boot and microservices.  • Experience in managing and supporting multiple projects.  • Possess strong communication and Interpersonal skills. Can quickly master and work on new concepts and applications with minimal supervision. Attention to detail, thoroughness, tenacity and an investigative drive to discover the underlying causes of technical problems.  • Strong Technical background, excellent analytical ability, good communication skills, team player and goal oriented, with a commitment toward excellence.  • Highly organized with the ability to manage multiple projects and meet deadlines.    Technical Competencies:  Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE, Python, XML, HTML, Java Script, SQL, UML  J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, Struts1.2, JDBC, EJB, JMS, JUnit, Web Services, Hibernate, JPA, Webflow  J2EE Frame Works: Hibernate, MVC Architecture, Spring Frame Work, Jakarta- Struts Frame Work  Web UI Design: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS, NodeJS, KendoUI, ReactJS  XML Technologies: XML, XSL, XSLT, XHTML, XPATH, SAX, DOM, AXIS, , XML Beans and JAXB.  Design Patterns: Core J2EE patterns (MVC, Business Delegate, Value Object, Session Facade, Service Locator, Data Access Object and Singleton).  Application Servers: WebSphere 7.0, WebLogic 11g, JBoss 4.2.2GA  NoSQL MongoDB  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat 6.0, Java Web Server 2.0, Apache Camel  Monitoring Tool Prometheus, Splunk, Elasticsearch  Database: Oracle11g, MySQL, DB2, SQL Server  Application Testing: Junit, Mockitto  IDE's: Eclipse, NetBeans, Spring Tool Suite (STS), IntelliJIdea  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX/LINUX