Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer Chicago, IL ? Experience in Object Oriented Programming and Development of n-tier component based  enterprise web applications.  ? Expertise in Core Java with a strong understanding of Object-Oriented Concepts like  Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Polymorphism.  ? Experience in designing web applications with Spring standards like DI/IOC (Dependency  Injection/Inversion of Control), Spring MVC and Spring Boot.  ? Experience of working in Pivotal Cloud foundry (PCF) based Micro service.  ? Knowledge of working in Web Services, Web Services Definition Language (WSDL), REST  APIs, Swagger UI.  ? Experience in frond-end development using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax and  AngularJS.  ? Experience in unit testing using Junit, Mockito, Power Mockito and Postman and Soap UI  tool.  ? Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such  as Maven, Jenkins, GitHub, Gradle, Groovy and Nexus.  ? Worked on independent Component's (microservices) and delivered on time and deployed it  to production.  ? Worked closely with customers, 3rd party vendors and cross-functional teams.  ? Good analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills with ability to work  individually as well in team.  ? Committed to execute and deliver projects deliverables on time and for Customer  Satisfaction.  ? Very highly motivated and an excellent team player.  ? Java 1.8 Oracle Certified Associate Developer. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Engineer Discover Financial Services - Chicago, IL September 2017 to June 2019 • Involved in Requirements Analysis, Design and implementation of the solution.  • Create Detail Technical Design Documents, Blueprints and Data Flow Diagrams using  Microsoft Visio for complex enterprise financial applications.  • Worked with business owners, developers and project stakeholders to gather  requirements.  Chicago, IL | Phone: 8102219621 |Email: kondasanthosh30@outlook.com  LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/santhosh-kumar-konda-9b83b7147 GitHub: https://github.com/kondasanthosh30  • Worked in fast-paced, Agile/Scrum, test-driven development environment.  • Developing Components independently and deploying them into production.  • Proficient Experience on developing micro services (Rest Services).  • Developed webpages using HTML5, CSS3, FTL and JavaScript's.  • Developed Ajax calls to post/get data by calling services.  • Design and Developed single page applications (SPA) using Angular1.6.  • Developing complex and secured enterprise applications by using spring [Boot, MVC, and Spring Security] to meet client requirements.  • Used Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications  • Developed Java-based systems with strict requirements for low-latency (microseconds  count) and deterministic performance.  • Developed a controller by using spring to integrate with Rest API Service.  • Deploy application in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Create Jenkins Pipeline scripts (Groovy) to deploy application in Cloud (PCF).  • Generate Swagger Document using Swagger APIs. It will be used in API Management  portal API-Catalog & API-Explore options.  • Successfully designed and implemented systems based on N-tier distributed architecture  using JAVA/J2EE technologies such as, Core Java, Multithreading, Collections Framework, and Spring Framework's  • Used Junit, Mockito frame work for unit testing.  • Performance Tuning/Load Testing of the application by using Apache JMeter Scripts.  • Perform application tuning as per validate page response times.  • Component integration testing and system integration testing using HP ALM tool.  • Documented the data required for testing. Java Developer Henx International Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra December 2014 to April 2016 • Involved in deriving at class diagrams and sequence diagrams during the design phase of the project using UML.  • Extensively written JQuery for responsive event handling.  • Used Core Java concepts such as multi-threading, collections, garbage collection and other JEE technologies during development phase and used different design patterns.  • Writing front-end code like HTML, CSS, JQuery for assigned User requirements  using JavaScript  • Implemented MVC architecture by using spring framework, Hibernate in terms of JSPs  and Servlets.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed  configuration of Spring Application Framework. Education Master's Links http://linkedin.com/in/santhosh-kumar-konda-9b83b7147 https://github.com/kondasanthosh30