PHP Developer/Web Designer/Graphic Artist PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Web Designer/Graphic Artist Creative and efficient IT professional with 17 years experience as a lead software developer in large and small environments. Excellent interpersonal, communication, and writing skills. Java, PHP, CakePHP, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS, SASS, JSF, Perl, Linux, REST Web Services, JPA, XML, MySQL, Informix, Eclipse, Facebook API. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP Developer/Web Designer/Graphic Artist January 2006 to Present Freelance  ? Upgraded the functionality and layout for a popular web-based news/advertising outlet.  ? Built security and login system for a new school with OpenID, and branded, designed, created, and maintained the website.  ? Maintained a custom built registration and back-office system with PHP and MySQL.  ? Implemented a custom shopping cart application and an online ordering system.  ? Automated presenting links to audio lectures stored on a third party site.  ? Created custom vector images and hand-drawn logos and designs. Java/Perl Full Stack Software Developer Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts - Washington, DC May 2001 to July 2015 Team leader in the design and development of CM/ECF, the web-based case management and e-filing application installed at over 200 federal courts.  ? Led development of the application's first mobile interface using responsive design.  ? Presented technical information in both formal and informal settings to developers, analysts, managers, court staff, judges, and for video presentations.  ? Met with project managers, IT security personnel, analysts, and developers to determine the architecture and security of the new Web Service architecture for the NextGen version of CM/ECF, along with other key software decisions.  ? Introduced and maintained a new CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript framework.  ? Designed and implemented a new UI standard for the Bankruptcy CM/ECF application.  ? Created a unique time-entry widget that solved long-standing usability issues, and later adapted it using the NextGen technology stack.  ? Voluntarily mobilized developers to build a tool for organizing and searching the code base to improve estimates for upgrading existing components.  ? Maintained internal documentation.  ? Served as primary support for the Tomcat web server. Software Tester Swiss Bank Corporation - New York, NY 1997 to 1997 Web Developer Boston University Physics Department 1997 to 1997 Artist Boston University Athletics Department 1995 to 1995 Education BA in Computer Science Boston University 1998 Skills Software Development (10+ years), Java (8 years), PHP (6 years), Perl (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), CSS (8 years), Web Services (6 years), XML (8 years), XSL (3 years), UX (8 years), Web Design (6 years), Web Development (10+ years), Graphic Design (5 years), JQuery (5 years), mysql (6 years), Linux (10+ years), CSS3 (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dovevhefetz http://www.behance.net/dovevhefetz