Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM/TeamSite/Livesite Developer - Resource Logistics, Inc Fort Worth, TX • 12+ years of experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) which includes Analysis, Design, Development, Production Support, Administration, Troubleshooting, Testing, maintenance, enhancements, Documentation, Implementation, Integration, deployment, build, Code Management, version control and Quality control of Web applications and web content management systems  • Last 8+ years in AEM 6.4/6.3/6.2/6.1/6.0/5.6.1/ CQ5, DAM, Workflows, OSGI, Sling, TeamSite and Open-Deploy, Data-Deploy, Site-Publisher/LiveSite, LSCS, LSDS, IDOL, Mediabin technologies.  • Providing overall design and structure to the team, to understand the application seamless.  • Strong emphasis on Content Management Systems Interwoven TeamSite, AEM, CQ5, Fatwire, Drupal, WordPress  • Strong experience in development of CQ Components, Templates, Dialogs, Sling Model, Scheduler, Event handler, Widget, Workflows development  • Extensive experience in developing and coding of variety of Software Applications for web using JAVA, JSP, SERVLET, Microservices, JavaScript, CSS and HTML/HTML5.  • Expertise in TeamSite and Open Deploy installations (including TS 8.x versions) and upgrades.  • Strong experience in designing and developing complex Data Capture Templates and Presentation Templates using Form API and CGI  • Good experience in setting up OD and DD configurations  • Good experience in DevOps tools - Git, Docker, Jenkins  • Experienced in developing multilingual, multinational site creation  • Prepared the presentations and conducted User trainings for AEM & Interwoven TeamSite and various other tools  • Experience in Project Development, deliverables, scheduling, estimation, requirement gathering, implementation and software project management. Complete exposure of SDLC for development and enhancement.    • Experience in Coordinating with client on project planning & issues.    • Ability to work under strict deadlines without compromising with quality of work.    • A self-motivated team player with excellent communication, analytical, relationship management & problem-solving skills Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer Resource Logistics, Inc July 2017 to Present Teamsite/Livesite, Workflows, Java, AngularJS, DAM, Clustering, Dispatcher, Docker, Git, Maven American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX July 2017 to Present Fort Worth, TX  Platform: AEM 6.4, Teamsite/Livesite, Workflows, Java, AngularJS, DAM, Clustering, Dispatcher, Docker, Git, Maven, Jenkins, Microservices  Duration July 2017 - Till date  Team Size: 6  Company: Resource Logistics, Inc  Synopsis: The scope of this project is to redesign the agency reference website for American Airlines The resulting website will be design system 2 (DS2) compliant and support all break points and devices defined by the multi-screen strategy. It will deliver a simple and consistent experience that is quicker than the current navigation and easier to manage. Responsibilities: • Responsible for creating and validating overall logical and physical architecture for AEM based system. • Components, Dialog, Design Dialog Development • OSGi Components & Services Development • Workflows Development • Event handling & scheduling services development • OSGI Configurations based on run modes • Creation of detailed design and technical documentation    Project # 2 AT & T - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to July 2017 Atlanta, GA  Platform: AEM 6.1, Java, AngularJS, Mongo DB, Nginx, Sightly, DAM, Clustering, Dispatcher, Maven, Jenkins, JCR, Microservices, Adobe Target  Duration Feb 2017 - July 2017  Team Size: 4  Company: Tech Mahindra  Synopsis: The scope of this project is to provide AEM environment to clients. • Participated in requirements gathering activities interfacing with business users for gathering initial business requirements. • Helped the team in creating a High-Level Model for overall structure of CMS system. • Develop workflows using AEM/CQ • Components, Templates, Widgets, Dialogs creation • Custom Events/Scheduler development • Launches Customization • Implemented OOTB workflows and customization as per the business requirement using WFM API. • Created common services to be used across AEM Developer Tech Mahindra (America) Inc March 2016 to July 2017 Java, AngularJS, Mongo DB, Nginx, Sightly, DAM, Clustering, Dispatcher, Maven, Jenkins, JCR AT & T - Bothell, WA March 2016 to February 2017 Bothell, WA  Platform: AEM 6.1, Java, AngularJS, Mongo DB, Nginx, Sightly, DAM, Clustering, Dispatcher, Maven, Jenkins, JCR, Adobe Target  Duration March 2016 - Feb 2017  Team Size: 7  Company: Tech Mahindra  Synopsis: The scope of this project is to redesign the website and migration to AEM. • Actively involved with the business users in gathering requirements and designing the content architecture. • Helped the team in creating a High-Level Model for overall structure of CMS system. • Develop websites using AEM/CQ, including the creation, configuration and integration of templates, components, dialogs, widgets, workflows. • Components, Templates, Widgets, Dialogs creation • Workflows development, Custom Events/Scheduler development • Launches Customization • Implemented OOTB workflows and customization as per the business requirement using WFM API. Module Lead Tech Mahindra (America) Inc May 2012 to March 2016 AT & T January 2015 to February 2016 Platform: Adobe CQ5.6, Apache Sling, CRX 2.2, Java, JSP, Clustering, Dispatcher, Dispatcher, Maven, Jenkins, JCR  Duration Jan 2015 - Feb 2016  Team Size: 10 Adobe Experience Manager Tech Mahindra (America) Inc - Noida, Uttar Pradesh May 2012 to December 2014 Company: Tech Mahindra, Noida  Synopsis: The project focuses on implementing AEM (Adobe Experience Manager) /CQ5 content management solution for client website. The CMS implementation for client involves designing and development of components, templates, pages, workflow development and deployment (files and database) and system administration as well as maintenance. Responsibilities: • Participated in requirements gathering activities interfacing with business users for gathering initial business requirements. • Helped the team in creating a High-Level Model for overall structure of CMS system. • Experienced in Day CQ and associated technologies like Sling, OSGI, Felix, Jackrabbit, JCR, and CRX. • Components, Templates, Widgets, Dialogs creation • Workflows development/customization • Identified functional and technical issues relating to Adobe CQ. • Develop digital consumer experience based on day communique product suite including Day CQ, CRX, CQ WCM, DAM and social collaboration. • Multilingual/Multinational Site implementation • Issue logging, investigation, resolution, escalation and follow up • Incident Management/Bug Tracking using Jira  Project # 5 Title Client:  : CMI AT & T  Platform: Interwoven TeamSite, LiveSite, Perl, Unix Scripting, Java, XSLT, Java Script, CSSDK, WFM, Jira  Duration: May 2012 - Dec 2014  Team Size: 7 Tech Mahindra (America) Inc - Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2012 to May 2012 Noida  Synopsis: The project focuses on implementing a content management solution for client website. The CMS implementation for client involves designing and development of DCTs, presentation templates, components, templates, pages, workflow development and deployment (files and database) and system administration as well as maintenance. Responsibilities: • Planning application up gradation depending on the client requirements. • Providing development support to the changes related to components, workflows on different environments. • Involved in the requirement analysis along with the estimations. • Developing and Configuring workflows, creating definition files for Open deploy • Running deployments, troubleshooting application related issues for TeamSite, Open deploy, LiveSite/Site publisher.    Project # 6  Title: iShares EMEA  Platform: Interwoven TeamSite, LiveSite, Perl, Unix Scripting, Java, JSP, J2EE, Free Marker, XSLT, Java Script, CSSDK, WFM,SVN, Jira, AEM,CQ5  Duration: Jan 2012 - May 2012  Team Size: 2  Company: BlackRock , Gurgaon  Synopsis: The project focuses on implementing a content management solution for iShares website. iShares are a family of Index Funds (Market Index Investment Funds), known in some countries as ETFs (Exchange Traded Funds). This project involves installation of TeamSite/Search Module. The CMS implementation involves designing and development of DCTs, presentation templates, components, templates, pages, workflow development and deployment (files and database) and system administration as well as maintenance. Responsibilities: • Participated in requirements gathering activities interfacing with business users for gathering initial business requirements. • Responsible for Installation of TeamSite and designing, implementing, documenting the CMS based enhancements. • End user support and service delivery • Issue logging, investigation, resolution, escalation and follow up • Use existing processes and tools to resolve problems • Incident Management/Bug Tracking using Jira    Project # 7 Analyst III BlackRock Services India Private Ltd January 2012 to May 2012 Senior Software Engineer BirlaSoft India Ltd August 2010 to January 2012 BirlaSoft India Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh August 2010 to January 2012 General Electric  Platform: Interwoven TeamSite, LiveSite, Perl, Java, JSP, J2EE, XSLT, Java Script, CSSDK, WFM    Duration: Aug 2010 - Jan 2012  Company: BirlaSoft Ltd, Noida  Synopsis: The project focuses on implementing a content management solution for existing websites of the client. The CMS implementation involves templating, workflow development and deployment (files and database) and system administration as well as maintenance. Responsibilities: • Participated in requirements gathering activities interfacing with business users for gathering initial business requirements. • Responsible for designing, implementing, documenting the CMS based enhancements. • Responsible for production maintenance, involving CR management, supporting monthly releases and managing client expectations. • Modifications in various Data Capture Templates using FormAPIs, presentation templates. • Creation of new workflows as per requirements. Modification of existing workflows by including new tasks and transitions. • Creation of Livesite component. • Creating OpenDeploy and DataDeploy scripts to enable content deployment. • Generating page layouts using Sitepublisher.    Project # 8  Title Client: BROCADE  : Brocade  Platform: Interwoven TeamSite, Livesite, Java , TS-Search, CSSDK, JSP 1.2,Perl,JQuery, WFM HCL Technology - Noida, Uttar Pradesh August 2009 to July 2010 Synopsis: The business requirement was to implement Software Download Releases for a particular product in a hierarchy in the "release downloads" pages. These pages were designed to display major as well as minor releases for a particular product. We have used interwoven as a CMS tool. We have generated data capture templates (DCT) files for data entry for web pages and data content record (DCR) files are generated automatically as per that DCT files. Editor can edit web page data any time and select presentation files to deploy that page as per requirement. We also create presentation template files for each page. To publish files we are using Open Deploy. Responsibilities: • Involved in requirement understanding and impact analysis • Responsible for designing datacapture.cfg(DCTs) for template designing • Developed templates and callouts • Developing Livesite components • Developing External Java Components • DB Schema for data and metadata deployment • Workflow design using workflow modeler • Maintenance and Enhancements as per user requests    Project # 9 Software Engineer HCL Technologies June 2007 to July 2010 CPMRC Elsevier June 2007 to July 2009 Company: HCL Technology, Noida  Synopsis: CPMRC is an online Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPGs) to provide evidence-based clinical practice guidelines to nurses and members of interdisciplinary care teams via the Internet. The web based clinical products developed as part of Project Aster will help hospitals adhere to best clinical practices as well as varying quality improvement programs put in place to improve patient outcomes. In CPMRC business users work to create their guideline assets, manage and publish them to their audiences. Responsibilities: • Requirements Capturing, Coding, Unit Testing & System Testing • Development of WCM Components • Preparation of Design documents for various work orders and enhancements • Developed Shell Script for implementation of batch processes • Implementation of Email Module involves creation of templates, pages, Email Web service, Email Web Service Client and implementation of overall Email Module business logic • Maintenance and Enhancements as per user requests Education Bachelor's Skills Java, jquery, Jsp, Servlet, Cms, Docker, Front-end, Git, Html, Jenkins, Json, Perl, Php, Svn, Xml, Teamsite, Maven, Devops, Solaris, Interwoven Additional Information Skills Set    • CMS: AEM 6.x/5.x, Adobe CQ5, Open Text Interwoven TeamSite/LiveSite ,Fatwire  • Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Solaris  • Software Tools: SVN, Putty, Maven, Jira, QC  • DevOps Tools: GIT, Docker, Jenkins  • Databases: MySQL, Oracle, Mongo DB  • Languages: Sightly, Java, Jsp, Servlet, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Perl, PHP  • Front-end: Angular, Angular JS, React  Web Technologies: Java Script, JQuery, Free Marker XML, Ajax, Perl, DOM, CGI, JSON