Principal Engineer Principal Engineer Manager/Principal Engineer - Wyndham Hotel Group Rockaway, NJ ? Over 18 years of experience in enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies in Banking, Finance, Telecom, Hospitality, Education and reporting tools.  ? Strong subject-matter expertise and experience in the e-commerce and web application architecture.  ? AWS Experience with designing and programming serverless services like lambda, API Gateway, S3, EC2, Cloud Formation, Code Build, X-Ray, Cloud Watch, S3, Cloud Formation, IAM etc  ? AWS Services strong knowledge: Auto Scaling, code pipeline, Code Deploy, Elastic Beanstalk, Alexa development, Cloud 9 and other services for migration.  ? Designed and deployed the content managed application in Adobe Experience manager with full stack design and development life cycle.  ? Accomplished track record in leading teams through all parts of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) starting with project initiation, requirement gathering, requirement analysis, functional design, detail design, development and implementation of multi-tier Enterprise Application, Web Services, web based and distributed application.  ? Expertise in J2EE Architecture, Java and J2EE Core Design Patterns, Object Oriented Analysis and Design/Development Methodologies (OOAD), Object Modeling with Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using UML with Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  ? Strong understanding & expertise using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate, HQL.  ? Used middleware tools like JMS MDB's and configured Connection Factories and Topics/Queues.  ? Expertise in Service oriented Architectures (SOA) using Apache Axis, Weblogic, JBoss and EJB 3.0 Web service framework.  ? Expertise in using Relational Databases like Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2000 and My-SQL, creating SQLs, PL/SQL, stored procedures, triggers, functions, schema design.  ? Strong understanding & expertise in web technologies like HTML, DHTML, Java script, AJAX.  ? Experience in different application servers like JBoss/Tomcat, Weblogic and Orion.  ? Expertise in distributed application architecture, object oriented design, and web based applications.  ? Possessing strong analytical skills, an excellent team player with good leadership qualities and strong oral and written communication skills.  ? Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Principal Engineer Wyndham Hotel Group November 2011 to Present Brand Web Site  The Core Brand Re-design project is a multi-year project intended to re-vitalize Wyndham Hotel Group?s (WHG) core brand websites. The core brand websites include those supporting Baymont Inns, Days Inn, Hawthorn Suites by Wyndham, Howard Johnson, Knights Inn, Microtel, Ramada, Super 8, Travelodge and Wingate by Wyndham.    Role:  ? Requirement analysis along with Business analyst for small to large size projects.  ? Involve in understanding, estimating, designing the requirements in the project through the iterative modal.  ? Involve in complete architecture and designing of the projects. Working with architect team to design the robust solution for the requirements.  ? Decision maker in software/framework usage, deployment environment etc. Design and developing common framework to get the high performance optimal design.  ? Divide the tasks for development team by creating the development plan.  ? Supporting the team in development using Java, Spring/Hibernate, Endeca, SQL, CSS, HTML, AJAX, JSF, CMS teamsite.  ? Involve in tracking the project for complete lifecycle of the project from analysis, design, development, QA phase, UAT and implementation in production.  ? Work with onsite and offshore leads to make sure they adhere to WHG SDLC best practices including estimation, design, code reviews and signoffs.  ? Maintaining the wyndham.com and other variant sites for old platform.  ? Working as individually leading small, medium and large sized project.  ? Migrated to the applications content from teamsite to AEM (Adobe Experience manager)  ? Worked on AWS cloud solution for mobile using cognito, migrated AEM to cloud with upgrade of AEM 5.6.1 to 6.1  ? AWS Serverless implementation for services component using lambda, API gateway, KMS, SNS, cloudwatch, cloud formation etc. Java Architect Marlabs Inc - New York, NY September 2011 to November 2011 IHotelier  TravelClick is the only central reservation system (CRS) provider offering an integrated solution approach to reservations that includes competitive intelligence, channel management and marketing services, in addition to traditional Reservations Solutions. TravelClick's unique set of solutions provides hoteliers with the right combination of intelligence and technology to drive profitability.    Role:  ? Involve in understanding, estimating, designing the smaller enhancements in the project through the Agile development.  ? Decision maker in software/framework usage, deployment environment etc.  ? Involve in complete architecture and designing of the projects with hands on development.  ? Analyzing and improving the performance of the products.  ? Web service implementation for integrating with external channels.  ? Supporting development team to develop the applications using Java, Oracle, SQL, Coherence, XML, HTML, AJAX, CSS. Solution Architect Marlabs Inc - New York, NY June 2011 to August 2011 Eschoolware and Evaluate  The Eschoolware and the Evaluate is the major product of Edison Learning in education domain. The project involves the online assessment of the students through the Evaluate product and the teachers can evaluate their assessment through the Eschoolware project. The product also includes the management of the school from school addition, student enrollment, attendance, evaluation, creation of tests through content management systems etc.    Role:  ? Involve in understanding, estimating, designing the smaller enhancements in the project through the Agile development.  ? Analyzing the current production issues and improving the architecture for high availability and performance.  ? Decision maker in software/framework usage, deployment environment etc.  ? Involve in complete architecture and designing of the projects.  ? Enhancing the usage of Liferay portal framework and Jackrabbit as a content management framework.  ? Analyzing and improving the performance of the products.  ? Planning of deployment strategies.  ? Development using the Java, Oracle, Ant, Maven, Coherence, XML, AJAX, CSS, Spring and automated build and deployment activities. Tech Lead Wyndham Exchange and Rentals - Parsippany, NJ August 2009 to June 2011 RCI Rental and Exchange  RCI is a global provider of leisure travel services to businesses and consumers, and the worldwide leader in vacation exchange. RCI provides its global community of more than three million timeshare owners worldwide with quality vacation experiences at more than 3,700 resorts in 101 countries through RCI's week-for-week and points-based timeshare exchange networks. RCI's traditional exchange system. Vacation exchange adds flexibility and variety to vacation ownership by allowing timeshare owners to trade their Vacation Week for another similar unit. RCI's database of over 3,700 resorts in nearly 100 countries enables exchanges to and from resorts around the world. The RCI Points program is RCI's global points-based vacation exchange system. As part of RCI Points program a customer will have the flexibility to customize the vacation that is perfect for his vacation needs.    Role:  ? Involve in complete lifecycle of the RCI program and RCI group of projects released twice a year.  ? Responsible for requirement analysis with the business analyst for RCI enhancements.  ? Involve in complete architecture and designing of RCI project.  ? Involve in UML designing component diagram, flow diagram, class diagram and sequence diagram etc.  ? Leading and technical support to 5 members in the team.  ? Improving the performance by tuning the application using JProfiler.  ? Eclipse IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  ? UI enhancements using web technologies like Java, JSP, Struts, Oracle11g, Spring, Beehive, DOJO, XML, HTML, CSS, JQuery for better presentation to end customer.  ? Written Queue/Topic based JMS components for different module of the product.  ? Worked on clarity for managing the tasks for self and team.  ? Application deploys on weblogic and backend on Oracle and mainframe. Lead Java Developer MyMicros - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 2008 to August 2009 Sales Forecasting  The group introduced new forecasting modules to provide feature of forecasting future sales and various other components and generating a staffing schedule based on the forecast generated and by using a staffing requirements configuration. The three modules were forecasting module, staffing module and employee scheduling module.    The solution is designed to cater to the needs of multiple locations of the group through a single installation. A single database instance is used for persisting data pertaining to all locations. The extension of existing application has following modules:    Role:  ? Involve in the all SDLC phases of the project.  ? Working with Business analyst to understand the requirement.  ? Involve in designing and development.  ? Weekly client interactions to clarify the requirement and clarification on technical issues.  ? Build use cases for each component of business workflow, create design documents with different UML diagrams like flow charts, sequence diagrams and class diagrams using MS Visio.  ? This project Design is based on Command pattern, Data Access Objects, Factory, Service Locator and Singleton pattern.  ? Used the ER/Studio for database schema design.  ? Creation of complex SQLs.  ? Preparing and presenting demo for each and every transaction in the business process.  ? Used JProfiler for Performance Analysis.  ? Eclipse IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  ? UI development using web technologies like Java, .Net, JSP, AJAX, CSS, HTML, Spring, Tag libraries for presentation layer using Struts 1.2.  ? Webservice development using the Apache Axis 1.2 webservice framework. Integration of the webservice with the .net using the SOAP protocol.  ? Developed custom tag libraries for achieving most code-reusability and ease of maintenance for presenting, formatting and gathering data.  ? Management of 5 members in the team.  ? Written unit testing of various components layer with JUnit framework.  ? Wrote ANT scripts to build application binaries JAR, WAR and EAR files.  ? Deployed the application and tested on JBoss Application Servers.  ? VSS used as configuration management tool.  ? Web service development using the JBoss web service framework for integrating with .net client.  ? Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.    Environment: Java 1.5, struts 1.2, J2EE 3.0, JDBC, .net compact framework 2.0, Ant, Eclipse, JBoss Webservices Axis, SOAP, Quartz scheduler, Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2000, Win2K, Win-XP Team Lead Datamatics Ltd - Bern, CH April 2007 to April 2008 Archive Browsing Platform (ABP)  The Archive Browsing Platform (ABP) is a software solution introducing a new architecture for searching and extracting data from the APZV archive. The current APZV archive servers remain untouched. Two client applications and external connectors are already fulfilling this task since several years, thus the motivations to build a new system and replace them are: Integration with global PostFinance security architecture (Entry Server / IDM) to comply with financial institution standards (legal requirement).  Merge the functionalities of the two existing clients in one consistent client application compliant with the PostFinance GUI platform (OCP) for better support of the business processes, thus increase of productivity.  ABP is an ability to provide a web client for browsing archive data from external networks. This opens archive capability to partners and allows new market opportunities.    Role:  ? Involved in complete software development life cycle (SDLC) of business process by using their current system and continuous client feedback.  ? Responsible for the handling of server side business components from the requirement analysis / design phase to the development/integration phase including unit testing.  ? Involved in designing, development for the DEP architecture using MS-Visio.  ? Used the ER/Studio for database schema design.  ? Various J2EE 3.0 components used for the middle layer.  ? Developed Data Access Objects, Factory Pattern, Transfer Objects with Hibernate as Business Components.  ? Application UI development using Java, Spring, HTML, CSS, Javascript, AJAX, JQuery.  ? Aspect oriented technology implemented using the Spring framework.  ? Data access layer implemented using the Spring/Hibernate technology.  ? Worked extensively in java collection framework using ArrayList, HashMap, TreeMap, Set etc.  ? Creating database tables, created Hibernate mapping files (hbm) with associations and developed Business Objects, which use these tables.  ? Eclipse IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  ? Written end-to-end automated JUnit test cases to test SOA services.  ? Written Queue/Topic based JMS components for different module of the product.  ? Also involve in integration with other products of Fidelity.  ? The application deployed on JBoss application server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Ant, Axis, Eclipse, Web services, Spring, Hibernate, HQL, JBoss, Oracle 10g, Win2K, Win XP, Sun-OS Sr. Java Developer Passkey - Pune, Maharashtra January 2006 to April 2007 Passkey Event Management  Passkey is a product development company in hospitality industry. Passkey accepts reservation from users on behalf of various hotels, and afterwards passkey also transfers these reservations to the respective hotels. Passkey has various products viz. Reglink (Web Service application), Resweb, Resdesk, RLM (Web Based application) etc to create reservations in Passkey database. Passkey has a process called Grouplink transfer (which is implemented using OnDemand and GLPush), which is based on SOA concept and which transfers the reservations to different hotels in the format accepted by corresponding hotels.    Role:  ? Involve in designing and implementation of various components of the Passkey group of projects.  ? Getting Business Knowledge for the 18 systems involved in different product of Passkey.  ? Ensuring the team is on schedule, to coordinate and supervise resources assigned. Responsible for the analysis, coding & testing of the objects before delivery to client.  ? EJB 2.0 components Session EJB used for the back business logic implementation.  ? Various J2EE (JSP/EJB/JMS) component used for the implementation of the modules.  ? Struts1.2 (including tiles/validation framework) to support the MVC architecture for the Passkey modules.  ? Webservice devleopment using the Apache Axis 1.2 webservice framework.  ? Used PL/SQL for the backend business logic in oracle 10g including creation of SQLs.  ? Written unit testing of various components layer with JUnit framework.  ? SVN used as configuration management tool.  ? Deployed the application and tested on JBoss 5.0 Application Server.  ? Eclipse IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.    Environment: Java, JSP, AJAX, JDBC, J2EE, XML, XSL, Struts, Ant, Axis Webservices, JBoss, PL/SQL, Oracle 10g, Win2K, Win-XP Sr. Java Developer Wipro, Indoa - Piscataway, NJ August 2004 to December 2005 ASMS/LNP Number Portability  The ASMS supports Local Number Portability Service Management System (LNP SMS) Functionality needed by clients for service provider management of LNP service requests and LNP subscription data in the local network. LNP is a capability that allows customers to change their local telephone service provider but keep their telephone number (TN) when they change. When customers change service and keep their (TN), LNP SMS functionality consists of Service Order Administration (SOA) Functionality needed to manage pending port requests and interact with the Number Portability Administration Center SMS (NPAC SMS).    Role:  ? EJB 2.0 components used for the backend business logic implementation.  ? Struts 1.2 supporting the MVC architecture of the product interacting with the JSP/Servlet/Tag libraries for the UI component.  ? Written unit testing of various components layer with JUnit framework.  ? SOA implementation using the Axis/Weblogic web service framework for different client product integration.  ? XSD used for the validation of the XML transfer from the client between the different web service call.  ? Deployed the application and tested on Weblogic 8.6.1 Application Server.  ? Worked extensively on Multithreading for maintaining the interaction between the client and server sockets.  ? Database oracle 10g used for the persistence layer.  ? JMS API / MQ series used the message transferring between different components of the product. The middleware is used for the interaction between the c and java implementation.  ? JBuilder IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.    Environment: Java, C, JSP, Servlet, Struts, AJAX, JDBC, EJB 2.0, XML, XSL, Oracle, Weblogic, Ant, Axis , SOAP, JBuilder, Win2K, Win-XP, HP. Senior Programmer Impetus infotech - San Mateo, CA September 2003 to August 2004 Live Capital Credit  The product identifies the creditability of a customer or a company by fetching their data from the bureaus, which are centralized private institution which stores the credit information of the customer and company. The product help us throughout the credit cycle - from the time a new credit application is submitted, to the time a credit decision is made, and then throughout the life of the customer relationship as you monitor and re-evaluate your credit exposure. The credit products can streamline your credit operations and provide you tools to monitor your risk exposure and identify when you need to take action.    Role:  ? Overall Design, development, unit testing and configuration.  ? XML Configuration for customizing the product according to their client needs. The client prepares a requirement document and we need to understand that document and customized the product according to the client requirement.  ? Designing through Together-J and Embarcdio Studio for designing DB Schema.  ? Development in java through Intellij, Eclipse java IDE.  ? White box testing using JUnit.  ? Wrote ANT scripts to build application binaries JAR, WAR and EAR files.  ? Deployed the application and tested on Weblogic 8.6.1 Application Server.  ? Used Log4j for logging the application log of the running system to trace the errors.  ? View layer implementation using the struts1.2/JSP.  ? JMS/Mail API framework used for the messaging requirement.  ? Oracle 10g supporting the persistence layer.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlet, XML, Struts, JDBC, JMS, JUnit, Oracle, Win2K, Win-XP, Weblogic, Ant Programmer Impetus infotech - Indore, Madhya Pradesh January 2001 to September 2003 Intellicus Report Engine Tool  It is a report layout designing and web-reporting Suite. The suite provides the end users to design report layouts and preview the reports using the Intellicus Studio, a desktop application. The Reporting Engine, high speed multi threaded turbine to generate and serve reports at runtime. The reporting web interfaces are provided to integrate with the Wellsfargo application, where a end user can view the reports selecting different input parameters.    Role:  ? Designing and developing standalone web application for hosting the reporting system.  ? Web application components for report layout repository, report menu interaction, report parameter forms and scheduler. Struts1.2/JSP APIs for other host web applications to integrate Intellica reporting system.  ? Involve in the database schema design for Oracle and MS-SQL.  ? JAVA 1.2 APIs for java applications to integrate Intellica reporting system.  ? Rich UI development using the DHTML, JavaScript, VB Script for report designing on web.  ? Worked on Active X controller in VB for report viewer, running on web browser.  ? Hands on experience on VC++ for development of reporting engine, which migrated to java due to platform independence.  ? Worked as systems integrator for various product of Wellsfargo like Wellsfargo Lace, Wellsfargo QSR, Wellsfargo PRG.    Environment: Java, VC++, VB, JSP, struts1.2, Oracle8, Weblogic, Windows, JDBC and XML Education Masters in Computer Applications in Computer Applications DAVV University Bachelor of Science Kanpur University - Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh Skills Api (10+ years), Html (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Jsp (9 years), Sql (10+ years), Cloud Computing (5 years), AEM (5 years), Distributed Architecture (10+ years), AWS (5 years), Node js (3 years), Serverless (3 years), JavaScript (10+ years), Node JS (3 years), AWS (4 years), Jenkins (6 years), Cloud Computing (4 years), Leadership Development (8 years), Architecture (6 years), Programming (10+ years), Databases (3 years), Soa (9 years), SOAP (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Aws solution architect associate Sun Certified Java Programmer Sun certified web developer Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: Java, VB, VC++, nodejs  Application Technologies: J2EE 3.0, J2EE 5.0  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, JSTL, Tag libraries, XML, XSD, Xerces, Xalan, DOM and SAX Parser  SOA: SOAP, WSDL, Apache Axis web service,axis2, Weblogic web services, EJB 3.0, Weblogic beehive framework  Client side: Java Script, VB Script, HTML, DHTML  Databases: Oracle9i, 10g, MSSQL 2000, My SQL  App Servers: Weblogic 8.1/9.0, JBoss 4.0/5.0, Tomcat 5.0, 6.0, Orion 6.0  API & Framework: Log 4J, Spring 2.0, Struts 1.2, Hibernate 2.0, Hessian, IBatis,  Operating System: Unix, Linux, Windows 9x/XP/NT  Version Control: CVS, VSS, SOS, PVCS, SVN  Tools: Jakarta Ant, Maven, Junit  Cloud: AWS  CMS: AEM (Adobe Experience Manager 5.6.1 to 6.3)  Design Patterns: Gang of Four: Singleton, Factory, Observer, Command, Façade, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Transfer Object, MVC, DAO  IDE: Eclipse 3.0, IntelliJ, JBuilder, MS Visio, Rational Rose, Together-J, ER Studio