Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Verizon Work Experience Application Developer Verizon - Atlanta, GA October 2018 to Present SANE is an easy to use, single sign on facility which provides, among other things, command line access to the VZW network elements. As a SANE VZ system engineer, will able to accept user requests for new types of network elements and RESEARCH the design a CLI or GUI interface for SANE.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in Agile Method break tasks into small increments with minimal planning, and do not directly long term planning and daily stand-ups, updating tasks.  • Execute full lifecycle software development.  • Created certificates to authenticate the users coming from different applications to SANE.  • Involved in migrating Oracle 11g to Oracle 12C and Golden Gate process.  • Created Gradle builds to build and deploy Spring Boot micro services to internal enterprise Docker registry.  • Involved in migration Solaris to Linux environment.  • Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI for REST API's and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Migrating SANE Solaris to run on the new SANE linux VM's  • Experience with data persistence frameworks such as Hibernate, iBatis ,JPA.  • Worked with development teams on the deployment web based applications.  • Hand-coded front-end solutions based on wireframes and visual designs using standards compliant HTML5, jQuery mobile, and CSS3.  • Create team specific Agile process flow in JIRA to move tasks from one activity to another.  • Developing confluence pages.  • Debugging and resolving the tickets for existing issues in the application.  • Strong focus on code quality, related analytic tools and integration with SonarQube  • Developed UNIX scripts to verify data has been replicating into different environments.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS 5.0/6.0, LESS, SAAS, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, spring, sonarQube, Restful Web Services, selenium, Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JIRA, C++, swing, HTML,stash,GITLAB, Gradle 3.5, Selenium. Collection Manager Netcracker - Atlanta, GA July 2015 to August 2018 Position: Sr Developer    Collection Manager is an end-to-end debt management. A policy based application. Supports flexible revenue recovery schedules and allows fine-grained control over internal activities and process. Has a dedicated web based user interface. Also identifies and manages delinquent accounts and assigns accounts to collection.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile Method break tasks into small increments with minimal planning, and do not directly long term planning and daily stand-ups, updating tasks.  • Involved in creating Software Design Documents, Technical Design & Unit Testing Documents.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP.  • Used Angular.JS MVC Framework in the development of the web application to bind the data/model that was retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using SASS, LESS, Bootstrap, AngularJS.  • Applied AngularJS client-side Validation by using HTML5 attribute and AngularJS Form state and input state.  • Used $http with AngularJS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used ng-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Using AngularJS, I created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI for REST API's and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Designed and implemented the REST API for the UI screen through the mobile user can leave their phone number and the convenient time so as to have the Customer Service Representative would call them back at the provided number and as per their mentioned convenient time.  • Developed and performed test cases using jasmine and Karma in the unit test, and used the protractor and Http-server for the End2End testing.  • Used Web services - REST for getting credit card information from third party.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by AngularJS    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular (4.0/6.0), Node.js, LESS, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, spring, spring boot, Restful webservices, weblogic10.3.x/12.x, MONGO DB, JIRA, GIT, Maven. Application Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to July 2015 Sales express application is a consolidated HOME view displays information from multiple sources. Create an Effortless experience by integrating various sales applications into a single platform. SE delivers ultra-fast access to sales information when and where you need it most. Provide an end- to end mobile experience that extends desktop functions out into the field at the point of customer contact.    Responsibilities:  • Highly skilled and experienced in Agile Development process for diverse requirements.  • Actively applied Agile (SCRUM) development practice.  • Performed the research and development tasks to design and implement new components  • Participated in backlog grooming and sprint planning sessions.  • Responsible for the development of iPad web app using HTML5, handlebars templates, and jQuery.  • Experience with scripting-based build tools using maven  • Hand-coded front-end solutions based on wireframes and visual designs using standards compliant HTML5, jQuery mobile, and CSS3.  • Developed user interface to access website from many mobile device such iPhone, BlackBerry, samsung using jQuery Mobile.  • Designed and implemented the REST AP! for the UI screen through the mobile user can look-up the available plans and monthly premium against each of them by taking the zip code as the parameter.  • Working experience with source code repositories such as git or Subversion.  • Attending daily scrum meeting to update the status of tasks assigned  • Work closely with software developers to design and implement APIs supporting the app features.    Environment: HTML 4/5, CSS3, jQuery/ Mobile, AJAX, WebLogic, Jenkins, GITS, handlebar templates, web services, spring MVC, JSON. Sr Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA December 2013 to May 2014 FaST project is a new web-based application that will be a catalyst for growing mobility IRU and CRU business in company-owned retail stores, local dealer channels and mobility call centers. FaST will give users real-time access to mobility FAN and agreement information so that the AT&T representative can create mobility orders, convert eligible prospects into IRU subscribers and answer customer inquiries. The solution will incorporate state of the art technology so that search capability is intuitive, data is returned in near real-time, users can customize the user interface as desired and the application can be accessed on desktops or tablet devices    Responsibilities:  • Highly skilled and experienced in Agile Development process for diverse requirements.  • Participated in the designing and development of software using agile development practices  • Performed the research and development tasks to design and implement new components  • create web application using custom Design Patterns for Web Services Protocols, RESTful Designs, MVC Web applications and Client-side technologies frameworks like Apache Wicket, Google Guice, and Bootstrap frameworks.  • Development of application related classes and interfaces in accordance with the required Coding Standards.  • Design and development of web pages using the Wicket framework along with development of reusable Wicket components.  • Extensively used SOAP/XML formats for data communication between back and front ends Servers.  • Experience with scripting-based build tools (such as Ant, Maven)  • Developed Maven scripts to generate web services java code using apache CXF.  • Experience with data persistence frameworks such as Hibernate, iBatis ,JPA.  • Attending daily scrum meeting to update the status of tasks assigned  • Work closely with software developers to design and implement APIs supporting the app features,  • Experience with using Java IDEs such as Eclipse, Intellij Idea..    Environment: HP-UNIX, Web Logic 12 x.x, Apache Wicket 6.14.x, Bootstrap 3.x, CSS, Maven, JavaScript , Hibernate, Ibatis, JPA , PostGre, Solr, Jetty, SVN Tortoise, Web Services, Unix, SQL Scripting, Axis1.4,Oracle11G, SOAP UI, Linux, Rally Sr Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA March 2011 to December 2013 Order Entry Portal is a self-service kiosk that is responsible for initiating requests to the Balance Manager application and other external systems, such as CSI and Quick Pay, in order to manage customer accounts, subscribers, and plans for various 3G devices such as net book, iPad, Data Connect cards. Time-based and/or usage based plans that enable 3G devices to surf the internet or download data, music or videos over the internet can be purchased via the Order Entry Portal user interfaces. Balance Manager provides the services that perform the actual work of managing customer accounts, subscriber, and plans.    Responsibilities:  • Translate customer requirements into formal requirements and design documents, establish specific solutions.  • Coordinating with system analyst and system architect to prepare system requirement specifications (SRS) and high-level design documents respectively.  • Involved in writing design and ADD documents.  • Involved in development activities like coding, unit testing and reviews of the same.  • Developed a web based project using struts 2.0.  • Extensively used SOAP/XML formats for data communication between back and front ends Servers.  • Worked with struts tiles for layout purposes and struts validator for validations.  • Developed JSP's to follow MVC architecture.  • Extensively used Struts 2 interceptors to invoke the actions.  • Developed user interface to access website from many mobile device such iPhone, BlackBerry, samsung using jQuery Mobile.  • Responsibilities included creating analysis and design documents, designing the UI, developing a JavaScript framework  • Consuming a Web Services to interact with different external systems.  • Developed rich web interface using JavaScript toolkit Dojo & Jquery Mobile  • Developed Password encryption in database using stored procedure & Triggers  • Designed Test Cases and also involved in writing Unit and System Test Plans.  • Worked in the production support to resolve issues in timely manner.  • Responsible for Preparing Unit Test Plans and Test Case Specifications Document.    Environment: HP-UNIX, Web Logic 10 x, J2EE, Struts 2.0, JavaScript ,Hibernate HTML,XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT,WSDL, JSP, Web services, Cruise control, Maven, Jenkins, JIBX, Unix, Shell Scripting, Eclipse, Ant,CSS, LOG4j, Dojo, JQuery mobile, ANT ,SVN, Tomcat, Axis1.4,Oracle11G, SOAP UI, Linux Sr Developer Capgemini - Atlanta, GA March 2010 to March 2011 NGN Configuration Management is a web based application which provides the ability to create generic workflow for NGN device types. The NGN devices associated with a particular workflow can be configured, i.e. made operational, by executing the steps of the workflow sequentially. The system also provides the ability to add/delete/modify steps of an existing workflow. Also the application provides a unique session for each user, thus giving the capability to customize the desktop based on individual users.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development activities like coding, unit testing and reviews of the same.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Developed business layer using spring, Hibernate and DAO s.  • Developing DB mapping XML files in Hibernate.  • Formed complex associations between Plain Old Java Objects using Hibernate.  • Developed a JavaScript toolkit that included support for sort able and editable grid component, AJAX, and various rich UI controls and effects.  • Responsibilities included creating analysis and design documents, designing the UI, developing a JavaScript framework  • Worked with struts tiles for layout purposes and struts validator for validations.  • Developed rich web interface using JavaScript toolkit Ext JS  • Front-end features included AJAX, drag-n-drop, sort able grid, rich-text edit controls, image upload and CSS styling.  • Designed Test Cases and also involved in writing Unit and System Test Plans.  • Timely solution to the changes that has been fixed part of change in the requirement at a later stage of testing.  • Responsible for Preparing Unit Test Plans and Test Case Specifications Document.    Environment: HP-UNIX, Web Logic 9.2,10, J2EE, MQ, Remedy, Data Power, JavaScript , Spring MVC,Hibernate HTML,XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT,WSDL, JSP,Web services, JIBX, Unix, Shell Scripting, CSS, LOG4j, EXT JS, JUnit, ANT ,Clear Case, Clear Quest, SVN,Oracle11G, JMS. Sr Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA March 2007 to October 2009 The Home Depot, Inc. is the world's largest home improvement specialty retailer and the second largest retailer in the United States. The purpose of the Planning Strategy project is to provide the system to efficiently create, implement and manage parameters. As a result of this project, Analyst will be able to create Parameter SKU Groups as well as Merchandising, Operational and custom Store Groups.    Responsibilities:  • Translate customer requirements into formal requirements and design documents, establish specific solutions.  • Coordinating with system analyst and system architect to prepare system requirement specifications (SRS) and high-level design documents respectively.  • Involved in development activities like coding, unit testing and reviews of the same.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Used to write SQL Queries, adding the required columns to the tables using DB2.  • Extensively worked with design patterns such as Singleton pattern business delegate pattern, Session Façade, Service Locator, Business Delegate etc.  • Wrote Functional requirements using J2EE standards and developed the data base connection using JDBC and PL/SQL  • Data Access Objects using Spring DAO layer support.  • Worked on Java and COBOL web services to retrieve the data from DB2.  • Extensively used XML's to transfer data from between java , Cobol and Dot Net application.  • Generated web services on DotNet side to communicate middle tier.  • Used Springs Jdbc and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code (CRUD).  • Used Clear Case as the version control system on RAD. Created Clear Case views to access source files from Clear Case VOB(repository).  • Interacting with business users to get to know about the client requirements precisely.  • Run data manipulation statements (DML) to update data.    Environment: HP-UNIX, Web Sphere 5.1.2, J2EE(EJB, JSP, JMS, Servlets), javascript , Clear Case, Clear Quest, MS IIS, HTML,XML, XSL, XSLT,Spring, UNIX Scripting, JSON, LOG4j, DB2, Oracle 10g, Flex, Eclipse ,WCF, Visual Studio 2008 ,C#, ASP.Net, IBM RAD 6.0.2/7, WSCF0.5.1, WinForms Application Developer Randstad - Atlanta, GA April 2006 to March 2007 The AM system is a web based system that facilitates the gathering, assessing, tracking and hiring of job applicants in a rapidly changing and paperless environment. This system intends to be the framework in which information is gathered and then dispersed to various clients and partners. The assessment interfaces is the mechanism by which the clients are able to leverage the business expertise of AM System while still working within the flexible and dynamic environment.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the object oriented analysis, design and development of reliable, secure, scalable, high availability web sites using the latest J2EE/ Java technology.  • Developed the Web Services Applications and Business Layer for communication between different layers.  • Responsible for Design and Development of UI framework which is totally based on STRUTS1.1  • Designed, developed, and deployed Web interfaces, several applications and software components using J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed Spring DAO to access data from database to do business logic processing.  • Implemented various GUI screens using AJAX, JSP, and JavaScript with Framework.  • Used JNDI API for accessing different kinds of naming and directory services.  • Structured and processed meta data using XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, DOM parser.  • Run data manipulation statements to update data in the Oracle Database 10g.  • Implemented Single Sign On in Oracle Portal.  • Developed ASP Pages to display emails and calendar from outlook.  • Worked extensively with Complex SQL Queries, Packages, Functions and Stored Procedures  • Enhanced and debugged existing systems and programs. Designed Test Cases and was involved in writing Unit Test Plan.  • Developed business layer using Spring, Hibernate and DAO s.  • Developing DB mapping XML files in Hibernate.  • Formed complex associations between Plain Old Java Objects using Hibernate.  • Worked Extensively with ANT compiling and building the EJB and Web Modules and creating .ear file for deployment  Environment: HP-UNIX, Weblogic, J2EE(EJB, JSP,TOAD, JMS, Servlets),J2SE(Swing) ,javascript , ASP, Ajax, HTML,XML, XSL, XSLT, XMLBeans, JUnit, Oracle9i,10.1.X, DOM, Spring, Struts ,SVN,Tomcat, Hibernate ,VB, VB Script, Oralce Application Server 10.1.2.0, Oracle Infrastructure Server (Oracle Portal, Oracle Internet Directory) 10.1.2.0 ,OUTLOOK, WEBDAV, Exchange Server, Active Directory,CVS. Java Developer Corpus - Dallas, TX October 2005 to April 2006 This project is used to generate and process calling card orders for client long distance services. The orders will be generated at ESG portal, which is the user interface for the service representatives and customers. The orders are forwarded to PaRT, a group where calling cards and their respective pins are generated. A windows service picks up the processed orders and sends them to CardOps, a group responsible for validation of the data in the file. CardOps validates these cards and pin number, activates them and sends a response back to PaRT in the form of a file. PaRT sends a notification to ESG about the processed orders and their status by consuming a webservice after analyzing the response from CardOps.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the Web Services Applications and Business Layer for generating the calling cards and pin numbers.  • Developed Session beans, JSP pages using Eclipse 3.0 and deployed the application.  • MQSeries used as middleware. Developed application to send and receive messages. Messages triggered the various process in back-end.  • Extensively used SOAP/XML formats for data communication between back and front ends Servers.  • Used to write SQL Queries, adding the required columns to the tables using Oracle9i.  • Developed script using ANT for uploading all the JSP's, java files from workspace (Eclipse) to UNIX box workspace.  • SOAP is used to communicate with the applications running on different Operating Systems  • Responsible for designing XML DTD and formatting XML documents with XSLT and XSL FO.  • Generated reports for CC and Pin numbers  • Worked extensively with Complex SQL Queries, Packages, Functions and Stored Procedures.  • Used PL/SQL extensively for both client-side triggers and server side procedures, database triggers.  • Coordinated and interacting with other team members (Onsite offshore) Clients.  • Consuming of Web Services to interact with business Components.  • Provided support for applying new business rules and requirements.    Environment: Eclipse 3.0, EJB, Java, Servlets, JSP, XML,XSD, HTML, JavaScript, Swing, Struts 1.2, WSDL,Tiles, JUnit, ANT, Maven, JBoss, Hibernate, DB2, DAO, AJAX, WinCvs, Perl, Axis, JMS, Oracle 9i, UNIX(Shell Scripting), Rational Rose J2EE Enterprise Edition. Application Developer Unique Solutions Ltd July 2004 to April 2005 HIS was developed to King George Hospital, It contains different modules. Hospital Information System (HIS) - This will take care of all the medical and patient related information within the hospital. It will allow recording, storage and retrieval of all patient data. It will be also responsible for in-patient and out-patient management, scheduling of doctors and nurses, appointments and bookings management etc.    This Project is window based application developed by using Java/J2ee and .Net Technologies.    Environment: Windows XP, J2EE, Swing, Java Mail, Oracle 9i Enterprise Manager Client, Servlets, EJB, Unix, Linux,CSS,HTML,ASP.Net, VSS, IBM Web Sphere Studio Application Developer 4.1 (WSAD), IBM Web Sphere Application Server, C#, IIS, Win Forms. Education MS Computer Science & Technology in Software Eng Andhra University 2003 BS in Computer Science Andhra University 1999 Skills C#, Gui, Html, Javascript, Oo, Perl, Svn, Visio, Visual basic, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Ajax, Asp, Cgi, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Asp.net, Tomcat, Weblogic Additional Information Operating Systems HP-Unix, Sun Solaris, Windows 2000, Windows NT 4.0,  Languages C#, ADO.Net, ASP.NET, Java 2.0, SQL, CGI-Perl, PL/SQL  Markup Languages HTML, DHTML, DreamWeaver, FrontPage  Internet Tools HTML, Javascript, ASP, AJAX  GUI Java (AWT, JFC/Swing), GWT,Visual Basic 5.0, D2K  J2EE technologies EJB, MDB, JMS, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JPA  Jakarta Projects Struts, Log4J, Taglibs, Ant and Commons  SourceForge Spring Framework  Framework Hibernate, Wicket, Spring  XML Technologies XML, XSL and XSLT  IDE Eclipse2.1/3.0, WSAD and Weblogic Workshop  Application Servers WebSphere 5.0,6.0: Weblogic 10.x, 12.xJBoss,RAD 6.01,02,7  Web Servers Apache Tomcat Server  Tools for OO Design UML, Rational Rose, Visio 2000  Version Controlling Tls SVN,Gits, Rational ClearCase  MOM MQSeries 5.2  RDBMS Oracle 8i/9i/10g, DB2, Sybase, MySQL and SQL Server  Javascript Framework: Jquery, AngularJS, React JS