Virtual Private Cloud Production Engineer Virtual Private Cloud Production Engineer Software Developer El Paso, TX Ernesto Maldonado Thomas is a Computers Systems Engineer who use his knowledge and skills to analyze, to design and to implement software solutions that help in the streamlining and continuous improvement of the processes and/or services that the company provides.  He also is able to solve problems quickly, designing and implementing software components. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Virtual Private Cloud Production Engineer El Paso, TX - El Paso, TX February 2018 to Present Resolve problems or incidents within the IT Cloud Platform Services area utilizing Agile and DevOps practices. Problem records include detailed description and classification of the problems. Work or assign the problem and take ownership of the problem record until complete.  Apply problem solving skills to investigate and diagnose IT problems within Cloud Technologies as well as other related IT areas specially related to disruptive technologies. Using root cause analysis method identify the primary and contributory causes.  Assign tasks, as required, to assist in the identification of the causes. Involve internal team as well as external or global teams required for resolving issues.  Coordinate the different global teams or individuals required to resolve the error. Manage communications and as the process to identifying a potential solution progresses and document full details to resolve the problem.  Escalate problems when service level targets are not met or at risk during the problem lifecycle and determine appropriate next steps. Communicate detailed plans to management.  Perform Proactive Analysis by collecting and analyzing data, both internal and external, to identify trends and problems. The result of this proactive analysis should be a reduction in the number of incidents and problems over time.  As new offerings and business areas continue to grow, lead several teams in Agile DevOps environment and utilize management skills to coordinate problem management as previously described.  As new areas continue to grow demonstrate management skills by delegate efficiently to keep the team moving at an acceptable rate.  Establish trust within the new teams to develop strong support areas. Apply a strong vision for the future both in the technology and business areas.  Apply extensive experience in sustain and development areas to implement continuous improvement in technical realms as well as process areas and communicate plans to management.  Develop and assess technical performance improvement plans for teams and individual members. Work with engineers as a mentor in answering their questions to technical impediments and provide solution guidance.  Conduct technical interviews.  Support other projects to provide guidance and mentoring in multiple technologies.  Coordinate and conduct events to improve El Paso RDC skills such as Tech talks, Brownbags, coding sessions and trainings.  Provide guidance on coding standards and IT processes  App Service Management Dev Cons III HP Enterprise Services, LLC - El Paso, TX February 2013 to May 2018 Responsibilities  Technical Lead an offshore team in the administrative and maintenance tasks of Applications such as Informatica, Tidal and Business Objects  Coordinate with several teams such as Windows server teams, DBA teams, Unix teams on outages and maintenance tasks. Disaster Recovery Plans, Patches, Updates, migration to newer environments, Change Process, Incident Management, Root Cause Analysis, Client communication and coordination with third-party vendors.   Analyze, Define, Design and Develop ETL processes, provide enhancements and develop monitoring tools.   Transition to production environment.  Develop ETL Packages using Microsoft SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services)   Develop SQL Queries for complex data load processes.   Install SSIS Production Server in a Virtualized production environment.   Build/Configure and monitor Scheduler for ETL processes.   Lead Code Reviews sessions, and provide estimates   Monitor Application and Implement Performance Improvements   Create SQL Programs on SQL Server PDW   Develop C# Monitoring Tools creating custom Powershell Comandlets to automate reports generation as a personal project that ended as part of the tools that the team adopted to monitor the application, Monitoring includes process completion, durations, Locks/Wait times, Volume of data loaded, Transaction Log Space, Metrics, statistics.   Lead Java Technical Community, prepare and present training, brown-bags, monthly status presentations, Technical Letters Java Senior Consultant Regensrief Institute - Indianapolis, IN October 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities  Develop Apache Camel Server routes to receive, transform and deliver messages to other Systems. Support production environment fixing bugs and delivering Develop Maven configuration files for project integration, dependency management, unified compilation and testing process and continuous integration using CI Hudson   Develop Mirth Connect Channels to integrate with HL7 based Systems using LLP protocol. Participate in the design, development and implementation of new modules and components Develop Apache Camel routes for Report Generation using Jasper reports transformed into PDF reports, generation of HL7 messages and sent to HL7 based System   Develop Unit Test classes to ensure correct functionality of the modules by testing every single possible code path Participate in the Agile/Scrum framework meetings providing daily status during the Order Entry Scrum meeting   Participate in the Agile/Scrum framework implementation providing estimates during the Sprint Planning meeting Systems Developer Principal ACS-Inc a Xerox Company - Ciudad Juárez, Chih. July 2011 to October 2012 July 2011 - Actual)  Ernesto develops software for different clients using C#/ASP.Net SQL Server, he collects requirements from clients. Also he is implementing Analysis Services, Reporting Services and Integration Services Solutions in order to generate the required Business Intelligence components to provide reports to clients. Software Developer - HP UACJ February 2007 to July 2011 Ernesto develop a lot of Systems using many different technologies for different clients using different programming languages and leading teams with more than 30 persons providing coaching and trainings. Also Ernesto traveled to Mexico City to deliver a product dealing with clients in order to develop change requests.    Teacher - UACJ ( 1 year )  Object Oriented Programming Languages  Installation and configuration of a Virtualized Ubuntu Linux server with GlassFish, MySQL, SAMBA, OpenSSH and Java; Developing and Deploying J2EE web applications (JFP, JSF, WebServies ) in the server. Computer Technician UACJ January 2003 to December 2006 Fix computer problems  Multicast Hard Disk cloning using Norton Ghost  Software Installation  Developing software to facilitate processes Education Computer Systems Engineering in Computer Science Universidad Autónoma de Ciudad Juárez - Ciudad Juárez, Chih. 2003 to 2008 Skills DevOps (6 years), Cloud Computing (2 years), Team Leader (10+ years), C#, Java, Chef.io, Ansible, AWS, Business Intelligence, Linux (10+ years), Web Services, Soa, Databases (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Oracle, Jenkins, Websphere, System Administration, Incident Management, Problem Management, Application Development (10+ years), training, Word, Python, Docker, Azure, Powershell Additional Information Skills  Development of applications and distributed systems using:  • Distributed Systems (Sockets, Java RMI, .NET Remoting, Web Services, AJAX, EJB, SOA)  • C/C++  • C#/ASP.NET Applications  • Java (Applets/JSP/Servlets/Console/Swing/JSF/JPA/J2EE)  • AJAX (AJAX.NET, JackBe and JavaScript)  • Data Bases (MySQL/MS-SQL/Oracle/Derby)  • Frameworks (CSLA Expert Business Objects, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, .NET Framework, MVC Frameworks)  • Agile Development Process  • Unit Testing (NUnit, JUnit)  • OS (Windows/Linux/MAC OS X)  • NetBeans/Eclipse/Visual Studio  • JasperReports/CrystalReports/ SSRS  • VisualSourceSafe/Starteam/CVS/Subversion  • SQL Server Analysis Services  • SQL Server Reporting Services  • SQL Server Integration Services  • IBM Websphere Application Services  • IBM Websphere MQ  • IBM Websphere Process Server  • IBM Websphere Message Broker  • Cloud  • Automation (chef.io, ansible, Jenkins)   • Redhat Fuse   • Apache Camel