SFDC Admin/ Developer SFDC Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> SFDC Admin/ Developer - Anthem • Over 4+ years of IT experience in application design, customization, development, support on SalesForce.com Platform.  • Certified salesforce Administrator and developer (Platform Developer I).  • Experience in realizing the business requirements to design on salesforce.com platform by designing the required entities like custom objects, creating the relationships/ junction objects like Master-Child, lookups, Entity Relationship data model, Pages, Classes, Interfaces, Workflows & Workflow rules, Process Builder, Lightning App Builder, triggers, Email alerts and business logic.  • Experience in developing Lightning Components, Apex Classes, Triggers, writing Workflows, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Sales Force using Data Loader Utility and Informatica On Demand.  • Experience in working with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Expertise in analyzing and documenting the workflows and functionality of existing systems, preparing presentation materials to all levels of management.  • Implementation & Integration experience on SalesForce.com using Apex Language (Classes, Controllers & Triggers), Visual Force Pages, Custom Tabs, Custom Objects, S-Controls, Reports, Analytic Snapshots and Dashboards  • Excellent analytical, de-bugging skills and documentation skills.  • Team player with good interpersonal skills, strong understanding of fundamental business processes, excellent Communication and problem-solving skills.  • Written Apex Test classes to Unit Test Apex classes before moving to Production. Created and maintained the documentation for Design, Migration and Integration.  • Capable of rapidly learning new technologies and processes, and successfully applying them to projects and operations.  • Worked as onsite and offshore support for the clients.  • Good Experience in developing Apex Classes, Triggers, writing Workflows and HTML, CSS3 and JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Expertise in analyzing and documenting the workflows and functionality of existing systems, preparing presentation materials to all levels of management, Implementation & Integration experience on SalesForce.com using Apex Language (Classes, Controllers & Triggers), Visual Force Pages, Custom Tabs, Custom Objects, S-Controls, Reports, Analytic Snapshots and Dashboards.  • Worked extensively on lightening components which can be re-used throughout lightening pages and other components as well.  • Work on customization of standard objects like Lead, Account, Contact and Opportunity.  • Perform day to day User Management on SFDC Org by configuring Sharing Rules, Permission Sets, Roles and Profiles.  • Extensive knowledge and good working experience with the Lightning Process Builder, Lightning. Work Experience SFDC Admin/ Developer Anthem - Virginia Beach, VA November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in administering, configuring, maintaining Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, Permissions, generating security tokens, validation Rule, upgrade installation.  • Closely worked with clients while implementing the solutions for the needs of organization.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Lightning Components and VisualForce Pages and Controllers.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Working on a continuous agile environment.  • Customized objects, page layouts, record types, workflows, validation rules, formula fields, reports, dashboards and chatter as per business requirements on Salesforce Lightning Platform.  • Customized tabs for among different business users groups and business centers.  • Create various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation, alerts and custom coaching plans.  • Worked on Financial Service Cloud(FSC) Application, Developed Lightning components for the customization of FSC.  • Developed APEX Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows developed in the system.  • Developed various Custom Reports and deployed them for different business user levels.  • Provided the training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom reports.  • Performed the role of support engineer for the internal users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports and saved them for further access to the users.  • Involved with Salesforce.com Premier Support and handled the support cases with the help salesforce.com support.  • Involved in Data mapping specifications to create and execute detailed system test plans. The data mapping specifies what data will be extracted from an internal data warehouse, transformed and sent to an external entity.  • Administrated and monitored the company's Salesforce CRM application.  • Demonstrated ability to effectively work in team environment with varying skill set levels.  • Ability to deploy code using Force.com IDE and Change Sets.  • Designed and built custom applications using Force.com and Visualforce.com.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading. SFDC Admin/ Developer Smart Logix Inc February 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard objects like Accounts, Opportunities, Leads, Campaign, Events, Tasks, Contacts, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Interacted with various Business users for requirements gathering.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, validation rules, formula fields.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Created relationships among objects using Lookup and Master-detail relationships.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, Page Layouts, and Record Types and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards which are used by Business user and Managers.  • Worked as onsite and offshore support for the client.  • Integrated applications using web services by consuming the WSDL files for extracting the data from the external systems.  • Implemented Data Loader through the Command Line Interface to extract the data from database.  • Configured Chatter for the Users in the Organization for collaboration.  • Created Email templates in Text, HTML and visual Force necessary for the application.  • Developed visual Force pages with JavaScript and Apex classes.  • Created and maintained the documentation for Design, Migration and Integration.    Environment: Saleforce.com, Service cloud, Force.com platform, Apex Classes, Chatter, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE, WSDL, Windows. JAVA Developer IDBI Bank - IN July 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis and design of the several modules in the Project. Created use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, deployment diagrams.  • Designed and developed technical specifications using design patterns and OO methodology.  • Involved in the configuration, development, and deployment of EJBs, and JSPs & Servlets in Weblogic Test Environment.  • Developed the java beans (POJO) to represent the model classes and mapped them to the tables using the Hibernate Mapping files.  • Implemented the Control Layer by using Struts Actions classes like Action, and mapping Dispatch Action classes.  • Designed and developed Session Beans for implementing Business logic. Involved in all phases (Unit/Integration/System) of testing.    Environment: Java Server Pages (JSP), Struts 2.0, JSF, JavaScript, Java 1.4, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.2/ 3.3, Spring 2.0/ 2.5, Web Services, EJB, Servlets, SOAP, XML, IBM, Web Sphere 6.0 IRAD 6.0, CVS, ANT Build Scripts. Links http://SalesForce.com