Solutions Delivery Manager Solutions Delivery Manager Solutions Delivery Manager - Telligen • 19+ years of work experience in leading, designing and developing J2EE applications and managing product development which includes product development for Worldbank, Wellsfargo and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS customers), State and Commercial healthcare solutions..  • 5+ years of experience in leading and managing the team of 15+ in developing and delivering quality products.  • Involved in team building activities right from recruiting process, mentoring new staff both technically and functionally. Currently managing 9 resources and building the team for a new project. Provided strategic and operational planning to achieve long term goals.  • Excellent ability to develop advanced concepts, techniques and standards and process management.  • Worked extensively on Health Care Management, Mortgage, Content Management System & Product Data Management domains.  • Implemented CMM methodology for SDLC management and internal one team process. Worked in multiple complete development life-cycle projects involving requirement analysis, design, development and delivery using Onsite-Offshore model and currently leading development team which follows Agile methodology.  • Exceptional combination of technical and communication skills and Exceptional ability to build productive relationships with clients, vendors, management, users and lead a development team.  • I was part of annual SOC-2 audit process and monthly organizational strategic planning for different contracts.  • Maintained portfolio for products we delivered. Work Experience Solutions Delivery Manager Telligen October 2017 to Present Solutions Delivery Manager Telligen October 2015 to October 2018 Tech Lead Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services October 2014 to October 2015 Client: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Tech Lead Comprehensive Primary Care (CPC) October 2013 to October 2014 Quality Measures Assessment Tool - Tech Lead Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services January 2013 to September 2013 Client: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Tech Lead Maryland Quality Measures Data Center January 2011 to December 2012 Tech Lead The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) February 2010 to December 2010 Team Lead Hospital Inpatient/Outpatient Systems December 2007 to January 2010 Client: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services    Responsibilities:  • As a Solutions Delivery manager, responsible for starting from requirement phase, defining product road map, budget planning, Spring planning, Risk Management, release management and external vendor management. Also, played Tech lead role by designing application and part architecture discussion.  • Led cross-functional health-care product development; the commercialization process including opportunity proposal, planned product road map for successful delivery of product on time.  • Led and mentored more than 10 team members and point of contact for all development process.  • Agile (Scrum) methodology was followed to develop the application.  • Managed several product releases on time with better quality.  • Involved in design and development activity for various user stories and implemented successfully.  • Involved in multiple sprint planning, design and development meetings.  • Involved in implementation of Spring Security.  • Involved in requirements and planning meeting and managed to create road map and built 15 member team and provided strategic and operational planning.  • Involved in recruitment process and mentoring new staffs.  • Worked with client to establish the short- and long-term objectives.  • Followed 508 compliance, Agile methodology and OneTeam Process management.    ABC Virtual Communications Apptaker On the Web [AOW] - Lead Developer Wells Fargo Bank - West Des Moines, IA January 2005 to July 2007 West Des Moines, IA  Environment: Servlets, JSP, Java, JMS, XML, Vignette Portal Server, Tomcat, Oracle 8.1  Duration: January 2005 to July 2007  ABC Virtual Communications is one of the pioneers in Mortgage Processing systems. Their product ECLoanPro is a Loan Origination system, which includes various services such as Credit, Decision, Appraisal, Title and Flood. The product also encompasses various modules such as User Management, Product Management, 1003 Application, Document Management and Calculation services.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements and providing technical solutions to different business problems.  • Designed and developed Compliance Rule services to have all compliance rules across the application in a central place.  • Designed and developed JMS based Record Loan Service to send loan request XML data to fulfillment mainframe system and decision engine and process the response from mainframe.  • Design and developed service to communicate Wells Fargo common middleware HULA system.  • Created design and process documents for different service across applications.  • Involved in complete development life cycle of the system, which includes Requirement analysis, Design, Development and Implementation and Code review. Sr. Java Developer Satyam Computer Services Ltd - Washington, DC November 2001 to December 2004 Client: World Bank, Washington, DC  Environment: XML, Struts, Servlets, JSP, Java, HTML, JavaScript, Websphere Application Server 4.0, WSAD-5.0, Oracle 8.1  Duration: Nov 2001 to Dec 2004    The World Bank is the world's largest source of country development assistance and its applications support a wide range of activities and different legacy systems. This ISP platform helps to bring different sources from different enterprise systems and the Information Warehouse so that bank staff have access to all the systems in one platform, they can easily modify the information using this platform. Once this data residing in different technology bases is migrated to a common standard technology, content management becomes easier. This project deals with the creation of the ISP Framework, which forms the backbone of all the sites.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in framework & Site Development team.  • Lead a bank wide Web Accessibility & Multilingual Project from onsite.  • Involved in building the Site Manager Tool, which is used to create and implement highly customized sites and portals.  • Involved in development of form generator based on meta data definition for the content management.  • As Module Leader was responsible to monitor the development activities and improved productivity using onsite-offshore model.  • Lead the development of many sites using the framework.    Automation of i2's Production Scheduler Scheduler Language Caterpillar August 2001 to November 2001 The primary objective of this Scheduler is to sequence the orders  For 3500 assembly line based on the schedule received from legacy system. This would enable the orders, which are already scheduled in other legacy system to be sequenced in an optimal / feasible sequence. This would result in effective sequence on a given day for the scheduled orders. Creating an optimal schedule based on all assembly and material constraints will create a much more smooth flow of engines through the assembly process than before Responsibilities:  • Developed interface using ROSL and Involved in testing the application.  • Automation of saving schedules of specific tasks once the optimization is over.  • Responsible for overseeing the Quality procedures related to the project. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Bharathiyar University Skills Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, Jsp, Struts, Wsad, Application server, Content management, Design patterns, Html, Svn, Visio, Xml, Xsl, Sql server Additional Information Core Competencies    • Project Management & Solutions Delivery.(10+ years of health care product solutions)  • Portfolio Management, Strategic IT Planning & Finance Planning.  • Direct Interaction with both internal and external customers and had multiple monthly meeting with external customers  • Leadership and Talent Management  • Conflict Resolution & Coordination and Tracking  • Infrastructure Architecture Design/Implementation  • Part of recruitment team for different roles.(Conducted more than 50 interviews).    Technical Skills  Databases Oracle, MySql, SQL Server  IDE & Tools Eclipse, WSAD, PL/SQL, TOAD, My Sql Workbench, Jira, i-Report, Target Process, SQL server Management Studio  Technologies  Java/J2EE, XML, XSL, HTML, GWT, Hibernate, Spring, Velocity, Struts, JSP, Tiles, Java Connectors, ActiveMQ, JMS, e-Matrix, Design Patterns, MQL, Log 4j, Apache Tomcat, BIRT Reports Engine, LiquiBase, IBM Rule Designer(WODM), Jasper Reports    Design Tools Rational Rose 2000, Visio  Application Servers BEA WebLogic 10.0, WebSphere Application Server 7.0, Glassfish 3.1, Apache Tomcat 8.0  Version Control System SVN, Microsoft VSS, CVS, Github  Domain knowledge HealthCare, Mortgage Industry, Content Management System & Product data Management