Tech Lead Tech Lead Tech Lead - Zensar Technologies Ltd In almost 12.5 years of experience in JAVA/J2EE languages and well versed with RDBMS like Oracle, SQL Server 2000, MY SQL, and OS concepts. I have held various technical positions such as Team Lead, Senior System Analyst, Consultant and Software Engineer. These experiences have helped me acquire hard-core expertise, especially in Programming, development of Internet based application, Management of Relational Databases, Analysis and System Designing.    I have worked in various domains like CRM, Retail, Travel & Logistics, HRMS and one year in Banking & Finance. My intra-personal skills, Leadership qualities, positive attitude, and self-driven approach make me an ideal candidate for a responsible, demanding Position. I look forward for new challenges and typical problems that arise in highly competitive environments, as I am very passionate and enthusiastic about my work. I'm having 1 year of work experience with UPRR at on-site, where I worked as an on-site coordinator. Work Experience Tech Lead Zensar Technologies Ltd September 2010 to Present Development Tech Lead & Developer Zensar Technologies Ltd - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN January 2014 to December 2014 Pune    Project/ Client Name/ Location -- Clarity, CISCO, San Francisco, USA/India  Duration: 10/Jan/2014 To 15/Dec/2014  Technologies - Java 1.7, Spring, Restful Web Service, Tomcat, Oracle, and PL/SQL.    Project Profile: Clarity is a COTS application developed by Computer Associates (CA). We primarily use it for tracking projects and resources assigned to those projects but there are many other things tracked on projects. We have developed against Clarity using Configuration, Customization, and Integrations. While Clarity can do many other things like financial management, idea management, service management, we have set up some of the infrastructure but not developed processes in most of those areas.    Role: Tech Lead & Developer  Contribution / Highlights:  ? Involved in Development and Execution, tracking and periodical review of work products of the team.  ? Mentoring project team members in the application of the system, managing the day-to-day project activities.  ? Involved in effort estimation for enhancements or any requirements.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issues.  ? Hands on in JAVA/J2EE, spring and web service etc.  ? Conducting daily scrum meetings to understand the issues and track the timeline. Zensar Technologies Ltd - San Francisco, CA January 2014 to December 2014 Technologies - Java 1.6, Spring, Hibernate, Backbone & Marionette, Weblogic, Oracle, and PL/SQL.    Project Profile: The project is a set of downstream applications in the Cisco's software supply chain. These applications provide the business functions of Order Processing, license generation & eDelivery of licenses and software product documents maintenance. This set of applications is an important part of the supply chain, and do the important task of Ship Confirm. Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) is the application used for the License generation in Cisco.  Role: Tech Lead & Developer    Contribution / Highlights:  ? Involved in requirement analysis, design and coding.  ? Involved in effort estimation for major enhancements.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issues.  ? Hands on in JAVA/J2EE, struts framework AJAX, JQuery and Oracle etc. Zensar Technologies Ltd - San Francisco, CA April 2013 to January 2014 Technologies - Java 1.5, DISP & DQL, Web Services    Project Profile: Selecting software is a complex process for customers, partners and internal users. While some of them have Advanced Services provide them recommendation on the upgrade path, some call TAC, and other users try to go to multiple areas on Cisco.com to select the software upgrade path for their specific environment. Even internal Cisco teams like Advanced Services, TAC, and Field etc. do not have a consistent process to recommend software upgrade paths. The business objective of the Smart Software Selection (S3) initiative is to make the software selection process easy for customers and partners by providing them information to help make an intelligent choice for the software upgrade path.    Role: Tech Lead & Developer  Contribution / Highlights:  ? Involved in architecture design, development and execution of the project.  ? Responsible for communication, including status reporting, risk management, making sure the project is delivered on schedule, and within scope.  ? Involved in effort estimation for major enhancements.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issues.  ? Hands on in spring framework, JAVA/J2EE etc. Zensar Technologies Ltd - San Francisco, CA January 2013 to March 2013 Technologies - Java 1.5, Struts1.3, Oracle & PLSQL    Project Profile: ASPT stands for Advanced Services Pricing Tool, and it deals with the pricing of Advanced Services which are provided to the end user, based on theaters and regions and quotes are created by CISCO marketing Executives like SAMs, Del Ops etc. to configure the prices.It supports Advanced and Technical services. AST is a transaction tool that is used to create quotes. It has milestones and tasks/resources that has estimates and on the basis of these, the prices get calculated and the quotes are booked.    Role: Tech Lead & Developer  Contribution / Highlights:    ? Involved in the development and execution of the project.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issues.  ? Hands on in spring framework, JAVA/J2EE, Oracle & PLSQL etc. Tech Lead & Developer Zensar Technologies Ltd - San Francisco, CA November 2011 to December 2012 San Francisco, USA/India  Duration: 1.5 Year (04/Nov/2011 To 13/Dec/2012)  Technologies - Java 1.5, Spring, Hibernate, ExtJS, Tomcat, Oracle, and PL/SQL.    Project Profile: The Client Funded Purchase (CFP) process is used by users who need to buy hardware from EHS. The process was manual and maintained in an excel sheet. The scope of this project is to automate part of the process to achieve the following-  • Provide capability for users to create CFP requests at one place and avoid emailing large XL files  • Provide capability for users to review and approve the requests  • Provide capability for CFP owners to review the requests, auto generation of the remedy cases.    Role: Tech Lead & Developer  Contribution / Highlights:  ? Involved in architecture design, development and execution of the project.  ? Responsible for communication, including status reporting, risk management, making sure the project is delivered on schedule, and within scope.  ? Involved in effort estimation for major enhancements.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issues.  ? Hands on in spring framework, JAVA/J2EE, ExtJS, Oracle/PlSql etc.    Project/ Client Name/ Location - Subscription - Discovery, South Africa  Duration: 9 Month (20/Jan/2011 To 15/Oct/2011)  Technologies: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, JUnit 3.0, WAS, Oracle, and PL/SQL.  Project Profile: The Subscription is a document or notification offered by the Subscription System that will be communicated to the client. Subscription System currently used in Discovery Holdings, it's responsible for maintaining information of the delivery channels, that we may use for communication with a client e.g. email, SMS, post. Subscriptions will be configurable in such a way that client preferences are balanced against the delivery channels and associated rules available for the communication. Subscription system will be a Discovery core system used to maintain a single view of client subscription preferences and will be configurable for any environment.    Role: Tech Lead  ? Involved in requirement analysis, design, coding and effort estimation.  ? Involved in activity diagram.  ? Involved in architecture design. Tech Lead Zensar Technologies Ltd October 2010 to December 2010 India  Duration: 2 Month ( 25/Oct/2010 To 24/Dec/2010)  Technologies - Java, Spring, Hibernate, WAS, Tomcat, Oracle, and PL/SQL.  Project Profile: Cisco Systems, Inc. have launched a new program called 'TelePresence'. 'TelePresence' is high end video conferencing solution. ETMS is a process automation and reporting tool which will enable the creation, deployment and tracking of TelePresence rooms. The workflow enabled application is used by the TelePresence Room deployment team to track end to end deployment process of a TelePresence room. The data available in ETMS are used by many other applications and teams to design reports for upper management.  Role: Tech Lead  ? Involved in requirement analysis, design, coding and effort estimation.  ? Involved in activity diagram.  ? Involved in architecture design. Module Lead & On-site Co-Coordinator Mahindra Satyam - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN October 2009 to October 2010 Pune  Project / Client Name / Location - EQMS (Employee Quality Management System) - UPPR/ India  Duration: 1 year from Jan 2010 to Aug 2010  Technologies - Java 1.5, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle 10G, Web logic 10, HTML.    Project Profile: EQMS application is developed for UPRR to more intensively manage the employees and thus improve the quality, safety and professionalism of these key employees by monitoring the professional activities and evaluate the performance. The application has multiple modules, each having its own share of complexity and criticality. Union Pacific Rail Road's (UPRR) is a Freight transport company spanning two thirds of the United States. EQMS is Employee Quality Management System, which contains several modules managing different events related to its employees. I have worked on FTE/FTX modules. In FTE (Field Training Exercise) manager conduct training and exam for their employees and FTX (Field Training Exercise Plan) Senior manager can create Field Training Exercise Plan for their managers.    Role: Module Lead & On-site Co-Coordinator  Contribution / Highlights:  ? Worked as an on-site coordinator and involved in requirement gathering from client team.  ? Involved in Development and Execution, tracking and periodical review of work products of the team.  ? Mentoring project team members in the application of the system, managing the day to day project activities.  ? Responsible for communication, including status reporting, risk management, making sure the work products are delivered on schedule, and within scope.  ? Providing technical and functional guidance to the team for completion of the work products.  ? Responsible for Quality and other processes in the team.  ? Conducting regular team meetings to understand the issues and track the timeline.  ? Involved in effort estimation for major enhancements.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issues.  ? Hands on in spring framework, JAVA J2EE etc.  ? Have daily scrum meeting with the customer with regarding to status, issue and requirement clarification.    Project / Client Name / Location - I-TrackForce - UPPR/ OMAHA USA  Duration: 1 year from Jan 2009 to Dec 2009  Technologies - Java 1.5, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle 10G    Project Profile: This Application is a crew management product & covers the entire gamut of functionality & business associated with Crew Management in railroads. This system provides functionality to maintain administration Of Crew Management of various entities like Positions, Bulletins, and Tasks etc. This System is essential for the UPPR. The changes are basically new enhancements in the system as well as fixing defects which are identified by UPPR. This application is currently in its UAT phase in Minor/major enhancement development in progress. The Application is basically Customized Spring Framework. The Main layers involved in the application were Presentation, Application, Service, Domain and Enterprise (Persistence). The presentation layer comprised of JSP using tag lib's and the data from the domain object were populated to the screen using the Presentation Model. The controller involved in the handling the request and delegating it the service. The Domain objects are basically a Java representation of the database. Hibernate was used as the OR mapping tool. The URL based resolver is used to identify the Controller.    Role: Team Lead & On-site Co-Coordinator  Contribution / Highlights:    ? Worked as an on-site coordinator and Communicate and Coordinate with on-site client team on technical and functional issues  ? Involved in Development and Execution, tracking and periodical review of work products of the team.  ? Mentoring project team members in the application of the system, managing the day to day project activities.  ? Providing technical and functional guidance to the team for completion of the work products.  ? Responsible for Quality and other processes in the team. Preparation of Metrics data.  ? Responsible for communication, including status reporting, risk management, escalation of issues that cannot be resolved in the team, and, in general, making sure the project is delivered on schedule, and within scope.  ? Conducting regular team meetings to understand the issues and track the timeline.  ? Involved in effort estimation for major enhancements.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issues.  ? Hands on in spring framework, JAVA J2EE etc.  ? Has daily scrum meeting with the customer with regard to the status, issue discussion and requirement clarification.  Project / Client Name / Location - CMTS (Crew Management & Time Keeping Systems) - UPRR, USA  Duration: 1 year from Jan 2008 to Dec 2008  Technologies - Java / J2EE, Struts, HTML, Main Frame, DB2    Project Profile: CMTS is a crew management product & covers the entire gamut of functionality & business associated with the crew management in railroads. This system provides functionality to maintain Crew Management and Time keeping. This System is essential for the UPPR. The changes are basically new enhancements in the system as well as fixing defects which are identified by UPRR.  Role: Module Lead  Contribution / Highlights:  ? Involved in Development and Execution, tracking and periodical review of work products of the team.  ? Setting iteration and milestone timelines, Analysis of the specifications provided by the clients.  ? Establishing versioning and issue tracking systems and Testing - unit testing & integration testing  ? Assigning tasks and monitoring progress.  ? Mentoring project team members in the application of the system, managing the day to day project activities.  ? Providing technical and functional guidance to the team for completion of the work products.  ? Responsible for Quality and other processes in the team.  ? Involved in effort estimation for major enhancements.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issue.  ? Hands on in struts framework, JAVA J2EE etc.  ? Have a weekly meeting with the customer with regard to status, issue discussion and requirement clarification. Team Lead Mahindra Satyam December 2007 to August 2010 Implementation, development Senior System Analyst Indus Software - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN October 2008 to October 2009 Pune  Project / Client Name / Location - LOS (Loan Origination System)- AIG, USA  Duration: 1 year from Jan 2007 to Dec 2007  Technologies - JAVA (JDK1.4), JSP, Struts, JavaScript, Oracle 9i,    Project Profile: Indus Loan Origination handles the processing of loan applications right from entry of application, credit appraisal, and approval till disbursement. The Indus Loan Origination module is an integrated multi portfolio solution that adapts to your business model. The Indus Loan Origination Module provides the user the ability to capture comprehensive customer data. It will identify potential duplication and provides workflow management with features to manage and assign cases. It can interface with external credit bureaus, internal negative databases, the telephone directories, and external agencies for conducting field investigation or verification. The Loan Origination Module can also interface with a Core Banking System or a General Ledger.  Role: Senior System Analyst    Contribution / Highlights:  ? Involved in Development and Execution, tracking and periodical review of work products of the team.  ? Setting iteration and milestone timelines, Analysis of the specifications provided by the clients.  ? Establishing versioning and issue tracking systems and Testing - unit testing & integration testing  ? Assigning tasks and monitoring progress.  ? Mentoring project team members in the application of the system, managing the day to day project activities.  ? Providing technical and functional guidance to the team for completion of the work products.  ? Responsible for Quality and other processes in the team.  ? Involved in effort estimation for major enhancements.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issue.  ? Hands on in struts framework, JAVA J2EE etc. Service Sales Operations Zensar Technologies Ltd - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN October 2007 to October 2008 CISCO, San Francisco, USA / India  Duration: 1.9 year from Apr 2005 to Dec 2006  Technologies - JAVA (JDK1.2), JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, Oracle 8i, Struts    Project Profile: Cisco's 2-tier partners, namely, distributors and resellers, to register whether service contracts after service orders have been placed, use SMS1 application. Its purpose is to capture the hardware serial number, installation site, and contract information for a service part so that CIBER can be updated with the appropriate entitlement and installation information. It accomplishes this by creating pending shells from point of sale data (WIPS), matching them against orders in ERP, and then providing a web interface where a partner can fill in the missing registration information for the shells. The SMS1 application is part of the Service Contract Center (SCC) site and adheres to Cisco.com conventions.    Project / Client Name / Location - AHST (Account Health Tool)- CISCO, San Francisco, USA / India  Duration: 5 year from Sept 2004 to Mar 2005  Technologies - JAVA (JDK1.2), J2EE (JSP, Servlet, JDBC), JavaScript, Oracle 8    Project Profile: It is a web-based reporting tool. It reports weekly account status by SSM (Service Sales Manager) for CA and Sales Management. This tool allows SSM to input account updates directly onto the website. Input from each SSM occurs on the individual account pages in the current SSM Website. Management can view and sort information for getting account updates. Report Worldwide SSM Common Issues are either Customer related or Cisco related problems/issues that hinder or potentially could hinder revenue and customer satisfaction for Cisco. It prevents loss of revenue and maintains or increases customer satisfaction ratings/levels.    Role: Consultant  Contribution / Highlights:  ? Setting iteration and milestone timelines, Analysis of the specifications provided by the clients.  ? Identifying functional requirements and technical requirements.  ? Involved in Design and Development and Execution of work products.  ? Involved in interacting with the on-site coordinator.  ? Involved in Coding, testing, bug fixing and migration.  ? CVS Code Management  ? Hands on in struts framework, JAVA J2EE etc.  ? Involved in effort estimation for major enhancements.  ? Involved in designing an approach for technical issue. Senior Software Engineer R Systems January 2007 to December 2007 Development Consultant Zensar Technologies Ltd September 2004 to December 2006 Support and Maintenance Computer Teacher Tulec Computer Education, Bhilai February 2002 to September 2004 Taught computer programs, algorithms, and computer languages to students  ? Created and assigned projects to students and developed professional skills in them  ? Utilized educational software and latest instructional design programs in teaching  ? Worked with students struggling in understanding concepts of computer programming  ? Arranged for guests lectures and invited computer specialists to deliver lectures to students Java Teacher Tulec Computer Education December 2001 to July 2004 Teaching Education DAC in Advanced Computing C-DAC - Nagpur, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2001 Additional Information COMPETENCIES  Category Major Skills - Primary Minor Skills - Secondary  Verticals CRM, Retail, Travel & Logistics HRMS and Banking & Finance  Domains / Programming Skills JAVA/J2EE 1.7/1.6, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Toplink, JUnit 3.0, Web Service JSP, JDBC, Servlet  Front End Technologies ExtJS, AJAX, JQuery Angular JS, Backbone JS, Grunt, Jasmine, Bower  Tools & Techniques MS Projects, Rational Rose 8.2 VISIO 7.2  Databases Oracle 8/8i/9i/10G, PL/SQL SQLSERVER 2000, MYSQL    Software Tools  Eclipse, Kintana, Web Updater, Test Director, Remedy and Mercury Quality Center, CVS, SVN, MKS, PVCS, WIN CVS, Web sphere, Weblogic 10, BE, PL/SQL Developer    TOAD, Citrix, NX Client, VSS, Server    Operating Systems Windows, Linux-Red Hat, Linux- Ubuntu UNIX, LINUX  Others (Training) MuleSoft, Hadoop, Map Reduce, Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Oozi, Flume & Kafta