Volunteer Web Application Developer Volunteer Web Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Business intelligence Developer Indianapolis, IN Looking for a position as a Cloud/DevOps/ Java Developer/Software Engineer in an organisation that would find my skills fit for their business. Having worked for 2 years as Java Developer and for a year web application developer, being a productive and responsible team member, earning Google Cloud Professional Data Engineer, SAP ABAP & OCJP  Certifications, I have the skills & knowledge to deliver assigned tasks on time and to best meet the requirements.    Summary Of Qualifications & Skills:-  ? Google Cloud Certified Professional Data Engineer.  ? Earned Oracle Certified Professional, Java Programmer(OCJP) & SAP Certified Development Associate ABAP(Advanced Business Application Programming) certifications.  ? Worked as Senior Software Engineer in Capgemini India Pvt. Ltd for one of its client on their most crucial application supporting credit and debit card transaction on Apple Pay & Google Wallet.  ? Lead a group of 22 people during training at Capgemini, arranging/providing all technical help, tools and applications needed to successfully complete the Software Engineer training to design "Capbook" a replica of Facebook. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Volunteer Web Application Developer MCCHS April 2017 to Present 017 - Current  • Worked as a volunteer Software Developer and Web Designer for non-profits like MCC for Human Services, IQRA and IMPMS. Responsibilities included leveraging their digital presence to increase sources of funding through online donations. Along with developing and maintaining their websites and creating a "Event Managing System" to manage all the current and future fund raising event by online ticket sale, Systematic Reporting of Funds  collected, Automatic Ticket generation-mailing system and Event Management system. Internship DynaObjects August 2017 to March 2018 Worked as an Intern at DynaObjects to explore the various services provided by Google Cloud Platform. During  this time, I gained hands-on experience architecting Data flow pipelines, hosting services and scaling as per the need or VM Utilization.  • Received training on creating messaging services and processing incoming requests in Data Flow based which is  based on Apache Beam.  • In addition to this, we also explored Big Data services on GCP like Big Table, BigQuery, Hadoop, Hive etc., along with storing, analysing, visualizing and reporting on data in real time.  • Explored and used Google IAM to control various levels of accesses to each of the services provided on cloud using  Google's prescribed existing roles or custom created roles. This is critical to meet security compliance requirements in all projects to allow access, to associates working on the project, based on the authorized task they need to perform. Senior Software Engineer( Java) Capgemini India Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra December 2014 to July 2016 Worked on a project for Discover, an American Gateway/Bank, with a team which was responsible for developing and supporting, "Token Service Provider" (generating, maintaining, validating and re-generating tokens for all the  Discover cards(PAN/16 digit card numbers) registered on E-Wallets like Apple pay/Google wallet).  • Developed numerous VB scripts, to automate application health check, error analysis and automate reporting,  saving 20% time every day at the least & also extending support to numerous other applications of Discover like  DDX, NWS, CWS etc.  • Developed and integrated "Home Page", "Profile Page", "Add/ Remove Friend", "Visit Profile", "Status Update",  "Online Friends" and "Chat" modules out of the 36 modules in "CapBook", a replica of "Facebook", during the training period.  • Learned various technologies like RESTful-web services, Spring MVC framework, JDBC Template, JQuery, JSON,  JavaScript, JSP, CSS, Servlets, SQL, HTML and applied them in the training project "CAPBOOK. Spring Intern Idea Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to March 2014 Designed and implemented VoiceBanking, as final year project in Bachelors using, Java, XML, CSS, HTML, JSP,  JS, Servlets and Oracle 10g database. This provided the fastest banking experience till date, without the need for a  smart phone or internet yet being fastest banking experience available till date, all this just by dialling a number. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 Skills CSS (4 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), jQuery (3 years), JSON (4 years), Java (4 years), SAP ABAP (1 year), Python (2 years), Cloud Computing (1 year), Data Analysis (Less than 1 year), SQL (5 years), Software Development (4 years), C (2 years), Jsp (4 years), XML (4 years), XSLT (1 year), XQuery (1 year), XPath (1 year), Microservices (3 years), RESTful Webservices (3 years), Hadoop (3 years), Big Data Analysis (1 year), Apache Spark (1 year), Machine Learning (1 year), Data Mining (1 year), Databases (4 years), Google Cloud Platform (1 year), Amazon Web Services (AWS) (1 year), Microsoft Azure (1 year), IBM Bluemix (1 year), XHTML (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mohammed-arshad-hassan https://github.com/Mohammed-Arshad-Hassan/FTP_APP_FROM_SCRATCH https://drive.google.com/open?id=1dcc8QqSji8TRApFsbVmhNKc2_C8LkHV6 Certifications/Licenses Google Certified Professional Data Engineer April 2018 to April 2020 Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 6 Programmer March 2014 to Present SAP ABAP Certified Development Associate October 2013 to Present Information Systems Security Professionals May 2017 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Languages: Java, SAP ABAP, PHP, Python, C, C++, XML, HTML 5.0, JavaScript.  ? Cloud Platforms: Google Cloud Platform, Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, IBM Bluemix.  ? Google Cloud Products: VPC, Cloud Data-Flow, Cloud Pub-Sub, Data Studio, Data-Lab, Data-Proc, Data Prep,  IAM, ML Engine, Machine Learning APIs, App-Engine, Compute Engine, AutoScaling, Docker Container, Big-  Query analytics, Storage Services: SQL, Cloud Spanner, Cloud Storage, Cloud Store, BigQuery, Big Table.  ? Frameworks: Spring MVC Framework, Laravel PHP Web Framework.  ? Methodology: Agile Development Process(Scrum).  ? Databases: Oracle11g, SQLServer2010, 2012, MySql, SQLite, MyPhpAdmin.  ? Applications: Service now, SecureCRT, Wily, Eclipse, Postman, SOAPUI, Android Studio, WordPress etc.  ? Other skills: AWS EMR, AWS EC2, AWS S3, Linux/Unix Shell Scripting, Hibernate, JSON, RESTful web-  services, micro-services, Dockers, AJAX, JQuery, JSP, JMS, JSF, CSS, SQL, OpenSQL(For SAP), Git, Maven,  Gradle, Applying Software Design Patterns to solve common design problems in industry etc.    Projects: (For more information please visit my linkedIn profile or contact me)  ? Analyed existing datasets in BigQuery by importing datasets, setting access rules for each dataset, creating views for tables within datasets. Then querying the tables in datasets and views to generate reports using SQL.  ? Gained Hands-on experience writing and executing Hadoop, Pig, Hive and Spark jobs on Google Cloud DataProc using Python during training at DynaObjects for fully managed clusters or custom clusters.  ? Architecting data processing pipeline on Google cloud leveraging available services and features like using Preemptibility of VM for non critical jobs, analysing compute resources required for jobs and using integrated cloud services with Cloud storage to avoid data transfer costs.  ? Creating DataPipelines to process Batch Data using Google Data Flow for data processing and Cloud Storage as source and destination of batch data during my training at DynaObjects.  ? Used Machine Learning APIs offered on Google Cloud to process Customer Audio call data using Speech API to get the text from speech. Followed by using Natural Language API to transcribe this text and respond to negative reviews. Also explored Vision API and Translation API use cases at DynaObjects.  ? Using Tensor flow to create a recommendations engine to recommend “homes” to users, by training a machine learning model on a real-estate website data.  ? Creating a Messaging Topic on cloud using Google Pub-Sub during training at DynaObjects to accept events from publishers distributed all over the world and deliver messages to subscribers using push or pull message delivery system based on the requirement.  ? Replicated University of Texas Arlington, Student Center portal on AWS to create Scalable Services, to enroll students in classes, that do not crash during peak usage and scale automatically using AWS AutoScale.  ? Created an Instagram clone using cloud services provided by Azure like SQL, Storage, cloud VM, app service and Redis Cache.  ? Implemented Hadoop Map/Reduce using AWS EC2, AWS S3 Processing 5 GB Weather data of Texas for the past 5 years , and retrieving useful information in about 30 sec using Hadoop, most of this time was used in starting the clusters.  ? Exposure to other cloud services(Google, AWS, Azure, Bluemix) like Storage, SQL, Dataflow/Pipelining, DataProc, Caching, VM/EC2/Compute engine, load balancer, App Service/App Engine, Severless Computing, Using Docker Images to host application and scale at will or at specific events Ex: increased CPU usage of 70% etc.  ? Created an online Web Repository of Image Albums, where people would upload images to one of their albums, view them, insert and modify details about the images and also delete them on Google Cloud Platform using the Google CloudSQL, Google AppEngine, Google Cloud Storage and Caching.  ? Analysed the various ways Database access performance can be improved in terms of the properties of the data available. The techniques used included Indexing, Sharding, caching non volatile data, query optimization etc.  ? Implemented various ways of Data Visualising to improve understanding about available data using D3.js and python libraries such as Myplotlib, numpy and Plotly.  ? Developed FTP protocol from scratch in Java using sockets & multithreading, which was hosted on AWS EC2, having features like separate account for users, retrieving & sending data in binary mode, directory creation and navigation, login & logout, cancel a transaction in progress, status of ongoing transactions, upload, delete and download etc. I won the best implementation title for this project which was developed in 5 days.  ? Implemented a Database Index based on B+ Trees as part of DBMS course in Masters, which enhances data insertion, deletion, retrieval operations significantly.  ? Implemented Transaction Manager of a DBMS, using C & C++ and multi threading as part of above DBMS course, that provides consistency to the database content by providing exclusive locking mechanism.  ? Developed an Android App “VPoll” as part of Software Engineering-1 course, an application that makes decision making easy by creating polls, adding participants, taking collective opinion and publishing results.  ? Developed a Chatting application using Client-Server paradigm of Java Socket and multi threading, that enable multiple users to connect to each other and send messages via server.  ? Worked on various Web APIs like Google Maps API, Zillow webiste APIs, Lastfm.com APIs, Shopping.com APIs, creating custom mash-up projects.  ? Analysed different sorting and search algorithms to select solutions for problems depending upon the problem statement and also the property of the data involved.  ? Worked with NLTK and python to create a search engine that retrieves top 10 most relevant results for a given query.  ? Applied agile methodology and various software engineering practices such as requirements elicitation, use case design, abstract & high level use case, scenarios, sequence diagrams, design class diagram, domain diagram for designing team projects. Also applied various design patterns such a singleton, controller, creator, adapter, expert, proxy and prototype to solve common software engineering problems.  ? Worked on analysing basic security threats such as Server Side Injections, Cross Site Scripting, Buffer Overflow, SQL injections Malware detection/removal and also how to code securely to avoid such vulnerabilities.  ? Created various front end applications using HTML, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XSLT, XPath, XQuery.  ? Developed websites for a real-estate businesses and three non-profit organisations.(MCC-HS, IMPMS & IQRA).