Full Stack JAVA Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> • Full Stack Java Developer with around 4 years of experience developing enterprise applications.  • A self - driven, adaptable and quick learning professional with in-depth understanding in Software Development Life Cycle, project requirement gathering, design, Software development OOA & OOD.  • Excellent knowledge of Object Oriented concepts and exposure to Java J2EE technologies.  • Hands on experience in developing web applications using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular-JS and Bootstrap.  • Strong working experience in building the components using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, Web Services JAX-WS (SOAP), JAX RS- Restful Services, JSON and JDBC.  • Strong working knowledge in Hibernate and experienced in developing REST services using Jersey, spring and CXF.  • Experienced in developing web applications using spring, JSF, Struts MVC frameworks.  • Good working experience on client side programming like HTML, XHTML, Java Script, CSS and Custom tag libraries.  • Involved in coding both View layer (MVC frameworks) and Model layers using struts and java web services.  • Work experience on application servers like WAS (WebSphere Application Server), Web logic, Apache Tomcat web server and JBOSS.  • Basic knowledge on XML - DOM and SAX parser.  • Created UI mockups using Balsamiq and is experienced in implementing logging features using Log4j.  • Skilled with version control software like Tortoise SVN, TFS, Clear case and GIT.  • Experienced in TEST automation using selenium, cucumber, Jenkins, Karma, Jasmine.  • Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, UDDI, WSDL and JAX-WS.  • Worked on Build and deploy tools like Jenkins, Maven and ANT.  • Work Experience with testing tools and applications such as JUnit, FireBug, Fire Poster and SoapUI.  • Strong work experience on databases like SQL server, PostgreSQL, Oracle11g and DB2.  • Good exposure in interacting with clients and solving application environment issues.  • Basic knowledge in UNIX shell scripting (Korn shell .ksh) Work Experience Full Stack JAVA Developer Huntington, IL January 2019 to Present • Followed Agile Scrum methodology for application development and deliverables.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of JSON.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular-JS, Ajax.  • Used various Bootstrap components and developed the application following Responsive web design.  • Developed controllers, services, custom directives for various modules in Angular and was also involved in developing unit test cases using Jasmine, Karma.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Implemented Hibernate along with annotation based transactional support in Spring Framework.  • Developed Java Beans and Custom Tag Libraries providing client side validations in JavaScript and providing interactive front end GUI using AJAX.  • Established continuous integration (CI) practices and standards using Jenkins. Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git source control system during the day and periodic scheduled builds overnight to support development using Jenkins, Git, JUnit, Selenium and Maven.  • Implemented Business components such as user authentication, entitlements using spring beans.  • Used Oracle as database and involved in the development of PL/SQL backend implementation.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's, whenever a new Github branch gets started. Jenkins, our Continuous Integration server, automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it, The Docker container leverages Linux containers and has the AMI baked in.  • Used GitHub version controlling tools to maintain project versions supported the applications through debugging, fixing and maintenance releases.  • Used PUTTY for debugging and connect to my remote files in server securely using SSH Encryption (public key and private key) and WinSCP to transfer files between local and remote folders and change file permissions.  • Created JUnit test cases to automate the testing of business logic.  • Tracked and solved tickets for defects on bug reporting tool (JIRA)  • Participated in preparing technical documents which includes logical flow of the code and UML diagrams and user's manual for the application. Full Stack JAVA Developer Clover Infotech Private Limited August 2017 to June 2018 INDIA  Project: Moneykit (Capital First Limited, Hero FinCorp)  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE SCRUM methodology.  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using Angular-JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, Java Script and HTML.  • Used MAVEN in each project to automate the builds and managing project.  • Implemented Reporting SPAs using AngularJs, Angular Directives, Bootstrap, CSS3, LESS, Glyphicons and Gulp.  • Developed UI using bootstrap dropdown multi-select, bootstrap modals Implemented a suite of app wide MODALS for application configurable warnings and alerts, Developed Tab Widget, Tree Widget, user interfaces and controllers and their templates.  • Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.  • Wrote gulp tasks, bower, npm for packing and creating production ready code.  • Developed Backend Rest services using spring, Jersey, JSON and Swagger.  • Entailed in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading.  • Developed applications using Java 6.0/7.0 and J2EE.Experience in LINUX environment.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Deployed the complete Web application on Jboss server and used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used Cruise Control framework for a continuous build process and reporting build status.  • Deployed and currently maintaining the applications in JBoss application server in production environment.  • Browser based client communications with server using REST web services with JSON.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Functional and Integration Testing for different Modules in the application using Jasmine, Karma and PhantomJS.  • Participated in the application architecture, development tools for web solutions that fulfill the business requirements of the project.  • Implemented and maintained the branching and build/release strategies utilizing GIT  • Involved in the implementation of JSPs, Servlets to interact with Oracle Database.  • Involved in implementing TDD functionality of extreme programming in software development life cycle. JAVA/J2EE Developer Clover Infotech Private Limited January 2015 to July 2017 INDIA  Project: Slonkit (Sienna System Resources Private Limited)  • Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project like Requirement gathering, development, enhancements using agile methodologies.  • Developed the user interface using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, Custom Tags, JQuery, Html and CSS.  • Used Spring MVC for implementing the Web layer of the application. This includes developing Controllers, Views and Validators.  • Developed the service and domain layer using Spring Framework modules like Core-IOC, AOP.  • Developed the Application Framework using Java, spring, Hibernate and Log4J.  • Created DB tables, functions, Joins and wrote prepared statements using SQL.  • Configured Hibernate session factory in applicationcontext.xml to integrate Hibernate with spring.  • Configured ApplicationContext.xml in SPRING to adopt communication between Operations and their corresponding handlers.  • Developed spring rest controllers to handle json data and wrote Dao's and services to handle the data.  • Created DB tables, functions, Joins and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Consumed and Create REST Web services using Spring and Apache CXF.  • Developed MySQL stored procedures and triggers using SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  • Used Maven to build the application and deployed on JBoss Application Server.  • Used intellij for development and Jboss Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Monitored the error logs using log4j.  • Implemented Spring JMS message listeners with JMS queues for consumption of Asynchronous requests.  • Used AOP concepts like aspect, join point, advice, point cut, target object and also AOP proxies. Education Master in Computer Science University of Illinois Skills HTML (4 years), JAVA (4 years), JSON (4 years), JBOSS (3 years), WEB SERVICES (3 years) Additional Information Key Skills  • Programming Languages: JAVA, HTML, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON  • Frameworks: Struts, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services  • Database: MySQL, Oracle PLSQL, NoSQL  • Server: Apache Tomcat, Redhat JBoss, Oracle GlassFish  • Software: Eclipse, Netbeans, JasperReports, MySQL workbench, HeidiSQL, WinSCP, Diffmerge, JD-GUI    • Operating Systems: Linux, Windows  • Functional Skill: Agile approach, Scrum  • Project management tool: JIRA, Trello