faculty and admin faculty and admin faculty and admin - Meditation Attendance System, Maharishi University of Management Work Experience faculty and admin Meditation Attendance System, Maharishi University of Management 2019 to Present 2019): Developed meditation  attendance system with CRUD operations on different models as well as features to attach attendance file  and check for duplicate removal. Introduced views for students, faculty and admin with different roles and filtering capabilities. Cooperated with 3 team members.  • Technologies Used: Java, Spring Boot, Thymeleaf, Restful service, Spring ORM, Spring Security, Ajax, Spring AOP, Spring Validator, Custom Formatter, Custom Exception Handling, H2, CSS3,  Intellij A Blog System, Maharishi University of Management 2018 to 2018 Created a RESTful blogging system which allows an admin to post and let users to comment. Used Git to collaborate with team members.  • Technologies Used: Java, RabbitMQ, AMQP, Spring ORM, Spring Tool Suite, Restful Web  Service A Blog System, Maharishi University of Management 2018 to 2018 Developed a dictionary with CRUD  operation for retrieving a word. Developed filter, session, and cookie management capabilities. Worked  individually.  • Technologies Used: Java, JSP, JavaScript, NetBeans Student Registration System Maharishi University of Management 2018 to 2018 Developed a student  registration system with CRUD operation and Introduced views for students, faculty and admin with different  roles and filtering capabilities.  Technologies Used: Java, Thymeleaf, JavaScript, IntelliJ Junior Java Developer GSSA Industries PLC - Addis Ababa, ET September 2014 to January 2017 Played key role in application development and testing. Managed Windows-based  server architecture. Maintained core backbone of internal network.  Tasks Completed:  • Developed web applications using Java Spring and ASP.  • Used Spring MVC to create web applications.  • Transferred data from mainframe proprietary database using Java Spring ORM, AOP, Security, REST, and MySQL database applications.  • Used Spring Integration and Messaging to communicate between interconnecting systems.  • Used AJAX to transfer information to interconnected forms.  • Tested and conducted UAT to deliver applications to production on schedule.  Accomplishments:  • Developed fleet management system using Java Spring with MySQL as database. Introduced  efficient fueling and servicing monitoring capabilities that reduced fleet costs.  • Created employee leave management system using Spring Data and Spring MVC with REST API.  Allowed employees to submit leave requests electronically, reducing paper waste.  • Used Java Spring and MySQL to develop task management software that streamlined IT  department operations and reporting.  • Developed numerous applications for document management, remote dialup, UPS notification, and staff location services.    Technologies Used: Java, JavaScript, SQL, JSP, MySQL, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual Studio Code, Windows Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Enterprise Architecture Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/semhal-redda