Database/junior Java Web Developer Database/junior <span class="hl">Java</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Database/junior Java Web Developer Intern - EI Systems Corp Centreville, VA Enthusiastic and well-organized Java developer with fluid understanding of Java, including  HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Proven background in deadline-oriented environments; known for  completing assignments on or before due date. Strong learning aptitude and passion for  learning. Adept at building strong working relationships with coworkers, management, and  customers using attentive listening and effective oral communication skills. Problem solving  and creative thinking abilities used to create and apply ideas and solutions.    TECHNICAL    • Language: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java   • Object Oriented Programming, IntelliJ,  • AJAX, Web User Interface Design (UI), Spring MVC  API integration   • Knowledge of git commands and GitHub,  • Framework: Bootstrap, SpringBoot, Heroku  Sring, Cloudinary • Amazon web service (aws)  • Database: SQL, MySQL and Python   • Agile Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database/junior Java Web Developer EI Systems Corp - Houston, TX June 2019 to Present • Check database updated by user every day. Change or Update database base on requirement  of clients.  • Assist senior web developers by supporting design and coding.  • Java Web applications that are hosted with Web Logic and Oracle Forms & Reports. The  applications use Java/J2EE 1.7 and Oracle 11g/12c databases.  • Creates and maintains project documentation  • Participated in Agile scrum meetings Freelance Rockville, MD January 2019 to June 2019 • Experience with Java Server Page (JSP), designing and developing client-side graphical user  interfaces using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, and CSS  • Experience in using Bootstrap framework to create responsive web pages  • Git as a repository for the application project folders.  • Involved in the full life cycle of web design process of other projects, including prototyping, proof of concepts, design, interface implementation, testing and maintenance. Administrative Assistant Happy Travel Agency - Houston, TX August 2017 to January 2019 • Assisted customers with flight search engine and booking information  • Reviewed passenger tickets, travel documents, and baggage regulation  • Monitored office supplies and replenished stock  • Assisted with on boarding and training new employees Legal Assistant Tammy Tran Law Firm - Houston, TX August 2016 to August 2017 • Reviewed financial documents for claimants including tax return, sales tax, income statements  and other supporting documents.  • Performed the calculation test and compensation for plaintiffs if they pass criteria in the settlement agreements such as "BP oil spill" and "Dioxin"  • Submitted qualified cases to DHECC (Deepwater Horizon Claim Center) for BP oil spill  compensation settlement. Education Associate in Java Web Developer Montgomery College - Germantown - Rockville, MD June 2019 Master of Science in Engineering University of Houston Clear Lake - Houston, TX May 2019 Bachelor of Science in Engineering University of Technology - Ho Chi Minh City, VN May 2014 Skills Teamwork, Javascript, Java, HTML 5, CSS, MySQL, SQL, Spring, Web Development Links https://github.com/cnguyen0691 Certifications/Licenses Java Web Developer Bootcamp June 2019 to Present • Hand-on Java, MVC projects   • Hanh-on Bootstrap, Intellij, Spring, and SpringBoot  • Hanh-on MySQL, SQL, and H2 database