Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst at Berkadia Salt Lake City, UT Summary:  • I Worked as a Big Data Engineer and possess a demonstrated history of working on Apache Spark , Apache Kafka, Solr , HBase , Hive and other Hadoop Ecosystem Components and SQL.I was a Java Developer in the initial stage of my career.  • I am passionate about mathematics and Data and this lead me take up Masters in Information systems at the University of Utah.   • I possess knowledge of various data science and Machine learning techniques like linear and logistic regression , Decision trees and random forests ,supervised and unsupervised learning .   • I performed Exploratory Data analysis and evaluated various regression models using Python.     Academic Projects :  • Performed exploratory data analysis (EDA) on Titanic Dataset and later applied linear regression model to predict survival rates using Python.  • Performed EDA on 911 calls data (from Kaggle) based off a valid reason using Python.  • Applied EDA techniques to Ecommerce Data and evaluated the model by linear regression using Python to help them decide whether to focus on mobile app experience or Website.  • Created a logistic regression model on Advertizing data based off the features of the user i.e. Age, income, topic line, country etc to determine whether or not a user click on an advertisement  • Analyzed real world data of Lendingclub.com. I created a model to predict the profile of borrowers having high probability of paying back to the investors using Decision tree and Random forests technique with Python.    Languages: R Programming, Python (Numpy, Pandas), SQL, JAVA/J2EE technologies, web services, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Data Analyst Berkadia (Capstone Project) - Salt Lake City, UT December 2018 to Present ?     The project is inclined towards working on refining the CRM accounts and contacts data.  ?     The Primary problem of the dataset is duplicate entries.    We are working on creating a dashboard and automating it using algorithms that detect inaccurate and duplicate data. The data is an extract from a CRM Database.    Technologies Involved:  Python & Machine Learning libraries of Python, Tableau for Data visualization. Associate Consultant Capgemini Technology Services India Ltd. - Hyderabad,India April 2018 to July 2018 Project : Canadian Wealth Management    • Developed UI screens, created validations, activities, data transforms and flow actions using PEGA 7 and Java. Big Data Engineer Virtusa Consulting Services Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2016 to April 2018 Project : Markets Datalake Management    • Worked on Hortonworks distribution [2.5 Version] of Hadoop, environment being IntelliJ IDEA, linux and used Mobaxterm to move data from local file system to HDFS.  • Created & Maintained ETL workflows for loading data from different source systems where the incoming data format was XML, JSON, CSV, TSV and store it to HDFS.  • Performed data enrichment on the data received using SQL and provided extraction Api for report generation.  • Leveraged a quarterly report of daily transactions for yearend reconciliation of the bank by incorporating a new ETL workflow where Hbase,Hive,HDFS were target systems.  • Analyzed the applications health on daily and weekly basis and visualized it using Tableau.  • Built a Hbase to hive data pipeline using kafka, Hive SQL for a new report requirement and back filling legacy data for the same. Java UI Developer Virtusa Consulting Services Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2016 to July 2016 Project: Fedex NEW NACCS    • Automated the manual process of reporting shipments status to the Japanese customers on fly.  • Designed and developed report engine and integrated to Frontend application using rest web services and JAVA 8. Java/J2EE Developer Virtusa Consulting Services Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to April 2016 Project: One Claim Application Interface    • Gained hands on experience in development and enhancement of middleware application built on SOA design principle using JAVA/J2EE technologies, SQL and IBM integration tools.  •  Developed a new feature as part of a monitoring application which reduced manual intervention 2X.  • Configured and maintained ETL autosys jobs which served the purpose of publishing daily and weekly business reports using IBM Datastage.  • Performed data analysis on server and application data of one complete year using Excel to determine application availability record.  Education Masters of Science in Information Systems University of Utah, David Eccles School of Business - Salt Lake City, UT August 2018 to August 2019 Electronics and Communication Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 Skills Statistical Analysis (Less than 1 year), Data Analysis (1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), R programming (Less than 1 year), SQL (2 years), Machine Learning Techniques (Less than 1 year), Big Data (1 year), Hadoop (2 years), Java (2 years), excel (2 years), ETL (2 years), Tableau (1 year), Business Intelligence, MS Office, Microsoft Office Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/abhishekanney https://gitlab.com/rohit104/Fall2018_Abhishek_Python Certifications/Licenses Domo Certification and Accreditation Present Industry certification in software development- JAVA Present Senior Certified System Architect (CSSA) – 72V1, Pega Systems, 2018. Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: R Programming, Python (Numpy, Pandas), SQL, JAVA/J2EE technologies, SOAP web services, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS    Data Science & ML Techniques: Logistic & Linear Regression, Random Forest & Decision Trees, Supervised and Unsupervised learning    Big Data Ecosystem: HDFS, MapReduce, Apache Kafka, Zookeeper, Hive, Hbase, Spark Streaming, Solr    Databases: MySQL, SQL Developer, Oracle 11g, IBM DB2    Data Visualization : Tableau, Power BI,   Python libraries :Seaborn,Matplotlib    Tools:  Data tools :                    Anaconda 5.3, Jupyter Notebook, PuTTY , RStudio  ETL tools :                     IBM Tivoli Workload Scheduler, IBM InfoSphere DataStage ,Mobaxterm,WinSCP  Microsoft Office:           Word, Excel, PowerPoint  Deployment:                  Maven, ANT  IDE:                               IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse  Other:                            PEGA 7,IBM BPM 8.5,IBM DataPower    Project Management and Version Control : Agile, Scrum, JIRA, Service Now, Rally, Git,Bitbucket