Mulesoft Integration Architect / Developer Lead Mulesoft Integration Architect / <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Mulesoft Lead Fort Mill, SC Professional experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementing SOA based solutions using Mulesoft Anypoint Platform, Salesforce and WMQ Series.    Deep understanding of Service Oriented Architectures, Micro services framework, Integration design patterns.    Experienced in developing integration services with Databases including DB2, Oracle, Sybase, and SQL Server.    Strong Expertise in design and develop Mule flows by implementing various Connectors, Scopes, Components, Transformers, Data weave and Filters.    Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and strong experience in integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third party solutions.    Responsible for writing application code & development activities for large projects especially in a SOA environment and Reliability Patters with MuleSoft ESB.    Experienced in Maven/Jenkins build tools for building and deploying the application in web/app servers and vast experience with Java multithreaded programming.    Good experience with EDI, XML, JSON, Copybook Data Formats and their transformation.    Hands-on experience in MuleSoft Expression Language (MEL) to access payload data, properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.    Strong analysis and problem solving skills to transform and solve business problems into easily implement able technology solutions that comply with the tight project schedules and available resources.    Good experience in error handling and exception detection in Mulesoft.    Good experience in creating Technical Design Document (TDD) and Test Cases.  Very strong adaptability in working in new environment and learning new knowledge Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Mulesoft Integration Architect / Developer Lead AmerisourceBergen - Fort Mill, SC December 2016 to Present • Work closely with Architects, Developers, Testers, Project Managers, Data management team, Portal team, CRM team and Operational Support team to develop as well as support integration/API solutions using MuleSoft. Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design, build process, troubleshooting and production support.  • Involved in peer & lead level design & code reviews and code verification with each developer to make sure the standards were being followed.  • Utilized MuleSoft features like Dataweave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • Design, normalize and build Domain project, log strategy, excepting strategy and API policies for all other developers.  • Extensively work on Anypoint API manager and Runtime manager to manage/monitor applications and proxies, keep the performance at peak.  • Manage all Mulesoft servers, load balancer and firewall rules, design and implement 13 different environments for Mulesoft APIs.  • Designed and developed Mule flows by implementing various Connectors, Scopes, Components, Transformers, Dataweave and Filters.  • Secure the APIs by using different policy and rules, implement OAuth2 policy on critical APIs.  • Used MUnit for Unit Testing and Integration testing, work with Dev Ops team to build CI/CD for Mulesoft artifacts.  • Work with testing team used JMeter/SOAPUI/Postman for load testing and end to end test,   • Maps workflow and creates design specifications based on functional requirements.  • Translates logical information model to efficient physical database designs  • Implementing MuleSoft Batch Processing, Scatter-Gather.  • Provided detailed deployment documentation to the support group to insure preparedness to deploy new releases into the production environment within the SLA windows.    Senior Mulesoft developer • Developed new Interfaces and Gateways using Mule ESB.  • Designing, implementing, testing, and deploying solutions using Salesforce.com with different authentication methods including basic Auth and OAuth2 in addition to standard Salesforce.com configuration.  • Created design documents and functional specifications documents based on requirements.  • Develop RESTful Web Services using MuleSoft Anypoint studio.  • Work on Anypoint studio to use web services and for business-to-business integration.  • Work on API notebook to explore APIs and for testing and improving these. Furthermore, use API kit to integrate APIs with other services on premise and on cloud.  •  Developed the Deployment Policy for service migration. Configured Deployment Parameter for high lever environment migration.  • Create REST APIs using RAML and develop flows using APIKIT Router  • Create various RAML resources to implement REST Based APIs as a part of project implementation  • Implement RAML files for different entity creations and respective associations  • Use Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third party system and the customer side system  • Worked with testing team to do the performance improvements and develop test cases. Also involved in performance testing. Java Developer/Analyst Education Master's University of Toledo - Toledo, OH May 2014 to October 2015 Skills Javascript (1 year), Linux (7 years), SQL (5 years), Sql Server, XML (8 years), Mulesoft (5 years), Java (3 years), Salesforce (4 years), WMQ (4 years), Integration (6 years), Project Management (3 years), Product Development (6 years), Testing (4 years), Production support (5 years), CI/CD (4 years), System Administration (6 years), Systems Integration (6 years), Firewalls (4 years), Network Infrastructure (4 years), JSON (8 years), REST (8 years), SOAP (8 years), Information Security (5 years), Enterprise Architecture (4 years), Enterprise Software (4 years), Team Leader (4 years), Team Management (4 years), Teamwork (8 years), Team Leader (4 years), Databases (6 years), Data power (2 years), IIB (2 years), Requirements Analysis (6 years), Project Planning (4 years), Project Management (4 years), Multitasking (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Mulesoft developer Mulesoft solution architect Assessments Data Analysis — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fudr3svhrjg-msvq Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9tu47ngsfhgtfe4g Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.