Technical Lead Technical Lead Technical Lead - TATA Consultancy Services Ltd. Malvern, PA • More than 7 years of experience in JAVA and J2EE development.  • AWS Certified Developer Associate with experience and application deployment and configuration management using AWS services like S3, DynamoDB etc.  • Experience in developing Next generation Cloud and AWS based applications in both frond end and mid-tier development.  • Working in service-based architecture with experience in Angular 7, TypeScript, NPM, Spring Boot, Restful Web Services.  • Experience in working in DevOps and Agile model along with continuous delivery model.  • Proficient in Test Driven Development with test automation frameworks like JUnit, Cucumber etc.  • Working as a Technical Lead and onshore coordinator, actively involved in project requirements, estimations, development, code quality, test and deployment support activities. Work Experience Technical Lead Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Malvern, PA January 2018 to Present Project Type Development  Project Location Malvern, Pennsylvania, USA  Description  The Vanguard Group is one of the leading American investment management group based in Malvern, Pennsylvania, which offers mutual funds and other financial products and services to individual, retail and institutional investors in the United States and abroad.    The Retail NGA applications are AWS cloud applications developed in Angular 7, Node JS and Restful web services using Spring boot. The new applications are developed to support continuous delivery and DevOps model in Cloud architecture.  The purpose of the project is to migrate several Old generation applications to Next Gen Architecture in order to provide better client experience and continuous development and support.    Role Technical Lead  Responsibilities  • Participating in daily scrums, requirements and design meetings.  • Interfacing with customer, client team, and all impacted stakeholders to coordinate the design/development. (To make consistency and quality execution of work, every day interaction with client during the design)  • Creating JIRA tasks for epics during each sprint, assigning story points and priority to each task.  • Configuring and developing REST applications and endpoints with database, AWS S3 and DynamoDB.  • Integrating Angular UI apps with REST APIs.  • Setting up unit and Integration testing using JUnit, Cucumber, Mockito frameworks.  • Conducting peer and team code reviews to ensure use of coding best practices and to verify correct implementation of requirements.  • Performing end to end testing for developed code against requirements. Verify and fix defects found during testing.  • Support and coordinate application deployment and continuous delivery of new enhancements to the application.  • Provide regular status report to client and TCS management through daily and weekly meetings and sprint review sessions.    Tools and Technologies  • HTML/XHTML/CSS, Angular 7, Node JS, TypeScript, JAVA, Restful Web Services, Amazon Web Services  • Spring Tool Suite, WebStorm  • Agile Model  • Maven, GIT, Atlassian JIRA, Bitbucket, Bamboo    Project Retail HNW OED Enhancements Developer, UI Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Malvern, PA March 2015 to December 2017 Project Type Development  Project Location Malvern, Pennsylvania, USA  Description  The Retail PCoE Team is responsible for supporting the enhancement and maintenance of retail websites and support systems. Supporting these applications and components in the indefinite period after primary delivery by the strategic teams is necessary to correct defects, improve functionality, maintain or improve performance, enhance the client experience, or comply with government regulations. The team works on internal and external applications, used by clients and Vanguard associates.    The Retail PCoE Team is self-supported with all major software areas of expertise and necessity permanently assigned to the team. The team consists of a Project Manager, Tech Lead, UI, midtier, and data (DB2) developers, business leads, UI designers, and testers. As needed the team will reach out to other skill sets and subject matter experts for assistance.    The projects assigned to the Retail PCoE Team are categorized by the business into one of three types. These project types are Enhancements (ENH), Business Continuance / Mandated Compliance (BC/MC), and Production Defects (DEF).    Role UI/MT Developer  Responsibilities  • Gathering detailed requirements from Business owners.  • Interfacing with customer, client team, and all impacted stakeholders to coordinate the design/development. (To make consistency and quality execution of work, every day interaction with client during the design)  • Integrate web pages with business modules.  • Execute unit test cases for web pages against requirements. Debug and fix defects found during testing.  • Perform integration testing to confirm the proper flow of information from web pages to business modules.  • Conduct peer code reviews to ensure use of coding best practices and to verify correct implementation of requirements.  • Provide status report to client and TCS management.    Tools and Technologies  • HTML/XHTML/CSS, JSF, JSP, AngularJS  • Spring Tool Suite  • Kanban Development Model  • Maven, Tortoise SVN, Jenkins, HTTP Watch professional Java/UI Developer Research and Commentary - Pune, Maharashtra October 2014 to February 2015 Project Type Development  Project Location Pune, India  Description  The Vanguard Group is one of the leading American investment management group based in Malvern, Pennsylvania, which offers mutual funds and other financial products and services to individual, retail and institutional investors in the United States and abroad.    The objective of the project is to convert the 'Research and Commentary' silo of the Vanguard Institutional Investors website into a responsive one.    Role Java/UI Developer  Responsibilities  • Working in Agile Development Environment  • Application of HTML/CSS/media properties to convert existing pages into responsive pages  • Perform unit testing and integration testing of the developed code  • Demo and presentation of developed code and progress reports to client    Tools and Technologies  • HTML/XHTML/CSS3, JSF, JS  • Spring Tool Suite  • Responsive Web Development    Project Unify CPOS Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Shri Vaishnav Institute of Technology and Science - Indore, Madhya Pradesh 2011 Skills REST API, Cucumber, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, Java, Devops, Java J2EE, Spring, Angular, Node Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Developer Associate October 2018 to September 2020 Additional Information Technical Skills    MT Technologies JAVA 1.8, J2EE, Spring Boot  UI Technologies HTML/XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript, XML, JSON, REST API  Application Frameworks Angular 7, Node JS, Restful Web Services  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, VMWare TC Server  Database Oracle, DynamoDB  Development Tools Spring Tool Suite, WebStorm, Git  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX OS  Test Frameworks JUnit, Cucumber, Mockito, Selenium  Development Methodologies DevOps, Agile, Kanban, Waterfall  Integration, build and deployment Atlassian JIRA, Bitbucket, Bamboo, Nexus repository, Maven, Jenkins, SVN