Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - CoreLogic Irvine, CA • Around4+ years of professional experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including system design, development, production support and maintenance of various applications using JAVA/J2EE Technologies.  • Developed various interactive and responsive pages using UI modules like HTML5, JAVA SCRIPT, CSS.  • Experience on working client-side java script frameworks as Angular4.x, 6.x.  • Expertise in solving architectural issues using various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton.  • Design, implement, test and deploy services in a Microservice-oriented architecture and has implemented the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA( Java Persistence API).  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Boot.  • Good knowledge with React.JS and React-Redux real time applications using React JS Fluxarchitecture for creating user interface, displaying data, keeping the user interface up-to-date when data changes  • Good technical skills in React libraries, including react-bootstrap, react-router-dom, redux.  • Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Experience in using AWS for Auto scaling and configuration management.  • Having experience with Java 8 features like Stream API, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Collection API.  • Developed and deployed Micro Services based applications using Spring Boot.  • Proficient in using Spring Data JPA that helped in creating automatic Data Access Objects (DAOs) at the compile time.  • Developed Unit Tests and Writing JUNIT tests for Service methods.  • Experience in database modeling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in relational databases like Oracle, SQL Server, Postgres SQL, MySQL and integrating with ORM Frameworks such as Hibernatewith HQL.  • Experience in different IDE's like Eclipse, STS, WebStorm, Sublime Text and Atom.  • Good knowledge in using build-tools such as Maven.  • Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum methodologies.  • Used Log4j for logging mechanism and developed wrapper classes to configure the logs.  • Good Experience in software configuration management using GIT.  • Excellent Technical, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability towork independently, work within a team environment.  • Excellent in Performance Tuning Knowledge. Work Experience Full Stack Developer CoreLogic - Irvine, CA October 2018 to Present CoreLogic is California based corporation providing financial, property and consumer information, analytics and business intelligence. The company analyzes information assets and data to provide clients with analytics and customized data services. The company also develops proprietary research and tracks current and historical trends in several categories, including consumer credit, capital markets, real estate, fraud, regulatory compliance, natural hazards, and disaster projections. Worked in TSG department to support various Java related development projects.    Responsibilities:  • The application is built Micro Service Oriented Architecture using Angular 6.0 and Node Js stack and developed Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Developed code using Java, J2EE and spring also used Hibernate as an ORM tool for object relational mapping  • Designed components for the project using best practices and J2EE design patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC) and Data Access Object.  • Designed and developed a Restful APIs for different modules in the project as per the requirement.  • Developed user-friendly web-based GUI using AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and React.  • Used a light front-end framework against the JSON API for their service requests.  • Used Multithreading and collections to improve performance of application.  • Implemented MicroService architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting with REST and leveraging AWS to deploy identity Microservices.  • Developed applications using latest technologies like spring, hibernate and REST based WebServices, XML API and tools.  • Used Spring framework for integrating the MVC components with business services.  • Added security layer for web services using OAuth and Sami integration.  • Design and development web-application for business reporting and systems monitoring and troubleshooting; using J2EE, Tomcat.  • Worked as a front-end web developer, AngularJs and React based application.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked on Spring MVC Architecture for web applications.  • Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat.  • Configured and deployed web applications on Amazon Web Services(AWS) EC2 instance, Cloud formation.  • Built Java applications using Maven and deployed JAVA/J2EE applications through Application servers.    Environment: Java 1.8, Hibernate 4.0, Spring 4.0, J2EE, RESTful Web Services, REST, Eclipse IDE, AngularJS, React, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Tomcat, XML, Unix, Linux, My SQL, Maven 3, log4J, WSDL, JSON, OAuth. Full Stack Developer Verizon - Tampa, FL August 2017 to September 2018 Fiber Inventory Management is a planning and analytical tool developed by Verizon for their internal users to plan and set up their telecom infrastructure across various geographies in America, this tool helps managers to analyze the cost of layout of fiber cable, hubs and terminals at particular geolocation.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of various modules using J2EE Architecture and MVC Design Pattern.  • Worked in Agile methodology.  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, and Oracle.  • Worked on the spring transactions to perform the CRUD operations.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC.  • Participated in the design and development of application using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Enhanced and optimized the functionality of Web UI using CSS3, HTML5 and JS.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate framework like HQL queries.  • Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using Angular JS, and Spring Controller.  • Developed the Web User Interface using the HTML5, JSON and Servlets for the Customer pages where the PDF response is printer friendly.  • JSON is used in conjunction with JavaScript for making HTTP requests.  • Implemented Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  • Developed Spring Framework based RESTFUL Web Services for handling and persisting of requests and Spring MVC for returning response to presentation tier.  • Client pages are built using HTML5, JSP, JSON to interact with users, and the business logic is implemented using Servletsand Java Beans.  • Designed developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and Application Framework.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Created Unit Test for the application.    Environment: JDK, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, Angular JS, JSP, JavaScript, Restful Web Services, JSON, CSS, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Windows. Java Developer Goldstone Technologies PVT LTD August 2015 to June 2017 GoldstoneTechnologies provides a variety of Networking, Installation, Support, and Troubleshooting services for Small and Medium Businesses (SMB) for Microsoft Windows and Linux platforms. It helps customers decide on the hardware right for their requirements, and install the servers, firewalls and switches and other network components. Goldstone provides comprehensive software support and maintenance plans for the customer to protect their valuable investments.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a Monolithic application and generated UI screens using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Agile Methodology is used for development of the application  • Develop and Refractor the Servlets and JSP's.  • Developed DAO classes to handle the database operations.  • Created POJO Classes as a part of persistence.  • Implemented JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  • MySQL database used to load the application data and written PL/SQL procedures, complex queries to perform various data operations.  • Used Visual Paradigm for the Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Used My Eclipse as an IDE for development.  • Performing code walk through for all the allocated modules for various builds.  • Performance tuning of code that is already implemented.  • Testing for the coding standards of Java, which involves block comments, variable name declaration, and class level comments etc.  • Testing - unit testing & integration testing.    Environment: Core Java, JDK, Servlets, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, PL/SQL, My Eclipse, Visual Paradigm. Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Visual studio, Git, Javascript, Jenkins, Html5, Mvc, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgres, Sql, Rest, Maven, Team city, Version control, Windows 10 Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Java 1.8, J2EE, JavaScript  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Angular4.0/6.0  J2EE Technologies & frameworks REST, JPA, Spring4.x, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Node JS.  Relational Databases Postgres SQL, MySQL 8.0, Oracle, SQL Server  Operating system Windows 10  Version Control GIT-HUB, SourceTree, Git Kraken  Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum, BDTDD  Developer IDE Platforms WebStorm, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3, GITHUB 2.12.0Eclipse, Notepad ++, Atom, Visual Studio Code and Sublime Text.  Build & Configuration Tools Maven, Team City, Octopus, Jenkins