Fulltime Employee Fulltime Employee Fulltime Employee - Capgemini FS Schaumburg, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fulltime Employee Capgemini FS - Rosemont, IL June 2017 to Present JAVA?J2EE Developer Full Stack Java Developer TransUnion - Chicago, IL July 2018 to June 2019 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phase of Software Development Life Cycle such as requirements gathering, analysis, modeling, development, testing and level two Production Support.  • Developed and configured Verified Prefill product to authenticate and pre-populate personal data  by using uniquely identification of personal data.  • Experienced on working validating user input data at user interface and backend level.  • Developed multiple micro services to retrieve financial offer assets for TransUnion Customer  Interactive (TUCI) and provided REST APIs.  • Integrated spring cloud Netflix ZUUL API gateway framework using Java 1.8 and spring boot.  • Experienced in re-architecting Monolithic web application to Microservices.  • Developed the view components using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, and JSP.  • Created an instance of Amazon web services EC2 and deployed the application on it.  • Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View-Controller architecture at the Web  tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that, the complexity of integration will be  reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  • Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Rally, Jenkins, Maven for build  packaging and deployments of the application components.  • Involved in creation queues and topics with JMS, create messages and send to queues.  Environment: Agile Methodology, Java 1.7, 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, EC2, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, XML, JSON, JSP, GIT, Rally, PL/SQL, STS, JUnit, Log4J, JMS, SonarQube,  Postman. Application Developer Discover Financial Service - Riverwoods, IL June 2017 to June 2018 Achievements/Responsibilities:  • Punctually participate and contribute in all project formalities such as iteration planning, story  grooming, daily stand-ups, and retrospective meetings.  • Drive product quality through paired programming and test driven development.  • Extremely emphasis applications meet security, high availability, and maintainability  requirements.  • Develop application code using Java, Apache FreeMarker Template and Spring MVC Framework.  • Redesigned ACHome page and introduce new API endpoints to support internal and external  requests.  • Develop / maintain a CICD pipeline to build, test, and deploy application artifacts.  • Participate on learning new technologies and promote the adoption of new frameworks to gain  competitive edge in delivering value to customers.  • Support to enable the team to be a roll forward, effective through cross-functional technique.  • Participate in Account Center and Orion Projects.  Technologies Used: Spring MVC, FreeMarker Template, Gradle, WebSphere, REST, SOAP, JSON, XML, JQuery, Ajax, Oracle, DB2, Eclipse(STS), IBM RAD, Intellij, Postman, SoapUI. Internship - Java Developer HighCode plc - Addis Ababa, ET January 2009 to January 2011 Achievements/Responsibilities:  •  Gathered requirements for new features Analysis, Development and Testing of the application.   •  Incorporated UML diagrams (Use-case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams, VOPC) as part of design documentation and other system documentation.  • Created enterprise applications using MVC pattern and Hibernate ORM.  •  Created the view pages (UI) using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Involved in Unit Testing and integration testing.   •  Implemented, develop and maintain SQL databases that can support large reporting solutions.  • Work closely with a team of web programmers and other database developers to facilitate the build of reporting solutions  • Prepared documentation for modules and product support. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA July 2014 to April 2017 Associate in Information Technology and Mathematics HACC - Lancaster, PA August 2011 to June 2014 Bachelor's in Informatics Hawassa University July 2007 to June 2010 Links https://join.skype.com/invite/vu9a5d5tjfdI http://www.linkedin.com/in/gudeta-besso