Front End Developer Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Kansas City, MO With over 3 years of web development experience focusing on front-end web development for about 2 years I’ve build my focal point on consistency, usability, clean and precise browser-compatible code, defining scope and requirements by collaborating with a team through design and implementation to final testing and delivery. In my recent web projects, I developed site content and graphics by coordinating with graphic artists; implemented page designs in standards-compliant dynamic HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSTL and bootstrap; rolled out and scaled new web sites that integrate consumer marketing and social media; worked with back-end engineers and QA to see projects through, from conception to completion.     • Proficient with HTML5/CSS3 and responsive design.  • Expert in implementation of responsive design for Mobile devices, iPads with different resolutions using Media Queries.  • Working experience in LESS.  • Experience with AEM 6.0, AEM 6.2 environment.  • Understanding of Object Oriented JavaScript programming, JavaScript libraries such as jQuery.  • Very good knowledge of JavaScript MVC framework as Angular JS.  • Professional understanding of System development life cycle (SDLC) as well as various phases such as Analysis/Design, Development and Testing.   • Proficient in cross-platform cross-browser compatibility issues.  • Experience working with bootstrap for developing responsive design.  • Working experience in different software methodology like Waterfall, Agile, Scrum.  • Quick learner, exceptional problem-solving and troubleshooting capabilities.   • Excellent Team player with good Communication and Interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer Sony Playstation - San Mateo, CA April 2016 to March 2017 Front-End Developer (Playstation.com website)  Projects:  • Playstation.com : worked on different game pages for playstation.com website. Implemented the new design for some of the updated pages which use AEM 6.1. Frequently update pages with new features and designs coordinating with the design team and implement an intuitive and interactive page using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, JavaScript, JQuery, LESS and bootstrap in AEM 6.1 Environment. From the AEM side used JSP and JSTL to integrate the front end with the back end which is developed in Java. Some of the latest pages that I’ve updated in PlayStation include The Last Guardian, PlayStation VR, PlayStation Now, PlayStation Music and many more. Implemented different AEM components which are used in PlayStation game pages for different types of media including image carousel and video carousel.    • Responsive Design for Playstation.com site: updated the website with responsive design for mobiles, tablets and desktop across different browsers and platforms. Used media queries for making the site responsive with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, LESS and bootstrap. Used Scene7 to create different preset for different assets which include banner, icon and image used across the site to make the responsive design easy.    Responsibilities  • Played a role in the Front-End applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, Javascript, CSS, LESS & Media Queries.  • Provide responsive web design development to website used as template to integrate basic CSS.  • Worked with JSON and AJAX to retrieve data from database.  • Maintained high coding standards and practices and exercise quality control on all aspects of web development.  • Worked closely with the Web Development and QA teams to build, test and release site implementations.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Extensively worked on all the front-end work for the PlayStation.com website which included creating components for the content managers in AEM 6.0 and creating forms for vendors.  • Involved in developing Single Page Web Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to create custom filters and custom directives.  • Worked on creating components which included working with and creating HTML5, JSP files, JavaScript files, jQuery, CSS3 and Less.  • Worked with JavaScript libraries like colorbox.js, packery.js and skrollr.js.  • Co-ordinated with the designer to create to create best design with mobile first approach.    Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, JavaScript, JQuery, LESS, JSP, JSTL, Bootstrap, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2. Java/Web Developer INSA - Addis Ababa February 2012 to December 2014 Proposed and completed different web and desktop application projects, including design, coding, implementation and testing. Created effective, intuitive user interfaces. I have developed different applications by using object-oriented design, implementation, and verification concepts. Developed different Java/JavaEE applications using EJB, JPA, JSF, JMS and Spring MVC for web based applications, Java Swing for desktop applications and worked on relational databases.  • Received Certificate for Unparalleled Best Personal Effort and Achievement 2013.    Projects:  • Developed a chat client and server application: implemented a client and multi-threaded server application to send and receive a message from one server to a different client desktop application within an intranet. Both the client and server applications are developed using swing for the user interface and MSSQL to store the chat history in a database.  • Developed different websites for different clients: implemented a web based application which enables users to search, read and post information on the web page. I used JavaEE technologies EJB and JSF, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript for the user interface. Used JPA for the relational database and MySQL. Education Master's in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA December 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science Bahir Dar University Engineering Faculty - Bahir Dar Skills Javascript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 (3 years), Java, JSP, JSTL (2 years), Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, EJB, JSF, JPA, JUnit, MySQL, SQL, PHP, XML, C, C++ (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/samrawitwoldeyohannis