Full Stack developer ( Java, Vue.js) Full Stack <span class="hl">developer</span> (<span class="hl">Java</span>, Vue.js) Full Stack developer ( Java, Vue.js) West Falmouth, MA Work Experience Full Stack developer ( Java, Vue.js) SKLAD-SISTEMA(local startup company) October 2018 to May 2019 Experienced in Agile Methodology, participated in Sprints and daily Scrums to deliver  software tasks on-time and with excellent quality on basis with onsite and offshore teams.  • Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework.  • Developed Session Beans and DAO classes for all Modules.  • Created Stored Procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic  according to the user's specifications.  • Involved in analyzing, designing, implementing and testing of the project.  • Extensively worked with Servlets and JSP based multi-tier applications in developing J2EE  Components.  • Used Oracle as a Database and Involved in writing the SQL and PL/Sql Queries  • Experience in using ANT and Maven for build automation  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Used Docker containers for testing and deploying.  Environment: Java-J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring, JBOSS, RESTful Web services, JSON, Hibernate, Restful Web service (using JAX-RS), Vue.js Agile, Eclipse, Oracle, Maven,  JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, Docker containers. Fido-Biznes LLC September 2016 to February 2018 Project Name: Filex  Company: Fido-Biznes LLC  FileX is a centralized, secure file transfer platform where firms can send, track and receive  files in one place. FileX significantly streamlines the process for submitting bulk filings to FINRA, provides additional options for submitting those filings to FINRA, and allows for  seamless authentication and authorization. Filex will eventually replace the difference legacy  file transfer methods in use today  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases  • Implemented REST services using Spring Boot and Spring Data with JPA  • Developed and Enhanced application on Spring MVC Framework  • Worked on SQL queries and functions for dashboard functionality  • Deploying Rest API's Application in AWS Cloud  • Worked closely with Configuration team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Maven, Git, AWS  • Involved in requirement gathering with the other developers, business analyst, and business  partners  • Extensively used HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Vue.js to enhance functionality and user  experience on web pages  • Written log4j2 wrapper class to log messages at different levels error, debug, warn, info to improve the readability  • Work with cross-functional teams to ensure successful delivery  • Written test cases and automation code for Unit testing the code using Junit Testing  Framework  • Used GIT version controlling to maintain project versions  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Boot, REST Web Services, JUnit, Log4J2, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Maven, SVN, JIRA, AWS  Java Developer Golden House(local construction firm) December 2015 to August 2016 Project Name: Estimation Builder  Company: Golden House(local construction firm)  Johnsen Schmaling Architects represents a unique synthesis and specializing in high-end  residential and commercial design. Johnsen Schmaling Architects offers a full range of architectural and design services, from master planning and schematic design to construction  administration, furniture design and graphics. The Estimation Builder helps the professionals  of Johnsen Schmaling Architects to provide the estimate about High End commercial and residential constructions. Johnsen Schmaling Architects provides more than one million  configurations for the customers and generates quotes in minutes. This tool is highly  customizable and user friendly and could base solution which can be accessed from anywhere.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology  • Implemented spring transaction management for database transactions  • Worked on enhancements with the existing application which was implemented using MVC  paradigm, implemented by Spring Framework  • Used Spring Boot, Spring MVC to build the Web application  • Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, XML, XSL and HTML  • Developed applications to register subscribers to communicate using JMS  • Developing RESTful APIs using JAX-RS (jersey) communicating with middleware  services like database  • Involved in writing complex SQL queries  • Implemented ORM in the persistence layer using Hibernate framework  • Used log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and debug information  Environment: Java/ JEE 1.6, Java 8, Spring, Hibernate, REST Web Services, JUnit, Log4J, JQUERY, JSP, HTML, CSS, Vue.js, UML, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Maven, JIRA, Apache  Tomcat, WAS7  Java Developer Fido-Biznes LLC August 2014 to December 2015 Project Name: NAVIPLAN  Company: Fido-Biznes LLC  NaviPlan financial planning software allows you to accommodate all client needs, from simple to sophisticated. NaviPlan is the financial services industry leader for detailed tax  planning, advanced solutions, and ultrahigh-net-worth clients, yet it is flexible enough to produce quick, goal-based assessments on the fly.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Technical software and application design  • Followed Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  • Implemented Spring MVC to achieve Model View Controller design pattern. Configured  spring to manage actions as beans and set their dependencies in a spring context file and integrated middle tier with spring web layer.  • Used Spring Boot, Spring MVC to build the Web application, Services.  • Implemented Data Access Objects (DAO) to access the Oracle database using Spring DAO.  • Worked on Spring Framework for Dependency and Transaction Management.  • Utilized the Spring AOP feature for implanting cross-cutting concerns like logging and Transaction Management and separated the business logic from System Services.  • Used Java 8 features like writing default methods in Interface, Lambda expression, Stream  API.  • Designed application interfaces using J2EE, XML/SOAP, WSDL, Web Services and Servlet.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 11g Database  • Worked with Ajax and JQuery to meet the business requirements across the application.  • Implemented web services using Jersey and developed delegated services to access other  web services.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML5, CSS, Spring, Vue.js, JavaScript, JSON, Spring, Hibernate, XML, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, Agile methodology, Oracle WebLogic  Server, Oracle, Apache ANT, Unix, Junit 4.0, Log4j.    MySQL (more than 4 year), Javascript (more than 4 year), PHP (Less than 1 year) Education Bachelor of Science in Engineering in Information and Communication Engineering INHA University in Tashkent, School of Computer and Information Engineering May 2019 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Java technologies, Spring, Jboss, Jdk, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Servlet, C++, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Vue.js, Json