Fab operator Fab operator Saint Paul, MN To find a position with a team of innovative and dynamic Software developers and/or database administrators to  which I can contribute my technical skills, and personal outlook as a serious team player and professional. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fab operator Sky Water Technology Foundry January 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Operate assigned equipment and run production material in a clean room environment  • Loading and unloading wafer equipment (microchips)  • Follow detailed process to ensure correct procedure is completed  • Perform quality inspections on finished product  • Follow safety requirements of the equipment and processes in assigned areas Java Developer December 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities  Hotel Booking and Management System using:  Java, Java servlet, JSP Eclipse, Tomcat, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery,    • Designed and developed a 3-tier structure for the website using Java, Java Servlet, Spring MVC,  HTML5, JavaScript.  • Created Database Tables, Indexes, Constraints, Views, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions in  Oracle database  • Expertise in application development using Spring MVC Framework.  • Used exception handling techniques, Validation functions and Debugging Tools in the Spring Tool Suite  Environment to fix the errors.  • Developed a bug report to keep a track of errors.  • Tested the Web application  • Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle.  • Develop SQL views and stored procedures for retrieving and saving data in Oracle Database.  • Create and update ER diagrams showing relationship between tables in the application and between different applications.  • Unit Testing using Junit in Eclipse Environment  • Use Maven for Dependency Management and building in Eclipse Environment  • Updating the Data in Databases frequently and whenever required as per the Company's guidelines.  • Wrote SQL queries using Oracle SQL Developer  • Create documentation. SENIOR PROJECT University of Minnesota Twin Cities - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN January 2015 to May 2015 Augmented Reality  • Reconstructed the 3D images of five buildings from data gathered by using Google's project tango tablet with a group of four  students.  • Gather the data using the Google Project Tango Tablet  • Integrated multiple files and preprocessed it into suitable input.  • Derived the optimization algorithm using the pre-existing image processing theory.  • Implement the application using MATLAB, C++  • Prepared the design, and technical documents.    Activities:  • Member, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineer Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Minnesota Twin Cities - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN Skills ECLIPSE (2 years), HTML (2 years), JAVA (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    2+ years of Java Developer experience using Core Java, J2EE, Eclipse, Tomcat, PL/SQL, HTML, JavaScript,  jQuery with a proven background of technical problem solving. A self-motivated, responsible, and reliable team  player with a set of very strong technical skills.