Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Houston, TX • Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Implementation of distributed applications in technologies like Core Java, Java Beans, J2EE, XML and Design Patterns.  • Experience in using API, Hibernate mappings and database control.  • Knowledge on system development using Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Restful Web Services, Spring MVC and JavaScript.  • Learning VueJS for the cutting edge front end development.  • Expertise in using Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, Eclipse.  • Hands-on experience in simulation using MXCHIP IoT DevKit and Azure cloud platform.  • Hands-on experience in building 6DOF Stewart Platform Motion Simulator prototype.  • Excellent interpersonal, technical, strong problem solving and decision making skills. Work Experience Java Developer Texuido - Dhaka, BD May 2011 to April 2014 • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  • Client side validation is performed using JavaScript.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring Security modules.  • Used JUnit framework to automate unit testing.  • Used JDBC, Web Services and Hibernate framework to access the data from back-end MySQL database server.  • Developed logging module-using Log4j to create log files to debug application flow.  Education Master of Science in Computer Science Alabama A&M University - Normal, AL May 2018 Bachelor of Science Ahsanullah University of Science and Technology - Dhaka, BD September 2011 Skills MATLAB (1 year), JAVA (2 years), HTML5 (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), Spring MVC Framework (2 years), Hibernate (2 years), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), Tomcat (1 year), MySQL (2 years), JSON (1 year), Maven (2 years), C++ (2 years), CSS (2 years), Jquery, Spring Boot (Less than 1 year), Java J2Ee (1 year), Spring, VueJS (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), Core Java (2 years), J2Ee (1 year), JSP (1 year), MVC (Less than 1 year), Rest (Less than 1 year), Angular (3 years), AWS (2 years) Links https://github.com/shoebkhan88 https://www.hackerrank.com/shoebkhan88?hr_r=1 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS and ATTRIBUTES  Programming Languages: (Good) Java, (Basic)C++, Python, PHP, (Familiar)Bash Scripting and Shell Programming.    Frameworks: Spring MVC, Hibernate, Bootstrap, VueJS, AngularJS    Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery    Web Service Technologies: RESTful, JSON, XML, Tomcat    Database Environments: MySQL    Version Control/Bug Tracking Tools: GitHub    IDE's: (Proficient)Eclipse, (Good)NetBeans, Arduino, (Familiar)Android Studio    Automation Tools/Technologies: Azure, Maven, MATLAB    GRADUATE PROJECTS  • Garage Door Simulator, Spring 2016  Worked with team of 2 members to develop an app by using android studio, StarUML for controlling the garage door from cell phone with the help of internet connection from any places. The outcome was a workable app.    • Human Development Foundation - Installment Collection Database Management, Fall 2017  An installment collection database management system where html, CSS, AngularJS were used in the front-end and PHP has been used as a back-end language. It was an individual project.    • Formula SAE Simulator Project, Spring 2016  Built a simulator for the AAMU Formula SAE Racing car by myself and supervised by professor using Arduino and servo motors and joysticks.    • Real-time Air Traffic Control Simulation Using Microsoft Azure, Spring 2018  Built an Air-Traffic Control (ATC) app individually supervised by professor that shows simulated aircraft flying through an ATC sensor and warn user when aircraft get too close to each other.    PERSONAL PROJECT  • E-commerce online services  An e-commerce servlet based web application on JVM using Spring Framework using Core module for the fundamental part. Created Bean module to implement the factory pattern. Also I have implemented the Transaction module to support the programmatic transaction management for classes that implements special interfaces. This is a Maven build project to manage builds, documentation, reporting, dependencies, releases, distribution where I used MySQL database, Hibernate for ORM to integrate and map the layers of JPA, and AngularJS and Bootstrap4 for UI development, SLF4J for User Logging facility. Continuous application functionality testing by JUnit. Using GitHub for commit, stage operations to the master branch of git repository in terms of version control.