Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer New Jersey Wildlife and Game Refuge, NJ PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY    • Java/J2EE developer with almost 6 years of professional IT experience in software analysis, design, development and implementation of client-server and web-based n-tier architecture systems.  • Solid background in Java concepts like Exception handling, Multi-threading, Synchronization, Serialization, IO, Collections framework, Java Beans, Executor Services, Thread pools.  • Experience in implementing JAVA/J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSF, JSP, JNDI, RMI, JMS, DOM, JAXB and JDBC.  • Experience in OOAD (Object Oriented analysis and design), MVC architecture (Model, View and Controller) and OOP (Object Oriented Programming).  • Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Incremental & Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model. To track the progress of Agile process used JIRA.  • Experience in developing applications in domains like Insurance and Finance.  • Experience in creating UML models and diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Experience in developing projects in JAVA/J2EE platforms using ICE faces, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Struts Framework, Web Services and web frameworks such as AJAX, GWT, and jQuery.  • Hands on experience in using Hibernate and JPA.  • Developed web GUI involving HTML5, Node JS, Java Script under MVC architecture  • Implemented applications with Scala along with Spring and Play framework  • Experience in deploying applications using Web Sphere, Web Logic, and JBoss Application Servers.  • Implemented business objects and coded business logic using Core Java/Groovy.  • Used Jenkins and Ansible with Maven to run the automated deployment process in AWS environment.  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE design patterns and Angular JS.  • Used Apache Camel to route Web Service calls in Red Hat JBoss Developer Studio (IDE)  • Used iBATIS Framework to automates the mapping between objects and SQL databases in Java  • Experience as UI Developer and web development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS/LESS, DHTML,XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, DOM, BOOTSTRAP, AngularJS, NodeJS.  • Experienced in deploying and maintaining J2EE APPLICATIONS in Web Sphere (WAS), Web Logic, and JBoss, Tomcat servers.  • Experience in various Message queues like JMS framework and RabbitMQ.  • Developed an application using EmberJs to help manage foundations day to day activities.  • Excellent skills and good understanding of MQ clustering concepts.  • Experience in Consuming REST Services in Angular2 using http methods.  • Experience in Apache Solar search platform and Lucene Java Library.  • Experience in building and managing Docker containers.  • Experience in building Micro services and service-oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Good familiarity with cloud and Microservices in Fully distributed systems.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka and Play framework.  • Developer experienced in Automating, Configuring and deploying instances on AWS, Azure, PCF, cloud environments and Data centers  • Build and manage Docker containers and images using Docker- Java libraries  • Experience in database design and implementation using different RDBMS like Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Oracle, MySQL, and DB2.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing Python script to fetch data from main Database to team Database  • Used GWT and AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation  • Implementing Spring MVC with Spring Boot which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations.  • Using SpringMVC framework to better control the presentation, business and navigational aspects of the applications  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Implementing Spring MVC with Spring Boot which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations.  • Developed Micro Service to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such Hibernate ,JPA and messaging engines.  • Increased efficiency of environment setup to become 80% faster by using Spring Boot &Maven to simplify configuration, development, and deployment.    TECHNICIAL SKILLS  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, LESS, SASS, XML, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery  Programming Languages C, Java, Python, PL/SQL  Frameworks & Libraries AngularJS, Angular 2/4/5/6, Bootstrap, Node.js, ReactJs  Application Servers Web Logic, WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss  Databases Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g, SQL, MySQL, Mongo DB    Professional Summary:    Client: S&P Global, Princeton, NJ Apr'18 - Present  Role: AWS/ Java Developer    Our monolithic business application which detects the machine data and result the faults by taking multiple parameters. Primarily these are applied to industrial machinery. So, for this application the data need to be published and subscribed using MQTT and results need to be stored in database and view in graphical UI and integrating this workflow with AWS Green grass and Azure IOT Edge. Agile workflow is used in project development. My role in this project is to develop the required components for our monolithic business application in python and store the data from our application into database and view the data in Graphical UI. Work Experience Java Developer Tiaa-Cref September 2017 to March 2018 Description:  Provides an innovative approach to inventory management that addresses equipment loss and which will provide loss prevention and ready, easy access to available equipment. The system will allow the tracking of equipment so an engineer who needs a particular piece can find it immediately. It also is a deterrent to equipment "walking out" of the labs. The time spent looking for a piece of equipment is reduced, lowers capital etc.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in business process analysis and requirement gathering for new customization.  • Created Use cases, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Followed AGILE software methodology in developing the system in an iterative and incremental manner.  • Involved in client-side development using HTML, CSS, JSP, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap  • Used Spring MVC and Spring Web Flow to implement business logic, validation framework and tiles framework for Layouts.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  • Implemented Spring AOP for admin services and IOC to provide architectural flexibility.  • Implemented various types of spring controllers as per application requirements, spring validations, persistence layer, DAO and service layer components using Spring Hibernate API and spring hibernate annotations.  • Integrated Kafka source to read the payment confirmation messages  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring  • Worked in adding new product features, bug fixes, and transitioning Account pages to the new platform using React JS.  • Proficient in using React JS for creating reusable components along with sliders, charts, grids and handling events and DOM objects.  • Extensively used Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Having experience on client-side deployments on their servers or AWS cloud  • Worked on implementing SOAP based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Design develop and testing of SOA using SOA web services and Oracle fusion middleware.  • Maintained cross browser compatibility & implemented responsive design using twitter Bootstrap, Custom media queries etc.  • Developed programs in Python to perform data analytics on Insurance and Acruarial Pricing data  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka and Play framework.  • Contributed in designing JAVA-JNI Interface layer between JAVA and C++ implementations in MW-Grid (Medieval Warfare on the Grid) project.  • Utilized RabbitMQ as the messaging middleware  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS (EC2/EBS)  • Worked on migrating the old java stack to Type safe stack using Scala for backend programming.  • Deployment/Delivery as an iterative process and Automation of Infrastructure as Code Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, RDS, EBS, and ELB through AWS Services/Packages.  • Involved in implementing the changes in user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX, Ember JS.  • Used AngularJS to create Single Page Applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Used RabbitMQ messaging queue for storing of multiple requests.  • Responsible for creating the release build (both Java and flex) in UAT, Live and AWS Cloud.  • Performed strategic analysis and design of MQ infrastructure  • Designed and Developed new User Interactive Web pages with the help of HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS/LESS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Designed and developed multi-threaded and multi-process communication system in C++ using open MPI library and LINUX.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Used My Eclipse IDE, configured and deployed the applications onto Web Logic application server  • Implemented test cases using Junit testing framework & configured applications on Web Logic application server.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, SOAP, SOA, MySQL, My Eclipse, Kafka, Web Logic, Scala, Python, AWS, JPA, JSP, IBM Rational Application Developer, JMS, Log4j, JIRA, JUNIT, JMOCK, Linux, ANT, Shell script, Clear Case, Rational Rose, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, ELB,MS Visio, MS Office, MS Project. Java/J2EE Developer Cigna 2016 to August 2017 Description:  Cigna provisioning allows internal teams to provision users to get access to various organizations, services through accounts. For example, organization can be an insurance organization and services can be different types of insurance coverage's.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, coding and testing of the project.  • Implemented "Model View Control (MVC)" architecture to isolate each layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and customization.  • Used J2EE front-end design patterns in implementing Struts framework.  • Used JSP, AJAX and jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Used Struts framework for configuration and implementation of presentation and business layers.  • Used EJB as a middleware in designing and developing a three-tier distributed application.  • Persistence layer was developed using Hibernate with JPA.  • Worked on development of customer switcher module on .com website using Play/Akka framework.  • Worked with Play framework and Akka parallel processing.  • Developed Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data between two interfaces.  • Used SAX parser and SAX APIs to parse and read XML files.  • Developed on open source Scala frameworks including Spring and Play Building a finance product suite targeted for private banking and wealth management using Scala and JEE.  • Used JMS and Message Driven Beans (MDB) to download XML messages.  • Responsible for generation of jar/war/ear files using Maven tool and deployed in Web Logic Application Server.  • Junit, JMock Frameworks were used for performing unit and integration testing by writing test cases.  • Used SVN for version control and Eclipse as IDE.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP 1.1, HTML, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, Python, Struts1.1, EJB, Hibernate, JPA, SOAP, WSDL, Apache Axis2, XML, SAX, JMS, MDB, Maven, Web Logic, Junit, JMock, Eclipse, Linux. Associate Java Developer HSBC - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to July 2015 Description:  HSBC is responsible for handling the problems when a customer has an issue (Financial Center or Contact Center). Agents will be the user of this application. They log this issue and work through it from beginning through resolution with approximately 10,000+ user base.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Involved in developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework.  • Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns Namely Session Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in the application.  • Translating the business requirements in to coding (C, C++) and meet the project deadlines on time.  • Extensive use of C++ Templates and Shared_ Ptrs and Boost STL.  • Modified Account View functionality to enable display of blocked accounts details that have tags. This involved modifying beans, JSP changes and middle tier enhancements.  • Extensively used Spring JDBC in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  • Used JAXB API to bind XML Schema to java classes.  • Involved in Units integration using JUnit, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Used CVS for version control and Maven as a build tool.  • Built the framework based on the principles of OOPS and Design Patterns using C/C++ and JAVA in open MPI and LINUX based cluster environment.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Used JBoss Application Server to deploy application.    Environment: UML, Rational Rose, Java, JSP, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring, EJB, Spring JDBC, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, XML, XSLT, JAXB, Oracle, JUnit, CVS, Maven, Log4j, Clear Quest, JBoss, Eclipse, Agile development process, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Git, Svn, Eclipse, Photoshop, Windows 10, Adobe photoshop Additional Information Methodologies Agile and Waterfall  Version Controls SVN, GIT, Putty  Operating system Windows 10/8/7  IDE & Tools Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Adobe Photoshop, Chrome Developer Tools, Microsoft Suite.