IT Business Analyst IT Business Analyst IT Business Analyst Detail and process-oriented IT Analyst with 6+ years of experience in Information Technology.  Looking forward to contributing to the organization through proven skills in testing, analyzing, reviewing  business requirements and user stories. At Siemens Medical Solutions analyzed, gathered requirements,  tested, tracked issues, also participated in discussions with the development teams and internal and  external clients and prioritized 100% of the user requirements and set a release schedule for the  commission team. Work Experience IT Business Analyst Siemens Medical Customer Solutions Group - Malvern, PA April 2008 to March 2010 Siemens Customers commissions group was responsible for the commission's compensation for the Siemens Healthcare Sales team.    ? Requirements gathering for the commissions tool.  ? User Acceptance for the new rollouts of the commissions tool.  ? Extract commission data and provide data analysis support.  ? Create and run reports for the Financial analysts.  ? Number of production job executions reduced by 60% in a month.  ? Data collection turnaround increased by 30%.  ? Updated the intranet site to be a one stop shop for commissions department.  ? Mentored Financial Analysts on technical aspects of the system.  ? Wrote Excel macros to enable better views of data for different roles. Federal APD, MI, Java Developer Kalsh Consulting LLC February 2007 to May 2007 Federal Automated Parking (FAPD) application is used to manage airport parking lots.    ? Analyzing and implementing business rules specific to the ticketing and billing system.  ? Coding and testing for the ticketing and billing system.  ? Code review of peer developer.  ? Ensuring adherence of existing source code and version control management using CVS.  ? Resolving customer issues and integration testing the fixes.  ? Reduction in regression issues by 30%.  ? Customer reported issues reduced by 50%. PA, Oracle Developer Kalsh Consulting LLC October 2006 to January 2007 The project was a proof of concept for an organizational unit involved in the manufacturing of building  products like flooring, ceiling, cabinets, false roofs and many other products. It was to receive and handle  data from its clients worldwide on daily basis.    ? Collecting user requirements and preparing the specifications for program units.  ? Developed SQL queries for fixing inconsistent and erroneous data.  ? Created SQL Functions and packages to validate the data-using TOAD.  ? Debugging, editing and testing the program.  ? Data errors during production reduced by 50%.  ? Downtime during upgrades reduced by 25%. Analyst Integrated Management Systems Inc December 2004 to November 2005 Service Level Agreement maintained at 100% for different accounts.  ? Downtime during infrastructure change reduced by 20%.  ? Resolution time for Problems and Changes reduced by 50%.  ? Training new hires on the process and responsibilities. Education Certificate Great Valley Penn State - Valley, Penn, US 2016 B. S. in Engineering Mangalore University, Nitte Institute of Technology - Mangalore, Karnataka Skills Sql, Cvs, Project plan, Itil, Java, Microsoft project, Excel, Microsoft excel, Business analysis, Requirements gathering, User stories, Test cases, Cases Additional Information Areas of Expertise    • Requirements Gathering • Designing Test Cases  • Writing User Stories    Skills    • Crystal Business Objects • Toad  • HP Quality Center • Java  • Microsoft Excel • CVS  • Microsoft Project Plan • ITIL  • SQL • Agile Business Analysis