Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Lumeris St. Louis, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Lumeris - St. Louis, MO January 2018 to Present Responsibilities  ? Upgraded to Java 1.8 for reducing the amount of code and compilation time using Lambda Functions, Default and Static Methods in Interfaces.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Building Microservice systems by utilizing Spring, Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Spring Data JPA is used as a Data Access Layer to retrieve data from the Database Layer.  ? Designed Resource URI's for developing REST Web Services and used Swagger as a tool for generating Request and Responses.  ? Used frameworks like GOOGLE GSON, JACKSON to parse JSON data  ? Implemented quartz jobs for running the batch jobs based on the cron triggers configured in the spring files.  ? To build communication between Offboard and Onboard layers we use Kafka as messaging service.  ? Implemented Docker environment to deploy Microservices in modern containers to increase Isolation.  ? Worked on integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor spring microservices using Circuit Breaker.  ? Deployed Docker images on AWS EC2 instances and used S3 buckets to store old Docker images and documents.  ? Used Amazon API Gateway for traffic management, authorization, monitoring and maintaining API version for all API's which are running on EC2  ? For managing Application stack, used Elastic Beanstalk (EBS) which helped in configuring and managing servers, database containers and Elastic load balancer (ELB).  ? Implemented Token based authentication using OAuth 2.0 and propagate that into Request Header using JWT token.  ? Built FGA(Fine Grained Authorization) based on the JWT token received in to application.  ? Worked on system logging using Elastic search, Kibana, Logstash to create dashboards.  ? Used Mockito tool for performing Unit Testing and achieved 95% accuracy by using JACOCO tool with H2 database as a part of testing.  ? Worked on creating Jenkins pipeline to build CI job and to download the tar file into JFROG Artifactory.  ? Utilized Cassandra and PostgreSQL databases for different microservices to store data based on the requirement.  ? Created YML documents to handle microservices.  ? Used Gradle as a build tool to download the Dependencies and to generate Artifacts for the project.    Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, Spring JPA, OAuth 2.0,Kafka, JSON, Jackson, GIT, Mockito, Gradle, Restful, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Docker, Microservices, Log4J, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, H2, YML, RALLY, STS, Jenkins, JACOCO, Postman J2EE Developer Wells Fargo - St. Louis, MO January 2017 to December 2017 Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, jQuery, JSP, Agile, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Servlets, Junit, REST, JAX-WS, Log4j, PL/SQL, web services, AWS, WebLogic Application Server, MySQL, Mockito, Log4j, RAD, Gradle, JIRA, SVN.  Project Description: This position is responsible for designing, writing technical specifications, coding and supporting moderately complex software programming applications using Java, J2E, JavaScript, Hibernate, MySQL, JDK, UNIX, Corn, and Shell Scripting. Develops, modifies, and maintains applications that may be customized or standardized. Participates in design and coding activities with other staff members.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Involved in the front end using JSP, jQuery, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Developed applications in AngularJS and deployed into development, test, and production environment successfully.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using Restful web services by using Jersey.  • Used Java API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS) to convert Java Objects to XML conversions.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSP, Spring, and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  • Interfaced with the MySQL back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.  • Used object storage container to store the secured files and retrieved from API by using Amazon web services (AWS).  • Worked with WebLogic application server that handles various requests from Client.  • Involved in testing the applicable code using Mockito framework and JUnit.  • Used Gradle tools for building and deploying the Web applications.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, jQuery, JSP, Agile, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Servlets, Junit, REST, JAX-WS, Log4j, PL/SQL, web services, AWS, WebLogic Application Server, MySQL, Mockito, Log4j, RAD, Gradle, JIRA, SVN. Full Stack Developer Parallon Healthcare - Nashville, TN February 2016 to December 2016 Description: Developing an online application for users named "My health calculator" which has various functions like plan benefits, account balance, costs and quality. Making sure the tool is accessed on various versions or platforms for mobiles and laptops. The tool having capability to cover nearly 80 geographic areas. Covering different treatments and procedures like surgeries, lab tests, radiology tests, office visits and more can be evaluated in the tool and check for the cost. Customer was provided with an option to select the procedure that is right for them. Customers can also compare the cost with the other health care providers.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture.  ? Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade and DAO.  ? Used spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP ORM and for back end tiers.  ? Developed screens using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  ? Developing and editing user Interface Screens using JSP, HTML5.0, JavaScript and Node.JS.  ? Used Ajax for sending and retrieving data from server by giving URL to get JSON data for models and to populate models from the server.  ? Responsible for design and development of Web pages using AngularJS, JavaScript including AJAX controls and XML.  ? Worked on Cross-browser Compatibility of UI pages, Implemented for internet browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, and IE 8/9/10/11.  ? Used a Micro services architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  ? Used Micro services are designed with the individual database and project with no dependencies.  ? Implemented OAuth functionality to build the user identity based on the JWT token generated by Authorization Server.  ? Used GitHub to maintain the versions of the source code of the project.  ? Used CI/CD technologies such GIT, Chef, Jenkins are used for developing and deploy web services.  ? Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application  ? Enhanced and deployed applications based on Micro Services using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, DI (IOC), Auto Wiring, JDBC Templates, Spring Security.  ? Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  ? Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  ? Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development, thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.    Environment: J2EE, Spring framework, Hibernate, JSON, AJAX, REST, SOAP, XML,GIT, Micro Services, Spring Boot, Apache CXF AngularJS, Rest,OAuth2, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM RAD, WebSphere, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY September 2015 to February 2016 Description: Citi Bank offers a broad array of financial, banking services etc. The system developed provides personal savings details of Citi bank Customers. It offers a broad array of financial clients and as per the users account status offers him to take up the new schemes enrolling with the bank. Upon the user's request it generates the reports of user details and submits it to the user. Advertises other mutual benefits and keeps track of the contact details of the users and updates them on an event if requested.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in (OOAD) analysis and design for the project and prepared the technical documents for a distributed architecture at enterprise level.  ? Designed table-less layouts, gradient effects, page layouts, navigation and icons using CSS and appropriate HTML tags and written client-side scripts using JAVASCRIPT and JQUERY.  ? Worked on XML technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to java objects.  ? Used JavaScript and Struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  ? Written Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Flex to implement business logic.  ? Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  ? Implemented Session Façade Pattern using Session and Entity Beans.  ? Developed Web Service provider methods (bottom up approach) using WSDL and REST for transferring data between the applications.  ? Implemented the Struts framework based on MVC design pattern.  ? Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  ? Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.  ? Involved in writing the struts-config files and implemented the Struts Tag library.  ? Version Control was mandated through GIT.  ? Used Struts for web tier development and created Struts Action to handle the requests.  ? Created WebSphere 7 profiles and deploy the applications in the form of EARs.  ? Developed Session Beans and Entity Beans (JPA).  ? Responsible to writing JDBC programming to persist the data in Oracle database.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Used WebLogic for application deployment and Log4j used for Logging.  ? Used CVS version controlling tool and project build tool using ANT.  ? Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.    Environment: Java, JDK, Servlet, JavaScript, Struts, XML, JUnit, GIT, JPA, AJAX, JSP, DHTML, CSS, AWS, Web Services, WebSphere Application Server,Micro services, EJB, REST, JSON, Oracle, UML, JDBC, DAO, Eclipse, Log4J, CVS. Java Developer Target Corporation - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2014 to May 2015 Description: The Target Technology Services (TTS) team designs and creates innovative solutions for a variety of applications, platforms and environments. The project is about developing business to business(B2B) and business to consumer(B2C) service sales and exposed multiple web services where procurement/order delivery /shipping related details and will further parsing and persisting the response to the database will help to track the delivery, shipping, payment related information. Write, develop, and unit test software to solve complex problems; diagnose, isolate, and de-bug software problems; monitor systems capacity and performance.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in (OOAD) analysis and design for the project and prepared the technical documents for a distributed architecture at enterprise level.  ? Designed table-less layouts, gradient effects, page layouts, navigation and icons using CSS and appropriate HTML tags and written client-side scripts using JAVASCRIPT and JQUERY.  ? Worked on XML technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to java objects.  ? Used JavaScript and Struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  ? Written Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Flex to implement business logic.  ? Implemented the Struts framework based on MVC design pattern.  ? Involved in writing the struts-config files and implemented the Struts Tag library.  ? Used GIT for version management between various integration and development streams.  ? Used Struts for web tier development and created Struts Action to handle the requests.  ? Developed Session Beans and Entity Beans (JPA).  ? Responsible to writing JDBC programming to persist the data in Oracle database.  ? Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping and used Log4j for enhanced debugging.  ? Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Used WebLogic for application deployment and Log4j used for Logging.  ? Used CVS version controlling tool and project build tool using ANT.  ? Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.    Environment: Java, JDK, Servlet, JavaScript, Struts, GIT, XML, JUnit, JPA, AJAX, JSP, DHTML, CSS, Web Services, EJB, REST, JSON, Oracle, UML, JDBC, DAO, Eclipse, Log4J, CVS. Education Master's in MSITM Campbellsville University - St. Louis, MO January 2018 to Present Skills Angular, Java, Javascript, C#, Jquery, Java (5 years), HTML, XML, Linux, SQL, Sql Server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL  Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL.  Tools and Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP,  Spring Security, JSF, Junit, SOAP UI, JReport, Rational Rose, RabbitMQ, Spring Boot.    Build Tools ANT, Vagrant, Maven, Docker and Jenkins.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, CVS and GIT.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON Restful, AngularJS, AJAX, NodeJS.  J2SE/J2EE Technologies Java, J2EE, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, Jakarta Struts, JSF, EJB, JTA, JNDI, JPA, JMS.  Methodologies Agile, Test Driven Development, Waterfall.  Databases Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, MS SQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB, NoSQL, Cassandra.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Web logic Application server, JBOSS, Camel.  XML Technologies XML, XSL, DOM, SAX, DTD, XQuery, XSD and XSLT.  IDE / Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite (STS), RAD, Adobe Dreamweaver.  Testing Tools / Others Kafka, Mockito, Soap UI, SLF4J, Log4j and JIRA.  Messaging Systems Kafka, IBM MQ and Active MQ  Web Services SOAP, Micro services, JAX-RPC, WSDL, JAX-RS JAX-WS, UDDI, JAX-B, CFX, Restful.  Cloud Technologies Pivotal Cloud, AWS EC2.