Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Software Developer at Google Ewing, NJ I'm a self-motivated Software Engineer with good communication skills and a passion for problem solving. I recently started interning at the Google Sites team as a Full-Stack Software Engineer. I am able to learn new programming languages and frameworks quickly due to my strong understanding of fundamental Computer Science principles.    After my internship I will complete my final semester of college. I'm graduating a semester early! In my free time I love to learn new programming languages (Kotlin and TypeScript, most recently), build novel web applications, and learn more about Computer Science. I am always looking for ways to grow as a computer scientist.    If you'd like to see some of my projects, take a look at my GitHub profile (https://github.com/TomerAberbach). If you have any questions about my projects or work experience, send me a message! Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Google - New York, NY May 2019 to Present Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Closure Templates   • Working on the Google Sites team to develop a feedback feature for ensuring sites remain current.   • Building a fully asynchronous backend with Java and a modular frontend with a component-based JavaScript framework.   • Internationalizing the existing email infrastructure by implementing proper text alignment for right-to-left languages. Computer Science Department Tutor The College of New Jersey - Ewing, NJ April 2018 to May 2019 Java, C++, C, PostgreSQL, Regular Expressions   • Assisted and tutored TCNJ students in their computer science coursework ranging from introductory concepts such as methods, inheritance, and polymorphism to data structures, discrete math, algorithms, computer architecture, operating systems, and databases. Full Stack Web Developer MERCER STREET FRIENDS - Trenton, NJ January 2019 to February 2019 Ruby, PostgreSQL, HTML, SCSS | Rails, SendGrid  • Implemented a novel MVC full stack web application with Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL for the Trenton-based non-profit organization, Mercer Street Friends, to effectively publicize the positive impacts of its charitable work.  • Applied the principles of responsive web design to provide a pleasant user experience on desktop, tablet, and mobile devices. Java Tutor Varsity Tutors September 2017 to May 2018 Java  • Developed and provided regularly scheduled personally tailored lessons on AP Computer Scienceto high school students in an online one-on-one setting. Undergraduate Student Researcher The College of New Jersey - Ewing, NJ June 2017 to July 2017 Java, Python | Weka, SVMLight, LIBSVM, scikit-learn, SLURM  • Collaborated with another student in a selective 8-week full-time undergraduate research program.  • Developed an automated machine learning curve analysis infrastructure.  • Implemented active learning stopping methods to train accurate text classifiers with the minimal amount of training data required.  • Quantified the effectiveness of the different methods using variance and Cohen's kappa. Undergraduate Student Researcher The College of New Jersey - Ewing, NJ January 2017 to May 2017 Java, Python | Weka, scikit-learn, SLURM  • Collaborated with a small team (5) to test machine learning algorithms with varying amounts of training data.  • Developed a text normalization and feature extraction algorithm for text classification using regular expressions, stop words, and term frequency-inverse document frequency. Animator TSIG Consulting July 2016 to August 2016 Animated two promotional videos for TSIG Consulting's softwares, ECRounds and RoPET, which were presented at a convention and on TSIG's website. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science The College of New Jersey - Ewing, NJ September 2017 to Present Skills Kotlin, Java, JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML, CSS, SCSS, C, Ruby, LaTeX, Markdown, Regular Expressions, PostgresSQL, C++, C#, Closure Templates, Python, Handlebars, Jade, Bash, Git, Node.js, Rails, Gulp.js, Rollup.js, JavaFX, ANTLR, Bison, Flex, Web Development, Software Development, Asynchronous Programming, Compilers, Music Theory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tomer-a/ https://github.com/TomerAberbach https://tomeraberba.ch Awards Dean's List 6/6 Semesters Golden Key Member (Top 15%) UPE Honor Society Additional Information PDF Resume:  https://tomeraberba.ch/other/resume.pdf