Job Seeker Fairfield, IA Highly accomplished full-stack java developer with more than 5 years of in-depth experience in the complete full-stack design, development, implementation and deployment of complex application systems through their entire life cycle(SDLC).Proficient in a broad range of competencies including front / back end, data intensive applications, dependency injection, JVM and memory management. Exceptional ability to identify potential issues to avoid problems and meet all project requirements. Work Experience Photo Sharing Web App, MUM 2019 to Present 2019): Allows user to create an account and share posts based on the category of choice, in addition to capability of commenting, posting, and editing. Technologies used included Thymeleaf, Spring Boot (Microservices), REST, Spring Security, MySQL, and Eureka Service Discovery. Photo Sharing Web App, MUM 2019 to Present Single-page Web App that allows viewers to scroll through multiple package trips, including hotel and air for multiple countries. Consumers select tip preferences and book online and view pricing calculated by the app. Technologies used included JWT authentication, Angular, Express, NodeJS, and MongoDB. Transcendental Meditation Attendance Checker Web App Photo Sharing Web App, MUM 2019 to Present Records attendance (manually or reading bar code data) and generates reports using different selection criteria and multiple formats.  Technologies used included Thymeleaf, Spring Boot, Spring Security, H2 in Memory Database. Software Engineer GLOBAL VOICE GROUP - Kampala, UG 2017 to 2018 Kampala, Uganda • 2017-2018  International leader in development / implementation of ICT solutions for governments and regulatory agencies with intent of increasing tax revenues while promoting transparency.    Software Engineer  Developed comprehensive applications, using Agile methodologies throughout the complete SDLC. Key leader in designing back-end business logic, front- end, and database.    Tasks Performed:  • Played key role in developing end-to-end web applications to efficiently process large scale data using Spring MVC framework with Rest API.  • Integrated functional, rich user interfaces that enhance user experience, using JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, and HTML CSS, and building background process to allow remote web service calls to pull / store data and files.  • Developed and maintained multiple RESTful web services using Spring Boot, applying JSON to send / receive data, and Hibernate for object mapping.  • Analyzed complex requirements and collaborated with managers, stakeholders, and users to expertly develop ICT solutions to meet demands of varied work projects.  • Performed advanced development, programming, enhancement, testing, and maintenance to virtually eliminate system downtime via timely resolution of potential issues.    703-634-8259 •henockberhane@outlook.com•linkedin.com/in/henock-berhane    GLOBAL VOICE GROUP )  Software Engineer    Achievements:  • Delivered 55% performance improvement by implementing targeted recommendations on basis of expert system analysis.  • Successfully designed / implemented 3-tier applications.  • Simultaneously managed multiple business-critical IT / development projects, and consistently met deadlines and budgetary guidelines.    Technologies Used: Java, JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap, Material, HTML, CSS, JSON, Spring (Boot, MVC), Hibernate, JPA. Software Engineer FAQ OF UNITED NATIONS - Addis Ababa, ET 2014 to 2017 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia • 2014-2017  Specialized agency of the UN targeting hunger elimination and higher standards of living by improving agricultural productivity.    Software Engineer  Collaborated in the development / maintenance of open source software projects / systems to support offices in multiple countries and train them on best practices.    Tasks Performed:  • Drove continuous process improvement by designing multiple software solutions to enhance efficiencies across business processes, systems, work flow, and end-user responsiveness.  • Performed front-end development with Angular and other emerging technologies.  • Directed data entry into newly developed web app, completed in record time.  • Translated business requirements into technical tasks via design discussions and mock-ups.  • Upgraded major projects for current browser by using Single Page Application (SPA) technologies.  Achievements:  • Decreased monthly error rates to record lows (from 1.8% to 0.02%), based on expertise and ability to influence organizational culture to adopt emerging standards for software development architecture and tools.  • Increased new business in the shortest time by participating in Agile software development team that produced high-quality software products tailored to customer needs.  • Ensured compliance with best practices and organizational standards via close collaboration with Quality Assurance, Information Security, and User Experience functions.    Technologies Used: Java, JavaScript, Angular, Hibernate, Bootstrap, Material, HTML, CSS, JSON, MS SQL, MySQL, Git, Jenkins, Windows. Java Developer INFINETH SOLUTIONS - Addis Ababa, ET 2013 to 2014 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia •2013-2014  Private company providing ICT solutions to corporate, governmental, and non-government entities.    Java Developer  Designed and developed IT solutions by creating entirely new systems, developing modifications, or supporting existing software applications.    Tasks Performed:  • Developed multiple enterprise-level business solutions.  • Collaborated in creation of dynamic, secure Web Application with strong visual appeal and user-friendly interface using Java Spring MVC Architecture.    703-634-8259 •henockberhane@outlook.com•linkedin.com/in/henock-berhane    INFINETH SOLUTIONS )  Java Developer    Tasks Performed:  • Integrated a web application for dashboard using Spring MVC framework on back-end, and JQuery, Javascript, HTML on user interface.  • Designed and maintained data layer using Hibernate, with an API to generate oauth2-based access token.  • Applied Agile methodology such as Sprint planning, Story review, and SCRUM Board Meetings.    Achievements:  • Maintained system availability by minimizing downtime, pro-actively addressing performance issues, and constantly re-programming, testing, and debugging to maintain optimal performance.  • Contributed to successful test-driven development model using Junit.    Technologies Used: Java, JavaScript, Angular, Hibernate, Bootstrap, Material, HTML, CSS, JSON, MongoDB, Git, Jenkins, Windows. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA June 2021 Master of Science in Information Systems Management in Information Systems Management University of Salford - Manchester 2017 Bachelor of Science in Electrical & Computer Engineering in Electrical & Computer Engineering Addis Ababa University - Addis Ababa, ET 2013