Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Synergistic IT Newark, CA Oracle certified Java 8 programmer with good analytical thinking and good coding skill is offering a strong foundation in software engineering and programming principles across multiple platforms. 3+ years experience in problem analyzing and solving, object-oriented programming and developing, and testing and debugging code. Extensive experience in Core Java and related technologies such as JDBC, JSP/Servlet, Hibernate 4, Spring framework 4, and Oracle databases. Experience with web-based technologies such as Tomcat 8.5, SOAP and RESTful web services, HTML5/CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 5, and the MEAN stack development. Working in a small teams with Github as version control. Adaptive to learning new technologies that will be released in the near or distant future. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Synergistic IT - Fremont, CA March 2018 to Present Banking Application: The application allows customers to create account, change/reset password, get email reminder, deposit and withdraw money, transfer funds, and check transaction history. The application offers a central portal for customers and the bank management to record, monitor, and generate reports of financial data.    Tasks:  ? Use Spring Security to implement authentication and authorization  ? Use Spring Scheduler to send email reminder periodically or after a fixed delay  ? Use Spring Transaction management to manage transferring money between customers.  ? Design and implement the application using Spring MVC framework  ? Use Spring Hibernate Template to update and retrieve information from the database.  ? Created test coverage for the web services by using Junit and Mockto.  ? Experience with Core Java with MultithreadingConcurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  ? Configured and managed corresponding Oracle database.    Technologies: Java 8, Hibernate 4, Micro Services Architecture, MySQL 5, Spring MVC, HTML5/CSS, JavaScript, Jsp/Servlet, Tomcat 8.5, Git    Shopping Application: Created a shopping web application using the MEAN stack.  Homepage displayed all the products with images. A customer can check products in different categories and/or in different price ranges. Click an image to get information about a single product. Click a product and put it into cart. The customer will receive an email notification about the information of products he/she just purchased.    Tasks:  ? Design and implement Homepage using Bootstrap, HTML/CSS  ? Design and implement a functionality to show products in different categories and/or in different price range.  ? Implement order functionality that a customer can put products into a shopping cart and take out of the shopping cart at any time before checkout.  ? Implement checkout functionality: a customer can check the products in the shopping cart  ? Implement email functionality: a customer will receive an email after confirm checkout    Technologies:Spring Boot 1.5, Angular 5, HTML5/CSS, Node.JS, Expression, MongoDB, Bootstrap 4 Software engineer, Code for Social Good October 2017 to March 2018 Contribute to build a Web application: https://test.calltocode.org    Tasks:  ? Login page: when a user log in, he need to fill email address and password, and submit only after both the two fields have at least one character.  ? Project list page: a list of projects that show error marker (?). The error mark would change into a check mark (?) after the user click to apply it.  ? A manager can sees a list of her project, when he/she click one of the project, he/she can see a list of users who had applied to his/her projects  ? Landing page: Combine landing page sections into a single Lander component    Technologies: React JS, Github, MongoDB Software developer, Freelance September 2016 to September 2017 Design and develop a Student System. Admin can add a student into the database, and delete, read, and update Student information, upload .csv or .txt file and save the content into the database. A student can view graphical chart which show graphical comparisons between students' marks.  Technologies: Spring Boot 1.2, Hibernate 4, JPA, MySQL 5, JavaScript, HTML5/CSS    ? Front end implementation of pet shopping application  Technologies: React JS, MongoDB    ? Web base application Jan 2016---- Sep 2016  Design web applications to access a student system stored in xml files using JavaServer Faces (JSF) and Java Servlet technologies.  Design a web application to send and receive email using EJB as server-side component.  Design a web application to access a database using JDBC driver. Course grader California State University - East Bay, CA January 2015 to March 2015 Tasks:  ? Grading CS course "Introduction of Programming Concept" Education Master Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University 2016 Master Degree in Applied Chemistry Beijing University of Chemical Technology June 2003 Bachelor degree in Fine Chemistry in Fine Chemistry University of Science and Technology Liaoning June 1999 Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, Servlet, Javascript, Mysql, Pl/sql, Sql, Python, Spring Boot, Angular, React Links https://github.com/Mongolialady https://www.linkedin.com/in/haiyan-huang-228b2111b/ Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Java Se 8 Programmer August 2018 to Present Oracle Certified Professional Java Se 8 Programmer December 2018 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? IDE: Visual Studio 2012, Eclipse Oxygen 4.7, NetBeans 8.0, IntelliJ 14.6  ? Languages: Java 1.8, C++ 11, Python 2.7/3.2  ? Systems: Windows, Unix/Linux, MacOS  ? Database: Oracle 11g, Hibernate, MySQL 5, Oracle SQL*Plus, PL/SQL  ? Web related: Angular 5, React JS, Spring 4/Spring Boot 1.5, JSP/servlet, JSF 2.0, EJB, XML, XSL, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript ES 6,  ? Testing Framework: JUnit 4.12, Python 2.7 unit test  ? Project management tool, build tools and version control system: Maven, Github