NETSUITE DEVELOPER NETSUITE <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> NETSUITE DEVELOPER - YETI Austin, TX • Around 5 years of IT experience in diverse areas of SDLC, which includes Requirement Analysis, Implementation, Development, Testing, Maintenance and leading of Enterprise scale multi-tier server/client-side applications.  • Experience on NetSuite Development/Administration, NetSuite for ERP with suite cloud platforms Suite Script and Suite Flow, areas and application programming interfaces(APIs).  • Experience in Handling NetSuite customizations using NetSuite's JavaScript API  • In-depth experience implementing workflow solutions using NetSuite Workflow Manager (Suite Flow), Suite lets, User Event scripts, Client scripts, Scheduled scripts and Map/Reduce Script. NetSuite customizations using NetSuite's JavaScript API.  • Experience in working on cross functional modules in the environment of Order-to-Cash (O2C) and Procure-to-Pay (P2P) cycles.  • Extensively worked on Master Data cleanup, Data Migration from Legacy systems to NetSuite using NetSuite CSV import and Migrations through Integrations.  • Improved various NetSuite modules and increased efficiency in business procedures by developing process automation using Suite scripts.  • Used Suite Bundler to deliver and deploy NetSuite customizations to the production environment from sandbox.  • Wrote custom scripts (User Event, Client, Scheduled) to perform critical business operations within NetSuite in JavaScript.  • Experience in ICTO, TO and Inventory Management.  • Experience with Netsuite modules mainly in AP, AR, GL and COGS.  • Development of Workflow Action scripts to accommodate business requirements.  • Develop, launch, and manage in-depth KPI's, dashboards and reports for all team functions at both management and individual level.  • Fully implemented NetSuite ERP modules along with full data migration of accounting, inventory, customer and vendor data from legacy systems.  • Documented and enforced the best practices for different business processes of different teams to accomplish better data management within the NetSuite system.  • Functional experience including configuration, requirements gathering, & writing business requirements.  • Understanding of common business practices related to accounting, sales operations, quote-to-cash  (including billing, revenue management, professional services, purchasing and fulfillment), finance, and order management.  • Experience in ability to work both independently and in cross-functional team environments managing and prioritizing multiple projects.  • In depth understanding in the areas of NetSuite configuration, customization, integration, data mapping, testing and cut-over to production  • Highly motivated, dynamic NetSuite technical specialist with strong technical skills.  • Strong Experience in Database Design, functions, Stored Procedures, Triggers and writing SQL Queries for data loads and extracts.  • Technical design/specification documents, detailing workflow processes, technical use cases, exception handling, and test cases Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NETSUITE DEVELOPER YETI - Austin, TX June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Work extensively with business on NetSuite ERP/CRM module including new Implementations, enhancements, Integrations and support.  • Implement and configure NetSuite to address business needs and processes, including system setup, Chart of Accounts, lead-to-order, order-to-cash, procure-to-pay, items & inventory management, Transfer Orders, fulfillment etc.  • Maintain proper system access for customized roles and users with restrict access, CSV Imports and automating process with workflows.  • Developed and managed reports, dashboards, scripts, KPI's, and custom workflows and enhanced integrations with other applications / systems.  • Extensively functional knowledge of the NetSuite Financials, Purchasing, Order Management and Inventory.  • NetSuite's project of cleaning up of data and automation of data entry for entity and transaction records using Suite scripts (which is based on JavaScript) and custom workflows.  • Used Suite Bundler to deliver and deploy NetSuite customizations to the production environment from sandbox.  • Data Migration from/to NetSuite using Dell Boomi connector from different systems like SAP, RMS, Sales Force.  • Build reports, saved searches and dashboards that provide comprehensive and forward-looking Business Intelligence.  • Developed, planned, and managed legacy system data migration using the CSV Data Import Process.  • Creation of NetSuite forms, transaction PDFs, workflows, scripts, roles to support company's channels structure and business rules.  • Perform upgrades business flow functionality twice a year using the release instance/Special Upgrade sandbox and Keep up to date with changes and new features.  • Involved in daily delivery of NetSuite including customization, scripting and support escalation. Developed customizations and enhancements in accordance with business requirements using custom records, forms and Suitescripts within the Sandbox environment.  • Created test cases and lead User Acceptance Testing (UAT) with core client stakeholders to ensure system configuration objectives have been met.  • Successful administration of NetSuite, including user and role management, troubleshooting, and end user support  • Extensively worked with Users to customize their dashboards and built unique dashboards to publicize onto specific roles. NETSUITE CONSULTANT CVS Health - Monroeville, PA June 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:    • Understanding of common business practices related to accounting, sales operations, quote-to-cash (including billing, revenue management, professional services, purchasing and fulfillment), finance, and order management.  • Experience in creating NetSuite reports like Cash Flow Statements, Chart of Accounts(COA), Income Statement, Trial Balance, Item Pending and Sales Order Fulfilment and Shipping reports for many customers.  • Implement and configure NetSuite to address business needs and processes, including system setup, Chart of Accounts, lead-to-order, order-to-cash, procure-to-pay, items& inventory management, fulfillment etc.  • Experience with NetSuite ERP, Accounting, Finance modules of Accounts Receivables, Accounts Payable and General Ledger, Inventory Management, and other modules of NetSuite  • Fully implemented NetSuite ERP and CRM modules along with full data migration of accounting, inventory, customer and vendor data from legacy systems.  • Worked on Creating Suite Scripts, such as User Event, Client, Suite let, scheduled scripts and Workflows for the functionality that goes behind all the UI forms.  • Worked with purchase order, sales orders, ICTOS and shipments.  • Worked on Suite Bundler to deliver and deploy NetSuite customizations to the production environment from sandbox.  • Build reports, saved searches and dashboards that provide comprehensive and forward-looking Business Intelligence.  • Developed custom financial and sales reports for clients, allowing senior management to efficiently make critical business decisions.  • Creation of NetSuite forms, transaction PDFs, workflows, scripts, roles to support company's channels structure and business rules.  • Merged accounts, cleaned duplicates.  • Customized Admin tabs for different business user's groups and centers.  • Developed, maintained, and enhanced integrations with other applications / systems.  • Maintained roles and permissions assigned to employees, provide on-going system/technical support to users, including training and access for all roles.  • Granted user access and created security audits.  • Ability to analyze web development issues in a timely manner with the capacity to multi-task in a dynamic environment.  • Daily administrating and Monitoring user & role management, troubleshooting and end user support on different NetSuite environments. NETSUITE ERP ADMIN Vox Valley Technologies - IN June 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:    • Worked extensively with business on NetSuite ERP/CRM module including new implementations, enhancements, integrations, support, and other special projects for different teams.  • Proficient in preparing various Project Documents and Functional Documents as Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Specifications Document/System Requirement Specifications (FSD/SRS).  • Functional experience including configuration, requirements gathering, & writing business requirements.  • Performed Business Process Mapping and Configuration for NetSuite ERP Application according to the identified and mapped client's requirements.  • Maintained roles and permissions assigned to employees, provide on-going system/technical support to users, including training and access for all roles.  • Customized Admin tabs for different business user's groups and centers.  • Planned, mapped and performed data migration into NetSuite for all clients.  • Helped in internal support tickets from different teams to customize entity/transaction forms, workflows, custom fields.  • Got trained in Suite Script fundamentals by Netsuite team.  • Fully implemented NetSuite ERP and CRM modules along with full data migration of accounting, inventory, customer and vendor data from legacy systems.  • Analyzing business requirements, technical gaps and design, coding, testing, and implementation of customizations within software environment.  • Created test scenarios in a Sandbox environment, developed code and implemented it on the Production environment.  • In depth understanding in the areas of NetSuite configuration, customization, integration, data mapping, testing and cut-over to production  • Experienced in creating custom fields, lists & records, customizing different types of forms, PDF/HTML Layouts and have good exposure to customizing roles, centers.  • Performed and managed master setups, transactions (order management), and payments. JAVA DEVELOPER Vox Valley Technologies - IN January 2013 to June 2013 Responsibilities:    • Involved in full life-cycle of the project from requirements gathering to transition.  • Worked in HTML, JSP and Java Script for creating the presentation layer.  • Created service components using different java design patterns and object-oriented concepts.  • Responsible for performing the backend database development for the modules developed. Extensively written SQL queries for storing, retrieving and updating.  • Created standalone process using core java for generating SQL queries for batch data load.  • Create and implemented web services which are used to communicate to other departments.  • Effectively used JavaScript Library for traversing the HTML document,  • Responsible for fixing the production issues and supported the application after pushing to the production.  • Extensively worked on Core Java coding and object-oriented design with strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading and Event/Exception handling.  • Hands-on experience in PL/SQL, SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers, functions and packages  • Extensive experience using integrated development environment like Eclipse  • Provided support for bug fixing on front end/back end issues for legacy application  • Practiced Agile Software Development in close coordination with a scrum master.  • Proven ability to analyze problems, root causes and develop innovative solutions to business challenges and streamlining operations.  • Proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly and utilizing the same in a productive manner Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University - Kingsville, TX Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Netsuite, Html, Scripting, Db2, Oracle Certifications/Licenses Driver's License