UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - AngularJS Single Page Applications (SPA) Carnegie, PA • Over 3 years of creative and knowledge gaining experience in developing software web applications with a skill set in UI such HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, REST API, JavaScript (ES6), object oriented JavaScript and several libraries and frameworks that include JQuery, AngularJs, ReactJS, Bootstrap, SASS & LESS, PHP etc with a background of java/J2EE development.  • Designed and developed Enterprise level multi-tier, Single-page web Applications and had working knowledge in E-Commerce platform.  • Strong experience with advanced JavaScript concepts like Closures, Prototypes, Inheritance, promises, call backs, functional programming, OOPS and Asynchronous programming.  • Experience in developing software-using SDLC, Agile/Scrum methodologies with JIRA. Hibernate, Web Services (REST), XML, JUnit,  • Experienced in developing and designing the responsive web forms and mobile applications  • Experienced in a fast paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD), Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) and Scrum. Experience in using Integration tools like Jenkins.  • Responsible for the ongoing maintenance and future planning needs of the company's desktop environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer AngularJS Single Page Applications (SPA) - Pittsburgh, PA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developing Frontend web applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, JavaScript, Angular JS, React Js.  • Experience with Building and maintaining AngularJS Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit and Integration testing during the projects. Used Restful web services to call for POST, PUT, and DELETE and GET methods.  • Worked in large and small teams for systems requirement, design & development.  • Used CVS for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to IBM Web Server.  • Worked with Power Mockito and Mockito unit test framework to write unit tests for Java code. Simultaneously worked on Jasmine and karma test frame work for coding.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Worked as a part of Agile Software Development Methodology including Scrum technology. Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.    Environment: GIT, Maven, IBM Urban Code Deploy, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Spring MVC, Soap and Restful web services, Junit, Mockito and Power Mockito, Struts2, ReactJs, Oracle 11g. UI developer MindCraft Software Private Ltd January 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities  ? Analyzed the requirements based on business data and user requirements.  ? This project was built with the intention for tracking and controlling the sales of the company.  ? Change Request Development and Testing of the application.  ? Provided immediate support in maintaining the current state of facilities at Perryman company, as well as aiding with the addition of new landscape and machinery. I worked closely with other Maintenance Support members, as well as the Head Maintenance Team, to ensure that the tasks.  ? This project was built with the intention for tracking and controlling the sales of the company.  ? Change Request Development and Testing of the application.  ? The application consists of a few codes and calculators. I have added around 10 calculators and 4 Codes to the application. Also the application has the Enquiry section for financial questions called "Ask Matt" which is developed by implementing local push notifications and AJAX calling.  ? Used Confluence to deploy java Script code inside HTML.  ? Used jasmine for Angular Application's End-2-End Tests.  ? Worked with Bootstrap's custom UI components for Angular.  ? Worked Extensively with Angular 1.5 MVC Framework, creating custom directives, custom services on daily basis.    Environment: Angular-JS 1.5, Ionic Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Jquery, Restful, JSON, Cordova(Android & ios), Jenkins, JIRA. Java UI developer Book My Show January 2012 to June 2012 Responsibilities  ? Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design and testing of the complete system.  ? Followed agile methodologies to execute project. Build the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  ? Involved in all layers like Presentation Layer, Business Logic and Data Access Layers.  ? System was developed using Java, J2EE technologies and open source frameworks and application was implemented using Struts architecture.  ? Developed various helper classes using Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  ? Implemented MVC architecture and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction of the application and code reusability.  ? Design and development of presentation layer using Jsp, jQuery, AJAX, JSTL, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Struts2, Spring, EJB, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, MVC. Education MS in computer Science in computer Science Monroe College May 2018 Master in Computer Application in Computer Application NMIMS UNIVERSITY January 2015 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science MUMBAI UNIVERSITY June 2012 Skills Angular Js (2 years), React js (1 year), Javascript, HTML5, SAAS, LESS, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, AWS (1 year), Front-End, React, Javascript Awards Student Of the Year 2012-04 Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Developer- Associate September 2018 to September 2020