Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> • 2.4 years of Total IT experience in Software Development using JAVA/J2EE, JDBC and Web services.  • Have 1.5 year of experience in Spring MVC, Hibernate, Maven build and Spring Boot Microservices.  • Experienced in developing unit tests and expanding unit test coverage.  • Experienced in continuous integration tools (Jenkins, Git).  • Experienced in fixing bugs via SonarQube and thereby improving the code quality.  • Have basic training of ElasticSearch.  • Experienced in Agile Methodology. Work Experience Java Developer May 2017 to Present Project Description  TIP Trailer services is a mobile application which comes under the fleet management category. It is basically a system which gives trailers and services on rent basis. It has sub-modules like Workshop, Customer, Supplier, Master Data and Asset. We have developed 6 sub-modules for the client and the contract has been extended for 9 more. This application is developed for IOS and RWD (Responsive web Design) and both applications are consuming Spring restful Services.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Working as a team member of Scrum Development team.  • Involved in creating microservices services using Restful API.  • Involved in daily scrum/daily stand-up.  • Involved in design and preparing High level design document.  • Involved in Coding and code review activity.  • Involved in Unit Testing using Junit.  • Involved in Bug fixes using SonarQube.    Titles and Awards    • Best team award, TCS, October 2017 and December 2018 TCS March 2018 to March 2018 On the Spot Award, TCS, March 2019 Education State Board 2010 Additional Information Technical Skills  Hardware/ Platforms Windows XP  Technology JAVA/J2EE Struts, Spring MVC, Hibernate.  Programming Languages Java, C++  Web Web services (Restful)  Packages Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, IntelliJ  Databases Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server 2008, MySQL, Postgres  Version Control Systems GitHub  Continuous Integration Jenkins  Code Quality Tools SonarQube, Checkstyle, FindBugs  Agile Development Tools Agile Accelerator