IT Applications Developer, E&S/Specialty IT Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span>, E&amp;S/Specialty IT Applications Developer, E&S/Specialty - Nationwide Insurance Scottsdale, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Applications Developer, E&S/Specialty Nationwide Insurance - Scottsdale, AZ April 2019 to Present • Initiated language migration of application codebase from Groovy to Java through incremental vertically sliced work.  • Pushed for sustainable agile development via adoption of gitflow workflow as an effective branching strategy for managing code and increased usage of automation within CI/CD pipeline to get fast feedback and ensure quality. Programmer Analyst, FedEx World Headquarters Syntel Inc - Memphis, TN May 2017 to April 2019 • Lead rapid-application development and maintenance of distributed multitiered cloud applications using ReactJS, Spring Framework, and Oracle technologies/tools.  • Performed requirements analysis with senior business analysts and test leads to identify software requirements for creation of new client services.  • Embraced various agile practices such as automating builds, refactoring, or point estimating to continuously improve work.  • Mentored offshore development team in understanding application architecture, managing defects, and utilizing available tools to effectively manage applications. Undergrad Research Assistant NMSU - Las Cruces, NM August 2015 to December 2016 • Kick-started research and development of an interactive web map application using rest services and JavaScript.  • Decoupled GIS datasets into distinct map layers with Quantum-GIS IDE plugins.  • Clearly communicated progress, constraints, and reasoning behind work on a weekly basis with management. Undergrad Java Developer Bridge of Southern New Mexico - Las Cruces, NM January 2016 to May 2016 • Streamlined development of an educational web application using Spring framework.  • Assisted clients with identifying and refining business requirements.  • Ensured software quality with documentation of core activities following a waterfall development model. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science New Mexico State University - Las Cruces, NM December 2016 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonathan-delira/