PIM DEVELOPER PIM <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> INFORMATICA MDM-PIM DEVELOPER Duluth, GA Work Experience PIM DEVELOPER INFORMATICA MDM - Atlanta, GA July 2018 to Present Coca-Cola Parts (CCP) was established in June of 1988. In 2004, CCP redesigned the Parts Supply Chain to include contracting 3rd party support for purchase order management and distribution of parts. CCP continues to work with customers to support initiatives and projects. According to the current state, the parts for the refrigerator, vending machine is manufactured by a third-party company called Neterprise, also the data of these parts is being handled by 'Neterprise' The main aim of the project is to fetch those data from Neterprise, bring it to the MDM System and then to the PIM User Interface, master those data using MDM and PIM functionality and then push them back to downstream. The data coming in MDM goes through a process of match and merge to remove redundancy and duplicity. Here in PIM the data that comes from the upstream needs to be imported into the PIM system using import template. Then those parts data need to be aligned to their specified images and then match and merge is performed in order to get the best version of truth. After that the data has been exported out of the PIM system by creating export templates in the form of .csv .xsls, .txt, etc.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  * Extensively working on Installation, Configuration and managing Informatica PIM 360 for creating single source for Omni channel commerce  * Designing and implementing the mappings for Import using data sheets to Informatica PIM based on the fields in Active Catalog  * Designing and Implementing the Export profiles and Export format templates to extract the data from PIM to Publish  * Working on Creating Activevos workflows design and development and creation of human tasks.  * Working on Integrating Informatica PIM 8.0 with Activevos 9.2.2 for processing tasks related to Item creation and Item Maintenance  * Monitoring the messages sent to and received from external subsystem using Read only access to validate the schemas and troubleshoot the data transfer issues  * Creating user profile in Product Information Management tool and well understood knowledge in user access groups  * Creating Static and Dynamic Enumerations and performing several LOV refresh activities.  * Experience on multiple perspectives on Product Information Management like Data transfer perspectives such as Import, Export, Merge and Data Maintenance Perspectives such as Structure group assignments, Multimedia attachments, Prices, Attribute assignment and also Publications such as Export Format Templates  * Working on Management perspectives such as User management, Units, Process Overviews, Workflows, Organization  * Hands on Data Quality perspective, in creating DQ rules within different channels and Data quality scheduling  * Configuring the Security Checks for the fields into the repository file.  * Configuring the repository files according to the requirements  * Create and maintain new business rules, validation rules and workflows within the PIM software  * Configuring QA Pre Production and Production environments for PIM and ActiveVos.  * Have a good knowledge on Supplier portals and Audit Trials  * Communicating with Product Stake holders and Business users regarding Business Impacts and future changes in application  * Monitoring the scheduled jobs, memory utilization and performance of the application  * Designing and creating BO, staging tables, mappings, transformations as per business requirements  * Creating mappings to perform the tasks such as cleansing the data and populate that into staging tables  * Using Metadata manager for validating, promoting, importing and exporting repositories from development environment to testing environment    ENIRONMENT: Informatica MDM - Product 360, SQL Server, Oracle DB, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Eclipse, JBoss 6.4, Windows Cloud servers, Java Development Kit 1.8 DEVELOPER INFORMATICA MDM - Houston, TX December 2016 to June 2018 Invesco Ltd. is an American independent investment management company headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia and has branch offices in 20 countries. Its common stock is a constituent of the S&P 500 and trades on the New York stock exchange. The main objective of this project is to upgrade MDM environment, implement new enhancements and Product features Smart Search, Entity 360 model and build POC (Proof of Concepts) for Real Time Integration.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  * Installation and Configuration of JBOSS Application Server, Informatica MDM Hub Console, Hub Server, Cleanse Match Server (Process Server), Resource Kit, Upgrading Master and User Specific ORS  * Understand the key business requirements of client and performed Data Analysis and abstracted the transactional nature of data.  * Analyzed the source systems for erroneous, duplicative, and integrity issues related to the data, created match rules for removing duplicates.  * Worked on Informatica MDM to design, develop, test and review & optimize Informatica MDM  * Created Mappings, Trust and Validation rules, Match Path, Match Column, Match rules, Merge properties and Batch Group creation  * Creation and maintained of entity objects, hierarchies, entity types, relationship objects  * Designed and configured of landing tables, staging tables, base objects, hierarchies, foreign key relationships, lookups, query groups, queries/custom queries and packages.  * Identified Golden Record (BVT) for Client Data by analyzing the data and duplicate records (in _MTCH and _HMRG tables) coming from different source systems.  * Created IDD application as per the business needs and Bulk Import integration by creating the subject area and subject area groups  * Implemented Hierarchy Manager Module in addition to Match/Merge/Unmerge which aids in depicting various hierarchies  * Worked with SIF API to interact with real time applications  * Successfully, setup the data and configured the components needed by Hierarchy Manager for MDM HUB implementation which included implementing hierarchies, relationships types, packages and profiles by using hierarchies' tool in model workbench.  * Successfully implemented IDD using hierarchy configuration and subject area groups, subject areas, subject area child, IDD display packages in hub and search queries for searching the data  * Used Metadata manager for validating, promoting, importing and exporting change lists.xml from development environment to testing environment, testing environment to pre-production environment, and finally from pre-production to production environment.  * For importing the changes made to IDD application used import to existing application button and for exporting the entire application used export button  * Used data manager tool from Data steward workbench for entering data for lookup tables in hub.  * Closely worked with Data Steward Team for designing, documenting and configuring Informatica Data Director for supporting management of MDM data.  * Created Unit Test Case Document, Technical Design Document, Informatica MDM Hub batch process, Informatica Hub and IDD Migration Request Document    Environment: Informatica MDM 10.2, 10.1, Provisioning Tool, IDD, Smart Search, SQL Server 2008/2016, Address Doctor, Informatica Power Center/Analyst 10.1, JBoss 6.4 EAP, Salesforce, Java 1.8_44+, SOAP UI, Eclipse, Windows Server 2008/2012 CONSULTANT INFORMATICA MDM - Mountain View, CA September 2015 to July 2016 Symantec develops software and solutions around the world to help customers secure and manage their information. Their focus is to eliminate risks to information, technology and processes independent of the device, platform, interaction or location. Customers can protect more of their information and its technology infrastructure, in greater depth, wherever information is stored or used with software and solutions from Symantec. A Customer master solution is implemented for the Enterprise Data Management(EDM) projects initiative so as to enhance customer data quality, prevention of duplicate data creation and maintain single identity for a given customer site.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  * Worked in integrating customer data from different sources e.g. (ERP, R12, NAM, SFDC ETC ) to create Customer Master Data to acquire unsurpassed version of truth as golden record by using Informatica Powercenter.  * Productively engaged in the Hub configuration phase till deployment of the project.  * Defined standard interfaces, Data Profile, metadata acquisition, data migration, validation, pre-landing processing and Reference Entities  * Offered services in defining the landing tables, staging tables, and configured base objects  * Defined foreign-key relationships, lookups, query groups and queries  * Hands on experience in utilizing Hierarchy tool for configuring entity base objects, entity types, relationship base objects, relationship types, profiles, put and display packages and used the entity types as subject areas in IDD.  * Worked with Data Steward Team for designing, documenting and configuring Informatica Data Director for supporting management of MDM data.  * Defined the Trust and Validation rules and setting up the match/merge rule sets to get the right master records. Configured match rule set property by enabling search by rules in MDM according to Business Rules.  * Expression, Unconnected and Connected lookups, Aggregator, Joiner, Update Strategy, Data Transformation Services ,Sorter etc.  * Captured even the minute details in creating, monitoring, modifying, & communicating the project plan with other team members.  * Implemented match/merge and ran match rules to check the effectiveness of MDM process on data.  * Utilized Metadata manager for validating, promoting, importing and exporting repositories from development environment to testing environment.  * Created Unit Test Case Document, Technical Design Document, Data Validation document and Knowledge Transfer Document.  Environment: Informatica MDM 10.2, Informatica Power Center 9.6.1, JBoss 6.4, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer JAVA DEVELOPER Uffizio India Software Consultants Pvt Ltd - Gujarat, IN June 2014 to August 2015 India    Uffizio India is a daughter company of Uffizio GmbH, Berlin, Germany which operates since 1995. It was established in India year 2000 with a purpose of developing software for European market. The main idea of this project is to build a software that is compatible with all types of vehicle tracking devices. Apart from real-time tracking, it offers advanced functionalities such as monitoring driving behavior, multiple analytics and charts    RESPONSIBILITIES:  * Experience in all periods of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Development, Debugging and Enhancements of Java/J2EE Applications  * Developed java server-side components, which includes JSP, Servlets  * Responsible for unit testing of the work done  * Experience in Web Application Development and Designing  * Involved in front-end Development by utilizing JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap3  * Implementing rendering of task from functionality using Java, JSP, JSTL, Custom Tags, and Custom Java class Loader, XML  * Compiled and generated WAR and JAR files using ANT  * Developed Test Cases and Unit Tests for functionality testing using JUnit  * Experience in working with Web Services using REST, SOAP and WSDL  * Hand-on Experience with different IDE's such as IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans  * Assisted in maintaining and updating existing applications and modules  * Contributed to the development of client side and server-side codes for external and internal web applications. Aided and support to programming team members as required    Environments: Java, HTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS Framework, Node JS, ExtJS, JSON, Google Analytics, CS5, Apache web services, Adobe Illustrator, Oracle 11g, Agile, WordPress, Eclipse IDE, PHP, GitHub, Visio, Notepad ++. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Long Island University - Brooklyn, NY Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering Gujarat Technical University Skills Informatica, Jboss, Jms, Mdm, Eclipse, Powercenter