Appian Developer Appian <span class="hl">Developer</span> Appian Developer - United States Patent and Trading Office Virgina ? Over 5 years of professional IT experience and expert in Requirements Gathering, designing, development, implementation and testing of JAVA/J2EE, Multi-tired and Distributed Applications, Web Based Applications, Messaging Applications with Object Oriented Technologies.  ? Around 3+ year of experience in building web application using APPIAN, MySQL and ORACLE  ? Proficient on Appian BPM platform, have helped clients adopt this BPM technology across business processes to optimize and automate them with effectiveness and reduce business pain areas.  ? Experience with SAIL, Tempo, Records, CDT.  ? Experience in requirements gathering, business process re-engineering, modeling and analysis complemented with effective communication and leadership skills.  ? Experience in Spring & Hibernate frameworks.  ? Experience in JMS based application development.  ? Experience in REST and SOAP Web services design and development.  ? Experience in IBM WebSphere platform.  ? Experience in application migration/Re-Engineering automation tools development.  ? Strong experience with entire SDLC, Model View Controller (MVC) based frameworks, Object Oriented Analysis and design methodologies.  ? Proficiency in Agile/Scrum and Waterfall SDLC methodologies.  ? Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Support of BPM applications using PEGA & Appian BPM technologies.  ? Design applications using Appian Process Designer.  ? Worked with Business to understand their requirement and design and develop them into to Work flows / process flows and models.  ? Participated in designing security applications, created a process modular.  ? Involved in validations, Flows and Process Modular design using Appian.  ? Integrating with other services, using Web services &HTTP method.  ? Created various expressions and logic for handle the Process variables & Global variables.  ? Expertise in SAIL Forms, SAIL Dashboards, SAIL Reports, Service and Entity Backed Records.  ? Knowledge of Appian best practices and design principals.  ? Implemented business rules by using Decision Rules, Declarative Rules.  ? Experience in using Services and Connectors SOAP Services, Connect-SOAP, JMS and Connect-SQL to integrate with external systems.  ? Designed the network infrastructure to support the Appian Environment and interfacing systems.  ? Experience in utilizing BPM REST API, WEB API and expose the Process Instances to various teams in the organizations.  ? Proficient in Appian Installation, Appian Application development using SAIL, Process modeling, Creating Tempo reports, Records, creating business rules and trouble shooting.  ? Extensive knowledge in development and integration of web based and integration applications using JAVA/J2EE and BPM technologies.  ? Utilized smart services from Appian shared components. Expertise with List View and Summary View reports.  ? Expertise in Implementation of Appian sites. Possess good knowledge in Software development life cycle processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Appian Developer United States Patent and Trading Office - Alexandria, VA January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created Process Design Model.  • Created SAIL forms, rules and constants.  • Developed Tempo Records & Reports.  • Provided technical assistance for integration of Appian systems along with external systems.  • Requirement analysis, proof-of-concept design, application development.  • Front end and back end programming and Business logic Implementation.  • Preparing the technical specification documents and test cases documents.  Assisted in designing, architecture and modifications to support efficiency.  • Prepared detailed and accurate technical documentation relating to Appian designs and reports.  • Executed processes for conversion and technical documentation of business needs into system requirements.  • Participated in Write query rules, constant rules, and expression rules.  • Supported technical team members in testing changes for user interfaces and application functionality.  • Implemented CDT using XSD, Java Object, WSDL.  • Participated in development of analytical and computational methods for problem solutions Provided technical assistance for troubleshooting and resolution of workflow system problems.  • Contributed to the development of functional specifications of different processes to define detailed process models, dashboards and views, constants, rules, data types.  • Participated in developing Appian CDT'S and Data Stores  • Executed entity-backed Records, Process-Backed Records and Service-Backed Records.  • Developed Import SAIL form interface.  • Developed XSD file for Post funding Data Correction.  • Developed and Import and XSD file identify the relationship.  • Development of business application Processes, Rules, Forms creation Appian BPM Developer United States Department of Labor Washington DC - Washington, DC March 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Work with key client stakeholders to define business processes, Translate business process software requirement specifications into Appian process model prototypes and solutions.  ? Involved in requirements gathering and analysis.  ? Assist clients in identifying other business process opportunities that could be targeted with Appian's software.  ? Responsible for all phases of BPM development starting from designing the workflows & UI, process modelling, integrating and configuring it with rules, events, escalations and exceptions.  ? Responsible for coordinates closely with other programmers to ensure proper implementation of fixes and updates to applications.  ? Develop complex SAIL interfaces utilizing the latest features of the Appian product.  ? Design record types, data dashboards, and aggregate management reports.  ? Design and create Data store & Custom Data Types (CDTs).  ? Support application migration across multiple environments Liaison with the client to gather the requirements and evaluate the feasibility of the same.  ? Analyze changes, incorporate them, unit test the components and follow up the release.  ? Involved in Designing User Interface and Business Process Diagrams (BPD's).  ? Developed User Interface Coaches in Appian BPM.  ? Customized look and feel of Lombardi coaches by using Java Script, jQuery, CSS and Coach Designer, Xsl.  ? Implemented REST API call, Excel Parsing, Outbound Web service Integration, Multi Instance looping.  ? Created many Reusable components and Tool kits this can be used across the applications.  ? Created and maintains Application design document during entire lifecycle of the project.  ? Expertise on Java Classes and Java Connectors integration with IBM BPM to implements business requirements at the server side.  ? Experienced on Ajax Services designed and developed as per the requirements.  ? Expertise in client-Side validation with java script. Appian BPM Consultant Angiodynamics - Latham, NY July 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Develop Query rules, Expression rules, and SAIL (Self-Assembling Interface Layer).  ? Create Appian Records, Tempo Reports, and Portal Report.  ? Work on Document management and Data Management.  ? Deploy Application to different environments and help test the application.  ? Fixing & issue resolution for the application.  ? Create CDTs using XSDs and link them to Database.  ? Notifications are sent to different user groups.  ? Create tables and complex views in Microsoft Management studio.  ? Pleasant experience in version control SW like GIT.  ? Handling Appian Packaging and deployment.  ? Take Part in all the agile activities.  ? Take part inversion One for user stories ting visual workflows to automate field updates and new record creation.  ? Experience with Appian product administration activities and implementation of Appian SAIL components.  ? Developed web components in SAIL and gained experience in working with plug-ins for digital signature that is embedded in PDF format.  ? Created BPM workflows in Appian using the process modeler.  ? Involved in the designing & implementation of modules.  ? Created tempo enabled forms using SAIL, design DB schema using nested CDT.  ? Developing Tempo Record, Tempo Reports using including Grid Layouts for the record dashboards.  ? Designed database schemas with complex entity relationships.  ? Worked on the Implementation of system as an independent component to be supported/integrated with Appian based BPM applications to deliver management capabilities using Appian 16.2 SAIL features such as Record Types, Record dashboards, SAIL Reports, Actions and SAIL forms. Appian BPM Developer CSX Corporation - Jacksonville, FL December 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Served as primary interface between development team and clients throughout all phases of analysis and development.  ? Implemented procedures for gathering of requirements from clients for solution demonstrations.  ? Development of business application- Processes, Rules and Forms.  ? Executed processes for analysis, designing and development of scalable solutions to meet customer requirements.  ? Participated in development of analytical and computational methods for problem solutions.  ? Provided technical assistance for troubleshooting and resolution of workflow system problems.  ? Implemented procedures for gathering of requirements from clients for solution demonstrations.  ? Maintained technical documentation such as requirements, design reviews and test reports.  ? Assisted in designing, architecture and modifications to support efficiency.  ? Created BPM workflows in Appian using the process modeler.  ? Involved in the designing and implementation of all modules.  ? Created views and business rules.  ? Designed report using Report Builder.  ? Managed client relationships.  ? Managed projects and portfolios to ensure resource capacity, demand and off-shore utilization was optimal.  ? Managed end-to-end application support for all Appian applications deployed. Java/J2EE Developer Nacre Software Services - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developing the application under Agile and SCRUM methodologies, Test Driven Development, and Continuous Integration  ? Analyzed the business and functional requirements of the product and worked as a part of development team to develop the product to meet the requirements.  ? Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, DAO, DTO  ? Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate framework that uses POJO classes to represent the persistence database tables  ? Used Spring MVC framework for Dependency injection, Rest Controllers to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions using RESTful endpoints  ? Involved in installing, configuring Eclipse, GIT and Gradle for the development of project.  ? Hands-on experience in creating spring application using Gradle.  ? Developed endpoints GET, POST and PUT using RESTful for creating, getting and updating the users for the application.  ? Developed Java based configurations to the database MySQL using Hibernate.  ? Documented the application after once the project has been developed  ? Closely worked with quality assurance team to ensure that the product has met the business requirements  ? Developed Junit test cases for unit testing the java code before sending it for testing  ? Configured and customized logs using Log4J  Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, REST Web services, MySQL, Tomcat, Gradle, SOAP, Jenkins, Selenium, Log4j. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Michigan - Flint, MI Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technology University Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, JSP, SERVLETS, HTML, VISIO, XML, DATABASE, JDBC, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, WEB DESIGN, WEB SERVICES, WEBLOGIC, WEBSPHERE, MICROSOFT VISIO Additional Information Technical Skills  BPM Tool Appian (versions 7x,16.1,16.2,16.3,17.1,17.2,17.3,17.4,18.1,18.2,18.3, 18.4)  Languages Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP  Database SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle  Web design Tools Java Script, HTML, CSS, Appian Script.  Application Servers WebSphere, WebLogic 11g  Development Environment Eclipse, RAD  Operating System Windows all versions  Other SQL Developer, Web Services, XML, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visio 2007