Java Backend Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Backend Developer - Citi Bank Township of Warren, NJ A Professional Java/J2EE developer having over 5+years of experience with full project lifecycle development in Java-J2EE technologies, Requirements analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of software applications.  • Strong knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)which include Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Experience in developing web based applications and Client-Server technologies using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JSF, Spring, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, EJB, Hibernate, JavaBeans, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML/DHTML & XML.  • Expertise in developing user interface using Angular Js, HTML5,Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Expertise working with IBM web sphere, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic and hands on experience on using JBoss application server.  • Good knowledge on ORM, Persistence concepts and DAO pattern and its related design patterns. Hands on experience in developing persistence layer using SQL, Hibernate, JPA, JDBC.  • Good knowledge on IOC, Dependency Injection concepts, hands on experience working with Spring IOC, Spring Web, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring-Hibernate, Spring Struts  • Strong Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Services (SOAP/WSDL) and REST Web Services.  • Expertise in relational databases like Oracle 12c, MySQL, PL/SQL and NOSQL databases such as MongoDB  • Strong implementation knowledge of Object Oriented Analysisand Design usingAgile and Scrum methodologies.  • Expertise in applying JMS ( Java Messaging Service) for reliable information exchange across Java applications.  • Experience in developing test cases and test plans besides involving in Unit testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  • Strong experience with developing test case using Junit,Mockito.  • Experience in working on various operating systems like Windows and Unix/Linux.  • Excellent analytical ability, consultative, communication and management skills.  • Self-motivated, easily adaptable to new environments and ability to work independently as well as in teams.  • Good knowledge of SQL or DB2 and SQL performance concepts. Work Experience Java Backend Developer Citi Bank - Township of Warren, NJ April 2018 to Present Project Description:  Upgrading existing legacy system Navigates Application, which controls everything from agreements, orders, tracking, accounting and billing.  Responsibilities:  • Used Scrum Agile methodology that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints, stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs.  • Experience on working in Linux.  • Involved in all the phases of (SDLC) Software Development Life Cycle including analysis, designing, coding, testing and deployment of the application.  • Experience on working in Angular Js.  • Created Micro-Services using Spring Boot.  • Migration of RHEL JBoss EAP 6.4 to Community JBoss Application server.  • Responsible for the Migration of the application from Websphere to Jboss.  • Experience on working in Tomcat.  • Worked on Drools Rules Engine and Expectation Rule Engine for writing Business Rule Validation.  • Integrated the Drools and JBPM to application framework, which involved dynamic creation of knowledgebase and Knowledge session.  • Used Spring Data JPA to implement Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer  • Developed the helper classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers.  • Performed Asynchronous communication between different modules using Apache Camel and ActiveMQ.  • Experience in working on Microservice.  • Created and consumed REST webservices using Spring REST Template.  • Developed Web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJs.  • Defined new validations through AngularJs for the form field validation implemented through HTML5  • Used AngularJS Directives like ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-controller, ng-route etc.  • Written Unit testing using Junit and Mockito.  • Performed load testing using JMeter.  • Experience on Kafka, Cassandra preferred  • Used MAVEN tool for building and packaging the application.  • Used SVN for code repository and as version control mechanism.  Environment:  Java, Spring Boot,Angular Js,Spring Data JPA,Tomcat, Apache Camel,Tomcat, ActiveMQ, Angular Js, REST, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Maven, Junit, Mockito, Oracle. Java Developer Southwest - Dallas, TX January 2017 to March 2018 Project Description:  This application was developed to provide better service to the customers and helpful to the hospitals maintaining individual patient's life time medical record. The records can be accessed anytime, anywhere, instantly, with recently updated information of all the patients particularly ICU patients.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.  • Installation of JBoss application and configuring a domain setup for failover.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Experience in working on Microservice.  • Hands-on experience on working in Angular Js.  • Worked on Drools Rules Engine and Expectation Rule Engine for writing Business Rule Validation.  • Experience on working in Linux.  • Worked in the different parts of the MVC pattern like Dispatcher Servlet, Handler Mapping, Controllers, Model and Views.  • Developed rule modules using Rule Engines, Drools.  • Used spring core for Business Layer.  • Used hibernate in conjunction with Spring functionality to implement Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer.  • Created and consumed Webservices using REST and SOAP.  • Created webpages using HTML5,CSS3,JavaScript.  • Asynchronous calls and preloading the data are made using AJAX  • Worked on Complex SQL queries and created stored procedures for different business functionalities.  • Used SONAR tool to maintain code quality compliance.  • Performed Unit testing for various modules using JUnits.  • Used SPLUNK to get the Debug logs.    Environment:  Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JQuery,Angular Js, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX,REST,SOAP,SPLUNK, Maven, Oracle and WebLogic. Java Developer McKesson - Alpharetta, GA October 2015 to December 2016 Project Description:  Incorporate new functionalities to modify existing banking application that supported Customer/Account relationship, Loan Account profile, Transaction and Account Management and Funds Transfer functions.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Integration of Apache webserver with JBoss using Mod-Jk, mod- Proxy and mod-cluster for load balancing and fail- over method.  • Developed Struts Action and Form classes for User interface.  • Experience with spring boot and microservice.  • Usage of the Struts Tags, Struts Bean Tags, HTML tags, Logic Tags, Nested Tags and JSTL, the view side of MVC.  • Responsible for the Migration of the application from Websphere to Jboss.  • Involved in integration efforts between the Struts Action classes and Spring.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection for the necessary resources.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate framework.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Developed and consumed SOAP Webservices  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity, constraints and views for multiple databases  • Performed unit testing using JUnit framework  • Used Ant scripts to build and deployed on WebSphere Application Server  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the Testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  Environment:  Java, Struts, Spring, Angular Js, Hibernate, ActiveMQ, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, REST, SOAP, Junit, SPLUNK, ANT, GIT, XML, Agile, IBM Web Sphere Application Server and MS SQL Server. Java Developer HSBC BANK - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2014 to August 2015 Project Description:  The application provides online corporate credit card services to clients. Developed a module called Card management modules which allow maintaining the accounts by modifying the existing accounts and creating new accounts.    Responsibilities:  • System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and Development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Involved in analyzing Business Requirements, Technical Design, Designed the database schema (Oracle 10g) for the application. Applied normalization techniques, ER Diagrams.  • Implemented the web-based application following the MVC II architecture using Struts Framework.  • Designed and Implemented the J2EE Based Struts Framework.  • Involved in the design and implementation of ActionServlet, which acts as Controller Servlet.  • Involved in the design and implementation of Action Class to execute the business logic and Action Form to validate the form data.  • Used JSTL and wrote custom JSP tag libraries. Implemented role based handling in JSP pages.  • Implemented various Design Patterns on the project. Developed Action Forms and Controllers in Struts1.2. Applied Struts features like Tiles and Declarative Exception Handling via XML.  • Used Jsp for the presentation layer and Java Beans for model layer  • Involved in writing SQL, Stored procedure and PLSQL for back end. Used Views and Functions at the Oracle Database end. Developed the PL/SQL scripts for rebuilding the application Oracle Database.  • Used ANT for compilation and building JAR files.  • Used Log4j extensively to log messages in various classes.  • Involved in functional testing extensively.  • Used Rational ClearCase for version control.  Environment:  Java, Struts, EJB, Hibernate, MQ Series, JMS, JavaScript, CSS , JSP, JNDI, Web sphere Application Server, SVN, XML Spy, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Log4j, UNIX Shell Script. Education Bachelor's Computer Science fromSastra University 2014 Master's in Computer in Computer science Wilmington University Skills Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL  Java/ JEE Technologies EJB,RMI, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JSTL, JMS ,JNDI,Multi-Threading  Web Technologies: HTML5, JavaScript, Web Services, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, JSON.  Frame Works Spring, Hibernate,Struts ,JPA  Web/Application Servers WebLogic Server, IBM WebSphere Application Server,Apache Tomcat ,JBoss  Database Oracle 11g, SQL Server , MySQL ,MongoDB  Testing Tools JUnit , Mockito  Version Control Subversion Control System (SVN),GIT