Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Independent Health Buffalo, NY • Java Full Stack Developer with 2 years of experience in designing, implementing and deploying commercial enterprise application for multi-tiered distributed products and distributed application using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience as a JAVA/J2EE developer in Finance domain using diverse technologies.  • Strong knowledge of Data Structure and OOPS Concepts.  • Extensive knowledge on Core Java Technologies including Collections.  • Knowledge on the development of WebServices using JAX-WS, Apache CXF.  • Strong and Conceptual knowledge about creational, structural and behavioral patterns such as Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Builder, Adaptor Design.  • Good knowledge in various open source frameworks like Struts, spring and ORM Technology like Hibernate.  • Experience in Web Application development using HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Strong experience in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Working knowledge of Agile Development Methodologies.  • Well acquainted with continuous integration and build tool Jenkins, Bamboo.  • Experience with multiple Servers like Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, GlassFish and JBoss.  • Worked with various Integrated Development Environments like Eclipse IDE, IntelliJ IDE, IBM Integration toolkit and NetBeans.  • Excellent problem solving and analytical skills with strong attention to detail and good at debugging complex and intermittent bugs.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at ease.  • Active in taking up new tasks/challenges.  • Truly passionate about my work and always enthusiastic to learn new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Independent Health - Buffalo, NY May 2018 to Present Description: Headquartered in Buffalo, New York, A not-for-profit health plan that continually aims to provide our community with innovative health-related products and services, which enable affordable access to quality health care. The project aims to provide the company with data to develop evidence-based health policy decisions as well. The client programs are used for issuing or retrieving data from the database depending on the query for finding health policy premium.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and React JS.  • Involved in development of web services using SOAP & REST framework and Spring Boot.  • Developed interactive cross platform web application using React.  • Implement front end screens using React JS and used various predefined components.  • Involved in implementing React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Developed responsive and interactive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Developed web based applications using Spring Boot framework.  • Used Data tables to populate large datasets, and perform operations like searching and sorting.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols like HTTP and REST for implementing SOA approach.  • Used java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Participated in solving cross browser issues and designing layout for screens with different resolutions.  • Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime.  • Performed regression testing and continuous integration testing using Jenkins automation tool.  • Setting up highly test execution builds with Jenkins CI server on slaves.  • Clearly communicating to team members about the test case results and bugs uncovered.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.7/1.8, Spring boot framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web services, XML, jQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, WebLogic, HTML 5, UNIX. Java Full Stack Developer UBS - Weehawken, NJ March 2017 to April 2018 UBS creates applications which are basically used by a hierarchy of people starting from Sales Person all the way up until Super User which has the intermittent level of Desk Head involved in it with the help of Servlets. On similar terms Business Planner was an application developed to keep track of annual revenues of last year to the budget for the next fiscal year. Couple of views namely the coverage phase which included the revenues against budget for a particular client corresponding with a particular product and execution phase which kept track of a particular person from the hierarchy with respect to the particular product in terms of annual revenues from last year and the budget for the next fiscal year.  Responsibilities:  • Developed application and added new features using the Spring Framework on STS.  • Worked with Spring Web Flow and Spring Inversion of Control using Dependency Injection.  • Developed front end components using React JS and Redux which is a predictable state container of Java-script applications.  • Developed user interface using Java Server Pages, CSS, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Involved in Implementation of Java Multi-Threaded process responsible for ensuring concurrent processing of the Jobs.  • Created unit test cases using JUnit/Mockito.  • Used Jersey to develop RESTful Web services in java.  • Conducted one on one and group training sessions with end users on the new features of the system and getting their feedback on the changes, incorporating their feedback and priorities in the projects tasks.  • Used GIT for version control and Source Tree to facilitate it.  • Wrote JSON configurations to transmit data between server and application.  • Worked with IntelliJ IDE as Application Development Environment to develop and enhance application features.  • Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking and Bamboo as Continuous Integration Tool.  • Worked in agile methodology to develop and deliver project.  • Used Postman as REST client for testing backend services request-response.  • Worked on Oracle SQL Developer to write complex SQL queries.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring 4.3.x, Hibernate, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, Mockito framework for JUnit, AJAX, JSON, RESTful Web Services, Log4j, Intellij IDE, Maven, WebLogic 12.2.1, Oracle, JIRA, Bamboo, Postman REST client. Education Bachelors of Science Texas Woman's University 2018 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Java (1.7, 1.8), SQL  Web/App Servers: Tomcat6.x/7.x, WebLogic 12.2.1, WebSphere 7.0.  IDE/Tools: Intellij, NetBeans and Eclipse, IBM Integration Toolkit, MQ 7.5, Toad  Databases: ORACLE 9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, MYSQL Workbench  Operating System: Windows XP/Vista/8/8.1/10  Java Technologies: J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, Web Services  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, NodeJS  Frameworks: Spring boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate  Version Control: SVN, GIT  Dev Support Tools: JIRA, Jenkins  Unit Testing Frameworks: JUnit, Mockito, EasyMock, TestNG  Design & Modeling: UML, Rational Rose, Agile SCRUM