Research Assistant - Developing Automated Methods for Discovery of Misinformation Sources Research Assistant - Developing Automated Methods for Discovery of Misinformation Sources Research Assistant - Developing Automated Methods for Discovery of Misinformation Sources Work Experience Research Assistant - Developing Automated Methods for Discovery of Misinformation Sources Visualization and Data Research Analytics Center (ViDA) - Tandon School January 2018 to May 2019 Research Assistant - Developing Automated Methods for Discovery of Misinformation Sources  At: Visualization and Data Research Analytics Center (ViDA) - Tandon School of Engineering - NYU, January '18 - May '19  Advisor: Prof. Juliana Freire  Core tasks: Developing and evaluating methods for collection of web data; application of specialized  classifiers for identifying possible fake news pages; text clustering; graph modeling the propagation of news stories between sites; graph visualization. Adjunct Lecturer Discrete Mathematics January 2018 to May 2018 Core Tasks: Holding two recitation lectures per week; collaborating with Prof. Eugene Callahan on de- veloping the course material. Research Fellow - Implementing Machine Learning Solutions on Social Media Data for Public He Visualization and Data Research Analytics Center (ViDA) - Tandon School January 2017 to January 2018 Research Fellow - Implementing Machine Learning Solutions on Social Media Data for Public He- alth Predictions  At: Visualization and Data Research Analytics Center (ViDA) - Tandon School of Engineering - NYU, January '17 - January '18.  Advisor: Prof. Rumi Chunara Core tasks: Using Twitter's API to build training corpus related to smoking  behaviors; using Amazon Mechanical Turk to manage the manual annotation of the corpus; building a three level classifiers using logistic regression on millions of tweets to identify smoking related commu-  nication and predict temporal aspects; evaluating the performance with different features vectors and parameter sets; using Google Trends data to validate results; visualization of main findings; designing  a study of dining habits based on Instagram data; exploratory subject and data collection for said study. Java Developer - Evaluation of Knowledge Base Consistency Institute of Theoretical Computer Science April 2015 to April 2015 Java Developer - Evaluation of Knowledge Base Consistency using Ontology Reasoner  At: Institute of Theoretical Computer Science, Technische Universität Dresden, April '15 - September Michael Hiller Group, Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics - Dresden 2014 to January 2015 Core tasks: Building CESAR (Coding Exon-Structure Aware Realigner), a Python-based alignment tool for DNA sequences that accounts for nucleotide insertions/deletions in addition to the usual codon inser-  tions/deletions. The aligner uses Profile Hidden Markov Models to find the most probable alignment.  Designing a framework for finding the optimal parameters (transition probabilities) for the model. Le- veraging the institute's High-Performance Cluster to run hundreds of parallel experiments to evaluate  different parameter configurations. Python Developer 2015 to 2015 15. Core tasks: Developing a Java tool that uses OWL API in conjunction with ELK ontology reasoner to evaluate quality of knowledge automatically extracted from medical texts; Programmatically checking  ontology consistency; verifying concept satisfiability    Python Developer - Building Hidden Markov Model tool to predict optimal alignment of DNA se- quences: Student Programmer - Extending a Java-based Web Crawler Eberhard-Karls Universität Tübingen October 2009 to March 2010 Core tasks: Understanding the architecture of Heritrix crawler; writing modules to integrate Heritrix    with NLP libraries; design and implement heuristics for crawling depth, re-crawl frequency, etc. Internship Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies February 2009 to April 2009 February '09 - April '09  Core tasks: Processing structured information extracted from Wikipedia; writing Java classes and me- thods to store, and access the data; implementing basic inference operations. Teaching Assistant Semantics of Natural Language April 2008 to September 2008 Co-authored Research:  Freire. 2019. A Topic-Agnostic Approach for Identifying Fake News Pages, Companion Proceedings of the Education Ph.D. in Computer Science New York University - Tandon School of Engineering January 2017 to Present Bachelor of Arts in Computational Linguistics in Eberhard Karls Universität - Tübingen, DE 2005 to 2009 Skills HASKELL, JAVASCRIPT, NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING (4 years), OWL API, PROLOG, PYTHON, MATPLOTLIB, PANDAS, MACHINE LEARNING, NLP, HIDDEN MARKOV MODELS, JAVA, TABLEAU, SELENIUM, Scikit Learn Additional Information Technical Skills  Python, Java: Backend development and data processing.  Machine learning: Data preparation (Pandas), feature selection and extraction, implementation with  Scikit-learn.    NLP: Design and implementation of Natural Language Processing solutions with libraries like NLTK  and spaCy  Graphs: Modeling, operating on, and visualizing large information-rich graphs, using Gephi and Net-  workX.    Web Crawling: Large-scale web crawling (ACHE crawler), scraping, Selenium. Interfacing and data  collection with Twitter API, Google Search API, Bing Search API.  Hidden Markov Models: Implementing HMM solutions, optimizing parameters and evaluating pre-  dictions.    Crowd-sourcing: Implementing and managing manual data annotation projects on Amazon Mechani-  cal Turk to complement machine learning and NLP methods    Working familiarity with:    JavaScript, R, logic programming (Prolog), functional programming (Haskell)  Modelling problems in propositional logic and application of SAT solvers  Description logic, Ontology engineering, OWL API, OWL reasoners  Tableau, Matplotlib, Seaborn, D3  Curriculum Vitae: Anas Elghafari 2    Soft Skills  -Good written and oral communication skills  -Detail oriented, while keeping track of the big picture  -Adept at reasoning about the edge cases in systems and data  -Able to present technical issues in an accessible manner  -Like to ask questions and participate in the discussion  -Enjoy collaborating with others