Salesforce Developer/Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Administrator Salesforce Developer/Administrator - CDK Global Portland, OR 6 in salesforce.com Development and Administration on force.com platform including analysis, modeling, design, coding, and testing.  • Strong Experience working with Apex classes, Triggers, Controllers &Controller Extensions, Components, Test Methods, Application Design and Development on Multitenant Force.com platform.  • Hands on experience on Lightening Components, Application and Events creation using Aura.  • Created Aura enabled controller and implemented controller logics.  • Strong experience in implementing lightening design systems.  • Implemented HTML 5.0 with Angular JS and Remote Action methods.  • Strong Experience in Agile methodology and involved in grooming, planning, team ceremonies, program increments and scrum calls.  • Experience in using SourceTree and Bitbucket for deployment.  • Analyzed Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Customer Support business processes used by salesforce.com customers and recommended ways to improve their processes using salesforce.com.  • Hands on experience in salesforce.com CRM integration, developing and deploying custom integration solutions. Excellent skills in creating/troubleshooting/modifying Apex code and Visualforce pages.  • Strong knowledge on Administration setup, Apex, Visualforce and experience with different SFDC development tools like Force.com, Eclipse IDE.  • Experience in Apex coding to implement the complex business logic with in Governor Limits.  • Developed test classes and test methods to ensure maximum code coverage in production instance.  • Experience in developing client-specific solutions on force.com platform using Apex classes and Triggers, Visualforce, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL.  • Experience in integration of Salesforce.com applications with other applications with an emphasis of the Web Services/XML.  • Extensive experience in designing of Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Pick List, Role based Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, Validation Rules, Approval Processes, Custom Tabs, Custom Reports, Report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visual force Pages, Record Types, Dashboards, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Worked with team members for full-cycle projects, such as developers, to complete consulting projects on time, and deliver outstanding consulting services to salesforce.com clients.  • Experience in Sales cloud, Service cloud, Custom Cloud, Chatter and App Exchange applications.  • Having administration experience on CRM applications like data exports &imports, application supports security administration, maintenance, and user &security management.  • Strong experience in Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in Object Oriented Languages like C++, Java, J2EE, JSP and Servlets.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience with databases such as Oracle, Teradata and SQL Server.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills to keep executive staff and team members apprised of goals, project status, and resolving issues and conflicts. Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Administrator CDK Global - Portland, OR August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom reports and configured Analytical Snapshots to dump the data into on a regular basis for sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Worked on various SFDC standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Reports and Dashboards.  • Implemented field level security, profiles and audit trail setup.  • Used eclipse Force.com toolkit for creating Apex Classes and Apex Triggers to develop custom logic and objects.  • Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation, and alerts.  • Provided the training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom reports.  • Customize the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Used Data Loader for Data Management in force.com platform.  • Helped in designing and developing Database migration scripts and execute migration plan to load data into Salesforce from Siebel using Informatics Salesforce Integration  • Experience on Lightning component framework and worked on Lightning app builder.  • Involved in creating Lighting pages inside Lightning community builder.  • Perform administration tasks as needed, managing custom fields, integration and data clean up.  • Worked extensively with Cast Iron and Web Services API with force.com to migrate data from the existing system.  • Extensive experience in data migration and integration using Data Loader.  • In-depth experience in CRM business process like Forecasting, Campaign Management, Lead Management, Pipeline Management, Order Management, Account Management, Case Management.  • Extensive experience in analyzing business requirements, entity relationships and converting to Salesforce custom objects, lookup relationships and Junction objects.  • Experience in integrating Salesforce with ERP applications like SAP using Informatics-On-Demand.  • Extensive experience in designing Custom Formula Fields, Field dependencies, Validation rules, Work Flows, and Approval Process for automated alerts, Field Updates and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Proficient in Salesforce platform tools like Validation Rules, Workflow Rules and actions, Escalation Rules, Assignment Rules, Approval Processes, Setting Advanced Security Model, Security Settings and controls, Creating Profiles, Roles, Email Services, designing and creating complex relationships, Page Layouts.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, force.com IDE, workflows and triggers, data loader, web services, custom and standard object, sharing rules, apex classes, test cases - unit testing, validation rules, formula fields, Lightning Framework. Salesforce Developer/Admin BNSF Railway - Fort Worth, TX May 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information, documenting the functional and non-functional requirements.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes and Test classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, validation rules for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes on daily basis.  • Developed Apex triggers, Apex classes and test classes working around the governor limits.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Organized email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers.  • Expertise in Data Loader and workbench to insert, update, export, export all data in CSV files.  • Integrated the external system like CSP, Workbench and making callout to them using SOAP.  • Managed Auto response rules if customers approached beyond the business hours.  • Worked with Standard Objects, Business Processes and Field-Level Security.  • Responsible for writing SOQL & SOSL queries with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Performed Backup of data in CSV files using workbench and stored in libraries in our organization.  • Deployed the code developed in the Dev Sandbox to the Test Sandbox and the Production sandbox.  • Involved in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.  • Performed Data Validation and used data utilities including Data Loader and Mass Delete  • Generated sync of contacts, Email alerts, events and tasks amidst Salesforce to Outlook and vice-versa.  • Experienced on Record Types, Validation Rules, Triggers and Page Layouts Designed workflow rules, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to enable business logic.  • Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Eclipse IDE and Cloud Set.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex classes, Controllers, Extensions and Apex triggers in Visual force and Force.com for various functional needs of the application.  • Worked on the Asynchronous apex called batch apex to insert and update the Offer records in Offer contact cache.  • Created a lighting community for the Users and included the custom components that are developed using the visual force pages and lighting components.  • Created Server APEX Controller for Salesforce Lightning Experience and Added Lightning Component to Lighting Pages and Record Pages.  • Supported the data migration activities for migrating the data from various business sources with the support of Salesforce CRM.  • Created productive documents which will be used by rest of the team to have better understanding of the related system, Salesforce.com CRM.  • Experienced the Agile methodology participated in daily stand ups, Retrospective and Sprint Planning, grooming sessions.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Force.com, Data Loader, Apex Classes, Controllers, Triggers, Visualforce, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Lightning, SOAP UI, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Reports, Dashboards, Oracle, Windows. Salesforce Developer/Admin Thrivent Financial - Appleton, WI March 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce.com implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Implemented web-based case management automation - Web to Case (on Case Object) to track and solve customer's issues.  • Created various Custom objects to build new application functionality in the Salesforce.com.  • Developed visual force pages, Component, created tabbed view and designed these pages using style sheets.  • Designed various Webpages for capturing various customer enquiries and Implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer enquiry.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and dashboards.  • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Developed apex REST web services classes for external applications accessing Salesforce.com data with restricted access.  • I also worked on Apttus Advanced Workflow approvals, Apttus order management, created agreement wizards, validation rules, contract templates.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  Environment: Windows XP, Force.com Platform, Salesforce Enterprise Edition, Salesforce.com Custom/Standard Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Force.com Web Services API, SOQL/SOSL Queries, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, SalesForce.com sandbox data load, Sandbox data loading. Java Developer Clarion networks - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the business requirement and developed app using Java and Mozilla XUL.  • Development using spring, Hibernate and JSF Framework. Used ANT script for project deployment.  • Use case, design - class, sequence diagrams. User Interface design  • Data Modeling - logical and physical models  • Requirements gathering- Proto-typing, Walk-through to business groups and gap analysis  • Understand the business aspect of the application and converted into requirements document.  • Create POC for first time patterns and vendor integrations.  • Code review with the developers and delivery team  • Co-Ordinate and manage Global Delivery teams at offshore locations.  • Schedule and organize weekly or daily stand up meeting with the whole development teams both onshore and offshore. Create Unit Test Documents as part of code deliverables  • Participate and represent the Integration team in defect triage meeting with channel partners and provider systems.  • Business process review and modeling and Data modeling and ER diagrams  • Develop Functional Requirements Specification (FRS) and Business process review and modeling  • Involved in writing SQL queries for the application in Teradata database.  • Create or involve in Implementation planning with Project Manager.  • Support Production Install and Validations  Environment: Java, J2EE, SQL, JSF, Hibernate, Eclipse IDE, JUnit, XML, ANT, Oracle 10g, Accrue, Tomcat Education InfoTech Solutions Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to November 2015 Skills SFDC, Salesforce