Programmer Analyst ( Java Developer) Programmer Analyst (<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>) US Work Experience Programmer Analyst ( Java Developer) 2016 to Present Cognizant technological solutions    Project Under taken:    1. Novartis client connect (NCC) application development.    This application acts as a bridge between the client and its whole sale distributers    My role:  • I am Java developer where I have been part of development in several new  functionalities along with MySQL.  • I have also gained knowledge of Control - M and Remedy Software's which play a vital-role in application for scheduling jobs and Change requests etc.  respectively  CV AKHIL |3  This project gave me good exposure to how the a development process will be  executed for an application which is already in production    2. My Quest application    This application acts a bridge between doctors and patients where their records are  being stored    My role:    • I am a part of UI development team where new functionalities.    This project gave me working exposure to Scrum methodology.    3. I was batch representative during training process for a batch around 40 members    MACHINE LEARNING  I have finished Advance certification in AI/ML @IIIT-H.    Knowledge gained from course:    Strong understanding of Fundamental algorithms: KNN, decision tree, Liner classifiers, SVM.    Problems of over fitting and ways to avoid them: Regularization, K-fold testing techniques, ensemble  methods like bagging boosting.    Visualization technique's like PCA, Isomap, T-Sne    Solution building experience with Python libraries like Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pytorch.    Working of knowledge of CNN, RNN, GAN.    ACHIVEMENTS TECHNICAL IN COLLEGE  We have built a line follower robot. Which was then upgraded with smell detection sensors where the practical results showed around 90 % accuracy in detecting harmful gasses along the path.    Currently from the Machine learning perspective we are planning to upgrade this to do desired tasks Education B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering Amrita School of Engineering 2012 to 2016 SSC in Maths Sri Chaitanya Junior College 2010 to 2012 Additional Information SKILLS    Technical skills: Java, MySQL, Pega (BPM tool), selenium, python    Training Undergoing: Advanced certification in Artificial Intelligence & Machine learning under IIIT-H    Non-technical: Good communication skills, Exposed to different cultures and lifestyles.