Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - IBM corporation Richardson, TX Seeking Software Engineer position in an environment that encourages innovative thinking and career developments. Work Experience Software Engineer IBM corporation February 2018 to Present Design and develop innovative, company impacting products and services to support security and compliance    aspects of IBM Cloud Infrastructure product offerings.  • Work closely with functional-area specialists, cloud architects, and security specialists to - Design, configure and    or develop automation for Business Risk Modeling, Asset Management,  • Test Automation Framework for Proactive Compliance, Logging and Auditing.  • Provide security expertise for cloud-based DevOps development and deployment  • Ensure project teams comply with regulatory compliance and best practices  • Automate cloud security solutions and controls  • Analyze risk based on vulnerabilities, threats, and security posture  • Vigorously promote adoption of industry cloud security best practices  • Keep current with industry security trends  • Work closely with product management and stakeholders to ensure applications meet needs and expectations  • Write unit tests and documents code changes. Java Developer Texas Steel Conversion October 2017 to January 2018 • Created web base application and web interface build on Maven Java EE.  • Wrote unit tests and document code changes.  • Collaborated with team to find an optimized solution for storage controlled server.  • Came to field to check and troubleshoot hardwares/softwares problems.  • Provided phone support to end-user on the team software products.  • Created and ran report according to requests from different departments. Web Advisor Hostgator August 2017 to October 2017 • Supported customer with technical question related to hosting, cPanel, WHM, and billings.  • Provided quick and reliable solution to customer.  • Provided information on all packages that Hostgator offers to new customer.  • Discussed with teammates and team lead to find a quick solution.  • Followed escalated procedure to better support customer and help next agent have a better understand on the problem.  • Registered, attended and completed required training. IT support technician FastBoy Marketing January 2017 to August 2017 • Installed and updated required software on employee's computer.  • Performed weekly backup employee data and clean up backup server.  • Supported and troubleshooted customer on technical problems before sending it to developer's team.  • Ordered computer equipments and received order from employee's request. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Systems University of Houston December 2016 Skills API, C#, C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, PHP, VISUAL BASIC, J2EE, JAVA, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, DATA STRUCTURES, REST, AJAX, CSS, SOAP, HTML 5 Links https://github.com/tuanle93