Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - DMI Arlington, VA Developer | Director  Looking to fuse art and/or technology for development, video production, or both! Work Experience Java Developer DMI - McLean, VA December 2018 to Present Contracted under Housing and Urban Development: Disaster Recovery Grant Reporting System (DRGR) and Integrated  Disbursement and Information System (IDIS). Public Trust Clearance. Work environment structured in agile development.    • Developing 508 compliant Java solutions to help 10,000 users transfer multimillions in funds for Disaster Recovery Grants.  • Proposing new UI solutions with consideration of current system architecture for quick execution. A.K.A., "The GUI Guy".  • Providing contact with government clients for broken down, easy-to-digest news and project updates. Video Director LATIN E - Washington, DC January 2018 to Present Building film schedule with cast and crew, digital marketing and working with pre-production, production, post-production  tasks such as reviewing footage, assessment, tape logging, rough cuts, audio adjustment, color correction and final editing.    • Working in a variety of roles from Director, Production Coordinator, Videographer, Sound Recordist, Boom Operator, Grip  and Video Editor.  • Shooting with DSLR cameras and editing for release on Roku, Apple TV and social media - for over 100k Facebook  followers and counting.  • Creating project management workflows and work templates for future video/film projects.  • Training intern crew with sound, lighting, video recording and video editing sessions. Video Editor LATIN E - Fairfax, VA July 2018 to December 2018 Engaged with Director and teams to create and assemble raw images, footage, script, and motion graphics into a finished  product, for social media market (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram).    • Advised as Video Consultant for direction on scripts, stories for video production; reducing budgets, improving production  pipelines and team communication.  • Improved Facebook video viewership by over 500%, adjusting content to relevant marketing standards.  • Acted as talent for advertising, reducing budget spending for external talent. Sr. Laboratory Technician SEAS COMPUTING FACILITY - Washington, DC September 2015 to May 2018 Led client system support for research and computing systems, ensuring endpoint security, readily available customer  service, and technologies for over 1000 Students and Faculty in the Engineering School at GWU.    • Facilitated 3D printing services, including 3D model manipulation, conversion to STL, machine setup, building and post- processing of printed models based on client requests.  • Front-desk customer service for relationship, on-site diagnosis and repair of distributed technologies.  • Maintained TCP/IP protocol on all loaned technologies from SEASCF. Education B.S. in Computer Science THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY - Washington, DC January 2014 to May 2018 Skills 3ds max (1 year), After effects (3 years), Autodesk maya (1 year), Css (3 years), Html (4 years), Html5 (1 year), Illustrator (1 year), Indesign (1 year), Java (3 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Jquery (Less than 1 year), Linux (1 year), Mac (3 years), Microsoft office (10+ years), Mysql (1 year), Photoshop (5 years), Php (Less than 1 year), Java J2Ee, Spring, JSP, Hibernate, J2Ee, MVC, Core Java Links http://vickrekhi.com http://linkedin.com/in/vickrekhi