Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Department of Veteran Affairs • Around 5 years of experience in Java projects, involved in complete SDLC life cycle - System Analysis, Design and development and Agile methodology of various Applications using Java/J2EE.  • Strong knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Programming and its implementation.  • Strong knowledge on application development using SDLC and Agile methodologies.  • Worked on server-side development technologies in Java platforms like Core Java, Enterprise technologies such as Struts, Spring Framework, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Java Web Service, Java Thread, XML, Java Servlet, JSP, JDBC.  • Worked on client-side technologies and developed interactive web applications using HTML5, CSS, Java Script, JSP, Servlets, Ajax& Angular JS.  • Excellent understanding of java concepts like Multithreading, String handling, generics.  • Automated build, testing and integration with Ant, Maven and JUnit.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture using Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, and REST).  • Developed application on servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, JBoss.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and version Control tools like GIT and SVN.  • Worked in Agile methods like scrum, waterfall models by providing status, communicating.  • Experience in Oracle, MySQL databases to manage tables, views, indexes and stored procedures.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows [ ] UNIX, and LINUX.  • Ability to work within a development team and to independently develop functional and technical specifications.  • Strengths include good team player, excellent communication interpersonal and analytical skills, flexible to work with modern technologies and ability to work effectively in a fast-paced, high volume, deadline-driven environment. Work Experience Software Developer Department of Veteran Affairs - Melbourne, FL August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • As a Developer was responsible for the technical design, development, unit and integration testing.  • Implemented Agile software development with Scrum methodology.  • Used Java 8 features such as Lambda expressions, Functional Interfaces, Streams to avoid boilerplate code.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Performed form validations on the UI using Spring Validation framework.  • Implemented Spring MVC controllers like Controller, Multi Action Controller.  • Connected to Data Sources and performed operations using Spring Data framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  • Used Spring Batch to execute batch programming and to process data from an external source.  • Implemented Spring Batch for reusable functions that are essential in processing large volumes of records including logging/tracing, transaction management, job processing.  • Configured the POJOs with backend tables in Hibernate to achieve the associations.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security respectively.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate to fetch data from database and avoid redundant database access statements.  • Created Views, Sequences in the oracle database and modified the existing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Configured the project for the build and Deployment in the WebLogic Server.  • Was responsible in automating the deployment process by using Maven.  • Used log4J for enabling logging and debugging at the runtime.  • Developed various test case scenario's using Junit to test the application.  • Used JIRA for creating and following up with the issues.  • Used GIT combined with GIT LAB & GIT HUB for the code repository.  • Worked on IBM Rationale.  • Used CA Agile Rally.  • Worked on Inter System tools related to Health Connect.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring DAO, SOAP, JDBC, Hibernate, RESTful, Angular, Log4J2, WebLogic, Tomcat, JIRA, Maven, Junit, Oracle, Windows, Tomcat, Agile/ Scrum. Software Developer GE Transportation - Melbourne, FL September 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Agile, SCRUM development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development.  • Developed the front-end of application using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS and JavaScript, Bootstrap JS.  • Used Spring Validation framework to implement the server-side validations and used AJAX to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON objects.  • Implemented controller classes using Spring MVC and configured spring beans using XML configuration files.  • Implemented Hibernate Caching (Query and second level EH Cache) for frequent queries executed against database for reports.  • Integrating spring injections for DAOs to achieve Inversion of Control, updating Spring Configurations for managing Java objects using call backs.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using spring, Hibernate and developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.  • Created RESTful Web Services using Jersey to be consumed by other partner applications  • Used MySQL database for database operations (like storing, retrieving delete, update).  • Consumed Restful web services using apache Http Client for the data coming from external systems.  • Reviewing the Database Schemas across the different domain. Worked on the Integration of the Code and deliver the build to UAT Team.  • Used Junit framework for writing automated unit testing for application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Implemented Java Multithreading to refresh the cache at a given set of time interval.  • Used Eclipse extensively in development and debugging the application.  • Validating the Application by Deploying and testing on WebLogic Server.  • Used MAVEN build tool for building and deploying the application.  • Managed source repository using GitHub for version control tool.    Environment: Java 1.7, Junit, WebLogic Application Server, MySQL, JSP, HTML, AngularJS, Jenkins, Maven, Hibernate, Spring, Eclipse, REST Web services, Spring Web services, Maven, Junit, log4j, JavaScript, GitHub. Jr. Java Developer VVS Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Coordination with BA group for a better understanding of functional requirements, analyzed, designed, documented and implemented the business requirements.  • Implemented MVC architecture by developing struts framework.  • Struts Validator framework is used to do client-side validation.  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, Servlets.  • Worked with Subversion (SVN) for Version Controlling and project management.  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate framework as the persistence layer for interacting with Oracle.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Deployed the application under Apache Tomcat Application Server and resolved the production issues during migration onto the production server.  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  • Exposed the back-end services as RESTful APIs available for the front-end application to call using Ajax.  • Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Maven.  • Responsible for modifying existing Oracle stored procedures and writing SQL queries as per requirement.  • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases.  • Used Hibernate annotations to avoid writing a mapping file.  • Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, JMS, Hibernate, HTML, XML, Oracle, CRUD, SVN, Rest Web Services, SVN, MAVEN, UML, Tomcat, JUNIT. Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Api, C#, Bootstrap, Subversion, Svn, Ajax, Tomcat Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages - Java, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C#.  Java Technologies - Java 7/ Java 8, Java EE 5, Servlets 2.4, JSP, JMS API, JSTL, JUNIT, AJAX, Java Multithreading, Core Java,  Web Technologies - HTML4/5, Java script, CSS2/3, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap.  Frameworks - JSF, Struts, Hibernate, Spring Framework.  Tools and Repositories - Eclipse, Net beans, Subversion SVN, GitHub.  Web Services - SOAP, WSDL, REST.  Web and Application Servers - Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, JBOSS  Databases - MySQL, Oracle  Testing and Logging Frameworks - JUnit, Log4J, HTTP Unit.