JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - Amazon Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER Amazon - Cupertino, CA November 2018 to Present • Developed the screens, added validations, coded the business logic using core java functionalities and incorporated webservice calls.  • Created tables for new request/ complaint types as per development needs by using various APIs.  • Developed single page UI application using HTML5, Material-UI, JavaScript and React-Redux.  • As a member of the Web Front End team, developed and implemented responsive web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script, AngularJS while maintaining high usability standards.  • Created AngularJS controllers, services and used Angular filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Designed and developed API's using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with ReactJS in creating the Application.  • Used front-end like HTML5, CSS3, ReactJS, jQuery and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API  • Designed and developed Restful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API. Involved in building Restful Web services using JAX-RSAPI.  • Developed Java based Web App for internal portal (PLM) using modern frameworks like Spring Boot, Spring MVC, RESTful Web Services, LESS and jQuery.  • Worked on Web Services using Java API for XML, JSON Services (JAX_RS) and worked on the build, deploying RESTful web services.  • Developed new business workflows using the Java Business Process Management (JBPM) tool & deployed them as PAR (Archive) files.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like ReactJS.  • Workflows are created to send requests to different service groups for approval, whenever new service requests or complaints are raised.  • Created DDLs for storing new requests and complaints as per business requirements.  • Integrated with the third-party vendor systems (Hogan, CCMS and I Banking) to achieve Straight through Processing (STP) for each of the service request by using IFX /WSDL message format.  • Designed the user interface of the system by using JavaScript, ReactJS, HTML, CSS  • Responsible for Requirement Analysis and Solution Development in Agile approach for the STARS project Web Front End application.  • Designed and developed API's using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with ReactJS in creating the Application.  • Consumed SOAP web services exposed by the backend PSRM system and performed data parsing, validations and check logic before sending these to the WEB UI.  • Implemented Microservice Architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST, SOAP.  • Got involved in user story reviews with Business Analysts, provided support for all phases of development release cycle interacting with Quality Analysts, Business Analysts, Product Owners, and Technical Leads.  • Worked in SOAP UI tool for webservice testing with the Endpoint URL provided by the third-party system to verify the customer data.  • Deployment & configuration of new application builds on the web server - IBM WebSphere.  • Analyzed each of the services in detail and designed the request and response Xml Schema Definitions (XSD) for the services using Altova XmlSpy tool.  • Designed the orchestrations through BPEL (Business Process Execution Language) using WID (WebSphere Integration Developer) tool.  • Constructed the SABRE commands based on the input xml for each of the services using Host Objects API, which is nothing but java implementation of SABRE functionalities.  • Coordinated with the Siebel Team (Front-end Team) and provided the input and output XSDs for each of the services to them.  • Developed a File Logging mechanism for all the services using log4j API.  • Worked in JIRA tool for tracking the different issues which are raised by the QA team.  • Worked in HP quality center (defect tracking tool) for tracking different issues reported during SIT/UAT phase.  • Worked with SCRUM team in delivering agreed user stories on time for every sprint  • Involved in setting up Sqoop framework to extract structured data product price, stock levels, stocking costs and sales from Oracle 11gi  • Set up Flume system to periodically receive competitor's product data in JSON format from WebCrawler to HBase  • Configured Flume to extract daily web log data in JSON format from web server to HBase  • Worked with system administrator to come up with workflows in Oozie  • Worked with business users, oracle database team and system administrators in designing data conversion to HBase  • Developed custom Input Format and Mapper program to read and parse files and return tab limited rows.  • Generated a Data Dictionary for category and sub categories of URL with MapReduce program.  • Simple to complex queries were written and executed in HIVE.  • Responsible for orchestrating hundreds of HIVE queries using Oozie workflows.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Used Spring AOP to reduce the amount of code written in controller classes and instead used joint points and point cuts to call other classes methods according to advice.  • Used Apache Kafka for building real-time streaming data pipelines (Message Queues) for asynchronous exchange of vital information between multiple business applications  • Developed Spring Batch programs to process nightly jobs, also to run report jobs. Reports were generated using Jasper Reports.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Design and Develop Microservices for various Activation and management activities in One Network flow.  • Implemented Testing framework using Junit for achieving test coverage for the code being developed.  • Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth2authentication protocol respectively.  • Worked with Jenkins in setting up CI/CD pipeline for dev environment and involved in setting up GIT.  • Used Spring Boot to develop and deploy both RESTful web services and MVC applications  • Working on Apache Velocity framework to generate dynamic content based on predefined Velocity templates using VTL. JAVA DEVELOPER Twitter - Scranton, PA September 2017 to October 2018 Responsible for designing and developing web-based enterprise applications using Java 8/J2EE frameworks such as Spring and Servlets.  • Designed and implemented a low-latency, high-availability, and performant applications by using Node.js.  • Proficient with redesigning site with everything from contact page to landing page all using ReactJS. Implement the application MVC, ReactJS.  • Worked extensively in front end technologies like Angular JS1.x and Angular2, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX for developing web-based application.  • Interacted with RESTful Web services using Angular 2 Http Module.  • Implemented Angular2/4 Services for connectivity between a web application and back end API's.  • Worked closely with the Middleware and System Administrators in providing technical expertise from the development and implementation perspectives, especially with NodeJS Web and Tomcat servers.  • Used spring security features to impersonate user without password by making use of RESTful web services.  • Created Reusable Modules and Custom Directives in Angular2.0 which got used in various places of application.  • Because of Angular JS weaknesses such as loading start time and optimization for search engines, migrated from Angular JS to Angular2/4.  • Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Participated in Agile Development team and having daily SCRUM meeting for progress reporting as well as task distributing.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and transaction Management.  • Implemented RESTful web services in service-oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and authorization using spring security and OAuth2authentication protocol respectively.  • Designed and created Microservices business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing Spring boot.  • Created plugins to extract data from multiple sources like Apache Kafka, Database and Messaging Queues.  • Implemented AngularJS, ReactJS with Spring Boot as model component and developed custom directives, tags, and services integrated with Spring REST services.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Used GWT and AWS for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system. Used HP Quality center for Bug tracking in the project.  • Developed Enterprise Web services (REST) built on spring framework and consumed and generated client using Rest template and Jackson for JSON conversion.  • Developed REST clients using Spring REST template to interact with existing REST micro services.  • Used Hibernate for mapping java classes with database and created queries with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Used Angular 4 Http service to make REST API calls to retrieve data in the form of JSON and used angular 4 Observables to subscribe to the responses.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, Route53 and EBS for code deployment.  • Used GIT for source control and developed a logging component using Log4J to log messages and errors.  • Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed Junit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the actual functionality and wrote test cases to test the Spring DAO layer.  • Used Jenkins for continuous Integration and continuous Delivery to assemble pipelines amid organization.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project.  • Used GitHub to keep up the form of the documents and assumed the liability to do the code converges from branch to trunk and making new branch when new element execution begins. JAVA DEVELOPER Tata Consultancy Services - IN August 2012 to March 2015 • Implemented Agile (SCRUM) methodology and Test-Driven Development (TTD) for the software development process and to produce high quality application.  • Analyze the Code and apply the fix solution for the Issues Identified based on the severity basis.  • Used Spring MVC to achieve Model View Controller design pattern.  • Used Eclipse IDE for application Development and used Maven for build automation tool to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  • Worked on HTML5 code and integrated CSS style sheets to it.  • Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and rectify the services using REST APIs with JAX-RS.  • Involved in Configuration of Web logic application server and deployment of application code.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the Oracle 11gdatabase.  • Worked on database connectivity using Oracle SQL Developer and pushing data back and forth from the database.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of information.  • Used Spring, Spring Integration framework to build applications& interact with multiple interfaces.  • Tested the responses of the SOAP web services using SOAP UI and generated Mock Service in SOAP UI to simulate and test the functionalities of Web Service  • Troubleshoot the Web Services and Identify the issues based on the logs generated and fix the Issues.  • Prepared unit test cases with JUnit, Spring Test and Mockito framework.  • Used GIT HUB as version control software to manage the source code and to keep track of changes to files which is fast and light weight system.  • Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like Transaction management and logging Web service calls  • Implemented JAXP for SAX to the event-driven, serial-access mechanism that does element-by-element processing  • Implemented JAXP also supports the XSLT to control over the presentation of the data and enabling to convert the data from XML documents to other formats, such as HTML.  • Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Value Object, Service Delegator and Data Access Object.  • Developed the core component of recovery management module using Spring MVC Framework Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, MYSQL, PHP, Git, CSS