Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Bank of America Jersey, GA • Having 4 years of professional experience in IT industry on Cross Platform (Web & Client-Server) application development and design using object Oriented Programming, Java /J2EE technologies.  • Proficient in methodologies such as Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Requirements Specification, designing documents and writing Test cases using various software engineering process.  • In-depth knowledge of software development methodologies and concepts Web Technologies HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, XML.  • Strong knowledge in using Hibernate 2.x, 3.x, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions.  • Developed and implemented several test cases using JUnit and performed load testing  • Experience working in environments using Agile(SCRUM) and Test-Driven development methodologies.  • Strong academic background in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Programming and its implementation.  • Good Work experience on various IDE's like Eclipse.  • Extensive experience with server-side development experience using the technologies EJB, Web Services, Oracle, MySQL Server.  • Expertise in design and development of various web- and enterprise-level applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle.  • Experience in SQL, PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views and strong experience in RDBMS using Oracle (11G) Server, and My-SQL.  • Experience in developing applications on operating systems like Windows, UNIX and Linux.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently.  • Highly motivated self-starter with a strong analytical problem solving, having ability to multi-task, work in a team environment, understand and be responsive to customer needs, work under tight deadline. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Bank of America February 2019 to Present Description:  • The Project is responsible for calculating the Collaterals and based on the Collateral Analysis loans will be provided to the company.  • The Collateral Analysis is done based on the invoices provided by the Company to the Bank as how much do they earn a month or a quarter and the amount due by the retailers to the Company who apply for the loans.  • This Application monitors the loan amount due to the Bank and monitors the amount due to the companies from their retailers based on the time (monthly, quarterly, yearly).    Responsibilities:  • Designed/Developed extensive additions to existing Struts/ Java/J2EE Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  • Responsible for developing the front-end JSP pages using the Struts framework and were hosted in a J2EE environment on an IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed using simple Struts validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Responsible in creating build files using Maven.  • Coordinated with the team for requirement transition and providing the necessary inputs required for successful execution of the project.  • Extensively worked with EJB and Struts based multi-tier applications in developing J2EE Components  • Experience in One/Two-way Data Binding, MVC Pattern to organize our web application properly, and used Dependency injection to test our code.  • Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using spring and Struts.  • Responsible for Analysis, Design, Coding and testing phases of the project management.  • Followed Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  • Involved in writing Controller Classes, Manager Classes and DAO Classes using Spring MVC Framework.  • Built spring configuration files for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using Spring Dependency Injection  • Extensively used Hibernate Relational mappings (One-To-Many, Many-To-Many) in the secondary project and Used GitHub extensively as versioning tool and used Maven for automated building of projects.  • Responsible for Developing and enhance the web application UI using HTML, JavaScript, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side using JavaScript validations.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts, Collections, Interfaces, Exception Handling and Polymorphism.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Created new database objects like Sequences, Procedures, Functions, Packages, Indexes and Views in Development and Production environment using Oracle.  • Handled Java multithreading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves the user.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate Mapping files.  • Responsible for creating JDBC data source and connection pooling for the Application and hibernate mapping files when needed.  • Involved in the JDBC and JSP technologies to write the UI and the business classes.  • Experience in consuming RESTful web services.  • Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using JavaScript.  • Involved in writing JDBC code to get database connectivity.  • Developed test scripts in JUnit and involved in testing.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using the Log4jframework.  Environment: Java 1.8,J2EE (Struts, EJB JavaScript, XML), JIRA, Jenkins, Bit Bucket, RESTful, Springs MVC,JDBC, CSS,HTML5,JSP,Oracle,Hibernate, multi-threading, object oriented programming, IDE Rational Application Developer, Apache Server, IBM WebSphere. Java Developer AT&T - Oakton, VA March 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Coordinate and facilitate all project Agile/Scrum activities such as release planning, iteration planning, task breakdown, development of users stories, maintenance of the product backlog reviews of stories, daily stand ups, iteration review and retrospective to mention a few.  • Used and implemented the application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations and Hibernate.  • Set up Jenkins server to provide continuous automated builds based on pulling the SVN source control system during the day and periodic scheduled builds overnight to support development needs using Jenkins, SVN  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT.  • Design and use of REST full web services.  • Developed Restful based web services and used JSON as the communication for REST mechanism.  • Experience in Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop Spring based applications with very less configuration.  • Experience providing training to development teams on how to track, plan and analyze using JIRA.  • Implemented CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins and extensively worked for End-to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Worked with Jenkins under the CI/CD pipeline providing continuous improvement to Agile software development teams.  • Use Configure Management Tool to deploy the Container into every server applicable to run the Microservices.  • Involved in creating test case classes for business functions using Junit as a part of Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience in SQL, PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and strong experience in RDBMS using Oracle (11G) Server, and My-SQL.  • Interacting with Business Analysts and Developers in identifying the requirements and designing and implementing the Database Schema.  • Handled Java multithreading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves the user.  • Participated in Agile Project Management in several key projects which included the migration and consolidation of several data centers, migration planning for future system consolidation.  • Adhere to a Standard Agile Project management under SCRUM framework  • Involved in creating test case classes for business functions using Junit as a part of Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Created JDBC data source and connection pooling for the Application and hibernate mapping files when needed.  • Consumed Restful Web Services to establish communication between different applications  Environment: Java 1.8,J2EE (Servlets, JavaScript, XML), JIRA, RESTful, Springs MVC,JDBC, JIRA, Jenkins, Bit Bucket, SVN,JSON CSS3,HTML5,JSP, MySQL workbench, Hibernate, Junit, multi-threading, object oriented programming, Eclipse, Apache Server Java Developer Metlife - Clarks Summit, PA May 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Coordinate and facilitate all project Agile/Scrum activities such as release planning, iteration planning, task breakdown, development of users stories, maintenance of the product backlog reviews of stories, daily stand ups, iteration review and retrospective to mention a few.  • Used and implemented the application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations and Hibernate.  • Improved Maven build times by optimizing code and incorporating Spring resource management.  • Set up Jenkins server to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git source control system during the day and periodic scheduled builds overnight to support development needs using Jenkins, Git and Maven.  • Design and use of REST full web services.  • Developed Restful based web services and used JSON as the communication for REST mechanism.  • Experience in Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop Spring based applications with very less configuration.  • Integrated delivery (CI/CD process) Using Jenkins  • Implemented CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins and extensively worked for End-to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Worked with Jenkins under the CI/CD pipeline providing continuous improvement to Agile software development teams  • Use Configure Mgmt Tool to deploy the Container into every server applicable to run the Microservices.  • Involved in creating test case classes for business functions using Junit as a part of Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience in SQL, PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and strong experience in RDBMS using Oracle (11G) Server, and My-SQL.  • Handled Java multithreading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves the user.  • Created Relational Database Management System (RDMS) and Tables, views, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers using SQL Server  • Participated in Agile Project Management in several key projects which included the migration and consolidation of several data centers, migration planning for future system consolidation.  • Adhere to a Standard Agile Project management under SCRUM framework  • Involved in creating test case classes for business functions using Junit as a part of Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Created JDBC data source and connection pooling for the Application and hibernate mapping files when needed.  • Consumed Restful Web Services to establish communication between different applications  • Handle the configuration of JMS Queues and JDBC connection pools  Environment: Java 1.7,J2EE (Servlets, JavaScript, XML),Angular 2, RESTful, Springs MVC,JDBC, JMS,JSON CSS3,HTML5,JSP, MySQL workbench, Hibernate, Junit, multi-threading, object oriented programming, Eclipse, Apache Server. Full Stack Java Developer Mind Tree - IN November 2013 to December 2014 Description: Worked on Dignity health operates hospitals and provides healthcare facilities in various states. Dignity health provides high quality and affordable health services to all. The web application of Dignity Health Service includes modules like Finding Care Center and Finding Doctor. Finding Care Center has duties like Urgent Care, Ambulatory/Surgery, Home, Health, Hospice, Imaging, Laboratory and Specialty. For Finding a Doctor nearby Address and Specialty has to be provided.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Presentation tier implementation which involves in creating the JSP pages, defining the page navigations, creating and configuring the backing beans, and integrating Spring MVC with the business-logic tier.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Involved in designing the application using MVC pattern  • Designed user interface layout using CSS, HTML.  • Created new database objects like Sequences, Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views in Development and Production environment using My SQL and Oracle.  • Development of application using DHTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Validation is performed using spring's Validation support  • Created JSP pages decorated using CSS.  • Performed builds and deployment and responsible for source code control and release management.  • Tested the response format of REST services in XML.  • Developed Restful based web services and used JSON as the communication for REST mechanism.  • Created JUNIT test case for various functional modules, modified, debugged and executed using JUNIT plugin to Eclipse IDE.  • Developed and implemented several test cases using JUnit and performed load testing  • Performed code review and unit tested the application using Junit framework. Participated in the production support and maintenance of the project.  • Created JDBC data source and connection pooling for the Application, and hibernate mapping files when needed.  • Consumed Restful Web Services to establish communication between different applications  • Implemented Business Services using the Core java and spring.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Spring ORM  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  Environment: Java, J2ee, Junit, JSP, JDBC, Struts,JSON, design patterns, multi-threading, object oriented programming, spring, Hibernate,Oracle,My SQL, Eclipse, Apache Server, CSS, HTML. Education Masters of Science in Engineering Management in Engineering Management California State University - Northridge, CA January 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2010 to May 2014 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: JAVA, C, C++, SQL, JavaScript.  User Interface: JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, CSS.  Frameworks: Spring MVC, Springs ,Struts.  ORM Frameworks: Hibernate  Databases: Oracle, MySQL.  Scripting Languages: JSP.  Data Access Technologies: JDBC  Logging Frameworks: Apache.  Design Patterns: MVC, DAO patterns  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux.  Tools: GitHub, MS Office, Eclipse IDE, Oracle 11G,    SKILLS: Java (3 years), J2EE (3 years), Jsp (3 years), Spring (3 years), Hibernate (3 years),JDBC (3years), Javascript (3 years), HTML (2 years), CSS (2 years), Apache (3 years), MySQL (2years), Oracle (1 years), Git (2 years)