Job Seeker • Around 3 years of experience in Software Development including Requirements gathering,  Design, Development, Unit Testing, Implementation, Maintenance and  Documentation.Experience in developing web services using Restful and SOAP with  JSON and XML.  • Designed, developed and implemented Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using  Spring Framework.Good Understanding of Node.js, Express.js and Mongo DB.  • Proficient with modern coding standards and emerging technologies.  • Adept at building complex modules for business logic, layer communication, data access,  and multi-threading.  • Used Maven as a build tool and Tomcat webserver for deploying the application.  • Experience and in-depth Knowledge of understanding in the strategy and practical  implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including EC2, S3 and RDS.  • Used Node.JS to offer an easy and safe way to build high performance and scalable  network application.  • Worked with Docker and tested web services using Postman and Soap UI.  • Authorized to work in United States with sponsorship.  • software development experience in object-oriented programming of Multi-Tier distributed,  Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development  Life Cycle.  • Expert in Core Java with in-depth knowledge of Core Java concepts such as  Multithreading, Synchronization, Collections, and Event/Exception handling.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, client-server environments  including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB), Java  Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets, Struts, and Java Database Connectivity (JDBC)  technologies.  • Experience using Java Messaging System (JMS), Spring-Boot microservices and  Hibernate ORM.Developed applications and deployed them on a Cloud computing  architecture like AWS and involved in designing of the application using UML (Unified  Modeling Language)  • Hands on experience in working with Node.js applications using Visual Studio Code and  knowledge in writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP.Good experience working on  Angular Js for building user interfaces and understanding of relational database concepts,  and experience in query construction using SQL.  • Experience in developing client-side applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.JS,  etc.Experience in deploying J2EE applications using web/application servers like Tomcat,  WebSphere, WebLogic, etc.  • Excellent knowledge on Object Orient Programming concepts (OOPS). Developed multi-  tiered object-oriented system architectures using uses cases, UML.  • Experience in working with the Databases environments SQL Server and MySQL.Hands  on experience in developing Java and J2EE applications using Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio  2017.Hands-on experience using the building tools like Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  • Working experience on Agile methodology like Scrum.Created connection pools in Visual  Studio Code and configured as needed.  • Experience in writing SQL queries, stored procedures, prepared statements and triggers.  Extensive experience working with Junit, Selenium testing tools.Involved in testing and  fixing the bugs.  • Talented problem solver able to think "outside the box." Fast learner, good at team work  and ability to adopt new technology.Experience of agile work to maintaining business  software applications, enhance existing functionality, and develop new functionality.  • Experience in delivering technical solutions for mission critical Point of Sale applications.  Fully aware of software life cycle process followed by MNC. Work Experience Verizon - Dallas, TX March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing phases of the project  • Involved in designing, developing and configuring server side J2EE components like JavaBeans,  JSP, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, and XML using IDE- Eclipse and deployments in WebSphere  • Used design patterns like Service locator, Data Access objects, and MVC  • Implemented Java persistence using Hibernate framework.  • Used SOAP UI to test the web service request/response scenarios.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Developed Hibernate mappings and implemented required business logic.  • Designed and developed the user interface using JavaScript, HTML and CSS  • Used Hibernate for mapping objects to the relational database  • Responsible for configuring the Tomcat Server to access the Database by setting up Data  source and Connection Pool.  • Utilized Log4j for request / response / error logging  • Involved in Unit & Integration Testing for different Modules in the application.  • Unit and integration testing, logging and debugging using JUnit  • Used deployment & Continuous Integration (CI) tools like ANT, Maven, and Jenkin.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and helped testers in end-to-end testing.  • Development, testing, debugging, and ongoing maintenance of new and existing code.  • Migrated from Java 1.7 to Java 1.8 and upgraded spring application from 1.X to 2.X.  • Worked on Spring Integration testing for RESTful services. Java Developer Walmart - Dallas, TX August 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • A small amount of Java Development via the Eclipse IDE (most of us were given one  programming task) . The task I performed was a String masking of the password attribute in an XML file.  • Using GIT as a repository for the application project folders.  • Worked with Spring, Hibernate, and Faces frameworks.  • Used Eclipse debugger in-order to fix the bugs.  • JIRA for trouble tickets and Confluence for our knowledge base.  • Worked with the development technologies like: Enterprise Java Beans, Servlets, JSP,  JSF, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Efficiently worked on Core Java technologies, SDLC, and design & development of web- based application.  • Worked on RESTful web services on Java8 version.  • Evaluated and solved trouble tickets by coordinating with DBAs and my Java team.  • Actively participated in AGILE SCRUM meetings. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Noida, Uttar Pradesh September 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Requirement analysis, creating design, providing technical Solutions, UTC creation, UIT,  QA and Production Defect Fixing.  • Collaborated with team and engineered the EMV standards at the POS terminals which made Walgreen's Payment System PCI compliance (Worldwide Card Security  Standards) . Entire handling of extracting information from Pin-Pad (when card inserted) is  done in a multi-threaded environment.  • Accomplished end-to-end encryption and tokenization of Plain Card data into non- readable form called cipher text using AES (session) encryption. Card Security executed  acts as a breakthrough in Walgreens network.  • Worked on integrating the SQLite database for an enhancement to keep records of unsuccessful transactions and deleting these after 3 days through cron job.  • Implemented Java framework to remove dependency from hitting actual database (DB2)  every time to search for card data related information injecting two files at Register POS and Pin-pad device. Increased efficiency of the POS terminals by 15%.  • Led offshore team of 6 members during critical projects. Education Bachelor of technology in technology MAHARASHTRA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY PUNE - Pune, Maharashtra June 2010 to December 2014 Skills JAVA (4 years), CSS (2 years), DATABASE (2 years), ECLIPSE (2 years), HTML (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Language: Java and J2EE, C/C++, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, PHP, Jquery,  Node.js, HTML5, CSS3, SQL.  Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, Java JDK 1.7, 1, 8, STS, Oracle, Bit Bucket,  Integration Testing.  IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio Code.  Development Approach: Waterfall and Agile.  Operating Systems: All versions of Microsoft Windows, Linux, UNIX.  Frameworks: Node.JS, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Express.js.  Database and Servers: DB2, MongoDB, MySQL, SQLite, Apache Tomcat, SQL Server.  Tools Used: Eclipse IDE Kepler GIT, Intellij, Netbeans, Jira, Stash, Git Bash, Putty, Slack.  Application/Web Server: Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic.  Version Controls: GIT, AWS, CVS.  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS and FTP.