Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - British Telecom Work Experience Java Developer British Telecom April 2018 to Present BT)  Environment: Java, J2EE, Web Services(Restful Service), Oracle, Angular 2.  Role: Java Developer  Project Description: It's a BT's intranet application which is being used to manage the internal capability of British Telecom for providing its services and businesses all over the world i.e. in Asia-Pacific, Europe, US, CANADA etc .This application manages the products details, supplier's details, Capacity Check of various technological service that BT deals with .It consumes data from external Application as well as feeds data to its couple of down-streams like(SC, APE, CPE+).    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested restful services for Capacity Check module for(MPLS and ICG ) using Spring Rest.  • Analyzed detailed business calculation logic for various scenarios and implemented the business layer for the same.  • Prepared of Detail Design Specification documents for all the functionality I developed.  • Deployed application in all test environments including end -2-end environments and fixed all defects Java Developer United Parcel Service April 2016 to February 2018 UPS)  Environment: Java 1.7, Hibernate, Spring, Spring REST, Oracle, J unit, Eclipse Kepler, SVN, Maven, PMD, Emma, Web logic, SOAP UI.  Role: Java Developer  Project Description: UBO is a web based application providing electronic invoicing solutions for  Customers in US, Canada, APAC, EMEA, and LAC users across the globe.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Written controller classes for exposing as services to all clients using Spring REST services.  • Integrate spring restful service with DAO layer using Spring JDBC and Spring Transaction.  • Consumed Rest services from different modules and map the response data with business data.  • Wrote J unit test cases for each class using Emma code coverage.  • Deployed application in different environments and analyzed, fixed all defects in all environment.  • Tracking/Monitoring the application based on the users behavior and retrieve this in form of a dashboard or report.  • Generated code coverage and PMD violations report using Hudson tool. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology BIJU PATNAIK UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY - ODISHA, IN 2015