Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - CenturyLink Englewood, CO • High skills in Core JAVA/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, SOAP and REST Web Services.  • Proficiency in programming with various Integrated Development Environments ( JAVA IDE's) like Eclipse, NetBeans.  • Through knowledge in core java concepts like OOPS, JAVA SWING, JDBC, Multi-Threading and advanced java concepts like Servlets, XML, AJAX, java Beans.  • Knowledge on Front-End UI dev like Angular.js, Angular 2, XHTML, Bootstrap, JSON.  • Expertise also in back-end development using Node.js, and Mongo DB.  • Knowledge on Front end Javascript technologies like React, Backbone, Vue  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for a web application that matches requirements.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and AngularJs.  • Performed in developing light weight business components and integrated applications using spring framework, and Spring Web MVC.  • Hands on experience in working with Node.js applications using Visual Studio Code and  knowledge in writing API's  • experience with SQL, Mongo, Oracle and PostgreSQL  • Good exposure to Continuous Integration and Automated build, Code refactoring techniques.  • Designing and creating Automation frameworks using Java, Maven, Jenkins, GIT.  • Providing Production support for the application and Bug fixing within production environment, Analysis and Design.  • Worked mostly in Agile methodologies.  • Utilized Log4j for request / response / error logging.  • Involved in Unit & Integration Testing for different Modules in the application, Unit and integration testing, logging and debugging using Junit  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and helped testers in end-to-end testing and testing, debugging, and ongoing maintenance of new and existing code  • Experience in building and deploying applications using Maven, Jenkins, and Exceptional abilities in using source code analysis tools automated build process and unit testing.  • Excellent knowledge in Version Control system like SVN and GIT.  • Good oral and written communication abilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer CenturyLink - Denver, CO December 2018 to Present • Involved in all phases of SDLC - Agile - Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment of enterprise applications in the domain of Telecom & Networking industry.  • Expertise in developing Web based, Enterprise based applications in a three-tier architecture using Java SE 1.7/1.8, Java EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Experience in object-oriented programming, Worked on Spring Core, MVC, AOP, AngularJs, Node JS, Spring, JDBC, Hibernate.  • Expertise in designing and developing Enterprise Applications using Java EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, JDBC, JNI and Web services.  • Was part of Orchestration team, where involved in discussions for building a project from scratch, given my thoughts, concerns and ideas.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and show it in the interface using jQuery/AJAX.  • Worked on Mongodb data model design based on application needs and use Embedded data models and Normalized data models.  • Good working knowledge on IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea and NetBeans.  • Hands on experience with Web & Application Servers such as Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM WebSphere and Web Logic.  • Utilized Log4j for request / response / error logging.  • Involved in Unit & Integration Testing for different Modules in the application, Unit and integration testing, logging and debugging using Junit  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and helped testers in end-to-end testing and testing, debugging, and ongoing maintenance of new and existing code  • Used deployment & Continuous Integration (CI) tools like ANT, Maven, and Jenkin.  • Experienced with Jenkins for build & deploy the applications.  • Extensive use of Version Controls with GIT subversions and knowledge on Code review tools like Gerrit and Gitlab  • Good Knowledge on Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Written Shell Scripts for building, packaging and installing the application in the server.  • Participated in scrum meetings such as daily stand up, grooming, sprint planning, release and retrospective.  Environment: Java, J2EE, MongoDB, NodeJS, JDBC, Junit, Maven, Gradle, CI/CD, Jenkins, GitLab, Log4j, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Springs Java Developer Ericsson - Piscataway, NJ March 2017 to December 2018 Experience in Software Development in Ericsson Expert Analytics (EEA) as developer role in the Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, and Testing of business application systems.  ? software development experience in object-oriented programming of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development  Life Cycle.  ? Expert in Core Java with in-depth knowledge of Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Synchronization, Collections, and Event/Exception handling.  ? Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, client-server environments  including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB), Java  Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets, Struts, and Java Database Connectivity (JDBC)  technologies.  ? Experience using Java Messaging System (JMS), Spring-Boot microservices and Hibernate  ? Knowledge of BigData technology stack especially working on Spark on Cloudera platform  ? Knowledge of distributed messaging framework like Kafka, MQ, Zookeeper  ? Responsible for cluster maintenance, cluster monitoring and troubleshooting, managing, and reviewing data backups and Hadoop log files  ? Design and implement data transformation for big data platforms. (Spark, Kafka, etc.) using highly parallelized transformation jobs in Spark including Spark Streaming.  ? Writing code in Python, Shell scripts and unit test cases for J2EE.  ? Involved in performing code reviews in Python, and Shell scripting languages for moving into development on various UNIX, LINUX operating systems.  ? Reviewed codes in Shell Script, Java, J2EE, created subprograms, procedures, and functions  ? Deft at mapping the requirements, custom designing solutions & troubleshooting for complex software & application problems.  ? Responsible for Development/Enhancement, bug fixing as well as Production Support.  ? Knowledge of modern development lifecycle practices, such as Agile  ? Excellent communication & interpersonal skills with abilities in resolving complex software issues.  ? Able to do quick and efficient programming.    Environment: Java, J2EE, AngularJs, NodeJs, CSS, Hadoop, Spark, Kafka, HDFS, Zookeeper, MVC, SQL, Python, TCP/IP, bash, Linux, git, GitHub, BOOST libraries, Gdb, Jira.    Academic Projects in school    Flag Quiz Game (An Android Application)  ? Created a Flag quiz game application which displays few questions and possible options related to the flags and countries.  ? User can select his choice and move forward to the next question.  ? Once done, user can view the answers and his score.  ? Designed a GUI using Linear Layouts and Grid Layout.    Environment: Java, JDK, Eclipse IDE, windows 10 Education Master of Science in the computer science in computer science Virginia International University Bachelor's in technology in Electronics and communication engineering JNTU Hyderabad Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, JMS