Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Fort Wayne, IN Java engineer looking for a challenging, fun, and rewarding position. Experience with full-stack web and  mobile development in an agile environment with a strong interest in database and frameworks. Ability  to use effective communication and troubleshooting skills with a keen eye to detail and usability to  deliver proper working solutions to solve client needs. Work Experience Java Developer DuCharme, McMillen & Associates, Inc November 2016 to April 2017 Responsible for client support and troubleshooting of DMA software on Windows and Linux machines,  including installation, configuration, testing, and database administration.  Ensured proper documentation of all client support interactions and corresponding billing.  Involved in the process of setting up documentation for management of software support. Java Developer Shambaugh & Son August 2012 to November 2015 Led development and maintenance for company safety survey and reporting tool targeting web and mobile platforms.  Worked with multiple departments to maintain and improve company dispatch and service tracking  tools across various platforms and environments, mobile/web, and AS400.  Designed web based reporting tool for refrigerant tracking needed for reporting to the EPA.  Shared responsibility for improvements and maintenance of employee website.  Team player willing to help wherever a problem needs solved.  Highly focused on solving clients needs.  Worked enthusiastically with others in a constant learning environment. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Mathematics Purdue University - Fort Wayne, IN 2011 Skills Android (Less than 1 year), CSS (3 years), Database Development (3 years), HTML (3 years), Java (3 years), Hibernate (3 years), Core Java (3 years), Javascript (3 years), MVC (1 year), Java J2Ee (3 years), Rest (3 years), JSP (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Acquired the ability to coordinate with others and complete team projects successfully.  Competent at working individually and staying focused on required tasks.  Web Development  Java, JavaScript, JSON, HTML/XML, CSS  Database Development  MySQL, SQLite, Hibernate  Android Development  Java, AndroidSDK