Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer California City, CA • Software Professional with 3 years of IT experience in designing, developing and delivering complex multi-tiered enterprise applications for web-based and client-server domains using Java/J2EE/Unix/SQL languages with experience on working with mobile application on interactive application development.  • Strong development experience in all layers of application of Service layer, Data layer, Controller, Web Services and front-end.  • Experience in working on projects with Multi-Threading, Collections Framework and Generics.  • Expert hands-on experience in working with Spring modules like Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, Spring Web Services, Spring JMS, Spring AOP etc.  • Extensive knowledge in using JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery and DOJO.  • Experience in developing web applications using Rich UI technologies like AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, AJAX, CSS2, XML, DOM, JavaScript, NodeJSand JSP Tag libraries.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP with WSDL and RESTful with JAX_RS, Jersey, Spring, Apache CXF and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  • Expertise in migration and upgrading of Web Servers, JDK versions and installation of servers.  • Knowledge in application of cloud providers, Amazon AWS Ec2/s3/AMI, Microservices and Cloud sigma.  • Proficient in SQL and wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers besides writing DDL, DML andtransaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Aqua Data Studio.  • Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing.  • Proficient in Test Automation using UTF and Selenium tools, WebDrivers, JUnit and TestNG.  • Hands on experience in software configuration / change control process and tools like Subversion(SVN), GIT, CVS, Clear Case, Bugzilla and Jira.  • Extensive experience in working on projects with Waterfall and agile methodologies such as Test Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM.  • Quick learner with an ability to rapidly achieve organizational integration, assimilate job requirements and employ new ideas, concepts, methods and technologies.Energetic and self-motivated team player. Work Experience Java Developer 2017 to December 2018 Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Eclipse, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, Weblogic12c, Oracle, ANT, Mavan, Jenkins, SOAPUI, Unix scripting, Log4J, Junit.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and coordinated with the design team.  • Proactively looked for opportunities to improve Code Base and provided creative solutions.  • Coded different action classes and deployment descriptors like eaptool-ds, EJB-jar and Jboss.xml files.  • Understanding of Java Spring Boot for REST API, by making use of ExceptionHandler and ControllerAdvice annotations.  • Interacted with the LDAP team to configure security authentication.  • Involved in testing the XML files and checked whether data is parsed and loaded to staging tables and also worked on web.xml, application.yml and added security realms.  • Responsible for configuring server to access the Oracle Database by setting up Data source and Connection Pool from Weblogic to Jboss.  • Deployed the EAR, JAR, WAR applications on multiple Jboss server Instances and maintained Load balancing, high availability and Fail over functionality in clustered environment.  • Understood the HTML, NodeJS, Angular 4 and mapped the frontend with backend url in order to establish connection.  • Responsible for Design and Development of Jboss application deployment Scripts.  • Coordinated with the Middleware and Database teams to identify and correct issues and bugs relating to JBoss.  • Raised and worked on all supporting tickets for different environments.  • Worked with Atlassian tools like Jira& automated the Build Process using Jenkins.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Worked on the code level changes and fixing the issues in order to get HP Fortify SignOff from AppSec.  • Maintained SVN branches for project development, conducted merge and used Maven for building and deploying applications to JBOSS and Coherence servers.  • Created deployment tickets using Jira for build deployment in Production.  • Log-file analysis (troubleshooting) to resolve issues using scripts.  • Involved in testing and profiling to measure the performance of the application.  Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Eclipse, Servlets, Spring Boot, JDBC, JSTL, XML, EJB, HTML 5, CSS, AngularJS 4, NodeJS, JavaScript, JBoss, Oracle, ANT, Mavan, CI/CD, Jenkins, SVN, REST, Agile, Unix scripting, Log4J, JUnit Java Developer Victor Cloud - IN June 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in most of the SDLC phases with sprint planning sessions & actively participated in Agile scrum and coordinated with the Business analyst and end users of the system.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Developed custom controllers for handling the requests using the Spring MVC controllers.  • Used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and Spring Bean Factory using AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security, transaction management and implemented business logic using EJB.  • Developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and used JPA for relational data mapping.  • Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Developed interactive and dynamic web pages with cross browser compatibility using hand coded semantic HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Used JavaScript for client end data entry validations and front end validations.  • Written services in AngularJS that could use Web Services using ngResource with custom queries, error handling ($q, $exceptionHandler) and bindedJSON return data to HTML elements.  • Integrated Web Services with java backend using RESTful (HTTP methods - GET, POST, DELETE).  • Developed RESTful Web services using JAX-RS and Jersey to perform transactions from front end to our backend applications, response is sent in JSON format based on the use cases.  • Used Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Deployed the EAR, JAR, WAR applications on multiple WebLogic Server Instances and JBoss servers.  • Configured JMS resources Queues, Topics, JDBC connection pools and data sources for Web Logic/JBoss server instances.  • Created multiple scripts in UNIX and BATCH for an effective proactive screening of logs to identify any potential threat in the application.  • Installed and configured the development environment using JBoss on Windows and LINUX systems.  • Created Domain Templates to replicate the environment on new WebLogic/JBoss servers.  • Developed triggers, packages, procedures and functionsto process the trades usingPL/SQL.  • Involved in writing complex SQL queries for interacting and updating database.  • Used Maven dependencies for application building process that created POM.xml files.  • Used GITfor version control and JIRA for tracking bugs.  • Design test cases using Selenium Webdriver and TestNG and enhance cross browser testing.  • Involved in assisting QA team in Load and Integration testing of J2EE applications on WebLogic/JBoss Application Servers.  • Used custom tags to check for authentication and wrote JUnit test cases for unit testing the integration layer. Education Bachelor of science in information technology in information technology Mahatma Gandhi University October 2000 Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern polytechnic University Skills AngularJS (4 years), ANT (1 year), Database (4 years), Eclipse (1 year), HTML (4 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), Junit. (4 years), LINUX (2 years), MAVEN (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (2 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (2 years), MVC (2 years), Selenium (2 years), SOAP (2 years), SQL. (2 years), testing (4 years), Unix (4 years), Web Services (2 years), XML (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Core Java, C, C++, SQL, Shell Scripting  Web Technologies HTML/DHTML, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS  Frameworks Spring, Java Script, MVC Hibernate, JavaBeans  Application/Web Servers WebSphere, Oracle, Tomcat  Web Services & XML RESTful, SOAP, XML, XHTML  Database Environments PL/SQL, Oracle, MySQL, SQLite, MS-Access  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJIDEA, Notepad++, Android Studio  Build/Testing Tools ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Junit, Selenium, Logcat, DDMS  Operating Systems Windows XP/7/8/10, Unix, Linux