RPA Developer RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA Developer - PEGA Robotics Bloomington, IL • 3 years of IT experience in Development, Administration and implementation technology solutions.  • Experience in creating end to end RPA process for enterprise banking and insurance domains using PEGA Robotics (Openspan)  • Experience in analysis, design, development and deploying Applications using PEGA Robotics (Openspan), C#, web services, SQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Experience in developing automations using RPA (Robotic Process Automation) and RDA (Robotics Desktop Automation).  • Attends and contributes to planning sessions, requirement refinement meeting, code review sessions, daily stand up meetings, feature demonstration.  • Have extensive knowledge and working experience on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Experience in analysis, design, coding and implementation of Business Applications.  • Experience with various IT systems development life cycle (SDLC) including Agile/ Scrum, Waterfall and TDD methods with proven record of Scrum project implementation.  • Having experience on JDBC, JSP/Servlets.  • Good knowledge and experience in Web page creation using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, AJAX jQuery.  • Good Knowledge on Angular JS.  • Experience in SQL and PL/SQL.  • Experience of using version controlling tools like GITLAB.  • Good interpersonal skills for handling clients, vendors and customers.  • Influential character with good technical & pioneering skills and can handle Software projects efficiently.  • Experience with Git, JIRA and Web Services based on SOAP and REST specifications.  • Work well alone and as part of a team with excellent troubleshooting mechanisms and highly adaptable to different work environments.  • A quick learner in adapting to technology with ease. Work Experience RPA Developer PEGA Robotics - Bloomington, IL November 2018 to Present Description:  Designed and developed a cost efficient bot which provides data to the user which helps the user to provide a time effective service to the customer. Bot provides data based on the multiple scenarios and automates call center customer service jobs, by collaborating data from different applications from varies domains.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering by interacting with various teams.  • Developed workflow of the process using visio.  • Developed Assisted Bots (RDA) and Un Assisted Bots (RPA).  • Developed Automations using various adapters, connectors and controls.  • Designed and Developed procedures for reusability  • Used various concepts like global container, interaction framework.  • Used activities for data movement.  • Deployed bots onto various HVD's  • Prepared detailed Design document and developed Automation Architecture in accordance with the best practices and lessons learned.  • Implemented Exception logging.  • Adding automations and C# scripts to the project.  • Created List Views and Summary view to show the responses to the user.  • Performed Development and Unit Testing in accordance with the Automation Architecture.  • Created and reviewed test scenarios and test cases based on requirements and design.  • Adding automations and C# scripts to the project.  • Followed Agile methodology for SDLC.  • Unit testing the developed automation.  • Used TFS for Source Control Management.  • Used Rally for release management.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, C#, .NET suite, Visio, SQL, Pega Robotics/Openspan 7.1, SOAP UI, Oracle, Windows7 Developer PEGA Robotics - Dallas, TX August 2017 to November 2018 Description:  Developed RPA solutions to accelerate Business processes which involved consolidating the customer records and storing a backup of the data and based on the customer requirements statements are generated and mailed automatically.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering by interacting with various teams.  • Designed and developed of various Automations using Pega Robotics (Openspan) interacting with various business groups.  • Worked on Developing workflow for the process using visio.  • Developed Assisted Bots (RDA) and Un Assisted Bots (RPA).  • Worked on Interrogating Web Applications and Windows Applications.  • Effectively developed Automations using various Adapters, Connectors and controls.  • Designed and Developed procedures for code reusability.  • Used various concepts like global container, message manifest, interaction manger.  • Involved in working with activities for data movement.  • Prepared detailed Design document and developed Automation Architecture in accordance with the best practices and lessons learned.  • Experienced in adding automations and C# scripts to the project.  • Created List Views and Summary view to show the responses to the user.  • Performed Development and Unit Testing in accordance with the Automation Architecture.  • Created and reviewed test scenarios and test cases based on requirements and design.  • Performed Unit testing for the developed automations.  • Effectively worked with TFS for Source Control Management.  • Worked with Rally for release management.  • Performed the bug fixes raised by QA team.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015 with PEGA Robotics Plugin 7.1/8.0, C#, .NET suite, Visio, SQL    Academic Project Java Developer University of Houston-Clear lake - Houston, TX May 2017 to August 2017 • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation, management and deployment of full software development life cycle of project.  • Designed and developed a web application using MYSQL database on the backend, Spring MVC in the middle tier, HTML and JSP on the front-end.  • Created AJAX request for searching, creating search criteria and parsing AJAX response.  • Built data driven application with server side J2EE technologies like servlets and generated dynamic web pages with JSP.  • Used JDBC to connect with MYSQL database.  • JavaScript, jQuery was used to provide client-side validations.  • Involved in writing Junit testcases for controller classes by using Junit framework.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSP, Spring, jQuery, Junit, MYSQL, Eclipse IDE, Windows. Education Master's in computer science in computer science University of Houston May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Acharya Nagarjuna University May 2016 Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Git, Html, Svn, Xml, Database, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Uml, Pega, Eclipse, Java, Ios, Rest services, Ec2, Unix Additional Information Technical Skills    RPA Tools PEGA Robotics (Openspan)  Programming Languages Java, JDBC, PL/SQL.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, IOS  Database Oracle, PL/SQL, MYSQL.  Methodologies OOPS, UML  Web Development Java Script, HTML 5, CSS3, REST Services, XML.  sIDEs Microsoft Visual Studio, NetBeans, Eclipse (4.7.0), IntelliJ (2016.2.3).  Cloud Services AWS EC2, AZURE  Version Control GitHub, Git Extensions, SVN