Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - HPE • Having 2 years of experience in object oriented analysis, Development and deployment of Enterprise Web applications using JAVA/ Java EE technologies.  • .Experience in Development of Object-Oriented Business Applications Using Java  • Experience in Analyzing the Requirements, Development, JUnit testing, and Deployment.  • Having Knowledge and experience in Core Java, Servlets, JSP, Exception Handling and Implemented Collection API.  • Experience in build and deploy maven application by Jenkins tool  • Experience in web application development using IDE like Eclipse.  • Highly flexible and capable of learning new tools and applications. Work Experience Java Developer HPE March 2017 to Present • Environment: Linux  • Skill set: Core Java, JSP, Html, JavaScript, SQL, Server, Tomcat7, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Linux    Description:  HPE is product based company every year it sells the large number of products to customers/company's. financial team at end of month and end of year manually done accounting work and tax, drop into the spread sheets in share-point location then they will generate invoice share to buyers. it is hard to generate & calculate tax manually for each item in spread sheets with different countries and also taking more time, delivering of invoice reports also getting late then financial team must need one automated application for doing financial work instead of doing manual work.    Integrated Discount Model is a web application which is automate the TAX and Global Trade Financial models, whatever the manual work was done in spread sheets that is transferred into automated process. Now Idm application using by two teams Transfer price and Global Trade teams.TP team will do MEC and YEC processes and GT team generate the custom reports by using IDM application. it is interlocked with BW/EIFFEL/PLARIS/EDW AND eQUATE SYSTEMS.IDM Loads the raw data, perform the calculation and generate the reports automatically predefined settings. User just login into IDM application define or edit formulas as like excel sheet and define calculation riles.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Gathering requirements analysis and understand the application behavior  • To understand the design documents provided by designers and develop the requirements as per the design.  • Involved in MEC and YEC process for IDM application  • Involved in GT calculation and Entity calculation  • Check the server health and observe their condition frequently  • Involved in Implementation of Maven project for IDM  • Implemented the Jenkins to IDM application for continuous build and Deploy  • Working Experience with GIT, Maven and TomCat Server  • Having experience in writing procedure, views and cursors in sql server  • Having experience with Spring MVC and implemented controller, implementation classes for IDM application  • Involved and implemented Soap web services for employee integration feed Java Developer DXE Technology in Bangalore - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN March 2017 to March 2017 Till Data    PROJECT  • Project Name: IDM (Integrated Discount Model) Education Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN 2015 Additional Information SKILLS  • Java/J2EE Technologies: C, Java, JDBC, Servlets, Jsp  • IDE: Eclipse  • Servers: Apache Tomcat 7  • RDBMS/Back end: Oracle, Sql Server  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Java Script  • Repository Tools: SVN