Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - CNSI • Over 3 years of professional software development experience in object oriented programming, design and development of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using JAVA and J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle.  • Experience in development, testing, documentation, training and delivering enterprise applications with sound knowledge of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in developing applications using waterfall and Agile (XP and Scrum), Test Driven methodologies and good understanding of Service orientation architecture.  • Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance and Implementation experience of enterprise, web and client server applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies and Object oriented technology.  • Experience in developing application components using frameworks like Swing and open source frameworks like Struts and Spring.  • Experience in developing application components using J2EE technologies like servlet, jsp and java script etc.  • Good experience of database programming in oracle environment using PL/SQL with tools such as TOAD, SQL developer.  • Good experience in using in the Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook)  • Experience in using various configuration management tools like Rational Clear Case, SVN and CVS.  • Experience in developing unit testing framework using JUnit.  • Possess strong communication and Interpersonal skills. Can quickly master and work on new concepts and applications with minimal supervision. Attention to detail, thoroughness, tenacity and an investigative drive to discover the underlying causes of technical problems. Work Experience Java Developer CNSI November 2017 to Present • Developing and improving healthcare software system that would be used by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.  • Design and develop complex business rules for Institutional and Professional claims adjudication using RuleIT business rule engine  • Implemented Home Health claims pricing and EDITs (business error conditions) using RuleIT and RESTful web Services.  • Collaborated with business analysts for understanding the business requirements and translating them to technical specifications  • Developed Hibernate in Data Layer to access, update and delete information in database.  • Involved in the design sessions of every sprint with system architect and business analysts.  • Participated in the technical code reviews, prepared unit test cases, detailed time estimation and impact analysis and code reviews documents  • Written JUnit Test cases for perform unit testing.  • Used Svn as Version control.  • Used Jira For Defect Tracking.  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolve defects.  • Written stored procedures, triggers, and cursors using Oracle PL and SQL.    Environment: Java 1.6, servlets, Spring, JSP, HTML, CSS, Hibernate, Oracle10g, Web Sphere 8.0, Eclipse, XML, SVN, Log4j, Jira, Maven, RuleIT, REST web Services Java Developer Swanktek, Inc December 2014 to May 2016 • Adopted agile methodology in the development and used Scrum method of project management.  • Involved in the design sessions of every sprint with system architect and business analysts.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, and Action classes.  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Made use of Data Access Object (DAO) design pattern for designing data access layer.  • Written JUnit Test cases for perform unit testing.  • Used Rational Clear Case as Version control.  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolve defects.  • Used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  • Deigned Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Written stored procedures, triggers, and cursors using Oracle PL and SQL.    Environment: Java 1.6, servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Struts 1.x., Oracle10g, Web Sphere 8.0, Eclipse, JDBC, XML, Log4j, Clear Case, Clear Quest, ANT. Java Developer Accenture - IN June 2013 to February 2014 • Involved in design, development and deployment of the application.  • Interactions with the client to understand the functional requirements of the tool.  • Involved in the development of user interface using Java Swing technology.  • Followed the Model View Controller (MVC) architecture in the development of user interface.  • Implemented Data Access Object (DAO) pattern in persistence layer.  • Involved in the creation of database objects using Oracle database  • Involved in writing SQL queries and PLSQL code necessary for the application.  • Involved in Unit testing the application using Junit test cases.  • Implemented logging mechanism using Log4j.    Environment: Java, Java Swing, Oracle10g, Eclipse, Log4j, SVN, Ant and Toad. Education Bachelors. in Electronic And Communications Engineering in Electronic And Communications Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills C+ (Less than 1 year), Clear Case (1 year), CSS (2 years), Databases (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (3 years), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), HTML (2 years), Java (3 years), JavaScript (1 year), Jira (1 year), Microsoft SQL Server. (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), open source (Less than 1 year), Rational (1 year), SQL. (3 years), Struts (1 year), Subversion (2 years), Svn (2 years), Version control. (2 years), XML (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Java, C++, and C.  Databases: SQL, PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL Server.  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript  Open Source Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate  IDE: Eclipse, Rational Application Developer.  Version Control Tools: SVN, Clear Case, Jira    Operating Systems: Windows XP/7, UNIX