Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Venuetize 3+ years of IT experience as a Java/J2EE developer in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, Enhancement and Support of full life cycle web applications using N-TierJ2EE architecture in Financial, Banking, Healthcare, insurance and Telecommunication domain. Work Experience Java Developer Venuetize - Tampa, FL June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of project from analysis and requirement phase to delivering the project.  • Created System Requirement Specifications (SRS) report of the project by collecting all the requirements from client.  • Analyzed the requirements and formulated project scope.  • Developed the functionalities using Agile Methodology.  • Designed front-end presentation logic using JSP, CSS3 and Strut tags.  • Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript. Developed various generic JavaScript functions  For validations.  • Developed internal coding using J2EE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.  • Implemented MVVM pattern for development  • Implemented Business Logic using Java 1.6, Spring 3.1, Struts 2.0 and Hibernate 3.0.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire  Objects of business classes.  • Worked on Entity framework with backed DB as a Azure SQL database along with complex store procedure, queries and views.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database  Operations and avoid redundant database access statements  • Involved in configuring XML mapping files and POJO objects.  • Building Single Page Application using Knockout JS, Node JS, and JavaScript.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions, Hibernate cache  Concepts.  • Experience in handling messaging services using Apache Kafka.  • Designed overall Microservices architecture including Gateway, API Service, Core Service, Discovery Server and Monitor Server using Spring Cloud Netflix.  • Optimized the Cassandra cluster by making changes in Cassandra configuration file and Linux OS configurations  • Created session EJBs that retrieved information from the Oracle database using Spring-Hibernate.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Implemented REST Web services to retrieve data from client side.  • Creating and configuring applications services with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Created DDL and DML SQL scripts for creation of database objects in Oracle 11g db.  • Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  • Created new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and Required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Developed Data Access Layer using Entity Framework 3.5 and extensively used LINQ to join various entities.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of Functionality before writing the functionality.  • Involved in installing and configuring Confluent Kafka in R&D line, also Validate the installation with HDFS connector and Hive connectors.  • Performed Disk Space management to the users and groups in the cluster  • Used Storm and Kafka Services to push data to HBase and Hive tables  • Experience working with Karma for testing javascript purposes  • Used Jenkins to load JAR files from Database required for running the application.  • Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in application servers. It is also used for Dependency management of code in application.  • Worked on SOAP and RESTFUL Service API using WCF which return XML and JSON data using WCF attributes.  • Used Eclipse IDE to develop and debug application code.  • Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.6, spring framework, Spring MVC 3.5, Hibernate 3.x, JSP 2.0, CSS3, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Web services, REST, XML, Java Beans, Ext JS, jQuery, JavaScript,Kafka Entity Framework Knockout JS, WCF, MVVM Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Web Sphere, Agile Methodology, SVN, Maven, Jenkins, JUnit, Winscp. Java/J2EE Developer Brown Greer LLC - Richmond, VA June 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application by using Scrum methodology in agile environment.  • Designed the architecture based on the popular J2EE Model 2 approach of MVC design paradigm.  • Developed application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Transferred all data into SQL Server from different data sources using SSIS/ETL.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java Spring dependency injections, annotations, and configuration files.  • Creating and configuring applications services with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) to establish communication between BMS and a CRM (Customer Relationship Management) system.  • Contributed to discussion on analysis and design on the completed migration of the BMS and POS systems from Ravendb to SQL database using Entity Framework Code First, designing the whole SQL data modeling, along with the implementation of most of the custom scripts for data migration.  • Used Spring Rest Template to use the exposed REST Web Services.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Used MVC5.0 for making Rest calls between application and WCF service.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model, and View Objects.  • Developed Business components using Java Objects and used Hibernate framework to map the Java classes to the database using Annotations.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Development of application communication through asynchronous message using JMS, MQ, MDB process message in point-to-point scenarios.  • Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, Hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  • Implemented Data validations for critical functionalities using Angular2 and JavaScript.  • Implemented Responsive development using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Worked on Multiple AWS instances, set the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Auto scaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems  • Used Spring Security for implementing the authentication, authorization, and access-control features.  • Published Restful services using Spring MVC and consumed rest services using spring-rest template.  • Functionality is implemented by developing RESTful web services using spring boot, JPA, Cloud foundry and Oracle.  • Experienced in writing complex SQL queries for extracting data from multiple tables.  • Extensively executed SQL queries to view successful transactions of data.  • Extracted data from various sources like Oracle, flat files, and SQL Server.  • Development of XML/XSLT/XSD for schema definitions.  • Unit testing and Integration Testing of application.  • Ongoing support and maintenance of the application of defects and fixing them.  • Coordinated with the testing team for bug reports and fixes and tracking these tickets through JIRA.  • Good experience with test driven software development and unit testing tool like JUnit to write and run repeatable test.  • Used GIT HUB for maintaining the component and to release version management.  • Used Jenkins to build the War file.  • Tested web services on SOAP UI and SOAP Sonar.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages, and performance logs.  Environment: Windows XP, JDK 1.5, Servlets 3.0, JSP 2.2, HTML, AWS, Spring Boot, Entity Framework Knockout JS, WCF, MVVM, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2005, Eclipse 3.2, Maven, WebLogic 11g, SVN, JUnit, Log4j, NoSQL, Spring 3.0, REST, Hibernate 3.3. Java Developer CMC Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture. UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams were used.  • Worked in an Agile work environment with Content Management system for workflow management and content versioning.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework to achieve data binding between HTML and JavaScript objects.  • Designed and developed Application based on Struts Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Implemented MVC design pattern using JSF 2.0 with Rich faces UI framework  • Designing, Development, JUnit testing and Integration of many components of the applications from end-to-end, i.e. Front-end (View) to JSF Controllers and configurations to Data Model and JPA mappings as well as generating entities.  • Involved in designing user screens and validations using HTML 5, jQuery and JSF as per user requirements.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular JS.  • Used Struts Validator framework for client-side validations.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection properties to provide loose-coupling between layers.  • Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using JAX-WS 2.0 and Apache Axis 2.  • Used Web services (SOAP, Rest) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Used Hibernate 3.5 object relational data mapping framework to persist and retrieve the data from Oracle and MySQL databases.  • Used Maven for compilation, packaging and deployment in the Apache Tomcat and WebSphere Application servers.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Agile Development Process, Struts 1.x, JSF2.x, Spring 3.0, Spring framework, Hibernate 3.5, RSA, JMS, JSP, Servlets, Web Sphere 7.1, AngularJS, NodeJS, Apache Tomcat, Oracle and MySQL Databases, AJAX, Windows XP, HTML, XML, SOAP, Maven2.x, Log4J, Bootstrap, XML, XSLT, XSD, jQuery, JavaScript, JUnit, SVN. Education design and development of multitier applications using Tag Libs Skills Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Hibernate, Java