J2EE/ Java Developer J2EE/<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> J2EE/ Java Developer - Nordstrom-Apparel San Jose, CA ? Around 5+ years of extensive IT experience in web application analysis, design, development and deployment of enterprise application with strong expertise on Object Oriented JAVA, J2EE and Client Server technologies.  ? Experienced in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of software including Client Server application.  ? Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE Standards, JSP, Spring, Spring Boot, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, XML, UML, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX, UML, HTML5, CSS, Java Beans, JavaScript and DHTML.  ? Strong experience in MVC architecture and design implementation using Servlets and JSP as well as open source frameworks such as Spring MVC.  ? Extensive experience in Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JDBC, JNDI, AJAX and Custom tag Libraries.  ? Experience in developing multi-tier Enterprise Applications using MyEclipse, WebSphere Studio (WSAD) and RSA Application Developers.  ? Strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans.  ? Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, command, object pool, session façade, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO).  ? Good experience in log4J implementation to persist the data into log files and experience with ant and maven for the build and deployment of applications.  ? Experience with Web/Application servers BEA WebLogic, IBM Websphere, Apache Tomcat, AXIS, RESTFUL API and JBoss.  ? Experience in developing Maven Scripts for the build and deployment of J2EE applications.  ? Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures, triggers and Query optimization with Oracle, MS-SQL and MySQL databases.  ? Experience in working version control tools like CVS, Clearcase, GIT and SVN.  ? Have experience in software Development Processes like SDLC, Waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Agile Methodologies.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience J2EE/ Java Developer Nordstrom-Apparel - Seattle, WA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities: ? Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Maintenance phases of the project with major emphasis on Development of the modules like Activations, Customer Service.  ? Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JNDI.  ? Used Spring/MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE and XML technology.  ? Data Operations were performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  ? Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the database.  ? Developed JSP's with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration.  ? Developed several controller classes as required for the design such as Abstract Wizard form controller, Simple Form controller, Multi Action controller, etc in Spring MVC.  ? Used Spring Boot to dynamically wire up beans and settings and applies them to the application context at start up of the application.  ? Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  ? Implemented Service Locator, Business Delegate, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, Factory and Singleton design patterns for developing the application.  ? Implemented and used Web Services with the help of WSDL, SOAP and JAX-WS to get updates from the third parties.  ? Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets, and JSP components to be deployed on a WebLogic application server.  ? Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  ? Developed classes to interface with underlying web services layer and scaled the component interactions and generalized the interfaces using RESTFUL.  ? Version control of the code and configuration files are maintained by GIT and involved in Unit Testing.  ? Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  ? Implemented the mechanism of logging and debugging with Log4j.  ? Involved in Unit testing of application using Junit and built the package and deployed the application on to WebLogic App Server.  ? Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, packages on Oracle database.  ? Monitored team members to follow standards, guidelines and use new tools.    Environment: J2EE, Servlets, Hibernate, spring, Spring boot, JSP, AJAX, MVC, Restful, JNDI, XML, SAX, DAO, JavaScript, GIT, SOAP, WebLogic, EJB, Log4j, Maven, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Windows. Java Developer Genentech, San-Francisco, CA October 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities: ? Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis and design and documentation as the application was started from scratch.  ? Developed Façade classes to encapsulate the business logic and hide the implementation details of the data access classes ? Developed Action Classes, Action Form Classes and created JSPs ? Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java Beans, Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, and JNDI and deployments in WebLogic Server.  ? Effectively developed Action classes, Action forms and JSP ? Integrated spring framework with Hibernate that is used for Database operations.  ? Involved in loading and storing objects using Hibernate.  ? Used Eclipse as Java IDE tool for creating various J2EE artifacts like Servlets, JSP and XML.  ? Created RESTful Web Services for external clients and resellers by reusing existing components.  ? Developed User Interface having animations and effects using JavaScript and HTML.  ? Extensively used HTML, JavaScript and Ajax for client side development and validations.  ? Involved in Java multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction and developed a batch process framework.  ? Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate ? Wrote configuration files for injecting EJBs, Service Impls and DAO classes.  ? Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Oracle Database.  ? Session Beans, Servlets, Design patterns were extensively used for business transactions, fetching analytic results from Analytic Engine, implementing business rules and posting live updates on JMS Queues.  ? Used SOAPUI for the functional testing and inspection and invocation of spring based Web Services.  ? Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements.    Environment: J2EE, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, JAXB, Restful, JSP, EJB, WebLogic, XML, XSL, XSD, CSS, PVCS, Java Script, AJAX, MVC, HTML, Multithreading, Log4j, Maven, Eclipse, Junit and UNIX. Java Developer Mercury-Insurance 'Group November 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities: ? Gathered Business Requirements and meeting different users for developing the application.  ? Developed Web Services for saving and updating order details, including some other common services which include Protocol Services etc.  ? Mapped and managed Object/table relationships in Hibernate.  ? Defined and developed the User interface screens and the corresponding Java artifacts using spring.  ? Presentation tier was developed using JSP, JSTL, JavaScript and HTML.  ? Performed Client side validations using JavaScript.  ? Involved in designing Database Connections using JDBC.  ? Involved in design and Development of UI using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Made the test cases and the Style sheets (XSL) to visualize the final product behavior and fine tune the requirements.  ? Implemented various useful design patterns including Singleton and Data Access objects etc.  ? Implemented business logic using Servlets.  ? Implemented Tag handler classes using Custom Tags.  ? Message flows for routing and transformation of the web services requests.  ? Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures to interact with the DB.  ? Performed Unit testing and prepared new test case documents.    Environments: Java, JSP, Servlets, spring, Hibernate, Weblogic, Web Services, SOAP, HTML, CSS, XML, Oracle, and UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Spring, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Rest, Core Java, Soap, Hibernate Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Java (JDK 1.1, J2SE 1.3/1.4/5.0/ Java SE 6, Java SE 7), SQL, PL/SQL  APIs JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JPA, SOAP  Design Patterns MVC, DAO, DTO, Front Controller, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Observer, Singleton  Frameworks Hibernate, Spring, Spring Boot  XML Technologies XML, XSD, XSLT, DTD, DOM parser, SAX, XPath  Scripting/GUI Tools HTML, DHTML, DOJO, JSON, JavaScript, CSS  Application Servers WebLogic 7.0/8.1/9.1/10.0, JBoss 4.0, Apache Tomcat 4.x/5.x  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans,  Databases Oracle, MySQL 3.x/4.1/5.0    Operating Systems Windows Variants, Unix, Linux