Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - McKesson Corporation Austin, TX • About 3+ years of experience in analysis, design, development and testing of web/enterprise-based client/server applications & extensive relational database-based applications.  • Experience in designing User Interface (UI) web applications using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, and MVC.  • Experience with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • 3 years of experience in AWS services like EC2, EBS, ELB, S3, SQS, RDS, DynamoDB, Lambda, API Gateway, Cloudwatch, CloudFormation and Elastic Beanstalk.  • Extensive experience in design and development of J2EE applications using, Java collections framework, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Enterprise Java beans, XML, XSLT, JavaBeans, Struts Framework, Spring Framework. Good understanding and knowledge on Java8 features.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts2.0/1.2, Spring4.0 MVC, Spring Batch, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Integration, JSF1.2, and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring JDBC.  • Hands on experience on OAuth and other token-based authentication and authorization services.  • Experience with multiple web and application Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, Oracle Web Logic, Glass fish and JBoss.  • Good knowledge on functional styles of Java 1.8 Lambda Expressions, Functional Interfaces and Method References.  • Wrote lambda functions that validates and provides authorization to the logged in user to upload or download the file.  • Experience working with standard Java Design Patterns (MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO Factory, Business Delegate, Value Object, Front Controller).  • Strong experience in developing the client/server-based applications using Oracle Rational Database Management System.  • Experience in developing a data pipeline through Kafka-Spark API, Spring-kafka and Confluent kafka (KAFKA API's, KAFKA CONNECT, KAFKA STREAMS) Work Experience Sr Java Developer McKesson Corporation - Irving, TX July 2018 to Present • Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  • Used to oAuth 2.0 to secure the API requests • Used Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  • Developed internal coding using JEE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.  • Developed the REST services using oAuth Security Infrastructure in a secure way • Implemented Business Logic using Java, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  • Used Kibana and Elastic search to identify the Kafka message failure scenarios • Implemented reprocessing of failure messages in Kafka using offset id • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  • Wrote application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax/ JQuery. Wrote custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering.  • Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.) • Implemented design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  • Developed and execute Unit Test plans using Junit ensuring that results are documented and reviewed with Quality Assurance teams responsible for integrated testing.  • Developed Error mail code in Scala, which triggers mail to specified group when error occurs in processing the json file. Java Developer Hewlett Packard - IN February 2017 to September 2017 • Used core java concepts like Collections, multithreading while developing server-side services.  • Used the fundamentals of Java 1.8 like parallel streams and filters through lambda expressions.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like Node.js and used  Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular2/4/5.  • Developed Controller classes & validations by using spring Framework Responsible for writing angular pages for client components.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement.  • Developed Spark core and Spark-SQL scripts using Scala for faster data processing.  • Used IBM MQ and IBM Broker is used for transferring the data across multiple applications.  • Implemented backend services for a web application using NodeJS, Typescript, JavaScript and performed unit testing using chai, mocha.  • Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations by using DB2 database.  • Played the role of J2EE Developer with heavy hands-on coding and entire SDLC.  • Developed Test Engine, Information stored PLSQL data stores and performs on the fly aggregation over queues for dashboard queries.  • Migrating the legacy monolithic struts application to Micro services platform.  • Design and developed Micro sites, Aggregators and Micro services.  • Reports the dynamic execution profile of your PL/SQL program, organized by subprogram calls.  • Developed Applications using Angular 2, Java 8 and new features of java Lambda Expressions, Annotations.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in AWS.  • Implemented spring boot micro services to process the messages into the Kafka cluster setup • Handled message flow using Apache Kafka Consumer API and Producer APIs to consume messages posted from downstream applications Java Developer Mphasis May 2016 to January 2017 • Implemented OAuth as security for token generation in Google API.  • Implemented authentication services using LDAP, SSL, OAuth, OAuth 2.0, and SAML.  • Extensive use of concurrency frameworks, collections, reflections, I/O framework and generics for multithreaded environment, used core Java 7 and 8.  • Designed and developed Micro Services using (MEAN Stack) node.js, Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud OpenStack Platform.  • Enhanced and wrote stored procedures & views. Wrote SQL queries in Oracle for generating the reports. Performed testing on the developer environment prior to passing on the module to the test team during integration.  • Implemented using spring framework using Java, JSP, java script and CSS.  • Implemented server business logic using Java and Design patterns and Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Used the fundamentals of Java 1.8 like parallel streams and filters through lambda expressions to handle the searching • Developed the complete architecture of Prime link using spring frameworks, Implemented Spring MVC Free marker component for locale support.  • Worked as a J2EE Developer and involved in analysis of requirements, the design, development, integration, deployment and testing.  • Developed camel routes to transfer data to Kafka.  • Created Java based Kafka producers to capture live-stream data into various Kafka topics.  • Developed Spark-Streaming applications to consume the data from Kafka topics and to insert the processed streams to HBase.  • Written Programs in Spark using Scala and Python for Data quality check.  • Data analysis using Spark with Scala. Education Master's Tarleton State University November 2017 to January 2019 Skills Java, Spring, J2Ee, Angular, Soap, Restful, API, Maven Additional Information Skills    Architecture, Database, J2EE, Java, JSP, Ajax, Ant, HTML, Spring, Rest, Core Java, Soap, Hibernate, Angular, Javascript, MVC, AWS, Angularjs, Model view controller, JDBC, MySQL, Ant, GIT, JIRA, Junit, log4j, CSS, JQuery, Spring framework, Hibernate, SQL, Eclipse, Lambda, Springboot, Spring security, Restful API, JSON, REST, SOAP, , Hadoop, Map reduce, Hive pig, Kafka, Apache, , Rabbit MQ, Active MQ, Elastic search, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, IASS, PASS, SASS, AWS, EC2, S3, Core java, Multithreading, OOPS, Scala, Akka, Play, react.js, angular.js, node.js, Express.js, Ember.js, Babel, backbone.js, JSP, Microservices, SQL, MySQL, NoSQL, PLSQL, MongoDB, Virtual private cloud, private cloud, docker, Junit, Mockito, Unittest, Selenium, Cucumber, Mocha, OAuth, Maver, Jenkins, Git, Git hub, Pipilines