Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Irving, TX • 3 years of IT experience with requirement analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and support using Object Oriented Methodologies and Java/J2EE technologies of Core business applications including Client-Server, Web Applications, Windows Applications and Web Services.  • Experienced working in both AGILE and Waterfall based software development environment.  • Experienced working with highly constructed agile environment including daily scrum, retrospective meeting, sprint planning meeting, backlog refinement, knowledge sharing as well as two week developer roundtable.  • Good understanding user requirements and translating business requirements into technical solutions with excellent problem solving and troubleshooting capabilities.  • Strong Knowledge in developing web applications using Core Java, J2EE, Java 8, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate ORM, Jax-rs/Jersey, JMS and XML.  • Highly experience with Java complaint IDE's like Spring Tool Suite, NetBeans, Eclipse, SAP NetWear and IntelliJ.  • Extensive experience and expertise in developing web applications using Core Java J2EE, Java 8, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate ORM, SOAP, REST, JMS and XML.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design technologies like HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, XSL and JSON.  • Experience with various RDBMS like MS SQL, Oracle, MySQL, PL/SQL, Mongo DB uses JDBC connection in Java.  • Well versed with data structures like Linked Lists, Stacks, Queues, Hash table, Trees, Tries and Collections API in Java.  • Experienced with various messaging middleware including ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ and Tibco Gems.  • Familiar with various project management tools such as JIRA, HP Quality Center and Bugzilla to track defects or bugs.  • Good experience with development methodologies like Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall and Test-driven development (TDD).  • Experienced working with different version controls like GIT, SVN to control source code and Good working knowledge of Build Tool like MAVEN. Work Experience Java Developer ConsultAdd Inc - Irving, TX April 2018 to April 2018 • Involved in the phases of SDLC Analysis, Design phase, Development, UAT and Production phase of the application.  • Working in highly constructed agile environment with daily scrum, retrospective meeting, sprint planning meeting, backlog refinement, knowledge sharing as well as two week developer roundtable.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework-IOC/DI, Spring MVC, Servlets, POJO and EJB integrating with Hibernate framework.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework to develop Data Access Layer.  • Involved in the creation of various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modifications and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Developed and Consumed Restful Web services using Spring boot, XML and JSON to access backend logic using the front-end functionality using various http methods such as GET, POST, PUT and DELETE.  • Installed, configured, and managed the server such as apache tomcat, WebSphere 8.5.5.9 in a clustered environment and wrote code using spring tool suite (STS).  • Application deployment and debugging is performed in Windows environment and used log4j to access the Server Logs.  • Involved in creation of an automated build environment for application using Maven, SVN and deployed JAR, WAR, EAR files  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application, developed the pom.xml using Maven for compiling the dependencies and used SVN for version control.    Environment: Java 8, Spring mvc/Spring boot, Hibernate, Oracle, Maven, STS, XML, JSP, JMS, Servlet, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful, Junit, AWS, Kafka, Jenkins, SVN, Agile/Scrum, JIRA. Java Developer SoftHQ Inc - San Diego, CA August 2016 to March 2017 Actively involved in the Project in AGILE based development Environment and participated in Daily Scrum,  Backlog refinement, Sprint Planning and Release.  • Worked on developing Enterprise applications using Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Rest, Restful Web services.  • Expertise in developing applications using Spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA, Spring Data, MongoDB, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, etc.  • Expertise in ORM and JPA technologies such as JDBC, Hibernate, and Spring DAO  • Expertise in writing queries, triggers, sequence, and stored procedures in major RDBMS including Oracle, SQL Server, and My SQL  • Outstanding knowledge of developing and consuming RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Jersey, Spring Web MVC, etc.  • Worked with web technologies like JSP, Html, Angular JS, CSS, Java scripts (used frameworks-JSON) JQuery, MVC frameworks (Struts, Spring MVC, IOC/DI, AOP) other frameworks (Hibernate, EJB, JUNIT) and Database (Oracle, MySQL).  • Experienced in TDD (Test Driven Development) using Junit and created technical design document containing architecture of the application/module/product.  • Used Eclipse as an editor, GIT as a version control system and JIRA for defect tracking and project management.  • Experienced in Document preparation including Design Documents, Technical help documents, User training documents and Test Cases.  • Involved in creation of an automated build environment for application using Maven and deployed JAR, WAR, EAR files.    Environment: Java 6, Java, Spring, Spring boot, Hibernate, MongoDB, Maven, Eclipse, XML, JSP, JMS, Servlet, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful, Log4J, Junit, Jenkins, GIT, Agile, JIRA. Java Developer (Intern) Betanet Consultancy PVT LTD - Gandhinagar, Gujarat January 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in and helped shape the agile process (SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Extreme Programming, and Continuous Integration) for all development within the team to deliver core functionality that will provide tangible business benefit within agreed timescales.  • Developed the application implementing Spring MVC Architecture with Hibernate as ORM framework.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum.  • Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based Web services using spring parsers.  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, spring boot, Micro services & used core spring concepts like AOP, IOC.  • Used SVN for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team.  • Used JMS to place the import run requests into JMS Queue.  • Developed XSLT files for transforming the XML response from the web service into HTML as per the business requirements.  • Implemented design patterns like DAO, singleton, factory to achieve design principles.  • Worked heavily on PL/SQL writing complex queries, joins, stored procedures and functions.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework for persistence to database by integrating it with spring framework using Spring Hibernate template.  • Designed and developed Junit/TestNG test cases during the development phase using TDD principles.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file.    Environment: Java, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, spring, Spring MVC, Maven, Hibernate, SVN, Angular JS 2.0, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Jenkins, XML, Linux, Junit, Test NG, Maven. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Gujarat Technological University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat October 2000 Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University Skills Hibernate, Java J2Ee, Java, J2Ee, Spring Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ankit-patel-a5a38366