JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - Equifax New York, NY • Software Professional with 3 years of IT experience in designing, developing and delivering complex multi-tiered enterprise applications for web-based and client-server domains using Java/J2EE/Unix/SQL languages with experience on working with mobile application on interactive application development.  • Strong development experience in all layers of application of Service layer, Data layer, Controller, Web Services and front-end.  • Experience in working on projects with Multi-Threading, Collections Framework and Generics.  • Expert hands-on experience in working with Spring modules like Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, Spring Web Services, Spring JMS, Spring AOP etc.  • Extensive knowledge in using JavaScript frameworks such as jQuery and DOJO.  • Experience in developing web applications using Rich UI technologies like AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, AJAX, CSS2, XML, DOM, JavaScript, NodeJS and JSP Tag libraries.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP with WSDL and RESTful with JAX_RS, Jersey, Spring, Apache CXF and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  • Expertise in migration and upgrading of Web Servers, JDK versions and installation of servers.  • Knowledge in application of cloud providers, Amazon AWS Ec2/s3/AMI, Microservices and Cloud sigma.  • Proficient in SQL and wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers besides writing DDL, DML and transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Aqua Data Studio.  • Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and white-box and black-box testing.  • Proficient in Test Automation using UTF and Selenium tools, Web Drivers, JUnit and TestNG.  • Hands on experience in software configuration / change control process and tools like Subversion (SVN), GIT, CVS, Clear Case, Bugzilla and Jira.  • Extensive experience in working on projects with Waterfall and agile methodologies such as Test-Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM.  • Quick learner with an ability to rapidly achieve organizational integration, assimilate job requirements and employ new ideas, concepts, methods and technologies. Energetic and self-motivated team player.  • Expertise level knowledge in entire software development lifecycle (SDLC) process from business analysis to development, testing, deployment, documenting, maintaining and user training.  • Hands on experience in design, implementation and maintenance of system architectures using application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat and JBOSS.  • Storage, ELB, EBS, VPC, Security Groups, Access Control Lists (ACL), Route53, RDS, S3, IAM, SNS, SES, Cloud Watch and SQS.  • Developed UI pages withHTML5, CSS3 and created the Responsive Web pages using CSS Media Queries, and Bootstrap.  • Fluent in using Hibernate features such as HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria queries for effectively use of the relational Databases and prefer Second level cache (EH-Cache) to optimize performance. Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER Equifax January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Agile-Scrum methodologies.  • Worked on Java 8 by using group by and collectors.  • Worked using fortify to scan applications for identifying potential threats and vulnerabilities. Used this as a static application for security testing.  • Fortify will be used with eclipse plugin for developing while we write code.  • Will be using Fortify as it has Jenkins plugin which includes in scanning as part of the SDLC.  • Fortify scans were done by me before each deployment.  • Developed a JSON business application to be available to all the users from market reveal in ServiceNow environment to access the data without seeking permission from the concerned team.  • Developed this application to make it integrated and available to all the other business application teams to take the data which they need without causing any security breach.  • Worked on developing a Secure Trans Java application for migrating from FTP to SFTP for PRD and NPRD to make it secure from vulnerabilities and outside threats.  • Developed a Java application for encrypting/ decrypting files by using base 64 data to make it a CyberArk compliant.  • Involved in migrating an application built in JSF to AngularJS.  • Worked in Agile - Behavior Driven Development (BDD) model.  • Developed step files for the respective feature files to run all scenarios.  • Fixed few Jasmine Unit test cases in karma framework.  • Worked on mimicking few design changes in the UI web page which is developed in Angular JS.  • Developed Restful webservices using spring boot architecture.  • Scripted Rest-Controller w.r.t RESTful standards in Spring MVC to connect model with view.  • Tested Rest APIs in Spring-Controller at backend for JSON data using Postman.  • Used GIT for version control, WebStorm and spring tool suite for development.  • Worked on Agile (SCRUM) Methodology and used JIRA for defect tracking and Bamboo as build tool. JAVA DEVELOPER MVC, AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, and Spring Boot - Tampa, FL August 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC cycle like Analysis, Designing, developing, Testing and deploying the Enterprise applications using Java and Object-Oriented Design Patterns based on business requirements.  • Interacting with the Architect and Development Team to understand the scope of Performance Testing or creating Test Plan.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally. Participated in scrum related activities and Daily Scrum Meetings.  • Mentored team members and offshore team and to escalate the immediate attention areas in development and testing for the time sensitive releases.  • Involved in working with technologies like Spring Framework, Hibernate and Restful Web Services in designing and development of the application.  • Worked with Spring modules like MVC, AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, and Spring Boot.  • Worked on designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript to create the SPA (Single Page Application).  • Performed functionality testing using JUnit.  • Design and Developing Micro Services, mock creation using Mockito J-Unit Test Cases.  • Used jQuery, AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Used NoSQL database Cassandra for having high efficiency and good response for the request.  • Configured persistence-Context in Spring Framework and Hibernate as a persistence provider to interact with the database.  • Implemented Java APIs for retrieval and analysis on No-SQL database like Cassandra.  • Created POJO classes which are used by Data Access Object classes.  • Experience in replacing Hibernate with Native SQL Queries (JDBC) in places to handle large search.  • Produced Restful Webservices using JAX-RS and Jersey Framework.  • Executed JMS service by using Rabbit MQ and Queues for the batch processing.  • Worked extensively on Spring IOC for the dependency injection for managing application dependencies.  • Implemented Microservices based Cloud Architecture utilizing Spring Boot.  • Designed and created Microservices business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing Spring Boot.  • Developed Selenium Web Drivers Scripts to perform integration test of the application.  • Expertise in JUnit test cases with the data mocking by using Mockito for unit testing application classes.  • Used JIRA tool for tracking the bugs.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the Continuous Integration process and integrated the tool with Maven to schedule the builds. JAVA DEVELOPER Basecamp Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project.  • Coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using spring and Hibernate framework.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), Serialization, and Java Beans.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Core Java and Hibernate.  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Designing of underlying architecture along with other members of the team and preparing the base code for the application.  • CRUD related operations with Database are achieved using Hibernate JPA Repository.  • Logging of errors in application is achieved by Log4j and unit testing of the developed code is done by JUnit Framework.  • Implemented error checking/validation on the Java Server Pages using JavaScript.  • Configured Check Style in eclipse to ensure that Java code adheres to a set of coding standards. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2014 Skills BACKBONE (Less than 1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), Design Patterns (Less than 1 year), EJB (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), J2EE (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (1 year), JBOSS. (Less than 1 year), JDBC (Less than 1 year), JMS (Less than 1 year), JSON (1 year), JSP (1 year), JSTL. (Less than 1 year), LDAP. (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year), OOAD. (Less than 1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Rest (1 year), SOAP (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL SET  • HTML, CSS3, XML, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Backbone.js, React.js, J2EE.  • Oracle, JBoss, servlet, Log4J.  • PL/SQ, spring, webservices.  • Scala, C++, JavaScript, J query, JSP, JSTL.  • JDBC, EJB, WSDL, JMS, JCA.  • REST, SOAP, JSON.  • MongoDB, MySQL, LDAP.  • Design Patterns, Hibernate. OOAD.