Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Alliance Data-Texas, TX • 4+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of web using Java and J2EE, Springs Framework, Struts Framework, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, AJAX and XML.  • Strong experience in Object Oriented Software Development using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in architecture/application development utilizing J2EE based technologies, such as Java1.8, J2EE, JSF, Spring 4.3, Spring Boot, Struts 2.0, Hibernate, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSTL, Servlets, JSP, RMI, JDBC, ANT, MAVEN.  • Design and develop high performance web services and backend solutions in an enterprise environment.  • Participated in an Agile/Scrum methodology to deliver high-quality software and actively involved in Scrum meetings, Sprint planning, defect raising and tracking.  • Design and develop high performance web services and backend solutions in an enterprise environment.  • Well-versed in developing applications with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, AXIS, JAX-WS and Restful web services.  • Created team documentation covering environment setup and best practices such as exception handling, logging, test-driven development, separation of concerns, information hiding, dependency injection, AOP, etc.  • Proficient in using various design patterns such as MVC, DTO, VO, Singleton, Factory Pattern and DAO.  • Expertise in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS to make better Single Page Application (SPA) working on Node.JS Server.  • Experience with Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, Sun Glass fish and J boss.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications using Tomcat and Eclipse.  • Knowledge and experience on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Service-Oriented architecture (SOAP), Rational Unified Process (RUP), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), UML and J2EE Architecture.  • Expertise in using Jakarta Apache frameworks like Struts, MVC, ANT, JUnit and Log4J.  • Have an experience with tools like JIRA, TOAD, OSB, SPIRA, Team City, and Fisheye/crucible.  • Expertise in design and development of various web applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JDBC, Eclipse.  • Used Bugzilla for bug tracking and performed functional and integration testing.  • Quick learner, excellent team player, meet deadlines and work under pressure - either unsupervised or in a team.  • Motivated team player with excellent analytical, communication, management, technical and written skills and ability to work both as a team and individually. Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Alliance Data-Texas, TX January 2017 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Used Eclipse IDE, configured and deployed the applications onto Apache Tomcat 8 and IBM WebSphere v9.0 application servers.  • Analyze, Design, Implement and test technical solutions on a platform dedicated to handle large volume of data and transactions using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Involved in developing applications using Java and J2EE technologies like spring 4.0, JDBC, EJB, JSP.  • Wrote internal and external API services using Node JS modules.  • Developed REST services using Spring Boot to serve the UI with JSON data and involved in creating controller advices to handle exceptions and bad requests  • Implemented Java Web Services based on SOA Architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  • Contributed as key resource of the Angular 2 Framework Team in conversion of existing (XMI) UI screens of the application to Angular 2 based UI.  • Developed Single Page Responsive Web UI using Angular2, HTML5, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developed a RESTful web API using Spring Boot.  • Used Maven, Jenkins and uDeploy for continuous Integration and deploy applications onto IBM WebSphere Application server v9.0 (WAS).  • Implemented Database application programming for Oracle server using Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views etc.  • Performed CRUD operations on DB using restful web services.  • Created Responsive Designs (iPad/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap  • Extensively used containerization and immutable infrastructure. Docker has been core to this experience along with Kubernetes.  • Worked on Oracle database concepts.  • Involved in building a web service to provide access to the models and exposed it using a REST API that emits JSON.  • Involved in design and development of UI component, which includes layered POVs and Carousels using frameworks AngularJS, JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented core features of AngularJS framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking.  • Involved in development of web services for business operations using SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JDOM, XML, XSL and Apache CXF. Worked on XML parsing by using JAXB for XML Schema Validation. Used XSLT to transform my XML data structure into HTML pages.  • Integrated Docker container orchestration framework with Kubernetes by creating pods, config Maps, deployments, Replica sets, nodes etc.  • Have an experience with tools like JIRA, TOAD, OSB, SPIRA, Team City, and Fisheye/crucible.  • Participated the Sprint Planning to discuss with the new work items Java Developer Fidelity Investments - Merrimack, NH November 2015 to December 2016 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Design, Code, Integrate, and Deployment and production phases.  • Using Spring Boot in RESTful APIs created the Request for Proposal (RFP) micro services.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, serialization, Garbage Collection, Exception Handling, Collection API's to implement various features and enhancements.  • Used My Eclipse IDE, configured and deployed the applications onto Apache Tomcat 7.0and Apache Tomcat 8 application servers.  • Design and implemented Oracle SQL based database to persist high-volume user profile data for vertical teams.  • Wrote test cases in JUnit, Mockito and Power Mock for unit testing of classes.  • Implemented Hibernate in the Data Access Object layer to access and update information in the Oracle12c Database.  • Used BIT Bucket version control to track and maintain the different version of the application.  • Extensively used the Log4j for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking and Exception statements.  • Used JMS using RabbitMQ to report failure of connectivity between Quad instance and other components in Cluster.  • Used Hibernate ORM frameworks for database connectivity. Developed SQL procedures for login module and written complex SQL queries.  • Performed Migration test and use cases for applications to AWS cloud with public and private IP ranges to accelerate development productivity by decreasing test-run times.  • Developed REST services using Spring Boot to serve the UI with JSON data and involved in creating controller advices to handle exceptions and bad requests.  • Involved in building a web service to provide access to the models and exposed it using a REST API that emits JSON.  • Developed User interface layer using Struts2 Framework. Java Developer Farmers Insurance Group, Wood Hills, CA June 2014 to October 2015 Education IIT, India IIT 2014 Skills Angularjs (2 years), Apache (3 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Css (2 years), Database (3 years), Eclipse (3 years), Ejb (2 years), Html (2 years), J2ee (2 years), Java (4 years), Jdbc (2 years), Jquery. (2 years), Json (3 years), Jsp. (2 years), Oracle (3 years), Stored procedures (2 years), Tomcat (3 years), Websphere (2 years), Xml (2 years), Xslt (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/saurabh-kumar-1b3069183 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Ubuntu, Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10, LINUX.  Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA, J2EE.  Programming Shells: Eclipse Mars, Eclipse Neon, NetBeans, Torch, Borland Turbo C, Turbo C++, Dev C++, CMD.  Technologies:  Java, JDBC, Spring, J2EE, Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, JSP, Struts, Bootstrap, NodeJS, React.Js, IDE IBM RAD, RSA, Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, IntelliJ Application/Web Server IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat and Glassfish, HTML, DHTML, AngularJS, JQuery, XML, XSLT, CSS, JSON, JSON-DTD, AJAX.    Database: SQL server and MySQL (Queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, DB Normalizations), DB2, MongoDB.  Application Frameworks:  Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Factory Pattern, Core, Spring Context, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Spring, Boot, Spring Batch, Spring with Hibernate) ORM Frameworks JPA, Hibernate, Spring JPA, DAO OO Modeling Rational Rose, MS Visio Version Control Clear.