Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Fayble Inc Berkeley, CA • About 4+ years of experience as a Java Developer.    • Good experience in analysis, design, development and testing of web/enterprise-based client/server applications & extensive relational database-based applications    • Extensive experience in design and development of J2EE applications using, Java collections framework, JDBC, Servlets, JSP.    • Enterprise Java beans, XML, XSLT, JavaBeans, Struts Framework, Spring Framework. Good understanding and knowledge on Java8 features.    • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts2.0/1.2, Spring4.0 MVC, Spring Batch, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Integration, JSF1.2, and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring JDBC.    • Experience with multiple web and application Servers like Apache Tomcat, Oracle Web Logic, Glass fish and JBoss.    • Experience working with standard Java Design Patterns (MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO Factory, Business Delegate, Value Object, Front Controller).    • Strong experience in developing the client/server-based applications using Oracle Rational Database Management System.    • Experience in Client-Server application development using Oracle 12g/11g/10g, SQL PLUS, TOAD, SQL Developer and SQL*LOADER.    • Experience in developing Web Applications using technologies like HTML 5.0, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Node JS, Bootstrap JS, CSS, XML, JSON, XSL/XSLT and AJAX.    • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans and RAD.    • Good knowledge of EJB Session beans with JNDI mapped naming & JMS message-driven beans.    • Experience in implementing SOA using J2EE Web Services, Axis2, WSDL, SOAP, REST web services.    • Hands on experience in UML Modeling, Rational Rose.    • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN, CVS, Clear Case, IBM Rational Tools (RTC, RRC), Mercurial.    • Extensive experience with Spring Boot, Spring Cloud Config, Spring Cloud Bus, Spring Could Netflix.    • Experience in HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, and MVC.    • Experience in developing Unit Test Cases using JUnit tool, Mockito. Involved in Integration testing and User Acceptance testing extensively. Involved in Performance Tuning for the entire application using OEM tool.    • Familiar continuous integration tools like Quick Build, Jenkins, and RTC.    • Good knowledge on Document repositories like EDM, Mobius and IBM FileNet.    • Worked on tools like Siebel, JMT, WINSCP, LOTUS NOTES, and JENKINS.    • Team Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements.    • Proven ability to analyze problems, root causes and develop innovative solutions to business challenges and streamlining operations.    • Good experience in Designing, Planning, Installation, Configuring, Troubleshooting, Performance monitoring of Cassandra Cluster. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Fayble Inc - Berkeley, CA January 2019 to Present • Working on Java 8 and its latest functions like, for each method in Iterable interface, default and static methods in Interfaces, functional Interfaces and lambda expressions, java stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections, Java Time API, collection API improvements, concurrency API improvements, java IO improvements, miscellaneous Core API improvements    • Involved in the complete SDLC including the design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.    • Doing Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.    • Created Web/Bootstrap application using Kotlin.    • Experienced in developing complex builds, dependency management, and continuous integration using Gradle, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Artifactory, Nexus.    • Created Bash shell scripting for deploying Kotlin applications.    • Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.    • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.    • Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.    • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.    • Developed internal coding using JEE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.    • Implemented Business Logic using Java, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.    • Created dynamic HTML pages, used JavaScript, J Query, NoSQL, Restful and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.    • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.    • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.    • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.    • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database; automating data changes and reporting.    • Developed reports include Invoice Printings and Patient profiles. Assigned as lead developer throughout the design, analysis and coding phase of a Claims Processing System.    • Worked on latest tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD, Toad, Elastic search, Wiley, J Profiler.    • Utilized existing AWS services, Cloud Formation to Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) to DynamoDB table, to implement new features and functionality.    • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.    • Experience in AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) such as creating users, groups, organizing IAM users to groups, assigning roles to groups.    • Experienced in migrating applications to AWS and application deployment in the cloud (AWS) with CI/CD tools like Jenkins, Chef.    • Diverse experience utilizing tools in Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Pivotal Cloud Fundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, My SQL, Restful Web Services.    • Experience on various AWS services like S3, EC2, ECS, Cloud trail, VPC, RDS, Route 53, SNS, and Lambda.    • Developed the AWS Infrastructure using VPC, EC2, S3, Route 53, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation.    • Configured S3 to host static web content, Elastic Load Balancers with EC2Autoscaling groups and deployed Cloud Stack using AWS OpsWorks.    • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular and Created multi custom directives by defining Angular 5 directives.    • Worked on Kafka to save audit logging messages to in NO SQL database.    • Worked on Angular 5 in creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.    • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.    • Used a Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.    • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate    • Developed user interface as JSF, prime faces, HTML and CSS and Bootstrap with custom tag libraries using JSF Framework.    • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.    • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.    • Developed and used REST web services for the reporting framework.    • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.    • Focused on architecting NoSQL database like Mongo DB database.    • Interfaced with the NoSQL, Cassandra back-end database by integrating spring with Hibernate.    • Software Professional with good knowledge on SDLC. Participated in gathering business requirement, Analysis & Design discussion, have good command on development, unit testing, deployment and production support.    • Worked with NoSQL database to store JSON like dynamic connections data.    • Good working experience and sound knowledge in various open source frameworks like SPRING, HIBERNATE.    • Worked extensively with React JS and developed real time applications using React JS architecture- Redux for building UI and designed reusable components using React JS    • Extensive experience with Microservices architecture using Spring Boot and Rest APIs.    • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.    • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using java script and Node.js    • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.    • Improved and simplified development workflow by introducing tools such as Gulp, Grunt, Node.js and Bower.    • Worked on Server frameworks like Express.js, Socket.IO, Koa.Js, and Hapi Js. MVC frameworks: Meteor, Derby, Sails, Mean Js. Java Developer AT&T - Berkeley, CA January 2017 to December 2018 Remote)  • Used technologies like Java7, J2EE, Hibernate, JPA, Spring, Spring Security, Spring Boot, REST based web services, Maven, Angular JS, TDD, Oracle 12c, Kafka    • Responsible for gathering system requirements, feasibility study, system analysis, design and development for the new module.    • Developed the Drag and Drop functionality using React- Drag gable.    • Used React -Auto complete for creating Google maps location search on the webpage.    • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.    • Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.    • Used JSP to design the user interfaces and JSP tag libraries to define Custom Tags.    • Applied HTTP Service and REST web service to connect the Front-end ReactJS to Back-end NodeJS.    • Design and develop java restful services that communicates with the postgres database on the backend and returns json format data using Spring, Jersey restful, JAX-RS, Hibernate.    • Developed (full service APIs), delivered and deployed Multi-Stage P2P Grid-GPU (Credit Card) Streaming Point-of-Transaction Edge-Cloud Microservices (Google gRPC, CoreOS rkt, Google Kubernetes) producing at scale 150K credit card    • Consumed restful web services and soap web services from different applications within the network.    • Maintain Git branches during project development. Conduct merge and using maven to build and deploying the services to jetty server.    • Diverse experience utilizing tools in Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Pivotal Cloud Fundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, xml, Restful Web Services.    • Experience on various AWS services like S3, EC2, ECS, Cloud trail, VPC, RDS, Route 53, SNS, and Lambda.    • Developed the AWS Infrastructure using VPC, EC2, S3, Route 53, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation.    • Configured S3 to host static web content, Elastic Load Balancers with EC2Autoscaling groups and deployed Cloud Stack using AWS OpsWorks.    • Using the agile scrum methodology with a 2- week sprints to complete the tasks efficiently.    • Worked on Eclipse for developing interface modules and web application using Spring MVC.    • Created the Node JS Express server to build MVC framework from front end side AngularJS to back- end database, to provide broadcast and chatting service    • Migrated the applications from Spring namespace 3.x to Spring boot 1.5.7.    • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.    • Used Quick build and Jenkins for the CI/CD of different applications.    • Used VersionOne to track the issues and defects.    • Experience in Big Data technologies (Hive, Scala programming & Cassandra DB).    • Responsible for closing the backlog of production related issues.    • Involved in wrap-up meetings and in estimating the timeframe for each story and deployed the applications and services on server for each iteration of the agile software development.    • Involved in JDK1.7, Eclipse, JDBC, Spring 3.x, Spring Boot, SOAP, REST, Hibernate, GitHub, Jenkins, JUnit, VersionOne, Jetty.    • Used checkmark, NIQS scan, Dynamic scans for finding the critical vulnerabilities in our services and applications.    • Used SonarQube and Hygiea tools for quality analysis of the code.    • Design User Interface (UI) web applications using html5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, ajax, json.    • Used SVN and GitLab to manage the versioning, merging the code and migrated the code from SVN to GIT.    • Used Jenkins for the CI/CD of different applications and wrote Jenkins groovy script for automation of build jobs.    • Experience in Drupal Themes developing Drupal custom modules, resolving Drupal configuration issues.    • Create desktop application with Angular 2/4 and Unit Test with Karma-Jasmine, have good knowledge of Spring Batch.    • Created api server using Node.js modules so our application could communicate with the database.    • Worked on tools like Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD, Toad, Elastic search, Wiley, JProfiler, Google Analytics    • Environment: JDK1.7, STS, JDBC, Spring 3.x, Spring Boot, JavaScript, CSS, Gitlab, Tortoise SVN,  Jenkins, JUnit, UNIX, RabbitMQ, HPSM, VersionOne, WSSR, WebSphere 8.5.    • Built servers and web services in Node.js + Express.js, interacting with MySQL    • Experience in building ecommerce application using the JavaScript MEAN stack: MONGODB, Angular JS, Express.js and Node.js also created server-side API with MongoDB    • Created server and handled requests and responses from controllers by using Express.js.    • Experienced in developing the Homes.com, Homes.com Rentals & RE/MAX applications for iOS powered by an API first Node.JS platform utilizing Hapi.js.    • Experienced in Hapi.js framework which helps in writing reusable code and helps in validating and authenticating code easily. Java Developer Ford Motor Company - Berkeley, CA January 2015 to December 2016 Remote)    • Developed application on Spring 4.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring  • Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring JDBC, Spring Web flow using Spring MVC.  • Worked on Spring MVC application with XML configurations and annotations. Used Dispatcher servlet to route incoming requests, controllers to handle requests and Model to send values to user interface.  • Used Agile principles to implement the projects using two-week sprints, planning meeting,  • daily standups, grooming, estimation and retrospectives.  • Developed a portal application from scratch to interact with third party application token exchange model for authentication, get the data needed and Spring MVC to handle incoming requests and RESTful web services (Implementing JAX-RS API) with Jackson parser to send data on Web Service Calls in JSON format.  • Participated in Scrum meetings and project planning and coordinated the status sessions  • Developed the presentation layer by using Servlet, HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JSP's, JSON and XML.  • Developed Data Access Layer using Hibernate ORM framework.  • Used Hibernate named queries concept to retrieve data from the database and integrate with Spring MVC to interact with backend persistence system (Oracle11g).  • Extensively involved in creating complex SQL queries and calling Stored Procedures.  • Maintain high-quality of RESTful services and implemented REST Services using Spring MVC and JAX-RS.  • Used Maven to build and deploy application onto JBOSS Application Server to deploy code onto server.  • Developed simple to complex Map Reduce jobs using Hive and Pig for analyzing the data.  • Developed Pig UDF's to know the customer behavior and Pig Latin scripts for processing the data in Hadoop.  • Installed Oozie workflow engine to run multiple Hive and Pig jobs  • Scheduled automated tasks with Oozie for loading data into HDFS through Sqoop and pre-processing the data with Pig and Hive.  • Copied the data from HDFS to MongoDB using pig/Hive/Map reduce scripts and visualized the streaming processed data in Tableau dashboard.  • Used JIRA tracking tool to manage and track the issues reported by QA and prioritize and act based on the severity.  • Used GitHub extensively as versioning tool and used Maven for automated building of projects.  • Involved in the analysis of finding out the performance issues of DAO classes.  • Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements and involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings.  • Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit and involved in Integration Testing with Database Layer.  •Used Java 1.7, Hibernate, Spring MVC, JDBC, JSP, Html5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Maven, JBOSS, Junit, Web Logic, Eclipse, Oracle 10g/11g, GIT, Apache Tomcat, Garbage Collection, Web services, REST, Windows 8.1, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA. Education BA in Computer Science University of California, Berkeley - Berkeley, CA 2014 Additional Information Skills    • HTML5/4  • CSS3  • XML  • Angular 2/4/5/6  • Node.js  • Ext.js    • Backbone.js  • Bootstrap  • React.js  • Redux    • Oracle  • JBoss  • JDBC  • JSF  • Servlet    • DHTML  • NetBeans  • Eclipse  • PL/SQL    • Scala  • PHP  • C++  • JavaScript  • jQuery  • JSP servlets  • JSTL  • Struts    • JDBC  • JSF  • EJB  • RMI  • JTA  • WSDL  • JMS  • JCA    • CVS,  • SVN  • GIT  • GitHub    • Design Patterns  • Struts  • Hibernate  • spring  • spring boot    • Spring security  • spring cloud  • Jenkins  • Maven  • chef  • puppet    • XML  • XSD  • XSLT  • DTD  • DOM  • SAX parser  • XQuery    • Apache Tomcat  • WebSphere  • JBuilder    • Ant,  • Junit  • Log4j  • Selenium angular  • Bugzilla  • JIRA    • MongoDB  • Cassandra  • MySQL  • Sun Solaris    • AWS  • Hadoop HIVE  • PIG  • OOZIE  • SPARK  • MapReduce  • Sqoop    • REST  • SOAP  • DOJO  • JSON  • Shell scripting  • Dreamweaver    • Docker  • Drupal  • Rabbit MQ  • Kafka  • Java 8  • NoSQL