Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - TransAmerica Denver, CO • Over 4+ years of experience in full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple dB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon CloudFront).  • Experience in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML, AngularJS and Node JS.  • Proficient in NoSQL transactional databases like Cassandra, Mongo dB and big data technologies like Spark/Storm, Kafka and Hadoop Map Reduce.  • Expertise in Spring framework, including Spring IoC, Spring DAO support, Spring ORM, Spring Microservices, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Cache, Spring Integration, Spring Boot, and Spring REST, Spring Web flow.  • Experience in implementing security models OAUTH2 and SAML for authentication/authorization using Spring Security and IAM Cloud Security.  • Expertise in Developing applications using Restful Web Services, SOAP, Java, J2EE, Servlets, EJB, JPA, WebSphere Commerce, Hibernate, Spring Framework, Jasper Reports Server, Ext js, JSP, JMS, Struts, XML, Eclipse, NetBeans, jQuery, Visual Source Safe, CVS, SVN, JDBC, JNDI, JIRA, ANT, Maven, IReport, Apache Tiles, Spring Data JPA, JSF, ICE faces, HTML and Java Scripts.  • Experience in performing Tuning the JVM for running Apache Tomcat.  • Strong experience in using various IDE's tools like NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ, BlueJ, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer (RAD) and JDeveloper for application development.  • Experience in JUnit, Mockito, Spock, Testing for unit testing and Selenium Web Driver, Cucumber (Behavior Driven Development testing) for Integration testing.  • Expertise in developing Microservices using Spring Boot and Node JS to build more physically separated modular applications which will improve scalability, Availability, Agility of application.  • Expertise with servers using Apache Tomcat & HTTP Server, Web Sphere, WebLogic and JBOSS Application server and also in styling the documents using CSS, SASS, LESS.  • Experience in building high performance and scalable solutions using various Hadoop ecosystem tools like Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Spark, Solr, and Kafka.  • Extensively used Akka http which helps lay the groundwork for the team to use different libraries to code the functionality required.  • Used Kafka extensively to develop integration flows in each shim to achieve data flow across the modernized tech-stack.  • Hands on experience in installing, configuring, and using Hadoop ecosystem components like Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, HBase, Oozie, Hive, Sqoop, Pig, Zookeeper, and Apache Storm.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.  • Experience in Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS.  • Hands-on experience in Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections.  • Proficient in SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 and MySQL as back-end Databases. Extensively used database tools like TOAD and SQL Developer. Knowledge in Database Programming with Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions using SQL, PL/SQL and Oracle.  • Hands on experience in the implementation of Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collection API.  • Experience in JavaScript Unit testing with Jasmin, Karma, Protractor for Angular JS, Mocha and Chai, React JS and Backbone JS.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle and logging tools like Log4J.  • Good experience on DevOps tools such as Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Jenkins, GIT. Work Experience Java Developer TransAmerica - Denver, CO April 2018 to Present • Implemented Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collection API.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Java 8 (Streams), multi-threading, and object-oriented designs.  • Design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.  • Design test cases using Selenium Web driver and Testing and enhance cross browser testing.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, NodeJS, and React.JS.  • Worked on server-side web applications using Node.js and involved in Construction of UI using jQuery, Ext JS, ReactJS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Better Understanding the existing application, Business processes and Security Module. Designed Security module to support implemented custom.  • Involved in developing components on Reporting Dashboard with Spring MVC, Spring boot, Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch Servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Developed custom controllers for handling the requests using the Spring MVC controller and did the styling of the documents using CSS, SASS, LESS.  • Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Worked as part of Microservices team to develop and deliver Maven projects to deploy on Tomcat.  • Developed Core Service as maven jar that can be included by other Micro-services as their maven dependency.  • Core service uses the main database and the other Micro-services use their individual databases to access and store data.  • Developed Core Service as maven jar that can be included by other Micro-services as their maven dependency.  • Core service uses the main database and the other Micro-services use their individual databases to access and store data.  • Used Apache Camel for generating routes for Merchant Portal Microservices where merchant employees can login and admins can manage employees.  • Developed Microservices using Spring Boot and Node JS to build more physically separated modular applications which will improve Scalability, Availability, Agility of application  • Created Server instances on AWS, Tomcat, Swagger and Hawtio are installed and used for deploying Microservices.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services.  • Used AWS S3 to store customer's monthly credit statements. Used Apache Camel's AWS component to upload documents to S3.  • Involved in maintaining the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53 services in AWS Cloud.  • Created Snapshots and Amazon Machine Images (AMI's) of EC2 Instance for snapshots and creating clone instances.  • Developed session EJB and message driven bean (MDB) to process JMS XML messages.  • Involved in developing JUNIT Test Cases to validate the type of data in the XML Files. Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages. Used EJB through Session Bean and Entity Bean and Message Driven Bean.  • Used Maven tool to build and packaged, deploy an application project and integrated with Jenkins. Used Jenkins for building, creating snapshots and deploying on servers.  • Secured APIs using OAuth2 provider Key Cloak. Authentication is provided by Key Cloak and authorization is done using Key Cloak adapters to read User Principle and the roles.  • Restful endpoints are created for UI and other services to consume. API contracts are documented and rendered using Swagger for QA and BA teams to view.  • Employees are authenticated using Active directory and end user passwords are stored in Open LDAP.  • Used Selenium to perform automation testing and fix the defects.  • Used JIRA for project management epics, tasks and subtasks are created to track the progress.  • Used JReport to perform data analysis and generate visual reports which helped in decision making.  • Involved in creating tables and worked on My SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions in the application and packages for complex Inserts and updates in the database.  • Involved in Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and implemented the Error Handling in the Stored Procedures and SQL objects and Modified already existing stored procedures, triggers, views, indexes depending on the requirement.  • Involved in assisting QA team in Load and Integration testing of J2EE applications on WebLogic/JBoss Application Servers.  Environment: Spring MVC, Spring boot, Hibernate, Microservices, Maven, Tomcat, Restful, Swagger, Apache Camel, Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Message driven bean (MDB), JMS XML, JUNIT, Log4J, Selenium, Session Bean, Entity Bean, Jenkins, Java 8, Multi-threading, Object-oriented designs, AWS, Hawtio, IAM, RDS, Route 53 services, OAuth2, Key Cloak, AWS S3, Open LDAP, Active directory, JIRA, JReport, MySQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Express JS, jQuery, CSS, SASS, LESS, Node JS, Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Collection API, Spring Security, Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick, Ext JS, ReactJS, JavaScript, HTML, TestNG, WebLogic, JBoss Application Servers Java Developer Capital One - IN February 2017 to March 2018 • Used most of the new features of Java 8 like lambda expressions, functional interfaces, Method references and stream API.  • Designed and developed UI using spring view component HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS and Vue.js.  • Built custom UI widgets, directives, filters and Application logic using AngularJS MVC Architecture.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.0.  • Experience in Vue.JS for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application.  • Used Vue.js events distribution and parent chain for parent-child component communication. Manipulated DOM, handled events and applied animation effects with Vue.js.  • Design coded and tested key modules of the project using java oops concepts.  • Used Spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers.  • Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria.  • Used Multithreading and Concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution and technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  • Used a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through REST and Apache Kafka.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  • Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.  • Created RESTful web services using Spring RESTful API sending JSON data between Frontend, middle tier Controller.  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions. Performed deployment of applications on WebSphere Application Server.  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance.  • Designed and developed a project that reads messages from Kafka topic and applied conversation from JSON to pipe delimited String data format to be saved in Oracle DB and NoSQL DB.  • Used Continuous delivery/ Continuous Integration tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for version control of code for incremental development and JIRA as a defect tracking tool and Maven as a building tool.  • Fixed any bugs or any issues identified during the testing period and production.  • Tested websites for cross browser compatibility Preparation of Design Documents for new Enhancements.  • Interacting with the business team and taking new requirements to enhance the existing application feature.  • Used SonarQube for continuous inspection of code quality. Wrote JUnit test cases to test the application.  • Logging framework Log4j is used for log messages. Implemented Log4j for application logging and to troubleshoot issues in debug mode.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Used Agile approaches, Including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  Environment: Java 8, Lambda Expression, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Vue.js, Angular 4.0, Java OOPS concept, Spring, Hibernate, Multithreading, Concurrency, MongoDB, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, Oracle Relational data model, SQL-based schema, Microservice, Spring Boot, REST, Apache Kafka, Docker, Amazon EC2, Amazon Cloud Formation, AWS Lambda, Spring RESTful API, JSON, WebSphere Application Server, Oracle DB, NoSQL DB, Continuous Delivery, Continuous Integration, Jenkins, Git, JIRA, Maven, SonarQube, JUnit, Log4j, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development(TDD) Java Developer GAP - IN April 2015 to December 2016 • Involved in gathering requirements and built technical specifications from the requirements.  • Involved and participated in Code reviews. Designing the application using Struts framework and Spring framework.  • Developed screens using JSP, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQUERY, Spring MVC, Core Java and XML.  • Engaged in developing the UI by using HTML, JSF, jQuery, Agile, Jboss and JavaScript and in some places used AJAX to make calls to other services.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Used spring framework and J2EE components, Utilized Spring Boot, IOC and DAO modules. Developed controller classes, backend process and complex services.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed bean classes Used Spring Boot to create Stand-alone Applications.  • Implementing the JVM by the design of Scala programming language Java programming with Multi-threading and performance tuning experience.  • Involved in web services design and development. Created and consumed web services using JSON, XML, and REST.  • Involved in Message Queue Handling to allow application to communications by sending messages to each other.  • Implemented JAX-RS (Restful) Web Services using JERSEY Framework and using Hibernate as a part of application development.  • Developed user interfaces using Java, Reactjs, Nodejs, ActiveMQ, Elasticsearch, JavaScript, jQuery, Jira, HTML, XHTML, CSS custom tags.  • Involved in design and development of the application using SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) with Java Web Services / J2EE technologies.  • Designed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams using Visual Paradigm to model the detail design of the application.  • Application was built on Struts - MVC framework and Hibernate as business layer.  • Designed and developed the GUI using Java Script and JSP and Azure.  • Involved in development of Servlets/JSP and documenting all the components clearly.  • Developed Struts Action Classes, Action Forms implementing Struts Validation Framework, using Struts Tiles  • Extensively used XML Web Services for transferring/retrieving data between different providers and implemented them using CXF Framework.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved working with Oracle 11g database. Written queries, stored procedures and functions using SQL, PL/SQL in Oracle.  • Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing.  • Created Daily Rolling Log using Log4j and Used PVCS as Version Control System.  • Using WebLogic application server for deploying the web content and all code was written using the Eclipse IDE.  Environment: Struts, Spring, JSP, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jquery, Spring MVC, Core JAVA, XML, HTML, JSF, Agile, Jboss, Spring Boot, Micro Services, J2EE, Scala, JSON, REST, JAX-RS, JERSEY, Hibernate, Reactjs, Nodejs, ActiveMQ, Angular 2.0, Elasticsearch, Jira, XHTML, CSS custom tags, SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), Azure, CXF Framework, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, Junit, Log4j, PVCS, WebLogic, Eclipse IDE. Education Master's Skills Java, Spring, Hibernate, Soap, Core Java, Rest, Java J2Ee