Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Bank of America Tampa, FL • 4 years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based, Client-Server business applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience of Database design in Oracle/SQLServer/MongoDB query-based programming and PL/SQL procedure programming and proficient in Database programming using JDBC and SQL.  • Experience in designing, developing and implementing Health, B2B applications using J2EE technologies in Telecom, E-commerce, Finance, Insurance domains.  • Extensive experience in building enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Hibernate, spring, Struts, JDBC, JMS) and XML.  • Solid experience in application development as a Java/J2EE developer using WebSphere Application Server v7.0 and WebSphere Studio Application Developer.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP/RESTful web services.  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top down Approach and Bottom up Approach. Developed ANT scripts and used Maven tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Expertise in AWS server less compute service Lambda. Extensive usage of AWS lambda to trigger changes in data shifts and action by users.  • Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM).  • Expertise in using Log4j along with Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Good working knowledge on CVS, SVN, ClearCase and GIT for code management and version control.  • Experience in programming, deploying, configuring and administering Application Servers like BEA Web Logic 9.0/10.0, JBoss and Web Servers like Apache Tomcat 7.0/6.0.  • Proficient in programming by using the IDE's such as My Eclipse 8.x, Eclipse 3.5, IntelliJ, WSAD 5.x.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills. Good understanding of Software as a Service (SaaS).  • Excellent skills in designing and developing services using Jasper Reports and provided integration points for services written in Java.  • Experience in writing database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, PL/SQL packages and Cursors for Oracle, SQL Server and MongoDB.  • Expertise in developing UNIT test cases using JUnit and Mockito and configured them through Maven sure fire plugins to be part of continuous integration.  • Participated in planning, implementation, and growth of our customer's Amazon Web Services (AWS)based website.  • Diverse experience utilizing tools in 3-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, AWS, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Expertise using native AWS infrastructure services such as EC2, EBS, Auto Scaling, Cloud watch, etc.  • Expertise in Agile Software Development Methodology including Scrum technology. Work Experience Java Developer Bank of America - Tampa, FL June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed micro services, RESTful services using JAX-RS, Spring boot and deploy them on various cloud platforms like Red Hat OpenShift.  • Collaborated with the team to design and launch new features.  • Developed the Front-end User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  • Created interactive navigation lists using list elements in HTML.  • Used Hibernate to create Configuration and Mapping files.  • Implemented client-side validations in registration forms, login and logout forms using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with the file management and image libraries.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Used HTML, CSS, JSP, JSTL to develop user interface.  • Designed and developed application with backend programming languages Java/J2EE, Spring boot, front end with JavaScript and advance JavaScript frameworks and libraries such as ReactJS, NodeJS, Redux.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the EJB 3.0 using annotations.  • Developed client End points to interact with DocuSign API to process documents as Digital Transaction Management platform.  • Developed react components which communicate with redux as session management and ajax calls to send and retrieve data.  • Developed Independent services using REST with JAX-RS which gets admin activities from Flex react component that persist in DB and establish connection between frontend and backend and store information in DB2.  • Used DocuSign management platform need to prepare and send documents to customers for signing and manage from them.  • Worked in Agile model, Conducting Daily Scrum/Stand ups, Backlog Grooming, Sprint Planning Sprint Review.  • Implemented JAX-RS based services, interacting through a combination of REST and JAVA Persistence API to interact with backend Data to CRUD Operations.  • Followed Agile Methodology and interact with various stake holders in gathering requirements and business artifacts in the areas of gathering, design, coding and documentation.  • Worked on Deployment, Release Management, Cloud Infrastructure and Automation with Continuous integration and Continuous delivery using Jenkins.  • Developed and wrote backend JUnit test cases with Power Mockito and front-end unit test cases using Jest, enzyme, chai, mocha.  • Worked on branching and maintaining the version across all environments using GitLab which provides Git repository and CI/CD Pipeline. Java Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA October 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML, XUL, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Involved in writing jQuery-based Ajax Requests using jQuery.  • Used jQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions.  • Developed database scripts and procedures using PL/SQL.  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Created WSDL & Generated data objects using WSDL, Java, Spring, JAX-WS, Axis, apache CXF and developed mapping code for several Web Services interfaces for various profile management endpoints.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework. Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in testing the XML files and checked whether data is parsed and loaded to staging tables.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Designed PDF, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Backbone.js, Require.js and Responsive Web Design.  • Used Angular JS as a library for DOM manipulation and filters. Used Hibernate to persist and retrieve data from database.  • Involved in debugging the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Contacted with different customer for their requirements and Modified code as the customer needs.  • Developed application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Used Jenkins 2.0 AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS. Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, and GitHub and AWS. Java Developer Accenture - Pune, Maharashtra July 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front-end part of the application.  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, java Scripts, Ajax, jQuery Custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS3.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js, Require.js and node.js.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI technologies used were Angular.js and jQuery.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility& implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Used Detailed Wireframes and Developed Mock-Up Designs as per the Requirements of Business.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front-end development such as web pages, graphics and multimedia.  • Built S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and used S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Used Ajax for asynchronously exchanging small amount of data with the server behind the scenes and updating the JSP page.  • Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain specific layout XML to the web.  • Wrote Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Involved in debugging the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using IE Developer Toolbar for IE.  • Used jQuery plugins autocomplete, validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Used SOAP, XML/XSLT and WSDL for developing Web Services.  • Used Agile Methodology for Software development.  • Converted wireframes in templates including creation of brand identity, web site header, menu, information containers, grid styles, navigation, forms, buttons, icons, images, User components and application widgets creation with suitable color schemes.  • Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of OpenStack Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python.  • Involved in tuning the SQL queries, procedures and packages.  • Developed and managed cloud VMs with AWS EC2 command line clients and management console. Implemented DNS service through Route 53 on ELBs to achieve secure connection via https. Education Bachelor's in CS Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2015