Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Nissan Motors Java developer   • Having around 6 years of design/development experience in various Java/J2EE technologies and frameworks.  • Good foundation in software programming concepts of OOP's, Collections& Exceptions.  • Experience includes application development using Server-side and Client-side technologies like JDBC, Servlets and JSP Programming.  • Good knowledge in Angular JS and React.  • Experienced in developing interactive web applications using Spring IOC, Struts2.  • Experienced in Distributed Technology like Restful Services and Using ORM technologies like JPA, Hibernate.  • Experience in technologies like Core Java, Java Swings, Java Beans, EJB, JDBC, Servlets, JSP and Oracle SQL.  • Experience the framework in various components • Experience in developing Web Applications using MVC Frameworks and Extensive experience in working on ADOBE FLEX.  • Experience in framework for Flex frame, Spring for application development • Strong knowledge on Flex application development, such as Analyzing, Designing and Deployment using Flex components, Flex Data model and Error handling.  • Using the Flex application Service to exchange the messages with non-Flex • Experience in configuring and deploying application in Tomcat and Jboss Servers.  • Experience in developing enterprise applications using IDE like Eclipse IDE.  • Experienced in working with clients, developers, and testers of complex projects during the entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Worked on Flex and CSS to implement branding for various clients • Experience of using version control and bug reporting tools like SVN, CVS, TFS and GIT • Assisted in Developing testing plans and procedures for Unit testing/Test Driven Development, system test, and Load testing.  • Good comprehension of Business work process, Business rationale and Business strategies for further execution of client prerequisite in a conveyed application environment • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, communications and Interpersonal Skills, ability to work under strict deadlines.  • Experience in using various Web and Application Servers like Apache, Tomcat, Web Logic, WebSphere, Apache Http Server.  • Integrated the service with Flex using HTTP Services.  • Hands on experience with JUnit, Http Unit and Log4j in developing test cases.  • Excellent team spirit with strong analytical and communication skills. Fast-learner with strong desire to new technologies and self-motivator with ability to finish multitasks well-ordered. Work Experience Java Developer Nissan Motors - Franklin, TN March 2018 to Present Description:  Nissan Motorsis a recognized innovator and leading global provider of solutions for customer and team engagement. The company provides technologies for unified communications and collaboration, contact center and customer experience management, and networking, along with related services to large enterprises, mid-market companies, small businesses and government organizations around the world.    Roles and Responsibilities: • Followed Agile methodology with two weeks' iterations.  • Developed application on Spring framework.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring MVC framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Used Hibernate as an implementation engine for JPA API and worked with LCDS data services to interact with backend Hibernate and web Services layers, providing input to Flex UI components • Used Flex Controls, layouts and custom components to develop the various components of the application.  • Developed tool targeted with IDE using Flex framework to create SWF files and also created frameworks to develop more quickly and easily robust application functionality.  • Responsible for design analysis of overall Flex UI component development and integration with backend J2EE.  • Implanted controller logic and Dependency injection for the application based on Parsley framework to interact with backend J2EE and web services layer to pull out data to Flex UI Components • Created server-side Java remoting for web Message to push the data in existing Flex application. And used for combination of the remoting messaging service to create data-centric application for client requirement in Flex application • Develop paging components in Flex and integrated web services with Flex.  • Provided the remoting and messaging service with Blaze DS.  • Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Tomcat.  • Developed WSDL for defining contract between requestor and provider.  • Used Maven for building, deploying application.  • Developed, Tested and Deployed application in Apache Tomcat server.  • Provided data transport between ActionScript and server side for handling the serializations in to action message format (AMF) • Setup and configured spring blaze DS and integrated for calling Flex Remoting service • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate Template support.  • As a Java developer analyzing the business requirements of weekly sprint.  • Gathering review and understanding the business and logical Requirements.  • Designed Frontend with object-oriented JavaScript Framework and Flex • According to requirements generating API specs, flow diagram as required and sharing with the team and Creating all markups from existed files using html5, css3.  • Involved in Flex Skinning and CSS to implement barding for carious clients • Writing middle-ware services and JUNIT tests, writing tests in TestNG.  • Involved in unit testing using Flex unit and Junit and Doing the internal testing and debugging using postman and tests.  • Documenting Various Reports and documents as per the tasks assigned before handling the build to QA Team.  • Explaining the services written to QA team and Fixing Bugs raised by QA team.    Environment: Adobe Flex, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSP, XML, angular, jasmine, karma, bower, Maven, Adobe Flash, RESTful API, Java, SQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Windows. Java Developer Mentor, OH January 2017 to February 2018 Description:  Cardinal commerce is developed for a mid-sized retailer. These features were generally included in the upper tier / premium plans (Marketing, Loyalty programs, coupons, promotions, advanced SEO etc.) for each solution and we compared each solution premium plan price and Value. The project involved E-Commerce implementation, enabling it to sell the products online.    Roles and Responsibilities: • Analysis of the functional specification.  • Started as a software developer within the organization including the designing and development of web pages.  • Participated actively in the design of the complete module from scratch including database schema design.  • Worked closely with the product management team to seamlessly integrate the user with other existing systems and processes.  • Integrated solutions for maintenance problems with application through custom APIs.  • Analysis and Implementation of complex business logic.  • Developed, Consumes and Deployed Web Services using SOAP.  • Design and Implementation of server objects using java beans, DAO's, Value Objects etc.  • Development DAO layer using Prepared Statements.  • Implemented Complex Search engine business logic to search for the Consignments.  • Performed Unit testing on the various modules/functions to ensure that the output is as expected.  • Developed the System level data components which will manage Time Zones, Countries, States, Authentication, Authorizations, User Roles, and Transaction Logging etc. using Spring Controllers, Validators, and Hibernate classes    Environment: JAVA Spring Framework (Backend Layer), Hibernate, Maven, UNIX, GIT, Jenkins, Agile, RESTFUL API, JSON, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, JIRA. Java Developer Trilliant Tech - Newark, CA June 2015 to December 2016 Description:  Trilliant Tech is a recognized innovator and leading global provider of solutions for customer and team engagement. The company provides technologies for unified collaboration, contact center and customer experience management, and networking, along with related services to large enterprises, mid-market companies, small businesses and government organizations around the world.    Roles and Responsibilities: • Involved in developing & coding of different modules.  • Improved the performance of the application by optimizing hibernate queries.  • Involved in Service and DAO layer implementation.  • Used JSP to develop UI layer.  • Used PostgreSQL 9 data base & Hibernate to access the data.  • Implemented Spring MVC Architecture to communicate with different layers.  • Direct Interaction with clients to get the requirements.  • Performed code reviews to ensure code is developed according to secure coding guidelines technologies / Tools Applied.  • Developed User defined Exceptions for each request and response.  • Demonstrated the application to end user during meeting and end of the release • Involved in resolving business and technical issues.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSP, XML, angular, jasmine, karma, bower, Maven, Adobe Flash, RESTful API, Java, SQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Windows. Education SS InfoTech - Hyderabad, Telangana 2013 to March 2015