Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Johnson & Johnson, New Jersey Fremont, CA ? Over 5+ years of experience in full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  ? Proficient in NoSQL transactional databases like Cassandra, Mongo dB and big data technologies like Spark/Storm, Kafka and Hadoop Map Reduce.  ? Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.  ? Experience in JavaScript Unit testing with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor for Angular JS, Mocha and Chai, React JS and Backbone JS.  ? Experience in developing Restful microservices and deployment in the AWS Cloud using spring boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Experienced in using Jenkins as a Continuous Integration server to configure with GitHub and Maven.  ? Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elasticsearch, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  ? Experience in AWS services like EC2, EBS, ELB, S3, SQS, RDS, DynamoDB, Lambda, API Gateway, Cloudwatch, CloudFormation and Elastic Beanstalk.  ? Experience in writing the SQL queries in Oracle, MYSQL and SQL Server.  ? Experience with amazon web services (AWS) and amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers), Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring).  ? Developed web-based enterprise applications using core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), MVC framework (Struts, Spring MVC), SQL and Object-Oriented Programming techniques.  ? Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Type Script, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Media Queries, CSS Frameworks, Java.  ? Experience with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  ? Extensive knowledge and on-hands experience in server-side programming using JSP, Servlets, RESTful and SOAP Services.  ? Developed Microservices using Spring Boot and deploying Microservices into AWS cloud using Jenkins.  ? Expert in setting up Kafka cluster security using Kerberos or SSL and SASL and knowledge of latest development approaches including applications in Spark using Scala.  ? Good knowledge on creating Data Pipelines in Spark using Scala.  ? Experience of Angular JS to interact with a web service to render the page from data returned from the service. Experience in using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Backbone.js, React JS, Ember JS, Require.js, Knockout, Angular.js 2.0, bootstrap and Google Web Toolkit.  ? Complete understanding of the DevOps process with continuous integration using Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, Docker, Ansible, Nagios, CHEF.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS), Spring Rabbit MQ and Apache Kafka for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  ? Experience with multiple web and application Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, Oracle Web Logic, Glass fish and JBoss.  ? Understanding on big data technologies like Apache Hive, Kafka, Hadoop and Apache Spark. Wrote lambda functions that validates and provides authorization to the logged in user to upload or download the file.  ? Experience working with standard Java Design Patterns (MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO Factory, Business Delegate, Value Object, Front Controller).  ? Strong experience in developing the client/server-based applications using Oracle Rational Database Management System.  ? Experience in developing a data pipeline through Kafka-Spark API, Spring-kafka and Confluent Kafka (KAFKA API's, KAFKA CONNECT, KAFKA STREAMS). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Johnson & Johnson, New Jersey August 2018 to Present Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js  ? Implemented Rest API Design Guidelines for the microservices.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) data store for storing the records, prescriptions, bills etc. and accessed them using AWS SDK for Java utilizing NoSQL queries.  ? Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement.  ? Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in AWS.  ? Developed Spark-Streaming applications to consume the data from Kafka topics and to insert the processed streams to HBase.  ? Worked with Node.js and similar back-end Express web application frameworks.  ? Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  ? Worked with NoSQL databases like Cassandra and MongoDB and Apache Spark for cluster management with Apache Kafka as messaging system.  ? Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  ? Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  ? Used to oAuth 2.0 to secure the API requests  ? Used Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  ? Developed internal coding using JEE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.  ? Developed the REST services using oAuth Security Infrastructure in a secure way  ? Implemented Business Logic using Java, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  ? Used Kibana and Elastic search to identify the Kafka message failure scenarios  ? Implemented reprocessing of failure messages in Kafka using offset id  ? Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  ? Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.  ? Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  ? Wrote application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax/ jQuery and wrote custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering.  ? Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.)  ? Implemented design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  ? Developed and execute Unit Test plans using Junit ensuring that results are documented and reviewed with Quality Assurance teams responsible for integrated testing.  ? Developed Error mail code in Scala, which triggers mail to specified group when error occurs in processing the json file. Java Developer PepsiCo - Cookeville, TN May 2017 to July 2018 Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5 and CSS3,JQuery, Backbone JS and Angular JS.  ? Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular 2/5 services, components and directives for front end UI and consuming the Restful Web service API and made use of CRUD Services for effective use of Web services.  ? Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch.  ? Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware-based API's with Mongo DB integration.  ? Implemented Microservices based Cloud Architecture utilizing Spring Boot.  ? Solved defects in the Java J2EE application running on a JBOSS J2EEweb server.  ? Worked with IBM Web Sphere Application Server Developer Tools for Eclipse by using lightweight set of tools to assemble, develop and deploy Java EE, Web 2.0, and mobile applications.  ? Used core java concepts like Collections, multithreading while developing server-side services.  ? Used the fundamentals of Java 1.8 like parallel streams and filters through lambda expressions.  ? Expertise in client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like Node.js and used  Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular2/4/5.  ? Developed Controller classes & validations by using spring Framework Responsible for writing angular pages for client components.  ? Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement.  ? Developed Spark core and Spark-SQL scripts using Scala for faster data processing.  ? Used IBM MQ and IBM Broker is used for transferring the data across multiple applications.  ? Implemented backend services for a web application using NodeJS, Typescript, JavaScript and performed unit testing using chai, mocha.  ? Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application.  ? Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations by using DB2 database.  ? Played the role of J2EE Developer with heavy hands-on coding and entire SDLC.  ? Developed Test Engine, Information stored PLSQL data stores and performs on the fly aggregation over queues for dashboard queries.  ? Migrating the legacy monolithic struts application to Micro services platform.  ? Design and developed Micro sites, Aggregators and Micro services.  ? Reports the dynamic execution profile of your PL/SQL program, organized by subprogram calls.  ? Developed Applications using Angular 2, Java 8 and new features of java Lambda Expressions, Annotations.  ? Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in AWS.  ? Implemented spring boot micro services to process the messages into the Kafka cluster setup  ? Handled message flow using Apache Kafka Consumer API and Producer APIs to consume messages posted from downstream applications Java Developer DXC Technology, Tysons,VA November 2015 to March 2017 Coding to build REST MicroServices using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON and Spring Config.  ? Built MicroServices using spring boot with continuous deployment and continuous integration using Jenkins.  ? Used SQL Server to access data in the database at different Levels, responsible for implementing SQL queries and managing JDBC interactions with data sources.  ? Used Kafka to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB database.  ? Developed JUnit test framework and executed unit test cases by using JUNIT for fixes.  ? Hosted containers for both monolith, microservices architecture and broke down the existing monolith application to microservices on (AWS) EC2 instance.  ? Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  ? Implemented OAuth as security for token generation in Google API.  ? Implemented authentication services using LDAP, SSL, OAuth, OAuth 2.0, and SAML.  ? Extensive use of concurrency frameworks, collections, reflections, I/O framework and generics for multithreaded environment, used core Java 7 and 8.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services using (MEAN Stack) node.js, Mongo DB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud OpenStack Platform.  ? Enhanced and wrote stored procedures & views. Wrote SQL queries in Oracle for generating the reports. Performed testing on the developer environment prior to passing on the module to the test team during integration.  ? Implemented using spring framework using Java, JSP, java script and CSS.  ? Implemented server business logic using Java and Design patterns and Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Used the fundamentals of Java 1.8 like parallel streams and filters through lambda expressions to handle the searching  ? Developed the complete architecture of Prime link using spring frameworks, Implemented Spring MVC Free marker component for locale support.  ? Worked as a J2EE Developer and involved in analysis of requirements, the design, development, integration, deployment and testing.  ? Developed camel routes to transfer data to Kafka.  ? Created Java based Kafka producers to capture live-stream data into various Kafka topics.  ? Developed Spark-Streaming applications to consume the data from Kafka topics and to insert the processed streams to HBase.  ? Written Programs in Spark using Scala and Python for Data quality check.  ? Data analysis using Spark with Scala.  ? Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  ? Lead major activities like promoting Docker Swarm, Kubernetes to design images/containers for microservices architectures production, Cloud SSL management & AWS deployment automations