Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - JP Morgen Chase Chicago, IL 6+ Years of extensive IT experience in web application analysis, design, development and deployment of enterprise application with strong hold on Object Oriented JAVA, J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java servlet programming, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, XML, UML, ANT, CVS, MKS, Hibernate, Oracle, SQL Server, Sybase, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX, Maven, RMI, SOAP, HTML, CORBA, LOG4J, Axis, Java Beans, JavaScript and DHTML.  • Experience in working on various spring modules (Spring MVC, Spring DAO and AOP).  • Good knowledge on Spring Batch for better transaction management.  • Strong Understanding of J2EE design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC and Strategy.  • Profound Knowledge in configuring and deploying web applications using Tomcat web server and application servers like Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBOSS and developed deployment descriptors for the EJB to deploy on.  • Hands on experience with database tools like Toad for Oracle and MySQL Server • Strong Database (RDBMS) development experience in writing queries, functions, stored procedures, triggers.  • Experienced in Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Performed Unit Testing on various components using JUnit.  • Expertise in XML (SAX, DOM), XSL, XSLT, XML Schema, DTD, Custom Tags, and JavaScript.  • Good exposure and experience with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service), AJAX and tools like ANT, JUNIT.  • Experience in working version control tools like CVS, SVN and GitHub.  • Experience working in Agile methodology and involved in scrum meetings every day to discuss the Sprint status, technical difficulties and blockers.  • Have a conceptual knowledge on micro services like AWS. Given an opportunity, I would love to continuously learn and work through.  • Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills and a good Team Player with minimal supervision and effective Communication & Organizational skills.  • Expertise in developing application using Angular Js, React, Angular, Nodejs, Boot Strap, Django, Java script.  • Expertise in Back-end/server side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java. Messaging Service (JMS), Rabbit MQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND). Work Experience Java Developer JP Morgen Chase - Chicago, IL June 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Responsible for the design and development of data loader and data exporter with file feed interface.  • Troubleshooting and debugging applications and providing fixes in a timely manner.  • Involved in SDLC stages of application including Requirements analysis, Implementation, Design and Testing.  • Extensively Used Spring MVC Framework for Controlling the Application.  • Extensively used Spring RESTful web services for designing the end points.  • Developed Web applications using Spring Core, Spring MVC, Ibatis, Apache, Tomcat, JSTL and spring tag libraries.  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap • Used Ant to build and package the application.  • Enhance and modify the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using JSP and client-side validations done using JavaScript & design enhanced wireframe screens.  • Deployed the Application on Tomcat server.  • Used eclipse as IDE to write the code and debug application using separate log files.  • Wrote unit and system test cases for modified processes and Continuous Integration with the help of QC team and Configuration team on timely manner.  • Successfully involved in test driven development model using JUnit.  • Expertise in developing application using Angular Js, React, Angular, Nodejs, Boot Strap, Django, Java script.  • Applied Multithreading on data export to reduce process time.  • Working with management to estimate the level of effort, resource needs and task duration • To develop & modified the Technical documents as per company standard process prototype.  • Have a conceptual knowledge on micro services like AWS. Given an opportunity, I would love to continuously learn and work through.  • Participated in the daily stand up SCRUM agile meetings as part of AGILE process for reporting the day to day developments of the work done.  • Developed GIT controls to track and maintain the different version of the project.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP/Servlets, Struts2.3.12, Spring Framework3.2.2, MongoDB, Hibernate3, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, Web Services, XML, GIT, AJAX, GIT, jQuery , Eclipse, WebLogic 10.0 Application Server, Dimensions, Log4J, ANT1.9, HTML, SOA tool, bus tester. Java Developer Rockwell Automation - San Jose, CA May 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities: • Participating in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements and technical walk through.  • Involved in requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and testing of application modules.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting the bugs and resolved those issues.  • Deployed applications on JBoss Application Server.  • Developed Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files.  • Experience on Unit and Functional testing and coding with Junit framework.  • Utilized Model-View-Presenter (MVP) design pattern, decoupling view and presenter in front-end development.  • Used SVN as version control tools to maintain the code repository and Tortoise SVN client for execution.  • Extensively worked on core Java concepts for backend coding which involves Collection API and multithreads.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Node JS.  • Implemented a Single Page Web Applications (SPA) based front end for displaying user requests, user records history and security settings various users using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • AJAX is used to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON/XML object.  • Used the Node JS with Flux Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Implemented a Node JS server to manage authentication.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency injection, Spring MVC for RESTAPI's and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Expertise in developing application using Angular Js, React, Angular, Nodejs, Boot Strap, Django, Java script.  • Implemented the project using the Vaad in Framework.  • Designed and developed base framework classes, common re-usable components.  • Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions.  • Worked on creating Docker containers and images and deployed the code using docker and AWS Services.  • Created Jenkins job to trigger Cloud Formation scripts and deploy jar/ear file in AWS EC2 instance by triggering Ansible playbook from a Jenkins Job.  Environment: JDK 1.8, JSP, JBoss 7, Unit Testing, JDBC, XML, DOM, SAX, SVN, HTML DHTML, JNDI, Restful Web Services, Node JS, HTML 5, CSS, Micro services, Spring Boot, Soap UI, Groovy, Grails, AWS, PII Data, Jenkins, JUNIT, SQL, DHTML, SQL Server, PL/SQL Developer, Log4j, ANT, JIRA    Java Developer  Complete Medical Solution - Houston, TX  December 2013 to May 2015    Responsibilities: • Responsible for development and implementation of admin application, User Creation module, Saving Templates features, Re-structuring the Report Module.  • Participating and contributing in the design discussions, technical specification.  • Leading the team and guiding on the technical aspects to meet challenging deadlines • Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Used the Node JS with Flux Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Implemented a Node JS server to manage authentication • Developed complex Web Services and tailored JAX-RS API to suit the requirement.  • Development of UI models using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Web Link and CSS.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Configure SQL using Liquid base preconditions, insert, update and rollback. This will reduce the maintaining traditional way scripting and maintaining the data in Different Environments.  • Wrote complex named sql queries using Hibernate.  • Uses Second Level Cache to enhance performance and Proper Memory Management.  • Generated POJO classes with JPA Annotations using Reverse Engineering.  • Created multi-module maven project and used Maven to build applications and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Developed application using Angular Js, React, Angular, Nodejs, Boot Strap, Django, Java script.  • Created WAR/EAR files from Maven and deployed them on Tomcat.  • Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Used SOAP-UI for testing the Web-Services.  • Designed and developed the application using Lean-Kanban methodology.  • Used SVN to maintain source and version management and used IntelliJ as IDE.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  • Wrote custom JavaScript and CSS to maintain user friendly look and feel.  • Implemented SOLID Design Principles throughout the development of Project.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  • Implementing all the Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans.  • Developed various test cases and unit testing using JUnit.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, jQuery, AJAX, Hibernate3.0, Spring, Web Service, JBoss 4.0.3, Portlets, Eclipse, Struts 2, JSP, JSTL, SSL, Oracle 10g. Java Developer Allegis Group - Hanover, MD June 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities: • Coordinated software system installation and monitor equipment functioning to ensure specifications are met.  • Actively involved in project development and bug fixing for the project. Worked closely with students, helped in the deeper understanding of concepts.  • Involved in requirement analysis and client interaction, responsible for writing hibernate mapping XML Files, HQL.  • Developed Web applications using Ibatis, Apache, Tomcat, JSTL and spring tag libraries.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton. Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Worked in a fast-paced environment and meeting all the requirements.  • Created applications involving JSP, JavaScript, jQuery and HTML. Extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table, and Hash Set.  • Creating technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with end users.  • Created new database connection for MYSQL.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.    Environment: Eclipse, MySQL Server, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, Java, C. Education BACHELOR'S OF ENGINEERING IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY in ENGINEERING University of Pune