Java Analyst <span class="hl">Java</span> Analyst Java Analyst Garland, TX • 3 Years of IT experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC)including requirement study and analysis, system design, development, integration, maintenance, implementation, testing and delivery of various client/server web applications.  • Strong Skills in Object Oriented Programming Concepts OOPS with OOP methodologies.  • Possess hands on experience in core Java concepts like Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collections.  • Strong experience on various development environments like Eclipse.  • Good working knowledge in Java database connectivity API ofJDBC.  • Experience in J2EE technologies such as Servlets, Java Server Pages (JSP), Struts, Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Strong XML experience using XML 1.0, XSL, XSLT, DTD Schema & SAX/DOM, AJAX, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Experienced in parsing (DOM and SAX) XML using JAXP API.  • Experience in deploying the web applications with Apache Tomcat and J Boss Application Servers, Web S here and web logic application servers.  • Extensive Knowledge of Design Patterns, UML and Web Services.  • Extensive experience in Java GUI development using JFC, Swing, Applets, AWT.  • Exposure to Web Services using SOAP and WSDL.  • Work experience on Unit testing using J Unit.  • Good Knowledge in Design Patterns like MVC, Singleton, Data Access Objects and Factory Pattern.  • Experience in using the web content management tool. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Analyst Capgemini - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2017 to January 2019 Project description:    This is a web application, which will provide you your location with complete information like nearby Landmark, Road Name, Locality, Pin code and City on receive of GPS data. This web application is based on MVC Design Pattern. GPS data is send to this application using GPS Gate software. This software will request java servlet with specified interval of time by sending GPS data. On receiving GPS data i.e. Longitude and Latitude, Servlet will search for the nearest Famous Landmark based on lat/long in database and send result in three format XML, KML, HTML. Servlet store data in data model (bean) and call specified JSP page based on user desired format. One advantage of KML format is that one can directly view its position in Google Earth.    • Used Spring Framework in the application which is based on MVC design pattern.  • Designed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML.  • Involved in Developing database transactions Using JDBC.  • Client side validations and Unit Testing  • Designed and developed front end using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that uses the POJOs (which do not have the business processes) to represent the persistence database tuples.  • Participated in Unit testing, Peer testing and Code review.  • Interacted with other parts of the application developer to share the functionality of application.  • Developed web service clients for testing the application.  • End-to-end testing of application was done along with the testing team.  • Documented the developed code.  • Participated in deployment done using Web logic Application Server.  • Used JDBC to communicate with the MySQL database and to retrieve the data for various modules.  • Used JavaScript for Client Side Validations.  • Well designed the project under Eclipse environment, so as to maintain the highest rate of reusability and extendibility.  • J Unit tests were written to test each module in the application.  • Involved in Code Review, Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  • Responsible for Design and development of application.  • Responsible for developing/integrating various modules.    Environment: JSP, Spring, XML, MYSQL Server, Windows XP, My Eclipse, SVN, WebLogic Server Java Developer Morgan Stanley - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2016 to November 2017 Project Description: SEI Investments deals in the Mutual Funds business. GWP is a wealth management project used by various SEI clients. It provides services like Asset Management, Stock trading and Advisor Market. It helps advisors in managing portfolios by creating and maintaining strategies. It also helps in managing daily trades or investments.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering business requirements and preparing Use Cases, how the application will look like and how it will be implemented  • Used JSP with Struts Framework for developing User Interfaces  • Used Struts 2.0 Framework in the presentation tier of the application which is based on the MVC design pattern.  • Used the OOPS concepts of Exception Handling, multi-threading.  • Developed Struts Action Forms and Action Classes to control the application flow and used Struts and JavaScript Validation framework to validate the values entered in the forms (client side validation)  • Involved in code review and bug fixing of the application.  • Also involved in deploying the application to the machine with Websphere Application Server v7.0.  • Configured the struts configuration file to map the Action Forms with the Form Beans and Action Classes with the Actions  • Developed Hibernate 3.0 in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Spring 2.0 Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and Struts frameworks.  • Used Soap UI for testing WSDL to ensure that request and response are as per business users' expectation.  • Worked with JAXB to validate XML against XSD and convert back and forth b/w xml and java classes.  • Used spring boot framework to create properties for various environments.  • Worked on Java 8 components lambda expressions and generics.  • Oracle 11g is used for developing backend.  • Used J Unit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used SVN for the source code version control.    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, JavaScript, Maven, HTML, XML, Struts, Oracle 11g, Hibernate, SVN, JUnit, SQL, PL/SQL, WebSphere v7.0, Eclipse, Windows Education S.F.A Convent High School. U.K.A Tarsadia University, Maliba Campus. Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Html, Xml, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Css, Tomcat, Web logic, Websphere, Frameworks, Apache, database, Management Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages Java, J2EE  Java Technologies Core Java, JDBC, J2EE-Servlets, JSP  Frameworks Struts 2.0, Spring 2.0, Hibernate 3.0  Development Tools Eclipse  Databases Oracle 11g, MYSQL  Operating Systems Windows XP, Vista, Win7  Application Servers Apache Tomcat v7.0, J Boss 5.0.1, Websphere v8.0, Web logic server.  Internet Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, XML