Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Walmart • Around 4+ years of Computer Science experience as a Java Developer.  • Experience in design & development of internet/intranet applications using Java, JEE, JSP, JMS, JDBC, HTML, XML, JSON, CSS, Java Script, Spring, Spring boot, JPA.  • Experience in User Interaction, Development, Integration, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Building, Configuration.  • Experience in Production/Customer Support, Maintenance, and Enhancements of both Web and Client/Server Technologies.  • Experience in using build and Automation tools like ANT and Maven for the building of deployable artifacts from source code.  • Experience in developing client/server and Web Applications using JAVA, J2EE technologies and Web Technologies for enterprise applications.  • Extensively worked on front-end web development technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.  • Experience working on version control systems like Tortoise SVN, GIT and used Source code management client tools like GitBash, GitHub, Git GUI, and other command line applications, etc.  • Extensive involvement in Front-end Web Application Development utilizing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience in Developing quality code adhering to Scala coding Standards and best practices.  • Experience in designing and developing RESTful based web services using SOAP1.1/HTTP implemented Web Services security.  • Experience in Developing enterprise applications using Scala. Implemented design patterns in Scala for the application.  • Developed Microservices based on Restful web service using Akka Actors and Akka-Http framework in Scala which handles high concurrency and high volume of traffic  • Good knowledge in test-driven development including writing integration test cases for the REST endpoints.  • Experienced with various application/web servers like JBoss, WebLogic, Glassfish, and Tomcat.  • Good knowledge in Using Git, GitHub, Bitbucket, CVS, and Subversion for version control.  • Experience in Creating EC2 Workstation in the AWS Console and developed a personal EC2 instance and signed in using an SSH key.  • Experience in Using the instance to create an S3 Bucket in a personal AWS account.  • Experience in Using the instance to invoke the Simple Notification Service and send the team a text message.  • Good experience on working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon Cloud Front. Work Experience Sr Java Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on various types of Business rules in excel file templates using Drools rule engine for business decision making, injecting beans into the rules engine and invoking using Rule Base Stateful Session.  • Analyzed documented detail Test plans, Test cases and expected results based on the business functional requirements and Helped the team to integrate the code into the production environment and resolve any issues.  • Involved in bug fixing of various modules in the application that were raised during testing and Used GIT and Stash for creating branches, pull requests and merging.  • Involved in the development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Java, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Java.  • Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements and Worked with SQL and NoSQL queries to interact with the MongoDB database.  • Worked closely with the manager, supervisor and offshore team to assess needs, resolve problems, and provide technical assistance.  • Followed an Agile development environment, involving daily stand-up meetings on call and participated in project discussion.  • Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate.  • Experience in developing Microservices with Spring boot using Java and Akka framework using Scala.  • Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages, users switch, etc.  • Selecting the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements.  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Produced client-side validation through JavaScript and AJAX for asynchronous communication.  • Created and optimized graphics prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in developing HTML5 for client-side presentation and, data validation within the forms and also Built reusable templates for web sites using Bootstrap and Font-awesome fonts.  • Created Ansible Playbooks to deploy new software and plugins as well as manage deployments to the production Jenkins server.  • Created kubernetes YAML file for the deployment in Kubernetes Cluster  • Setup Kubernetes cluster with Kubernetes Master that has API server, etc., Kube-Scheduler, and Kube Controller. Java Developer Soft HQ Inc - San Diego, CA August 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on developing Enterprise applications using Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Rest, Restful Web services.  • Expertise in developing applications using Spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA, Spring Data, MongoDB, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, etc.  • Expertise in ORM and JPA technologies such as JDBC, Hibernate, and Spring DAO  • Expertise in writing queries, triggers, sequence, and stored procedures in major RDBMS including Oracle, SQL Server, and My SQL  • Outstanding knowledge of developing and consuming RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Jersey, Spring Web MVC, etc.  • Worked with web technologies like JSP, Html, Angular JS, CSS, Java scripts (used frameworks-JSON) jQuery, MVC frameworks (Struts, Spring MVC, IOC/DI, AOP) other frameworks (Hibernate, EJB, JUNIT) and Database (Oracle, MySQL).  • Implemented Event Sourcing using Akka. Used Akka concurrency for processing PDL files.  • Experienced in TDD (Test Driven Development) using Junit and created technical design document containing architecture of the application/module/product.  • Used Eclipse as an editor, GIT as a version control system and JIRA for defect tracking and project management.  • Experienced in Document preparation including Design Documents, Technical help documents, User training documents and Test Cases.  • Selecting the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements.  • Integration of Amazon Web Services (AWS) with other applications infrastructure.  • Involved in creation of an automated build environment for application using Maven and deployed JAR, WAR, EAR files.  • Used Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor AWS services and Amazon Cloud Watch logs to monitor application.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins/Cloud Bee and GitHub. ?Whenever a new GitHub branch gets started, Jenkins automatically builds a new Docker container from it.  • Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environment needs.  • Automated Compute Engine and Docker Image Builds with Jenkins /Cloud Bee and Kubernetes.  • Used Spinaker for Kubernetes Continuous Deployment and Rolling Updates  • Experience building microservices and deploying them into Kubernetes cluster as well as Docker Swarm. Java Developer Best Buy - Richfield, MN August 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose  • As a team member involved in Development using JSP, Servlets and an internal tool called Content Management to organize the JSPs created.  • Provide a login screen for the employees with validation, added client-side validations using java script and server-side validation using Struts Validator Framework.  • Developed Add/Edit KYC Details, Enhanced KYC, and Risk Score/EDD and Comments modules usingJ2EE architecture in Spring MVC Framework by implementing MVC model, which included invocation of Web Services/EJB for integration with external system.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and log4j for logging purposes.  • Designed WSDL's and elaborated type of definitions; schemas based on corporate standards, integration and security specifications  • Tracked errors or unexpected results/bugs with Bugzilla and coordinated with help desk staff.  • Maintained version control using VSS.  • Performed Unit Test using Junit, Integration Testing, and System Testing.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  • Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts Framework, JSP, AJAX, XML, XSLT and JavaScript  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures and triggers) using Oracle SQL/PLSQL Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ 2018