Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Hyva It Solutions A position, which allows substantial valve additional and challenging opportunity that, would groom me to be trusted with complete responsibility. Work Experience Java Developer Hyva It Solutions November 2016 to Present Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Enginerring Santhiram Engineering College Additional Information Technical Skills  • Programming Languages: Java  • Frameworks: Struts 2, Spring 4.x, Spring Boot 1.5,  • JAX-RS 2.0, jmx  • ORM Framework: Hibernate 3.x, 5.x., JPA 2.0  • RDBMS: MySql5.x  • Markup Languages: Angularjs, HTML5, css, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON  • Servers: Apache Tomcat 7.40/8.0.28,  • IDE: IntellIj, Eclipse, Netbeans  • Repository: Maven, SVN.  • Development Tools: Postman, Mantis    Project Details    Project -1  Title: RESTOPOS (http://www.restopos.in)  Duration: July 2018 to till date  Environment: Java Spark, Hibernate, Tomcat  Description:  RestoPOS user-friendly interface combines an intuitive dashboard that gives you a complete overview of your business operations with all modules within easy access to help you navigate through the entire suite and integrated apps seamlessly with utmost ease.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in application architecture design phase and creating the application design template.  • Responsible to get the requirements from coordinator/customer.  • Responsible to prepare the Low Level design document and creating the reusable components for across the application  • Participating in customer meeting to identifying the difficulties if any, and discuss about the application status and get the requirements.  • Responsible for Detail design and GUI development.  • Worked on spring and Hibernate mapping using annotation.  • Strong problem solving, analytical and Communication skills.    Project -2  Title: HiNext India.  Role:Team Member  Environment: Java, Spring Boot 1.5, Hibernate 5.x, Angular js, Maven, Apache POI, MySQL 5.x, log4j.    Description:  An Accounting product which simplifies billing and accounting for Indian Gst  for small to medium sized companies. The primary focus of the software is to manage the everyday transactions of the companies like Accounts Receivable (Sales), Accounts Payable (Purchases), Inventory Control and Taxes.    Accounts Receivable: Accounts Receivable (Sales Order) module implements functions of order placement, order scheduling, shipping and invoicing. It covers the complete sales process.    Account Payable: Accounts Payable(Purchase Order) This sub system provides top class functionality to manage your purchases and vendors, Purchase Orders, Purchase bills, Manage Supplier, Supplier Payments. Supplier Invoice.    Responsibilities  • Involved in understanding and analyzing the business requirements and developing application as per requirement.  • Developing web Services using Spring Boot rest controllers and interacting with database using Hibernate Dao.  • Generating reports from database using Apache POI.  • Participated in regular requirement and status calls with client.  • Involved in Design and Development of Web Services.    Personal Strengths and Achievements  • Achievement oriented with people excellent management skill and an ability to manage change with case.  • Proven strength in problem solving coordination.  • Strong commutation, Interpersonal, learning and organizing skill matched with the ability to manage stress, time and people effectively.  • Excellent Communication and management skills  Personal Dossier  • Father's Name: Kuppam Mohan  •   •