Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Atlanta, GA • Over 2+ years of professional experience in core java, spring boot, rest API, hibernate, spring security, servlets and JDBC.  • Excellent hands on experience in developing Application by a hand held device used in the stores which uses Windows CE operating system.  • Created the screens in JSP and written all Java scripts to perform the client side validations.  • Expertise in Deploy the code into the web logic 8.1 and perform the testing.  • Extensively worked in web based J2EE application using struts frame work.  • Coordinated the team and interacted with the clients to solve the issues related to deployment.  • Expertise and created many HTML and DHTML pages for the project  • Strong Knowledge of Core Java, Web Services, XML, XSD Schemas, XSLT, XPATH, WSDL and SOAP.  • Extensive experience with Json, XML-related technologies including XML, XMLSchemas, DTDs, XSLT, XPath, HTML. Up to-date with current XML development and ideas.  • Create automated scripts using shell, ant and java programs for deployments, installation and configurations  • Involved in all phases of testing, which includes Unit Testing, Batch Testing, Systems and Integration Testing and also Creation of Test Data and Test Environment  • Expertise and used XML deployment descriptor for deploying the EJBs and Servlets  • Experienced in JavaScript as for validations of page components and as well as page itself. Work Experience Java Developer NCR May 2016 to August 2018 India    GPOS(Global Purchase Order System) for NCR:  GPOS is a technical migration project wherein we have migrated legacy Struts based project to Spring technologies along with some enhancements. GPOS is a NCR trading platform which enables end user to create and manage Purchase Orders, Bills, Invoices etc.    Responsibilities  • Created many HTML and DHTML pages for the project  • Designed and developed various sub modules using Servlets, Struts and JSPs  • Created EJBs which will be communicating with Legacy system  • Used XML deployment descriptor for deploying the EJBs and Servlets  • Web Logic Server is used for EJBs deployment and Tomcat is used for servlets and JSPs deployment.  • Used JavaScript as for validations of page components and as well as page itself  • Written required number of controlling servlets  • Used Oracle 7 as legacy system, which stores all the inbox mails and messages  • Understand the requirements.  • Developed web based J2EE application using struts frame work.  • Application is used by a hand held device used in the stores which uses Windows CE operating system.  • Created the screens in JSP and written all Java scripts to perform the client side validations.  • Developed the Java code and created the SQL procedures to interact with the SQL server database.  • Deploy the code into the web logic 8.1 and perform the testing.  • Coordinated the team and interacted with the clients to solve the issues related to deployment.  • As a Senior developer to resolve critical issues faced during technical migration and guide team to Follow Project's best practices and coding standards  • Prepare and help team to prepare the design    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, SQL Server, Java Scripts, Tomcat, Java 1.2 Web logic 5.5, Tomcat 4.5, JSP, Servlets, Struts 1.2, JavaScript, JDBC, EJB, XML, XSL, Oracle 7, SQL, PL/SQL, CVS, Log4J, Ant Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (2 years), Java (2 years), MS SQL Server (2 years), Oracle (2 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information Technical skills  Tools: Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Struts 2.0, Web services SOAP, REST(Jersey), Spring Boot, Micro services, Hibernate.  Programming Languages: C++, Core Java, J2EE and SQL.  Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server  Operating Systems: Windows OS  SDLC: AGILE, WATERFALL  Project Management Tool: Jira, Rally