Java/JBPM Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/JBPM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/JBPM Developer - Dell EMC • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support.  • Around 5 years of extensivedevelopment experience in an environment building n-tier application for web deployment using Java, J2EE, Spring Frame Work, Spring MVC, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Experience in developing Front-End and User Interface using Struts, JSP, JSF, JQuery, Ajax, Rich Facesand my Faces, ice FacesJavaScript, AngularJs, HTML, Node.js, DHTMLandCSS.  • Experience in developingsingle page applications using Angular JS.  • Experience in developing web applications using JSP, Spring Boot, Spring MVC Frameworks, EJB, Hibernate, Spring Security, JBOSS, JDBC, Java Server Pages, Servlet, Web Services, JavaScript, JavaBeans  • Expertise in building device independent UI designs using both @media queries and frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap.  • Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate POJO's, configuring Hibernate persistencelayer, mapping Java classes with database using Hibernate and in Hibernate query language (HQL)  • Worked extensively with Waterfall, Agile Extreme Programming (XP), SCRUM Methodologies.  • Experience with Version Control Systems like Subversion (SVN), Git, Clear case and VSS.  • Hands on experience with Version control systems like Visual Source Safe, Harvest and Perforce, SVN.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, POJO, Ext Js andJQuery.  • Expertise in building and deploying of EAR, WAR, JAR files and working with various version control systems such as ClearCase, CVS, SVN, TFS and GitHub.  • Wide exposure with IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, STS for Java programming.  • Experienced in working with XML technologies like XSL, XSD, XSLT, SAX, DTD, DOM, XML Schemas, XPath and JAXB.  • Excellent working experience with different operating systems like Windows, UNIX, LINUX.  • Worked on drools with rich experience in complex rule development on Jboss BRMS.  • Experience in creating JSON scripts for Cloud Formation based on requirements and launch stacks.  • Performed deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Good knowledge of in Unified Modeling Tools (UML) concepts and extensively worked in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Object Diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Developed Technical Design (TD), Test Plans (UTP), Test Cases (UTR), Test Scripts for UAT tests  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL on MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle. Work Experience Java/JBPM Developer Dell EMC - Dallas, TX June 2017 to Present The EMC Corporation is an American multinational company that sells virtualization, cloud computing and Information security. The application was designed to provide IaaS efficiently to the customers. VxRack system was designed to enable customers to quickly deploy IaaS or private cloud architectures.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through AgileTDD methodology.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, use cases and activity diagrams using Rational rose.  • Developed various REST controllers for different HTTP methods to serve the data in JSON for the UI and created Exception handlers to send Http codes with various Failure responses with Spring REST.  • Developed strategies and supported tools to create an efficient automated integration and release process using Jenkins.  • Multiple system will be integrated with the business process.  • Designed, developed and test Drools Rules as per Business Rules documents criteria.  • Developed Business Rule engines using Drools.  • Implemented Drools template for generating drl files.  • External System service integration are done via rest service calls from the JBPM Process.  • Multiple work Queue were integrated with BPM process.  • Integrate the BPM process with UI layer at process level and task level.  • Integrated Jenkins with repositories like GitHub to build Automation tool (Maven), and Artifact repository for pushing successful build code.  • Created and maintained Jenkins jobs that execute Shell scripts for automation.  • Worked on version control tools stash (bitbucket), and GIT for cloning, mirroring and pushing the changes. Created web-hook in bitbucket for Jenkins.  • Experience in tools like JIRA, Agile/Scrum methodology, to release product.  • Worked with JIRA for creating Projects, assigning permissions to users and groups for the projects & Created Mail handlers and notification Schemes for JIRA.    Environment: Java, Eclipse, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Angular JS, Web Service, Maven, Drools, JBPM6.4. Java Developer BP - Houston, TX March 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Application based on spring framework using MVC.  • UI Layer implemented with Struts, Struts validation, JSF, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS and HTML.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions and Collections.  • Used Angular 5 as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Added security features to the application using HTTPS and password security features.  • Utilized Angular 5 to build multiple public facing websites.  • Developed SPA apps using Angular 5.  • Created DAO classes for invoking stored procedures/queries to retrieve from Oracledatabase.  • Used Maven framework to develop automated build scripts.  • Employed Hibernate as a persistence mechanism to implement object relational mapping.  • Used SOAP based messaging format to transfer requests and responses and validated the request and responses against XML Schema Definition.  • Extensive usage of JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, HTML4/5, CSS2/3.  • Research about of JBPM process engine for use in the implementation of Flow Control System of People.  • Involved in resolving high priority ticket and issues related to the support system.  • Design and manipulation of JBPM process for the client activities in order to manage the people queue for each activity.  • Developed PL/SQL scripts for data conversion.  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server.  • Used Log4j for logging messages and Rational Clear Case for version Control.  • Used Jira to access and track the bugs or defects.  • Used GIT as source control tool.  • Used JUnit framework and Selenium Web Driver for Unit Testing  • Involved in Designing, Coding, Testing, gathering and analyzing system requirements.  • Involved in protocol designing for communication between server and multiple locos.    Environment:Spring, Micro-services using Spring Boot- 1.3.5, Struts, jQuery, JMS, XML, JSP, HTML5, CSS, Angular 5, JBPM, AJAX, HQL, jQuery, RAD, Hibernate 3.0, JPA, RESTful Web Services, AWS, EC2, Clear Case, Spring MVC. Java Developer Indo-Global Health Sciences - Chennai, Tamil Nadu March 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web services technology JACKSON to convert JSON into java objects. Implemented Session Service and Login Service using web services  • Used Angular JS2 for client-side data binding and template-based UI development.  • Used JIRA tool for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Re-Branding and Re-Design of their website using HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created Angular components like controllers, services, directives and forms to collect different user data and implemented form validation in Angular JS2.  • Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Responsible for implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, AngularJS for all client-side UI Validation.  • Designed and implemented the UI with extensive use of JavaScript, JSON and Ajax.  • Built single page apps, modules, graphics and reusable components using react JS.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular2, and Node JS.  • Extensively work with AJAX, JQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Developed Exception handling code to recover from DB specific, Application specific, Business and Non-business logic specific exceptions.  • Validated Web Services request and response xml using SOAPUI tool.  • Developed SPA apps using AngularJS.  • Designed and developed MVC and Web API applications for consumption by mobile devices and internet browsers.    Environment:Spring, Micro-services using Spring Boot- 1.3.5, Struts, jQuery, JMS, XML, JSP, HTML5, CSS, Angular 2, AJAX, HQL, jQuery, RAD, Hibernate 3.0, JPA, Restful Web Services. Java Developer Kon-tech Solutions June 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, JAXP, JNDI and JMS.  • Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different DPs.  • Data Operations were performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate.  • Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Spring annotations.  • Used micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy Identity micro services.  • Experience working with Cassandra.  • Worked on service-oriented systems that utilize REST web frameworks, SOAP and message queue technologies (Spring MVC 4, Spring REST Template, RabbitMQAMQP server, Spring Integration)  • Developing database adapter, web services adapter, messaging adapter and custom workflow for non-oracle system using Camel and Implemented ApacheCamel routes using Camel-SpringXML and Camel-Spring processor beans.  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide automated builds based on polling the GIT source control system.  • Developed and Consumed Web Services using SOAP and Restful API. Performing Load Test using SOAP UI.  • Designing the front end using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript as per the requirements that are provided.  • Setting up, building the environment and deployed project by writing Ant build.xml.  • Developing user interfaces using HTML and CSS and implementing service.  • Eclipse/Sublime text IDEs to develop the application, JIRA for bug and issue tracking, managing SVN and deployment of build in production environment.  • Creating Templates in HTML and styles with LESS and CSS.  • Working with browsers compatibility issues.  • Involved in various phases Of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application.  • Designing, developing, testing and configuring the implemented software for better functionality.  • Handling different types of performance related issues.  • Completing product development as per requirements, schedules and activities, contributing to team meetings.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Ajax, XML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Windows, Agile, Eclipse, Angular-JS, HTML 5, JQuery, HP Quality Center, Maven, UML. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (4 years), JSON (3 years), VERSION CONTROL (3 years), ECLIPSE (3 years), Git (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages JAVA, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C ++  Web Technology JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, HTML, CSS, Spring, Struts, Spring Boot, JBPM.  Database ORACLE, SQL-SERVER, MySQL  Operating System Windows 10/8/XP/&, Linux  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Glassfish  Tools Net Beans, Eclipse, Visio, SQL Developer  Version Control Git, SVN, CVS  Continuous Integration Jenkins, AntHillPro, Client  UML tools Rational Rose, Oracle Data Modeler