Sr. JAVA DEVELOPER Sr. <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Sr. JAVA DEVELOPER - PepsiCo • 5+ years of experience in Design & Development of Enterprise Applications, Web Applications, and Web Services in Java/J2EE and related technologies.  • Extensive working experience with in Design, Development, and Implementation in the field of Web Applications development using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSON, Restful web services and Responsive web designing.  • Expertise in using HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, JAXP, JAXB, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, JSTL, Backbone JS, PHP, Express JS, YUI (yahoo UI) Ext JS, React JS, Node JS and AJAX meeting W3C standards.  • Developed Single page application with using AngularJS with MVC Frame Work.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts - Collection Framework, Exception Handling, IO, Serialization, Multi-threading, Concurrency etc.  • Experience in working on various Frameworks like Spring, Struts, JSF, EJB and ORM Technologies like Hibernate, and IBatis, which implements JPA.  • Good knowledge of Spring Core, spring batch, Spring security, spring boot, spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Cloud Formation, AWS Cloud Front and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Have strong exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services and hands on experience in developing and registering web services using JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SAAJ, JAX-RS, SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, UDDI registry.  • Experience in writing Build Scripts using Shell Scripts, ANT, MAVEN and using CI (Continuation Integration) tools like Jenkins.  • Used JIRA for defect tracking system, GIT for version control and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Experience with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  • Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC and SPRING DAO, JDBC Templates, Transactions, Security, AOP, MVC, ORM etc.  • Used persistence frameworks, Hibernate ORM, JPA to map POJOs to a relational database.  • Strong working experience on Hibernate. Used Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Hibernate Caching.  • Experience with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  • Solid experience on API development using node JS, express JS and Mongoose.  • Performed DevOps for Linux, Mac and Windows platforms.  • Proven knowledge in one or more NoSQL Document Store databases such as MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Execution of automated test scripts using Load Runner, Jmeter to test the performance and SOAP UI is the web service testing tool for API Testing.  • Developed and maintained automation framework using Ruby and Selenium WebDriver. Work Experience Sr. JAVA DEVELOPER PepsiCo - Harrison, NY December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used JAVA, struts and Spring MVC to interface with the jQuery UI, Bootstrap and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  • Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, HTML5, Spring Boot, AngularJS, Servlets, JavaBeans with Eclipse.  • Used new Java 8 features, such as Lambda expressions, Streams and Functional Interfaces.  • Worked on RAML and REST based Web services for Mule ESB flows, also on Mule Soft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.)  • Developed restful Web-services using Grails framework in Python.  • Used Spring RESTful API to create RESTful Web Services, set JSON data type between front-end and the middle-tier controller  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using Jenkins  • Worked with Splunk and ELK stack for creating monitoring and analytics solutions.  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud.  • Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Used IAM to manage and create AWS users and groups and used permissions to allow and deny access to AWS resources.  • Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven on Unix environment and participated in configuring Jenkins for build automation. Used Docker as CI/CD tool for integrating different code components.  • Used Microservice with Spring Boot interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Worked in building servers like DHCP, PXE with kick-start, DNS and NFS and used them in building infrastructure in a Linux Environment. Automated build, testing and integration with Ant, Maven and JUnit.  • Worked on JUnit testing using Mockito and Power Mockito, integration testing and SOAP UI testing.  • Knowledge in Spark APIs to cleanse, explores, aggregate, transform, and store data.  • Worked on implementing Microservices architecture by using containers.  • Implemented client-side interface using React.js, flux pattern and Redux framework for SPA.  • Used various Data stores like ArangoDB, HDFS, Couchbase, and Cassandra.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow  • Expert level skills in designing and implementing web server solutions and deploying java application servers like Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, WebLogic on Windows& UNIX platform.  • Used JBOSS application server for run time integration of j2ee applications. Java Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX May 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full Life Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  • System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, and Observer.  • Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP using Metro.  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, JNDI, Spring IOC.  • Implemented transaction management using Spring AOP.  • Configured JPA to use Hibernate as ORM tool.  • Used jQuery to simplify the client-side scripting of HTML and used DOJO widgets package for handling browser incompatibilities and IO package for AJAX support.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes Used Web services - REST for getting credit card information from third party.  • The Restful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data using Ajax.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharding and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Used Jasmine, Karma for unit testing and end-to-end testing to verify Angular JS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Jax-RS is the framework used and results are made to be in JSON format. Results are used for displaying on UI pages.  • Used Maven to build application and deploy on the server  • Implemented Spring Validators, persistence layer, and service layer components using Spring/Hibernate API and Spring/Hibernate annotations. Extensively used Hibernate QL.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Designed RESTful web services with JSON representation for handling AJAX requests Used Advanced Rest Client plug-in to run the rest API's on localhost Tomcat Server for Unit testing  • Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances.  • Developed Web pages using UI frameworks, AngularJS, Html5, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux). Java Developer Verizon - Irving, TX June 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of requirement analysis, design, development and implementation in J2EE Environment.  • Analyzed and developed Use Case diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Activity diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed Business Layers using simple POJO Beans and used Spring for UI, Service Layer and DAO layer integration.  • Extensively developed web pages using JSP, HTML5, BootStrap, JavaScript and CSS in the front end.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns at presentation and persistence tiers.  • Developed architecture to use Spring MVC and Hibernate components wired together by Spring Framework and setting up application server deployment environments.  • Developed the Presentation layers using Servlets, JSP and MVC Architecture.  • Used Spring IOC to inject DAO objects into the Business Layers to establish abstraction.  • Developed and configured Web Services using SOAP for user address validation services.  • Developed data persistence layer using Hibernate as Object Relational Mapping Tool for the backend data persistence and configured hibernate using O/R mapping files.  • Extensively worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from oracle database.  • Created Native Queries to perform DML operation on the entities with Hibernate and JPA.  • Recreated and resolved application bugs rectified by QA in testing environment.  • Implemented MAVEN as a project build tool and for the transitory dependency management of the project.  • Involved in writing UNIX shell scripts for automating tasks.  • Monitored error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Worked in an Agile environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.  • Used Grunt as the JavaScript task runner. Jenkins, ANT tools were used part of build management.  • Used Maven in building and deploying the WAR and JAR files.  • Created application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, business layer is built using spring.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring Batch, Spring Bootand Spring Core.  • Developed REST based Web Services using XML/JSON messages that were used by the front end.  • Consumed SOAP based web services, created stubs using Apache Axis.  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used oracle stored procedures.  • Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  • Deployed applications on WebSphere Application Server and performed required configuration changes.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Used CVS version source control tool to store all the project artifacts.  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time. Java Developer Ally Financial - Detroit, MI February 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in interacting with business users to record user requirements and created the Functional Specification Documents and remodeled the existing architecture.  • Developed the application using Agile Methodology.  • Worked with Spring as an Integration Framework to develop the Application.  • Accessed Source Repositories using Tortoise SVN as an Interface.  • Developed User interface layer using Struts2 Framework.  • Developed persistence layer to configure domain objects to be mapped against the Database tables using Hibernate.  • Published TDD unit tests to support the Ideal bug free development developed well-established UNIT tests to cover all possible business scenarios. Extensively used JUnit Test Suites and Test Cases.  • Worked in Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit.  • Used Spring Framework for logging implementation and extensively used Spring AOP to reduce cross cutting concerns.  • Co-ordinated with the testing team and fixed the production defects.  • Used JBoss as an application server for deploying WAR files.  • Developed the prototype using JavaScript and Angular Js.  • Developed the User Interface using JSP utilizing Custom Tag Libraries, and Java Script.  • Building and deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on development, test and production systems in JBoss Application Server  • Involved in designing Servlets, JSP pages, deploying and testing them in eclipse.  • Responsible for creation and execution of Unit and Integration Tests.  • Used SAX API for accessing XML documents and for notifying the application of a stream of parsing events.  • Designed & implemented UnMarshallers / Marshallers with the help of Apache Axis to store the entire XML data in to Java Objects and vice versa.  • Data retrieval and storage in Oracle database. Retrieval of data from database using JDBC Connectivity.