Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Sprint Kansas City, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Sprint - Kansas City, MO January 2018 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES  • Developed the application using Spring Web MVC architecture.  • Worked extensively on Spring IOC/ Dependency Injection. Configured the crosscutting concerns like logging, security using Spring AOP.  • Have coded numerous DAO's using Hibernate Dao Support. Used Criteria, HQL and SQL as the query languages in Hibernate Mapping. Integrated the Spring and Hibernate framework.  • Implemented the application following the J2EE best practices and patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, MVC and DAO.  • Used Spring Security APIs for Single Sign On.  • Used jQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Developed REST based web services and used JSON to exchange information.  • Developed AngularJS Controllers Which Isolates scope to perform operations in UI. Developed services and injected them to controllers using Dependency Injection and developed reusable AngularJS Controllers.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript. Built the UI using Bootstrap.  • Improved automated test suite in JUnit, maintained consistent environment; trained in TDD.  • Used Git for version controlling and Jira for project tracking.  • Constantly migrated to newer version of our stack technologies.  • Involved in the development of SQL queries to get data from Oracle and MySQL.  • Used JDBC, application server provided transaction SOAP API for accessing data from the Oracle the using standard statements.  • Implemented sending multicast messages immediately or scheduled by using Akka Scheduler  • Created Docker Files to enable automation of software deployments  • Created a fully Automated Build, Deployment Platform & coordinated code builds, promotions and deployments.    Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Agile Scrum, AWS, Hibernate 3.x, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring RESTful Web service, JMS, AJAX, Oracle, Servlets, Angular JS, Jetty, Jboss, UML, CSS, Java Script, HTML 5, Ant, Windows, SVN, Log4j. Java Enterprise Developer UHG - Winooski, VT February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Used the ESB to communicate between different client platforms.  • Used Spring MVC framework for developing the application.  • Designed the front-end using HTML, JavaScript.  • Extensively used Custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic.  • Installation, Configuration & administration of WebLogic environment, including deployment of Servlets.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Added AJAX calls using JQuery.  • Wrote Code to interact with back-end JAVA, AJAX, JSON.  • Used AJAX with JQuery to parse JSON object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages.  • Designed and developed various stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL to implement complex business rules. Worked with MySQL Work Bench.  • Developed Scripts for UNIX platform deployment.  • Used Hibernate for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations.  • Developed Rest architecture-based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Used Log4J for logging the user events.  • Used MAVEN for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  • Promoted good working environment with project coordination with other Development teams, System managers and web master.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, MVC, Servlet, ESB, WebLogic Application Server, XML, HTML, Hibernate, spring, JSON, AJAX, JavaScript, Multithreading, REST, Oracle 10g, JUnit, PLSQL, JDBC, Maven and UNIX. Java Developer First Data Corporation - Hagerstown, MD March 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Followed AGILE Methodology and participated in SCRUM Meetings.  • Maintained CSS3 and HTML5, XSL, XSLT, JAVA SCRIPT, JSF, Bootstrap, React.js for designing Webpages.  • Used Ajax for dynamic search capability.  • Managed Spring tags, IBM MQ, JSTL, AngularJS custom tags for the whole web application.  • Also Utilized Struts Tiles plug-in for the layout management, i18n.  • Developed the presentation layer using Model View Architecture implemented by Spring MVC, which was initially done in the legacy system using Struts.  • Managed Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC), and integrated with Hibernate.  • Extensively worked with Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping, transparent persistence onto the Oracle database which was annotation based.  • Checked logs in UNIX/Linux while testing in dev environment.  • Used Annotations to minimize and simplify the use of the XML.  • Build custom middleware solution using J2EE framework in WAS  • Managed the security with the help of Spring Security (ACEGI).  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming common XML format into internal XML format.  • Responsible for writing complex SQL and PL/SQL queries for writing stored procedures.  • Used SVN for version controlling, JUnit for unit testing and Log4j for writing the log files.  • Deployed the application on WebSphere.    Environment: Spring Boot, Web sphere 8.5, Java 1.5/1.6, JSP 2.0, AWS, Servlets 2.5, JMS, XML, Sybase, SOAP, DOM, JavaScript, PHP, UML, HTML, XSD, HTML5, IBM MQ, JNDI, jQuery UI, React.js, IBM MQ, CVS, Elasticsearch 1.7, GIT, Log4J, JUnit, ANT, MongoDB(NoSQL), JavaFX, Eclipse IDE 3.3, Tomcat 7,JQuery, Windows XP Java/JEE Developer Osmosys Software Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC management - Requirements gathering, Design, Analysis, Development and Testing  • Analyzed object oriented design and developed sequence and class diagrams using UML.  • Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP, and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  • Implemented components using Java multithreading concept.  • Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures for Oracle database.  • Spring beans are used for controlling the flow between UI and Hibernate.  • Implemented Struts Validators framework to validate the data and implemented Web services with Apache Axis.  • Developed components using Java multithreading concept.  • Involved in writing unit test cases using Junit, and used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic and data manipulations from database.  • Involved in design of JSP's and Servlets for navigation among the modules and designed cascading style sheets, XSLT and XML part of Order entry  • Hosted the application on WebSphere and used Maven as the build automation tool.  • Involved in the development of SQL queries to get data from Oracle and MySQL.  • Supported Assembly test and System Test and performed on bug fixes.  • Used Rational ClearQuest for defect and feature tracking.  • Used Spring Web Module integrated with Java Server Faces (JSF) MVC framework.  • Executed quality and assurance testing in developed application, reduced performance errors on average by 95%.    Environment: Java 1.5, HTML, CSS, JSP, J2EE Servlet, MySQL, JDBC, Struts, EJB, XSLT, XML, jQuery, Oracle 10g, WebSphere, Maven2.2.1, Subversion 1.7.2, JUnit. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (2 years), HTML (4 years), J2EE (4 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), JSP (3 years), MAVEN (2 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (4 years), MVC (4 years), MySQL. (3 years), Oracle (4 years), Oracle 10g (2 years), Servlets (4 years), SQL (4 years), Subversion (3 years), testing (3 years), web services (3 years), WebSphere. (2 years), XML (3 years), Soap, Rest, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate