Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> New York, NY Work Experience Java Developer HUMANA June 2018 to December 2018 • Involved in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), which includes requirement gathering, developing, unit testing, validating the test results, fixing defects and deploying as a standalone application.  • Coordinated with individual business units for maintenance and modification of existing programs.  • Design and implemented the backend layer using Hibernate, jQuery, Angular JS are used as front-end Framework. Implemented Angular Controllers, directives and modules  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC Architecture.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate to develop the business layer which serves the data required for JSF beans.  • Using Angular JS factory to interact with the REST API and making API calls using $http service to create, update, retrieve and delete the data from the database.  • Migrated the existing application from server-side rendering view technologies like JSP and Struts to client-side rendering view technologies using AngularJS, a popular JavaScript framework for modern browsers.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework to achieve data binding between HTML5 and JavaScript objects.  • Developed RESTful Web API which produces and consumes JSON response as part of integrating the module with the Lock Manager.  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using bootstrap, colour scheme of the web site using HTML5, and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that communicate with server.  • Worked on Proof of Concept for developing application using Node JS and Mongo DB.  • Wrote Stored Procedures/Triggers/Functions using SQL Navigator to perform operations on Oracle11g database. LAMDA - IN January 2015 to July 2017 • Extensively worked with core java like collections, multithreading, Generics, String Builder and interfaces.  • Worked in multithreading to synchronize the data when more users come in and deal with concurrency issues using Singleton Class.  • Worked on Web services using standard Web protocols such as XML, SOAP, and HTTP.  • Designed web application user interface, interaction scenarios and navigation based on analysts, interpretations of requirement and use cases.  • Developed HTML and JSP to present Client-side GUI.  • Developed Java classes and JSP files.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  • Experience on implementation of version control software GIT repositories.  • Worked configuration widget written in CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery framework in UI Layer with Tag library, application deployed and tested on Linux.  • Designed and Developed JavaScript framework, which is wrapper on top of jQuery framework and AJAX, based UI Configuration widgets, this system was written in Ajax, OO JavaScript, JSP, jQuery, HTML5 and CSS3. Education Master's in Information Systems in Information Systems Pace University - New York, NY Skills Ant (Less than 1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), Apache Cassandra (Less than 1 year), ASTERADATA (Less than 1 year), bootstrap (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Cassandra (Less than 1 year), database. (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), HTML5 (3 years), java (2 years), Java Technologies (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (3 years), JIRA (2 years), jQuery (3 years), JSP (3 years), Linux. (2 years), SOAP (2 years), XML (2 years)