Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Princeton, NJ • Around 3 years of experience in IT industry with strong experience in application development and implementation of Web based applications using Java/J2ee and software testing.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Methods like Waterfall and Agile.  • Experienced in using Jenkins as a Continuous Integration server to configure with GitHub and Maven.  • Experience in writing and executing SQL queries to perform Data Validation and Back end testing of databases to check the integrity of data.  • Excellent documentation skills. Have prepared detailed functional specifications document, process flows using MS word, MS Excel and MS Visio  • Proficient in analyzing and creating, data flow diagrams, activity diagrams, class diagrams, use cases and sequence diagrams using MS Visio  • Proficient in writing SQL queries and in creating complex SQL Queries using Joins and Sub-Queries  • Possess excellent communication and organization skills with ability to adapt to a new environment quickly  • Experience working on various IDE's like eclipse, JDeveloper and InteliJ  • Experienced in Java and J2EE and Web technologies like JSP, JDBC, JavaBeans, JavaScript, AngularJS and Html  • Experience in Version Control using clear case and Tortoise SVN  • Proficient in using MS Word, Excel, Power Point and Visio in creating various project artifacts  • Excellent interpersonal skills, proven team player with an analytical bent to problem solving and delivering under high stress environment.  • Good analytical and communication skills and ability to work independently with minimal supervision and also perform as part of a team. Work Experience Java Developer Goldman Sachs - Jersey City, NJ January 2016 to March 2016 Project: Cloud Platforms- LoginGS  Building internal cloud systems to deliver NDS (Network Desktop Solution), a pioneering virtual offering that allows employees to access their workplace desktop from any computer, anywhere.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in development phases of the project with major emphasis on coding and unit testing of the modules.  • Development methodology used was the agile methodology. Process included iterative development, 2week sprints, and daily stand meeting.  • Front-end designing and validation were done using AngularJS.  • Understanding loginGS application code.  • Written code to unit test all the controllers in the application.  • Involved in system environment setup.  • Raised Jira ticket for the unit test.  • Involved in code review.  • Documented the status of all the test files.  • Committed all test files in the SVN.  Environment: Java, Maven, Jenkins, Jasmine, Karma, Cucumber, InteliJ, Agile, HTML, XML, Svn Tortise, AngularJS, JavaScript, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Java Developer Motorola October 2008 to May 2009 Project: iDEN Direct Off    The purpose of the iDEN Direct Ship project was to enable direct shipment of mobile devices from Foxconn facility to a warehouse for all iDEN products excluding those that are drop-shipped to Mobile Devices. The project involved developing new GUI functionalities using WIP JOB tool for the internal order management system. JSP file was used to display the initial form to the user along with the location and models preloaded into the page. Then it allows user to choose Model, Location, CRSD, and Quantity to generate the WIP JOBS. After the user submits the order, a JSP file is used to confirm the creation of WIP JOB.    Role: Java Developer  Responsibilities:  • Participated in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, implementation, and testing.  • In architecting, various Business Layer and Data Management components of multi-tiered web based system over J2EE architecture.  • Developed form classes of Struts Framework to write the routing logic and to call different services.  • Participated in Functional Document reviews and created Technical documents.  • Actively designed, developed and integrated the Metrics module with all other components.  • Involved in the Development of reporting system using Struts, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Wrote complex queries and mapped database views using DAO in Oracle.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages using SOAP.  • Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (CVS).  • Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes and implemented the logging using Log4j.  • Retrieving code from the repository and deploying in Production using ANT.  • Mentored junior developers and done code reviews  Environment: JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, Java 1.5, Struts 2, HTML, CSS, J2EE, Oracle 10g, Web logic, UNIX and Windows. Java developer Motorola - Phoenix, AZ October 2007 to September 2008 Distribution Center Factory Control System (DC-FCS) application automates the packing of the units. DJ (Discrete Job) is downloaded from Oracle ERP into DC-FCS. Application is deployed in Java Web Start application server. All the code changes done in the server will reflect at the station. The Station will communicate with the DB server (Oracle9i) through JDBC connection. In this application Tomcat server is used to download the file from the server.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in designing and implementing various applications/modules using Java swings, JavaScript, JDBC and Oracle 9i database.  • Requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design the project.  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object Diagrams using Star UML to decide upon the modules.  • The project involved developing the following screens:  OVP Label, Pallet Ticket, Pallet Label & 2D Pallet Label  • Responsible for deploying the application in Java Web Start application server.  • The interaction to the application was done through the Java Swing Frame user interface. This frame contains a menu bar, tool bar, canvas, transaction buttons, and a message field. Canvas is the working area which allows the user to upload carton number, pallet number and manage reversals etc.  • Created the UI using JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, Style sheets, CSS3 and HTML.  • Design and developed the controller layer using Action classes, and struts.xml.  • Developed client-side validations using Map files and Java script.  • Integrated tiles using struts 2.0.  • Troubleshooting the issues user reported and customized the system as per user request  • Reviewed the code in java and Performed white box testing Using Junit to ensure every class is constructed strongly and does not contain any functional errors (Unit testing).  • Prepared application User Guide and traceability matrix using Excel.  • Knowledge transition to the business users and the support team.  Environment: Oracle 9i Application Server WIN 2000/XP Prof, Java SE 1.4, Oracle 9i, Toad, PL/SQL, Tomcat. Java Developer Ericsson March 2007 to September 2007 Project: Operation Support System (OSS) - Design & Maintenance    Operation Support System (OSS) is a generic term for a suite of programs that enable a Telecom service provider to monitor, analyze and manage various network elements in the telecom network. The OSS and associated BSS (Business Support Systems) activities are performed through various management activities, collectively known as FCAPS. FCAPS is an ITU standard model for enterprise management.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the business requirements specifications  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques  • Analysis, Design, and Implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, XML and XSLT  • Developed the application using J2ee, JSP, Tag Libraries, XML, XSD and Oracle  • Created Stored Procedures in Oracle using PL/SQL  • Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database. Used Toad for running the SQL queries and developing Stored Procedures  • Managed project schedule, documentation and participated in code reviews  • Unit tested application using JUnit and built the package using Ant and deployed the application on to Weblogic App Server  • Involved in unit testing  • Conducted function testing with valid /invalid inputs under different scenarios    Environment: JSP/Servlet, JavaScript, HTML, Struts1.2, CSS, J2EE, SQL, oracle, WebLogic 8.0.1, Eclipse, Clear case, UNIX and windows. Education B.E. in Electronics & Communications Anna University Skills database (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), JSP (2 years), Oracle (2 years), SQL (1 year)