Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Dayton, OH Work Experience Java Developer CAREER NOTE - Kathmandu, NP 2011 to 2016 CAREER NOTE: Completed on-campus studies and currently taking distance education courses to complete a Master's Degree in Computer Science (Available for full-time, W-2 employment).    NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY CENTER, Kathmandu, Nepal •2011-2016  IT outsourcing division of American Business Network, with approximately 40 employees.    Java Developer:  Drove development and implementation of Java applications, with involvement in system analysis and database design, team and project management communication, and task allocation. Evaluated requirements to determine specifications for code and module development. Implemented core programming logic; performed unit tests. Designed user interfaces. Trained and mentored junior-level developers. Provided application support prior to handover of production system after development phase. Optimized development via agile methodologies    Projects:  • Web Crawler: Developed application systematically browsing web pages, downloading HTML pages and PDF documents, and extracting specified information. Makes extensive use of searching algorithms in order to process the file in a short span of time.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed business components of the code in the current architecture.  ? Implementing the services to fit into the system architecture making them much more scalable, reliable and to be able to debugeasily.  ? Implemented various design patterns: Singleton, Factory Method, Adapter Design Pattern, Abstract Factory Design Patterns.  ? ImplementedHTML and PDF parsers.  ? CreatedTest Plan, Unit Test Cases.  ? Interacting with US team on daily basis to keep project up to date.  ? MaintainedCode Versions using SVN.  ? Mentored new developers and guided them in the development  ? Implemented Log4j API forlogging of the errors, warnings, messages, stack traces, debuggers throughout the code.  ? Used Sonar plugin to meet the code standard    • WeDeliver: A web based application on which customer can order any item to their location. The delivery boys also uses the same application for delivering item as soon as possible. The application is capable of including different sellers in the application.    Responsibilities:  ? Enhanced team success by collaborating on application architecture and class diagram design.  ? Implemented business algorithms.  ? Created Restful Web Services.  ? Module developing and bug fixing.  ? Emerging third party API integration.  ? Build the application using agile methodologies.  ? Used GIT to track and maintain the different version of the project.  ? Common utility class creation for development.  ? Project deployment.    • Document Converter: Created Java program capable of downloading information from the provided location and converting it to well-defined PDF format.    Responsibilities:  ? Understand and analyze the business requirements.  ? Designed and developed the UI using Swing.  ? Used Eclipse IDE tool for developing code modules in the development environment.  ? Build the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  ? Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the project.  ? Developed the module using Log4j to create log files to debug the application.  ? Developed JUnit Test Cases for the Business Layer.    • UpdateCounter: Developed GUI-based application for tracking updates, retrieval, and storage of documents.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed and implemented the business modules.  ? Assisted in database design.  ? Used Eclipse IDE tool for developing code modules in the development environment.  ? Used agile methodology to accomplish the project.  ? Make extensive use of JIRA for task and defects tracking.  ? Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the project.  ? Performed Unit testing.    • Prepaid Parking System: An electronic card-based system allowing users to pay for parking using prepaid cards.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed business modules to meet the requirements.  ? Performed Unit testing  ? Used NetBeans IDE tool for developing code modules in the development environment.  ? Used agile methodology to accomplish the project.  ? Make extensive use of JIRA for task and defects tracking.  ? Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the project.    Technologies Used: NetBeans, Eclipse, Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring, Hibernate, RESTful Web Services, MS SQL Server, MySQL, Swing, JSoup, JOD Converter, JIRA, OpenOffice.org, XML, C, C++, Apache Tomcat, Visual Basic, Subversion, GIT, WinSCP, Putty, Logger Tools, JUnit Test, Mockito, HTMLUnit, Windows, Linux. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA December 2018 Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Kathmandu Engineering College, Tribhuvan University