JAVA Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA Developer - Vernuft IT Solutions ? Having 2+ years of relevant experience as Java Developer and Expertise in technologies like Java, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate and MySql DB  ? Proficient in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), worked in various phases like Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing and Maintenance and Production Support.  ? Well -versed with Technical Specification document preparation, module design, code reviews and team mentoring.  ? Handling Change Requests and Production Related Issue and Performing enhancements in Applications.  ? Self-motivated and quick learner of new concepts and technologies and has the capability to Meet deadlines in fast-paced environments.  ? Extensive knowledge on XML  ? Good Knowledge on Java Script, HTML, CSS  ? Have Good exposure on Design Patterns  ? Have good exposure on good design principles.  ? Well-versed with Agile methodology.  ? Possesses strong analytical skills and always delivered Excellent Team Spirit and Leadership Quality.  ? Strong problem solving skills and an energetic self-starter with presentation, communication and Organizational skills. Technical expertise and comprehensive problem solving abilities. Work Experience JAVA Developer Vernuft IT Solutions December 2016 to Present 2016. Education B.Tech GITAM UNIVERSITY 2015 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Java    Technologies: J2EE, JavaScipt  Frameworks: Spring (MVC), Hibernate  Servers: Tomcat.  Databases: MySQL    Operating Systems: Windows  IDE Tools: Eclipse    Project Summary:    Project#    Title: Advertisement through cabs  Client: Cogent Data Solutions  Duration: June 2017 - Feb 2018  Role: Developer  Team Size: 5  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring (MVC), WebServices  Hibernate, Maven and MySQL.    Description:  The client allows all the cab drivers to register so that he can become the member of his company which deals with advertising his client products in different way on cabs running in the city.  Responsibilities:    ? Understanding the requirements by going through the service design document.  ? Module design, Project planning and implementation.  ? Development and code review.  ? Build and deployment activities.  ? Designed screens using JSP.  ? Involved in coding beans for Business Logic.  ? Involved in JavaScript functions for client side Validations Involved in developing Web Component using Html, JSP using Spring Frame work for certain modules.  ? Involved in coding, unit testing and implementation.    Project#2    Title: Al NISR PLAZA5 Tenant ERP Software  Client: AL BAYED Group, Sharjah.  Duration: Jan 2018 - Till date  Domain: Banking  Role: Java Developer  Team Size: 15  Environment: Java, WebServiecs, Spring (MVC), Hibernate, Maven and MySQL.    Description:  This is a custom software development project for the commercial complex. The Application is going to serve the Comprehensive Management of Lease, Cheque Management and Tenant Information for Al NISR PLAZA5 which is to make their the process automated.    Responsibilities:    ? Understanding the requirements and preparing the Technical specification document.  ? Module design, Project planning and implementation.  ? Development and code review.  ? Build and deployment activities.  ? Interacting with Client and giving demo for release.  ? Designed screens using JSP.  ? Involved in coding beans for Business Logic.  ? Involved in JavaScript functions for client side Validations Involved in developing Web Component using Html, JSP using Spring Frame work for certain modules.  ? Involved in coding, unit testing and implementation.    Declaration:  I hereby, declare that the information furnished above is true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge.    Place: Hyderabad    (DEVI PRANEETHA RAVURU)