Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer | J2EE | ReactJS | Spring | Hibernate Houston, TX Graduated in Computer and System Engineering from University of Houston – Main Campus.  • Close to 3 years of Real-Time experience as Java Developer at TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES  • Good Knowledge in Java Technologies (J2SE, J2EE and advance J2EE) and a strong understanding of Object-Oriented Concepts. • Expertise in development of scalable enterprise applications using J2EE, Micro Services, REST/SOAP API. • Hands-on experience with Enterprise Java development [ Java 1.8+], Spring Framework / Spring Boot, Spring MVC.  • Good knowledge of Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Extensively involved in the development of the front-end components using ReactJS, Html5, CSS3, Java Server Pages, AJAX, JSTL, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, and XML. • A solid foundation of Object-Oriented Programming and extensive knowledge about Core Java such as Collections, Threading, and Exceptions.  • Experience in Oracle, SQL Server databases. Hands-on with PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views  • Expertise in server-side development with JDBC, Servlets, MVC architecture, Java Beans, XML.  • Strong knowledge in NumPy and pandas packages of Python.  • Experienced in performance tuning of the applications.  • Proficient in creating JIL definitions for AUTOSYS jobs as schedulers.  • Involved in multiple Production Deployments and good knowledge on CR(Change Request) procedures on Ticketing Tools like IBM ISM & ServiceNow  • Experience of working with enterprise application development IDE’s like Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, TOAD, Squirrel  • Involved in multiple Production Deployments and good knowledge on CR(Change Request) procedures on Ticketing Tools like IBM ISM & ServiceNow  • Experience with modern agile software delivery practices such as scrum / agile, continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) and automation.  • Good Knowledge in Banking and Financial Services domain.  • Have excellent problem solving, proactive thinking, analytical, programming skills, communication skill, work ethics and the ability to work well in a team or individual environment.    TECHNICAL FORTE:    Languages Java, J2EE, Spring, Python, UNIX, SQL  UI Technologies Javascript, Jquery, NodeJS, ReactJS  IDE Tools Eclipse, Visual Studio Code  Build Tools Apache Maven  Database Oracle, MySQL  Development Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Operating System Windows 7, Windows 10  Ticketing Tools IBM ISM, ServiceNow Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer TATA Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2015 to August 2018 1. Office of Regulatory Initiatives  Client: State Street Corporation, Boston MA.  This project mainly deals with the generation and delivery of Intraday and FDIC reports of State Street Bank and Trust Company using an Integrated platform called ESP (Enterprise Servicing Platform). It basically collects, enriches, transforms and aggregates data from multiple sources. It also allows for easy integration with batch, real-time, and onetime data sources from the client or 3rd party data providers.  Responsibilities  • Engaged in the development of ESP which can source security classification schemes from different sources and make them available for consumption in reports, extracts, and interactive views • Implemented Spring Batch and Spring Task Scheduler to automate importing data from CSV files sent from the client into Oracle database.  • Developed POJO class for data mapping, used Hibernate and HQL to implement the CRUD operations through the POJO classes.  • Used Spring Security for user authentication and authorization. • Spring JdbcTemplate has been used for accessing oracle DB. • Extensively used Spring core concepts like IoC, DI, Annotations and gained proficient knowledge • Implemented Spring AOP to reduce code complexity and make the code more configurable. • Used Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) design patterns such as inheritance, polymorphism, Encapsulation interface, abstraction, overloading, and overriding. Applied Collections such as Set, HashMap and List to store data and passed through layers. • Created multiple views using SQL JOINS from DataMart’s(Tables created in oracle DB) for maintaining logical data independence. • Wrote SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers, packages on Oracle Database for data accessing during the coding. • Developed Static and Dynamic pages using JavaScript, JSP, and Servlets.  • Implemented REST web service using Spring framework Implemented support for both XML and JSON data exchange formats.  • Created multiple AUTOSYS jobs for the triggering of DataMart refresh and Report Generation by writing JIL definitions.  • Test-Driven Development used Junit for unit tests • Worked with Maven build tool to build and deployed the application on Apache Tomcat server • Used GIT for code management and JENKINS for continuous integration.  • Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases, and retrospective.  • Technology Stack: J2SE, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JavaScript, ReactJS, Node.js, Html, Autosys.    2 Know Your Customer (KYC)  Client: State Street Corporation, Boston MA.  • This application collects the information of the newly onboarding clients and delivers the risk rating.  • Used React.js for creating Reusable UI components in the Application.  • Involved in implementing web pages using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Used React.js to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with the server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • React-State has been used to refresh pages with updated changes.  • Implemented Ajax calls for triggering data from RESTful API's provided by the backend team using JSON.  • Implemented Redux-form. Used Synchronous and Asynchronous Validations to validate the values.  • Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases, and retrospective.  • Technology Stack: JAVA, ReactJS, Node.js, Html, Autosys, Oracle11gSql Education Master of Science in Computer and System Engineering in Computer and System Engineering University of Houston Main Campus - Houston, TX August 2018 to Present Bachelor of Technology in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Amrita University Coimbatore - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Spring, ReactJS, Javascript, Python, NodeJS, J2EE, JQuery, SQL, Rest, Java, Java J2Ee, MVC, JSP, Core Java, JEE