Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Cerner Corporation • 8+ Years of experience as a Software Developer in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing and Implementation of applications on Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience working with agile methodology implementations like Daily scrum meetings, sprint planning's, resource planning, etc.  • Experienced in developing interactive web applications with Single Page Applications (SPAs) Framework using AngularJS.  • Strong hands-on experience with Spring IO, Spring Boot with Thymeleaf.  • Extensive development experience in web applications using Java, Servlets, EJB and APIs like JDBC, JavaMail, JNDI, XML, JavaBeans, Portals, Portlets.  • Experienced in SOA and Web Services technologies, including Restful, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, Axis, Soap, XML, WSDL, SAX and SAAS based design.  • Have Extensive knowledge and detailed understanding in Amazon Web Services like EC2, Simple DB, RDS, AWS Identity and access management and Redshift.  • Proficient with development of Restful Web Services using JAX-RS and Jersey framework for exchange of JSON and XML representations.  • Experience in developing SQL, Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle and comfortable working with databases like SQL Server, DB2, No-SQL and MySQL.  • Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Strong experience in implementing MVC framework like Struts, Spring and ORM tools like Hibernate in J2EE architecture  • Good understanding of JAVA / J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Front Controller, Value Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator and Façade.  • Strong Knowledge of Object Oriented Design Methodologies such as Polymorphism, Inheritance and Encapsulation.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant and Maven, Log4j for Logging and jUnit for testing.  • Experience in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using Node.js along with ExpressJS that interacts with Mongo DB and performed CRUD operation on Mongo DB.  • Experience in AWS, Hortonworks and Cloudera Hadoop distributions.  • Extensive experience in developing producers & customers in Kafka to build a data pipeline.  • Extensively used IDE for Application development like RAD 6.0, Eclipse3.x, Net Beans  • Experienced in database GUI/IDE Tools using TOAD, DB Visualizer and MySQL Client  • Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like TFS, CVS, VSS and SVN  • Experiences with build tools include Maven, Gradle and Jenkins Version.  • Working experience with the operating systems like UNIX, Solaris and Windows  • Development experience includes working with cross functional team and global development teams in Onshore/Offshore Model  • Conversant in writing complex SQL queries, PL/SQL code and Stored Procedures.  • Good experience in project management with onsite/offshore model execution.  • Good client interaction skills and ability to perform quickly under pressure.  • Proficient in working across all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile methodologies. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Cerner Corporation - Philadelphia, PA January 2019 to Present Description: A Platform built on Java, enables Cerner Customers with Self-Service capabilities for the foundation of intelligent solutions for the health care industry. Applications are developed with clinicians in mind, so they can focus on people, not technology. And providers can manage their day-to-day revenue functions with these integrated clinical and financial systems.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design phase and data modeling, interacted with other team members to understand the requirements for the project.  • Developed application using MVC architecture Spring Framework.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and Angular to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Implemented client-side form validation, form view results using various components, services, pipes in Angular.  • Developed presentation tier using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Wrote Java programs to upload customers' documents through the website and communicate between customers and agents using Java Mail API.  • Involved in building applications using React JS by building re-usable UI Components.  • Migrated the code to React JS with Redux.  • Built spring based Java and Scala micro services to support the application.  • Used for polyglot programming, troubleshooting and aggregate testing.  • Worked on JMeter for load testing tool for analyzing and measuring the performance of a variety of services.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 and CSS3.  • Involved in configuration of SpringMVC and Integration with Hibernate.  • Created Location Look up SOAP based web services and controllers that support Spring.  • Involved in writing DAO, DTO's using Apache iBatis.  • Worked extensively on developing controllers, Interfaces and implementation classes using Spring MVC framework & used Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based service through REST.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that uses the POJOs (which do not have the business processes) to represent the persistence database.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Exposed Restful web services using JAX-RS and Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Restful API for various requirements and rewrote the services. Sr. Java Developer Nationwide Mutual Insurance - Columbus, OH October 2014 to December 2016 Description: The Purpose of this project is to provide members the capability to purchase homeowners insurance policy in Indiana state location. Increasing products and improving accessibility. This project involved the implementation of various property and causality insurance features to the existing web-based applications for sales agents, claims submission and tracking, repair and inspection locations, catastrophic locations.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Designed Court Services front end view using Spring MVC and Spring Web flow.  • Implemented code by using Java, J2EE, Free marker, Spring, Hibernate and PostgreSQL Database tools.  • Used Spring framework and interacted with backend database using Hibernate framework.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information from the Oracle database. Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for writing the queries.  • Used core java, Multi- threading, I/O Streams, Collections framework.  • Have used JMeter to measure the performance of Spring framework.  • Hands on experience in developing XML script for to configure Struts, spring, and Hibernate.  • Implemented Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using Rational Rose.  • Utilized the concept of mean stack development using Node JS and Angular JS.  • Extensively worked on server-side data validations and JavaScript for client-side data validations.  • Developed the user interfaces using JSP embedded with JSTL based on MVC architecture.  • Hibernate is used as backend ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXB in the web service's request/response data for marshalling and unmarshalling.  • Involved in performance testing using Apache Jmeter.  • Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda Functions Including EC2, MongoDB focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Utilized Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon RDS services, EBS volumes, to set alarms for notification or automated actions and to monitor logs for a better understanding and operation of the system.  • Used AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Used Spring Boot and Groovy for building cloud Microservices quickly and develop spring based applications with very less configuration.  • Developed RESTful Web Services in Java that provides support for JAX-RS APIs and serves as a JAX-RS using Jersey RESTful Web Services framework.  • Created Spring Restful Web services consuming and producing JSON / XML.  • Used PL/SQL programming in Analysis, Design and Implementation of Business Applications using the Oracle Relational Database Management System (RDBMS)  • Used ANT as build-tool for building J2EE applications and Log4j for loggings  • Used HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap for front end responsive implementation.  • Developed Javascript API's for Ajax with Dojo Tool kit using the Dojo components and Dojo grid.  • Used RAD 6.0 and JBoss App Server for Coding, testing and deploying the web application.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Bootstrap, Multi-Threading, JavaScript, Node.JS, Oracle 11g, RAD, JBOSS, Toad for Oracle, DB Visualizer, HP Service Manager, HP Quality Center, Jmeter, JBoss, Web Service, REST, PostgreSQL, SVN, ANT, Windows 7. Java Developer Besant Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2013 to August 2014 Description: Smart Shopper is an e-commerce product developed by Besant Technologies. It has in-build solution to setup an e-commerce portal which has out-of-box solution for managing the products, inventory, and order processing. Our clients use this tool leverage the efficiency of the business. The application is a single page web portal built using Spring MVC framework and Bootstrap CSS and JQuery as the front end framework. The backend data-model is developed with Oracle 10g.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in initial understanding of existing business and database tables.  • Designing, developing, and maintaining core components and reusable APIs.  • Involving in designing and coding of J2EE technologies.  • Implementing JavaBeans.  • Proactively working with lead and development staff to meet project goals.  • Developing common reusable Java functionalities to be used across applications.  • Involving in low level design, coding and testing of the modules.  • Coordinating release meetings, deployment plan review meetings.  • Maintaining build releases and release plan for every release.  • Involving in developing and maintaining the modules using JPA and Hibernate ORM.  • Implementing the J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, Service Locator and Value Object etc.  • Developing and maintaining modules utilizing various features of Spring framework like Dependency Injection (IoC)  • Creating complex Oracle queries, procedures, functions, and packages.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, Spring IOC, JDBC, Design Patterns, Spring MVC, Log4J, Maven, XML, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse. Java Developer Maxima Real Estate May 2012 to December 2012 Description: The Application developed for Real Estate Company Intranet System. The system keeps track of the number of installments paid by the members and what are the remaining dues to the company. The system can retrieve information of the members and give their current status with the company. System also maintains the Agents information including the commissions. Payroll system maintains the general information of the staff and generates monthly statement for the staff.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, development and implementation of this web application.  • Developed User Interface using HTML, JSP.  • Validated the data using JavaScript.  • Developed the application in MVC design pattern using Struts, JSP, and Java.  • Developed front- end interfaces with AJAX support and involved in Error Handling using Struts Exception Handling  • Provided internationalization support using Struts locales  • Developed Servlets for retrieving/updating the data from tables in the database.  • Designed and created the database tables to conform third normalization form.  • Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures and triggers.  • Trained the users on using the software.  Environment: JDK 1.5, J2EE, Servlets 2.2, JDBC 2.0, Oracle 10g, HTML, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat 3.3, Eclipse and Windows 2000 Skills DATABASE (4 years), JAVA (4 years), JSP (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (4 years) Additional Information Technical skills:    Languages C, C++, Java, core java, java8, SQL and PL/SQL, Python  Enterprise Java JSP, Servlet, JNDI, JDBC, Java security and JSF  Mark-up/XML Technologies XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM and JSON  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, AngularJS and NodeJS  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring data, JMS, RESTful    Web services SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, Jersey, Micro Services Architecture and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss and WebLogic  Database Oracle, My SQL, SQL Server, IBM DB2, Mongo DB and Dynamo DB  Development Tools Eclipse, RAD, IntelliJ, and Spring Tool Suite (STS)  O-R mapping Hibernate, iBATIS and JPA  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, Postman, Swagger and Log4j  Version Control CVS, SVN and GIT  Automation/Issue Tracking Tools Maven, Ant, Gradle, Jenkins, JIRA and RALLY  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX, Linux and Mac