Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer - TekBiz Soft Solutions Java Develop with 4+ years of experience, having an extensive  knowledge and applied experience in Java/J2Ee, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Maven, JUnit,  Mokito, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Apache Tomcat, GlassFish. Highly accomplished  learner with good communication skills and a great team player. Extremely result oriented  person capable of delivering zero defect projects with adherence to time lines and quality  standards. Work Experience Java developer TekBiz Soft Solutions August 2014 to Present t 2014  to till date. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Osmania University Bachelor of Science Andhra University Additional Information Technical Expertise    • Around 4.4 years of experience in design, development, implementation and testing  of Client-Sever, Web Applications using Java/J2ee Technologies.  • Experience is SDLC that includes Requirements Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing,  Implementation and Maintenance with methodologies like Waterfall Model and Agile  Methodology.  • Experience is design and development of web-based applications using Java, J2ee,  Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, Struts2 and spring.  • Expertise on Core Java Technologies like Multithreading, Collections and  Exception handling mechanisms.  • Experience with ORM tool Hibernate involving Connection pooling, Mapping and  Transaction Management.  • 4 years of working experience in development of J2EE based applications using Core  Java, J2Ee, Servlets, JSP, JMS, JDBC, struts2, Spring and Hibernate with  MySQL, Oracle 11g as backend, GlassFish, Tomcat Application Server, Web  Logic 12.1.X and Eclipse & JDeveloper IDE.  • Having good experience in planning and developing Unit Testing.  • Excellent Client Interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as  well as in a team.    Technical Skills    Programming Languages Java, J2ee, JMS, JSP, Servlets  Frameworks Spring, Struts2, Hibernate  Unit Testing Frameworks JUnit, Mockito  Build Tools Maven  Web & XML Technologies XML, JSON, HTML, CSS  Databases MySql, Oracle  Servers Tomcat, GlassFish  IDE Eclipse    Project Summary    Project 1    Title THC  Client Texas Health  Duration November 2017 to till date  Team Size 9  Environment J2Ee, Java, Struts2, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP,  EJB, JUnit, Maven, SQL, XML, Eclipse IDE & JDeveloper.  Role Developer    Description:  This project was to develop Ecommerce application that  provides such as Group life Insurance, Disability insurance and Long Term Care Insurance.  The application process new businesses, Claims and generation of bills. Implemented the  extensive J2EE platform using different principles which includes insurance modules.  Analyzing and transforming legacy applications into new technologies.    Responsibilities:    1. Developed Web Pages using HTML, CSS.  2. Worked with core Java code extensively using interfaces and multi-threading  techniques.  3. Involved in developing applications using Java, J2EE and Struts2.  4. Developed and configured the java Beans using Struts.  5. Created Web.xml, Struts-config.xml, files to integrate all the components struts2.  6. Involved in the developing of MAVEN POM.XML files.  7. Used JUnit and Test cases for testing the application modules.    Project 2    Title Retail Invoice Manager  Client SS, Ohio.  Duration April 2016 to October 2017  Team Size 8  Environment Core Java, JDBC, HTML, JSP, JMS Struts2,  MySQL, Eclipse, Tomcat  Role Developer.    Description:    Retail Invoice Manager (RIM) provides retailers with a way to  better manage the creation / approval / disapproval / prepayment of invoices and  adjustments, Matching, reconciliation and payment of supplier invoices. The automated  matching engine minimizes the time resources spend manually verifying invoices against  corresponding receipts, while automated routing ensures discrepancies are delivered quickly  to the right people for resolution. Invoices are matched or resolved, then posted with any  corresponding documents to financials.    Responsibilities:    1. Involved in understanding and analyzing business Requirements.  2. Involved in designing of Technical Design Document.  3. Involved in Development, Unit Testing.  4. Preparation of Unit Test Plan(UTP)  5. Involved in Defect Fixing and supporting the Assembly testing.  6. Used Java Messaging Service (JMS) for messaging, configured queues and topics.  Project 3    Title Health Care  Client Confidential  Duration August 2014 to March 2016  Team Size 5  Environment Core Java, J2Ee, JSP, Servlets, Struts2, Spring  4, Apache tomcat and MySQL  Role Developer.    Description:    It was basically a health care portal of Health Care  Company. In this health care project there are different kind of modules like User module,  Insurance Policy module, Medicine module, Doctor Consultant module. User can take new  insurance policy or compare exiting policy, easily consult to specialized doctor.    Responsibilities:    1. Working as Java Developer  2. Learning about requirements, preparing & implementing the design and performing  unit & assembly testing  3. Performing several DBA activities like batch processing.  4. Deploying requirement based on approved design.  5. Used JUnit and Test cases for testing the application modules.