JAVA developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> JAVA developer Falls Church, VA • Over 5+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance of various business applications and Implementation of SDLC, object oriented software systems and development of Web based and client/server applications.  • Experienced in all phases of SDLC including requirement gathering, analysis, design, coding and testing, expertise in integration.  • Experienced working in various domains including Telecom, Banking and Financial domain.  • Strong Technical expertise in working with JAVA/J2EE, SpringBoot, Spring, Strtus2, Hibernate, JPA, JDBC, SQL, MarkLogic(NoSQL), JavaScript, Restful webservices.  • Experienced in using IBM RAD, Eclipse IDEs and Web Logic and Web Sphere Application servers  • Possess strong programming skills, and have keen interest, and expertise in Algorithms and Data structures.  • Strong skills in Debugging Techniques and Object Oriented programming concepts.  • Ability to work in tight schedules and efficient in meeting deadlines.  • Self-starter, fast learner and a team player with strong personal and group communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JAVA developer MyPractice - London July 2018 to December 2018 Using MyPractice Partners can monitor their Fum Growth, and it also Provides a rolling 12 months, year to date and SJP Career to date information. There is also some limited performance  information. The partners can request the performance summary through ad-hoc requests and get the summary mailed to them.  Summary produced from data processed within SALAS is ultimately is also made available to the Principal Partners at each Partner Practice on the intranet as a PDF document,  accompanied by each section in Excel. SJP Partnership Support and Marketing staff have  access to these reports on the Intranet to help address queries from The Partnership.  Responsibilities.  • Involved in creating web services, and developing APIs for MyPractice using Jersey web Services with Spring Boot  • Involved in writing the Business Logic in the Business Layer and then having connectors to connect to the Database layer where we have saving, updating and inquiry of application data in place (Have used Spring JPA as ORM to achieve the same).  • Involved in deployment of our application into Beanstalk till the UAT phase.  ENVIRONMENT: Java 1.8, SpringBoot, JPA, restful webservices, SQL, MicroServices JAVA developer BroadRidge Financial Services December 2017 to July 2018 The Broadridge BPO organization works on providing its clients a full outsourced, post-trade  processing solution across multiple asset classes, including fixed income and equity. For each client, the BPO has developed a set of day-to-day processes which require a lot of client interaction and  client reporting. Overall, the BPO creates over 2,500 reports, in most cases manually, where some of the reports require in-depth research to annotate the client reports and then track and resolve open  issues utilizing a combination of processes and technology (both Broadridge & client systems). The  BPO may utilize BPS, Impact, Gloss, Ascendis, Proactive and a host of other systems requiring  client-by-client logins for each to generate the client reports, investigate issues and eventually to resolve these issues.    • Responsible for writing the APIs using restful webservices to fetch the data from MarkLogic and pass it to the UI.  • Responsible for writing APIs to save the users, and other specific client details to MarkLogic(DataBase).  • Responsible for developing code to read the data from the extracts and write to MarkLogic in required format.  • Co-ordinated with users and provided post deployment support for any issues.  ENVIRONMENT: Java, SpringBoot, Marklogic(NoSQL), beanIO, Spring Restful webservices JAVA Developer TECH DATA April 2016 to January 2017 Project 3: EIPP(Electronic Invoice payments and presentments)  EIPP is a product of HighRadius which makes the payments and presentments of their clients easy by providing an interface where the invoices of the customers can be viewed and sent through mail in the PDF format.    Roles &Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis and preparing Technical design document of the requirements.  • Developed the agents to load data into DB from extracts.  • Developed invoices templates using XSL, XSL Fo Parser.  • Modifying the existing correspondence logic to accommodate customer specifications.  • Provided client support to ensure smooth deliverables.  ENVIRONMENT: Java, XML, XSL, XSL Fo parser, SQL, Hibernate, Struts2, Spring, JDBC JAVA Developer Verizon June 2014 to July 2015 Project: Signal Booster Registration  'My Verizon' is an online interface for Verizon wireless customers to perform their online transactions including functionalities like bill payment, balance checking, device upgradation, and many more.  'Signal booster' is a device, used for magnification of the network signals, usually used in home and offices. It was US federal regulation to telecom customers of USA to register their signal booster devices with their network provider.  'Signal Booster registration', is to provide the online interface for Verizon customers to register their devices.  Roles &Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis and preparing Technical design document of the requirements.  • Involved in development of complete release target from My Verizon side.  • Developed the code environment using IBMRAD and deployed into Web Sphere application server.  • Developed the action classes using Stuts2.  • Involved in designed the UI framework using Link Framewrok(Verizon Internal framework)  • Involved in writing the DataBase Connections using JDBC, and Hiberante Frameworks.  • Involved in Bugs fixing and unit testing.  ENVIRONMENT: Java 1.5, Struts2, Spring, JDBC, SQL, Hibernate, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS JAVA developer Verizon June 2013 to May 2014 Project 1: MyVerizon (Maintainance Release)  MR team is a dedicated team which works to ensure the smooth running of the application for the customers.  The team works on the enhancement requests from the business team, fix the major defects that are identified from enterprise releases.  Roles &Responsibilities:  • Involving in analysis and preparing Technical design document of the requirements.  • Involved in development of code in action and delegate classes.  • Developed the code environment using Oracle Eclipse and deployed into Web Logic application server.  • Involved in Bugs fixing and unit testing.  ENVIRONMENT: Java 1.5, Struts2, Spring, JDBC, SQL, Hibernate, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS JAVA Developer Verizon June 2012 to April 2013 Project: WebLogic Migration  Project Platform: Java, Struts MVC, Struts2, XML, SQL, JDBC  Web Logic migration is to move the entire 'My Verizon' application from web sphere to web logic application server without affecting the performance of the application and retain the functional flow as before.    Roles &Responsibilities:  • Worked under the guidance of a senior resource in the team.  • Involved in technical analysis.  • Documented the end to end changes of the project. Education Masters in Computer in applications National Institute of Technology - Calicut, Kerala 2012 Skills J2Ee, Java, Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, MVC, Javascript, JEE, JSP