Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Sun Certified Java developer with 4.5years of experience in the industry as Java Developer with IBM,  developing and managing Telecom Products Provisioning & Maintenance and Cloud services executing  successful deliveries of software modules.    Responsibilities:    • Develop, implement and test new software programs  • Analyze user requirements and convert requirements to design documents.  • Expertise in developing design using Java, JavaScript, webservices, hibernates etc.  • Prepare unit test cases and perform the unit testing.  • Work with ANT, MAVEN and GRADLE.  • Expertise in writing Unit test cases using mocking (Mockito).  • Have knowledge in GIT, Jenkins and Travis CI.  • Expertise in developing UI automation using Node.js and Webdriver IO.  • Perform end to end testing of the modules.  • Test, maintain and recommend software improvements to ensure strong functionality and  optimization  • Independently install, customize and integrate commercial software packages  • Facilitate root cause analysis of system issues and resolving as soon as possible.  • Work with experienced team members to conduct root cause analysis of issues, review new and  existing code and/or perform unit testing  • Identify ideas to improve system performance and impact availability  • Resolve complex technical design issues  • Multi-task and change from one task to another without loss of efficiency or composure Work Experience Java Developer IBM 2018 to 2019 Project Name: CUMULUS  Team Size: 15  Description: Cumulus is IBM Cloud Transparency Tool. This application is used to capture information about the individual Cloud offerings in IBM's portfolio. The information captured in Cumulus is used to evaluate the  corporate level Secure Release Process/Criteria for an offering. This review is the same across all IBM business  units and required for all offerings. Deviations or exceptions from the criteria requirements can only occur with approval by the unit Business Information Security Officer's (BISO) and Offering VP.  Experience:  • Involved in back-end development using Java, web-services etc.,  • Developed UI automated scripts for running regression testing using Javascript, Webdriver I/O.  • Worked on configuring Jenkins and Travis CI.  • Worked with Gradle.  • Have good knowledge on GIT. Java Developer IBM 2017 to 2018 Project Name: TBSM  Team Size: 9    2  Description: TBSM delivers the real-time information that you need in order to respond to alerts effectively and in line with business requirements, and optionally to meet service-level agreements (SLAs).The TBSM tools  enable you to build a service model that you integrate with IBM® Tivoli® Netcool®®/OMNIbus(TM) alerts or optionally with data from an SQL data source. The TBSM Data server analyzes IBM Netcool/OMNIbus  ObjectServer events or SQL data for matches against the incoming-status rules you configured for your service  models. If the matching data changes the service status, the status of the TBSM service model changes  accordingly. When a services status changes, TBSM sends corresponding service events back to the  ObjectServer.  Experience:  • Involved in creating Installer for TBSM (DBConfig, Data Server, and Dash server) using IM.  Resume  • Taken care of translation (multi-language support) for TBSM Installer.  • Involved in developing GUI, Command-mode and Silent Installer for TBSM (DBConfig, Data Server, and Dash  server).  • Involved in developing all TBSM installer which supports in windows, Linux and AIX operating system.  • Performed Internal testing of all Installers in all supported OS. Java Developer IBM 2015 to 2017 Project Name: GCP-SXP TRANSFORMATION  Client Name: AT&T  Team Size: 100  Description: GCP is repository of data and purpose of Global Computing Platform (GCP) is to provide a  consolidated architecture and environment for all enterprise software that provides development, test, and production framework for developing target architecture platform comprising Enterprise Information Network  (EIN), Enterprise Data Network (EDN), Enterprise Intelligence and Analytics Network (EIAN) supporting all  enterprise applications. GCP can be used in developing internal AT&T applications for faster roll out of service, and in hosting external clients more effectively, as well as in providing value added services as part of AT&T's  enterprise product portfolio.  Experience:  • Done reverse-engineering on flow and prepared code analysis documents  • Assisting tester with code analysis documents for performing testing transformed application.  • Provided support to the testing team for successful deployment to the customer. Java Developer IBM 2014 to 2015 Project Name: SPP  Client Name: AT&T  Team Size: 45  Description: SPP (Service Provisioning Platform) is a family of applications which is responsible for provisioning  Layer 4 to Layer 7 features for all AT&T Voice and Enhanced services. It is responsible for service activation and network infrastructure provisioning for both the TDM and [VoIP] networks. Functions include Order  provisioning request receipt, Assign, Assembly of provisioning requests, configure logical network resources,  logical provisioning data management and provisioning request management.  Experience:  Telecom software Development & Maintenance.  • Understand requirements based on HLD documents, understand the complete flow and develop the modules  using Java, Kabira.  • Prepared unit test cases and perform the unit testing.  • Worked with MAVEN.  • Expertise in writing Unit test cases using mocking (Mockito).  • Performed end to end testing of the modules. Education B.Tech Narayana Engineering College 2008 to 2012 Gowtham Junior College 2006 to 2008 B.Tech Pursued B.Tech in Information technology Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/vanivismitha Additional Information SKILLS  • Java, Javascript, WebServices, JSP / Servlets. • HTML, CSS, XML and JSON  • Hibernate, JDBC • Junit  • Docker • NodeJS, Webdriver  • Agile • GIT, Jenkins, Travis