Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - client (Carlson Wagonlit Travel Inc (CWT) Philippines) • Around 4 years (includes 8 months onsite) of experience in execution, design and development of enterprise application using Java and Java Enterprise Edition.  • Broad experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement analysis, design, development, implementation and maintenance of projects.  • Possess excellent working experience as Scrum Master in Agile (Scrum) methodology.    • Excellent working experience in core Java 1.8 (Collections, multithreading, inheritance, polymorphism, optimizing code, exception handling, tracing and debugging).  • Possess good working experience of Java in frameworks like Spring-Boot.  • Expertise in Restful web service.  • Expertise in Spring-Boot framework, Microservices, Restful API development, Kafka,  AWS (EC2 Clusters and Cloud watch), Swagger, JWT, JUnit and Mockito, Maven, Gradle  and Jenkin.  • Expertise in Spring framework, Dependency injection, Spring-MVC, Spring JDBC, POJO, Spring transaction management, session management.  • Experience in development of web application in Java with proactive participation in architectural design.  • Strong Object Oriented concepts for software design and implementation.  • Expertise in development using IDEs like Eclipse Juno, Neon, Oxygen and Photon.  • Possess good experience in interfacing client via audio/video conference and calls for projects updates.  • Excellent working experience in Retail and Travel Domain with excellent business domain knowledge.  • Strong interpersonal, self-motivated and communication skills.  • Ability to adapt to a variety of platforms and willingness to learn superior technologies to become better and more reliable as a software developer. Work Experience Java Developer client (Carlson Wagonlit Travel Inc (CWT) Philippines) April 2015 to Present with Collabera Philippines at client (Carlson Wagonlit Travel Inc (CWT) Philippines) with an experience of around 4 years. CWT Inc June 2018 to February 2019 • Project Name: Next Generation Application  • Release Name: Customer Booking Repository (CBR)  • Client: CWT Inc Philippines.  • Domain: Travel (Air, Rail, Car, Limo and Hotel)  • Technology/Tools Used: Java, Spring-Boot, Web-Service (Development of RestfulAPIs with JAX-RS), WSDL, JSON, Kafka, AWS (EC2 Clusters and Cloud watch), Swagger, JWT, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, Gradle and Jenkin.  • Team Size: 08    Project Description:  Customer Booking Repository (CBR) is a product after processing BookingV2 payload (JSON) through multiple micro services (Receiver, Builder, Enricher, Normalizer, Promoter, Publisher and Transformer) repository is having a final output as xml which is a replica of output of AQUA. It contains all the info of bookings. In this project mainly we have populated fields into BookingV2 from different sources    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Analyzing user stories and source xml files, prepared understanding and mapping document for source and target fields.  • Coding the functionality as per the user story and mapping document using eclipse IDE.  • Debugging the application using Eclipse IDE and Postman.  • Developed Restful APIs using spring-boot and JAX-RS.  • Inspected the root cause of defects and fixed the same.  • Involved in fixing issues and troubleshot problems in the application. Macy's Inc April 2017 to May 2018 Project Name: RDS Delivery Scheduling and Optimization.  • Release Name: RDS Delivery Scheduling and Optimization release-1.  • Client: Macy's Inc. USA  • Domain: Retail (Logistics)  • Technology/Tools Used: Java, Spring-MVC, Spring-JDBC, Restful APIs.  • Team Size: 04    Project Description:  Delivery Scheduling and Optimization is the last phase of reserving and delivering logistics product to the customer by covering all the possible scenarios at the time of delivery like customer is NOT AT HOME, FULL REFUSAL, PARTIAL REFUSAL and RETURN. To achieve this, client has utilized third party XPO for CHEETAH services. Here CHEETAH sends an EVENT request to RDS system based on customer scenarios through Java web services and XPO works as a temporary location to keep the product based on EVENT triggered.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Coding and Debugging application using Eclipse as an IDE, Spring JDBC and DAO pattern.  • Analyzed the requirement document and prepared understanding document.  • Proactively involved in preparing TSD (Technical Specification Document).  • Involved in writing java code by seeing TSD.  • Involved in developing Restful APIs.  • Involved writing code for CRUD operations.  • Involved in fixing issues and troubleshot problems in the application.  • Involved in client meeting (audio/video conference) and calls for projects updates. Macy's Inc January 2016 to March 2017 Project Name: Logistics RDS_SOCR (Reservation and Delivery Subsystem SOCR)  • Release Name: RDS_SOCR Release-4  • Client: Macy's Inc. USA  • Domain: Retail  • Technology/Tools Used: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Web technology.  • Team Size: 06    Project Description:  SOCR is an application by using which the retailer can reserve an order of customer for the products like tables, chairs, sofa set, bed etc. While getting an order for such type of product from customer first retailer tells best possible delivery date based on availability of the product at warehouse. If customer agrees for that delivery date then retailer asks for the payment for the order. Once payment is done retailer reserves that product for the customer and delivers the same to the customer on best possible delivery date.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirement document.  • Involved in writing java-code according to requirements.  • Involved in creating controller classes and JSP files.  • Involved in writing Restful web services for back-end application.  • Involved in client meeting (audio/video conference) calls for projects updates.  • Involved in changing hibernate configuration for hibernate mapping. Macy's Inc June 2015 to December 2015 Project Name: Item Creation  • Release Name: PDF Application Release-3  • Domain: Retail  • Client: Macy's Inc. USA  • Technology/Tools Used: Java, Hibernate, Spring and SQL.  • Team Size: 06    Project Description:  PDF (Product Definition File) is an application used to generate UPC (Universal Product Code) for the new products arrived at warehouse based on their Department, Vendor, Mark Style, Color, Size, Cost etc. Once the UPC is generated then only the product will be available at store to sell.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding requirement by reading documents.  • Involved in analyzing business requirement and writing use-cases.  • Involved in changing code for CRUD operations.  • Involved in writing JavaScript code change as per the change in requirements.  • Involved in fixing issues and troubleshot problems in the application. Education B.Tech in Passed Arayabhatta Knowledge University Patna - Patna, Bihar, IN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java 1.7 and Java 1.8  Java & Web Technologies  Core Java, Spring-Boot, Web-Service (Development of RestfulAPIs With JAX-RS), WSDL, JSON, Kafka, AWS (EC2 Clusters and Cloud watch), Swagger, JWT, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, Gradle and Jenkin.    RDBMS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL and MongoDB.  Application Servers Apache Tomcat 8.0 and Red Hat 6.4.  IDEs/Tools Eclipse Juno, Neon, Oxygen and Photon, Postman, Jira and Rally.  Version Tools Tortoise SVN and GitHub.