Java-AWS Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>-AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java-AWS Developer - Nextnav Sunnyvale, CA • Around 4 Years of experience in the IT Industry with proficiency in Design and Development of J2EE Projects (Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, XML, spring, JUNIT, Hibernate, and Restful API).  • 2+ years of experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Ops Works) and security practices (IAM and Cloud Watch).  • Experience and in-depth Knowledge of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including EC2, EBS, S3, ELB, Cloud Watch, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services.  • Hands on Experience with Agile Methodology and SCRUM meetings.  • Experienced with Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Collections, Concurrency and Exception Handling.  • Experienced in migrating applications to AWS and application deployment in the cloud (AWS) with CI/CD toolslike Jenkins.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworkslike Hibernate.  • Expertise on various J2EE technologies including JSPs, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, JDBC/ODBC, RMI, Struts and Spring Framework.  • Having knowledge on Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Parallel Streams.  • Developed user interface screens and the validations using HTML, XHTML, JSP, Angular JS, Bootstrap,jQuery, Node JS and CSS.  • Good knowledge and hands on experience on MVC (Struts 1.x), spring 2.x and ORM (Hibernate 3.0) frameworks.  • Experience in writing ANT, Maven build scripts, providing logging facility using Log4j and Writing JUnit test cases.  • Excellent hands on experience in developing Internet/Intranet Applications with web services using AJAX pack (XML, SOAP 1.1, UDDI, and WSDL) with XML like SAX and DOMparsers, XML Schema and Data Type Definition, XSL, Web 2.0, CSS, Extensible Style Sheet Language Transformation(XSLT).  • Hands on experience using Messaging Services like JMSand MQ Series.  • Experience in working with databases like Oracle 10g/9i/8i, My SQL, SQL Server and MS Access.  • Strong experience in coding using SQL, PL/SQL involving Procedures/Functions, Triggers.  • Configured and used JIRA for bug tracking and functional testing.  • Having good knowledge in NOSQL data bases like Dynamo DB and Mongo DB.  • Hands-on experience in Source Code Management, Creating Branches, versioning, tagging and managingRepositories using GIT, SVN.  • Experience in installing and configuring Linux/Unix/Windows-based web/App servers like Tomcat, JBOSS, WebLogic and WebSphere for Application deployments.  • Experienced in Software Analysis and Design using Unified Modeling Language and Rational Rose.  • Highly skilled in developing and implementing enterprise web application using Spring Boot, Spring DataJPA and Cloud Foundry.  • Proven capacity to meet deadlines. Excellent communication and presentation skills. Ability as a good developer and effective interaction with end users.  • Good problem-solving skills, quick learner, effective individual and team player, excellent analytical skills. Work Experience Java-AWS Developer Nextnav - Sunnyvale, CA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Bootand Spring Cloud.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Dependency Injection,Spring Annotations, Spring AOP and Hibernate.  • Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Worked on RESTful Web Services for transferring JSONdata between two interfaces.  • Experience on various AWS services like S3, EC2, ECS, Cloud trail, SNS, and Lambda.  • Building the AWS Infrastructure using EC2, S3, Security Group, Auto Scalingin Cloud Formation.  • Configured S3 to host static Web content, Elastic Load Balancers with EC2Autoscaling groups and deployed Cloud Stack using AWS OpsWorks.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch.  • Followed Spring MVC pattern and used View Resolver to map web page.  • Configured Dispatcher Servlet and View Resolver to intercept incoming requests.  • Managed Spring MVC flow and invoke view components with the help of Dispatcher Servlet.  • Used Spring AOP terminologies to handle transaction management.  • Used Jenkins as a continuous integration and delivery tool that ties automated builds and tests.  • Involved in writing Spring Container and Controller classes.  • Used Hibernate to extract and HQL to query the data from MYSQL database.  • Used Jenkins to perform Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment.  • Implemented a Git mirror for SVN repository, which enables users to use both Git and SVN.  • Implemented Continuous Integration using Jenkins and GIT.  • Deployed JAVA/J2EE applications through Tomcat Application servers.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  • Re-design and implement CI build system using Jenkins.  • Worked with executed unit test cases by using JUNIT for accuracy of code and logging with log4j.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, Maven, JavaScript, GIT, Eclipse, Windows 10, MYSQL, Restful, EC2, S3, EBS, IAM, Cloud Watch, Web Sphere Application Server, Spring MVC, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, DOJO, SOAP, JDBC, DB2, Log4j, Agile. Java DeveloperJune Ford - Dearborn, MI 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript.  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  • Design and develop template-based User Interface using Bootstrap andAngular JS.  • Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using jQuery.  • Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services and Lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  • Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework.  • Developed the application with various Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Batch.  • Designing and implementing scalable, RESTful and Microservices based mobile back-end. The back-end is being written in java using Spring Boot for simplicity and scalability.  • Used Spring MVC framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  • Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping customer log data and transactions details etc.  • Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  • Designed and integrated the full-scale Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  • Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the service.  • Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs as JDO and Hibernate.  • Developed a RESTFUL based service for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.  • Involved on development of RESTFUL web services using JAX-RS in a Spring based project.  • Proficient in Application Development/Maintenance using Legacy RPI languages.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application on devices.  • WebSphere is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  • Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN.  • Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax. Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, spring security,XML, GIT, JSP, JUnit, Maven, IBM WebSphere, Apache AXIS, JAX-WS, Restful, Micro Services, Log4J, Oracle, Mongo DB, WSD, JIRA and Spring Tool Suite. Java Developer LUMITIX Solutions Pvt. Ltd August 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using MVC Architecture using JSP, Servlet and Struts.  • Participated in client requirement gathering.  • Involved in developing Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using UML.  • Preparation of the Low-Level Design document which include program specification and unit test plan.  • Developed HTML and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Developed JSPs to implement the presentation logic and use java beans to retrieve the data.  • Involved in developing the Javaclasses and JavaBeans.  • Involved in Creation of tables in database.  • Extensively used NetBeans for writing code.  • Extensively used - HTML, CSS, XML, UML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS,J2EE (JDBC, Java Beans, EJB) for developing the Web Application.  • Involved in Unit and Integration Testing.  • Used SVN for source code version control.  • Supported Maintenances and bug fixes.  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.    Environment: Java 1.5, WebLogic Application Server, Apache Tomcat Web Server v6.0, HTML, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Java Beans, MySQL, JUnit, CVS. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Ajax (3 years), Amazon elastic block storage (1 year), Angularjs. (2 years), Apache (2 years), Git (3 years), Java (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Jdbc (2 years), jquery (3 years), Jsp (2 years), Junit (3 years), Maven (3 years), Model view controller (3 years), Model-view-controller (3 years), Mvc (3 years), Mysql (2 years), Subversion (2 years), Svn (2 years), Tomcat (2 years), Xml (2 years)