Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Irvine, CA • Around 4 years of Information Technology experience as a Java Developer using J2EE Technologies.  • Expertise in Business Analysis, Requirements gathering, Design Patterns and development of enterprise applications with the J2EE architecture.  • Experienced in developing Web Applications involving J2EE technologies like Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts MVC, Hibernate, Spring MVC, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JSF, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, XML, AJAX and JUnit.  • Extensive knowledge of a tier Splunk installation, Indexer, Intermediate, Heavy forwarder, Search heads, UFs and apps.  • Splunk Application support to onboard various applications to the Splunk Command Center.  • Experience working on Agile Methodology.  • Good experience in developing applications with SOAP and RESTFul Web Services.  • Extensive experience in creation and maintenance of mapping files and transaction control in Hibernate.  • Experience Working in Production support on 24 x 7 x 365 basis.  • Good understanding of the overall software development life cycle.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  • Expertise in working with various J2EE technologies including Hibernate, Struts MVC Framework, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JMS, JDBC, AJAX, WEB SERVICES and ANT.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP and Spring JDBC.  • Strong hands-on experience with Spring IO, Spring Boot with Thymeleaf..  • Experience in developing PL/SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Expertise in working and configuring application servers like ATG Dynamo, IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Web Server, Apache Tomcat.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, problem solving and analytical skills, good leadership qualities with the ability to work independently.  • Strong programming skills in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using web-based technologies like Spring MVC and Spring Boot. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Development and Testing - Warner, CA January 2017 to Present • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application.  • Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle SDLC that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support.  • Splunk configuration that involves different web application and batch, create Saved search and summary search, summary indexes.  • Working on Splunk ITSI glasstables, deep dives, ITSI modules..  • Created macros using Rest API's for various saved searches in our environment.  • Implemented DAOs, entities using Hibernate API and Hibernate QL.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules  • Presentation layer was developed using JSP, HTML, Ajex and client side validations using JavaScript.  • Worked with Threads, Multithreading, Synchronization and Collection API.  • Created Services to consume REST API's and to communicate between components using Dependency Injection provided by Angular 2.  • Applied J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Data Transfer Object DTO, Data and Business Object VO during the development of components.  • Used Visio to prepare Flow Diagram, Class Diagram and Sequence Diagram.  • Used WebLogic Application Server to deploy the build.  • Development to expose User Profile services to other departments users using RESTful WS.  • Used J2EE for the development of business layer services.  • Used Splunk for API documentation. Involved in discovering the proof of concepts for new initiatives.  • Developed and published Java Web Services PoS Services so that other systems can use the service using Web Services.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate for Database connectivity.  • Provided production support for the application both onsite and remotely  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate 3.0 framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections etc. Intern- Java Developer Metasystem - IN December 2013 to November 2015 • Created a RESTful Web API service using ASP.NET Web API to generate data for the EMS which was then consumed in the front-end by AngularJS.  • Used Postman to test Web API functionality..  • Used Spring Boot for building application with Spring initializers and bootstrapping the build configuration and develop custom solutions that act upon Jenkins information in authentic time.  • Recommend and develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot  • Developed user Interface using JSP, HTML, AJAX, CSS, creating business processes.  • Extensively developed Servlets and JDBC calls for accessing data from database.  • Developed Database connection methods using JDBC to connect SQL Database.  • Worked on several styling and text customizations for different components of the Splunk platform using JavaScript and CSS.  • Built Custom Visualizations to analyze and represent unique data sets in developing Views and apps for Splunk Web.  • Configured Struts-config.xml with all the mappings required by the architecture.  • Used Visio to prepare Flow Diagram, Class Diagram and Sequence Diagram.  • Used WebLogic Application Server to deploy the build.  • Developed front-end screens using Struts, Velocity, HTML, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript and CSS.  • Used Hibernate framework for Entity Relational Mapping.  • Used SecureCRT to transfer file from local system to Unix system.  • Performed Test Driven Development TDD using JUnit and Mockito.  • Used Maven, Jenkins and Ant script for build automation.  • Used Hibernate framework for Entity Relational Mapping.  • Used Apache Couch DB database for data persistence.  • SQL Developer was used as a database client.  • Developed server side application to interact with database using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Developed POJOs for Data Model and made individual HBM records to delineate Java Objects with Relational database tables.  • Used Rest Controller in Spring framework to create RESTful Web services and JSON objects for communication. Education Master's in Computer Engineer in Computer Engineer California State University Fullerton Skills Ajax (1 year), Ant (1 year), Apache (1 year), Css (1 year), Html (4 years), J2ee (2 years), Java (4 years), Javascript. (4 years), Jdbc (1 year), jquery (1 year), Jsp (4 years), Junit (1 year), Maven (1 year), Rest (4 years), Servlets (1 year), Sql (1 year), Visio (4 years), Web services (4 years), Weblogic (4 years), Xml (4 years), Hibernate, Angular, Java J2Ee, Soap, JEE, Angularjs