Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Union City, NJ • Software Developer around 3 years of industry experience  • Analyzed business requirements and played role as onsite and offshore coordinator in managing projects.  • Collaborator with a can-do attitude, phenomenal time management skills, and a strong user focus and a deep creative thinker.  • Developed 3 web and windows applications including laboratory management system using Core Java, J2EE and Spring. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Tuutkia LLC - Fremont, CA March 2019 to Present Recruited to design the new functionality for CRM based business model in back-end side of web development for www.theleadsxchange.com using Java, J2EE, Spring Boot, JPA, MySQL and Gradle.    Responsibilities  • Worked on interconnection contact information system using Java, JPA and MYSQL.  • Created detail Functional Model for interconnection contact information system.  • Used MVC design pattern and Agile style software architecture for designing and testing.  • Created RESTful Spring Boot Microservice with JPA.    Environment: MVC, Java, JPA and MYSQL, RESTful Spring Boot Microservice with JPA. Java Developer Maruti Infotech - Vadodara, Gujarat May 2013 to June 2015 India  Responsible for developing and testing various web and windows-based enterprise applications using backend technologies like Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Swing, JDBC and Hibernate; frontend technologies like HTML, CSS, AngularJS; databases technologies like Oracle and MySQL; and testing technologies like Selenium.  Responsibilities  • Developed Laboratory Management System from scratch using J2EE technologies.  • Increased workflow efficiency by 10% by designing detailed technical specifications using Software Development Life Cycle.  • Worked on the entire Product Development Lifecycle from understanding the Business Case to Implementation.  • Single handedly delivered ~50+ new features for the Laboratory Management System.  • Created Single Page Application for KV Trans Power Industries using Angular, NodeJS and MongoDB in 1 month.  • Collaborate with QA for testing and written 100+ test cases using Selenium WebDriver.  • Used AWS and Heroku for production releases, Application deployment.    Environment: Angular, NodeJS, MongoDB, AWS, J2EE, Swing, JDBC, Hibenate, Servlet Intern Maruti Infotech - Vadodara, Gujarat May 2012 to August 2012 India    • Developed responsive web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Worked with business analyst to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features.  • Involved in testing and improvements of Quality and Performance of the applications.  • Used Git and GitHub as version control tool to update work progress with other team members. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Fairleigh Dickinson University August 2017 to December 2018 Master's in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering New York University August 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering in Software Engineering Gujarat Technological University August 2010 to May 2014