Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina • Extensive experience in Software Design, Development, Maintenance, Administration and Production Support.  • JEE Design Patterns:Good experience in using Java/JEE design patterns such as Service Locator, Data Access Object, Singleton pattern, and Factory method pattern. Work Experience Java Developer BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina March 2018 to Present BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. BlueCross serves 21.5 million people through private business and government contract.    Project: Medicare Advantage Application UI and Service  Integrated and Modernized Platform for Enrollment &Enrollment Reporting capabilities for both Medicare Advantage products.    Enrollment UI and Service Module: We have created smart presentation layer and Webservices to accept Medicare Enrollment application from users, agents and BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina business associates. This application accepts the 834-benefit enrollment generate contract id, assign provider, assign product and send information CMS through Wipro Infocrossing to validate Medicare number and other details.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering business requirements and understanding business integration.  • Working closely with the architectural team during the technical analysis of business needs and the initial sketching of system architecture and the database design including normalization.  • Involved in setting up design and coding standards/guidelines such as UI standards document, Java coding standards and code review documents.  • Designing and developing Rich User Interface using JSF and Prime faces, HTML5 and Bootstrap JS for small components, along with JavaScript libraries like JQuery.  • Designed data visualizations to analyze enrollment acceptance and rejection rate(D3).  • UsedD3.js components such as (Selections, Data Join, Transformation, Transition, Drawing Charts and Arrays) to visualize number of applications in annual enrollment period and product level application.  • Used Spring IOC to maintain loosely coupled between different modules.  • Created common validators for front end data validations and inject validators using Spring IOC for specific UI Modules.  • Used a loosely coupled architecture consisting of UI layer (JSP, Controller Classes) and Business/Service tier ( Java, J2EE) and Backend hibernate and Webservices.  • POJO based domain model integrated with Hibernate ORM to persistence the data.  • Used spring and Hibernate for backend data persistency and transaction management.  • Involved in writing HQL queries for DAO layer, to perform CURD operations.  • Used Spring Transaction to control the transaction.  • Used Design Patterns like DAO, Singleton and Proxy.  • Written SQL queries and stored procedures for communicating with the Oracle database.  • Used Spring AOP Advicefor logging, auditing and Transaction.  • CreatedREST Based Web services using Spring BOOT.  • Used log4j for logging debug, information and error messages.  • Deployment of application is performed on IBM WebSphere application server.  • Development carried out under RAD Integrated Development Environment.  • Modularized the common functionalities like security and validations.  • Coordinating the deployment of web applications on test, stage and production servers.  • Revising web applicatifon code for corrections, enhancements, or system environment changes.  • Used GitHub for source code versioning.  • Implementing Scrum Agile Methodology with short release cycles.  • Building test cases, test plans for unit testing, integration testing of application using JUnit.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring,Hibernate, JavaScript,JSF, JQuery, log4j, D3.js, Highchart.js, UNIX and Windows NT, RAD.  Database: Oracle  Application Server: IBM WebSphere Java Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN October 2017 to February 2018 Project: EIS Service Catalogue  The Enterprise Infrastructure Services (EIS) provides various enterprise middle-ware services and applications to the campus. EIS service catalogue provides users with information about all EIS services offered to the corporation. The catalogue is a published, online, consistent listing of Services acting as a one-stop-shop of information.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology and participated intodiscussion meetings about requirements.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirementgathering,  • modeling, analysis, architecture & development and project was developed using AgileMethodologies.  • Involved in developing and maintaining user interface using HTML, CSS, JSP, and J Querysupport forcreating and maintaining user interface side.  • Developed applications using Spring MVC framework.  • Created POJO classes for field Level validations.  • Design and developed business components Webservices using Spring BOOT.  • Implemented Dependency Injection by using Spring IOC framework for maintaining thedependenciesacross the application.  • Designed and implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot.  • Consume REST based with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework for persisting data to the database.  • Written SQL queries and stored procedures for communicating with the Oracle database  • Used spring security for maintain the security across the service transactions  • Used Log4j for maintaining the logging and debugging.  • Used SVN as sub version control across common source code used by developers.  Environment: Java, J2EE,Eclipse, Spring BOOT, Spring IOC, SOA, HTML, CSS3, JSP,Angular JS, Hibernate, Web Services, RESTful APIs, Oracle11g, Gradle, SVN. JavaDeveloper EasunReyrolle - IN January 2014 to May 2015 EasunReyrolle is a leader in the field of electrical power management, avibrant and growing industry. It has distinguished itself with an enviable range of products,systems, solutions and services that find application in electrical power transmission anddistribution.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of software development life cycle like requirements gathering,design, development, coding, implementation and deployment.  • Responsible for creating small servlet pages for UI and maintaining Tomcat Server.  • Creating presentation layer GUI for the application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Involved in developing J2EE using MVC (Model-View-Controller) pattern.  • Involved various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery to develop User Interface of webpages.  • Developed database connection and SQL Queries to create dynamic content on webpages.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data onthe fly.  • Assisting the senior developers in the development of the application.  • Experienced in using GitHub.  Environment: J2EE, Servlets, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Web Services, JavaScript, jQuery. Education Magna Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to July 2017 Certifications/Licenses as ‘Certified Professional’ in JAVA (JDK6)