Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Human Resource Management Department • Around 3 years of software development experience in Object Oriented Programming, design and development of Multi - Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle.  • Experience in the Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of enterprise application with web technologies, distributed technologies and client-server architecture environment.  • Experience in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Data Structures, Algorithms, Exception Handling and Polymorphism.  • Knowledge in application development using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, JDBC, JUnit, , XML, JavaScript, HTML.  • Experience in developing Web based GUI's using JSP, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Experience with multiple Servers like IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Sun Glass fish, Jboss and Apache Tomcat.  • Working experience on Apache Spring MVC presentation tier frameworks and ORM Technology Hibernate 3.0  • Development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans and RAD.  • Good exposure to building Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, ) using open source implementation like Apache Axis, RESTful API.  • Experience in developing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle Database.  • Good work experience in writing SQL queries with major Relational Databases.  • Good knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access.  • Experience in various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development and Pair Programming.  • Worked with Oracle 11g, 10g/9i/8i, SQL Server 2000, MySQL and DB2 relational database management systems.  • Strong team player, highly motivated self-starter with Excellent Communication, Presentation and Problem-Solving Skills and committed to learning new technologies.  • Ability to quickly adapt to new environments and learn new technologies. Work Experience Java Developer Human Resource Management Department - Stryker, OH January 2018 to Present Role and Responsibility:  • Developed training and development functionality for Human Resource Management Department.  • Developed functionality for inventory management system for Stryker vendors to maintain stocks, vendors can set limit when product selling faster and when they reach minimum stock.  • Implemented application using Spring boot with Spring Framework, Spring dependency injection, Spring MVC for Rest API's and integrated with the Hibernate  • Extensively Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Used Atlassian products like Jira, Bitbucket and Confluence for issue tracking, release management and code review and Documentation.  • Used Hibernate to access data from the DB. Maintained and configured all the Hibernate POJO's using annotations needed for the DB.  • Involved in developing front end (UI) of the application using JavaScript, HTML, CSS3.Active Coordination and Project documentation updates.  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for the iterative development of the application.  • Involved in designing and creating the Database Tables using PostgreSQL Database.  • Involved in implementation of CI (Continuous Integration) using Jenkins. And involved in configuring pipeline using Blue Ocean Pipeline for project build on Jenkins.  • For application deployment we have used Docker Containers  • Tested, debugged and implemented the application using JUnit for unit testing used SVN, GIT and Bit bucket Repository as Version control tools.  • Implemented Ansible playbooks for application deployment on a new Virtual Server.  • Implemented RESTful based web services calls to services. Associate Java Developer Exert Infotech - IN March 2015 to November 2016 Role and Responsibility:  • Involved in preparing the technical design documents using UML data model representation, Use case diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Rational Rose  • Implemented entire application in Spring MVC 3.0 design framework.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using Spring IOC module of Spring Framework  • Built RESTful Web services interface implemented in Java.  • Implemented AOP paradigm for modularity.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework in JSP, HTML and client-side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Extensively involved in developing core persistence classes using Hibernate 3.0 framework, writing HQL queries, creating hibernate mapping (.hbm) files  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using Junit.  • Used Log4 J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Participated in Agile Scrums and Sprints.  • Involved as a mentor for the junior developer and server as an interface between programmer and management. Education Master of Science in Computer and Information Sciences Kent State University - Kent, OH May 2018 Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Databases. (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (1 year), Ejb (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), Ftp (Less than 1 year), Html (3 years), Http (Less than 1 year), J2ee (Less than 1 year), Java (3 years), Jax (Less than 1 year), Jaxb (Less than 1 year), Jsp (1 year), Model view controller (3 years), Model-view-controller (3 years), Mvc (3 years), Rest (1 year), web services (3 years)