Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - American Express Phoenix, AZ Work Experience Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ October 2018 to Present American Express, USA  Working in the position of a Java Developer for Platform Engineering Team of Enterprise Fulfillment Platform (EFP) of American Express. EFP's main responsibility comes after a customer is approved/declined for a new product of American Express. EFP will be performing fulfillment of the customer application by setting up account numbers, limits, profile information, sending out required letters or communication, etc., so that the customer is ready to use and leverage his new product from American Express. I primarily worked as part of platform engineering (PE) team for PEGA to jBPM migration currently happening in EFP. Our responsibility is to maintain and develop common frameworks/ tools that EFP application can leverage and use as part of development, testing and deployment purposes.  • Actively involved in the development and maintenance of common frameworks in java and tools that can be leveraged by the entire application.  • Developed a Common Exception Handling framework in Java BPM which will retry the failed process three times in a configurable retry time interval and creates an Incident (PRB) in ServiceNow (Ticketing tool) using a REST call if the process fails even after 3 retries.  • Created a POM dependency analyser tool in Java for Maven Projects to analyze the unused, transitive dependencies which has been instrumental in achieving Clean code policy of our Codebase.  • Integrated our Application to Kafka Messaging Queue to stream events and data once a process is completed (passed/failed) to Smart Monitoring application which will create useful and interactive dashboards from our application data.  • Experience working with logging tools like Splunk and Elastic Kibana for searching logs and finding useful insights from logs.  • Proficient in using Git and Maven commands to build, clean, pull, push latest code into the Bit Bucket repository.  • Experience in creating and configuring the Jenkin Jobs and configuring XL release pipelines for Continuous Integration and Delivery (CICD).  • Hands-on Knowledge of Deployment of applications in to American Express cloud platform (ePass) built on Kubernetes and Docker in various environments (dev, test, prod).  • Worked with Apigee Gateway (MAC ID) for REST calls between internal Amex systems, and using Java Key Store (JKS) and Trust store for secure SSL connections.  • Accustomed to working in Agile work environment with two-week sprints and working with Rally user stories. Java Web Developer Infosys Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2015 to August 2017 Westpac Corporation, Australia  Worked as a Java developer for Westpac one of the largest and oldest banking groups in Australia. During my tenure as a developer worked on development of Insurance management system used by Westpac employees to manage insurance users plans, claims and data. Involved in maintenance and support of already deployed applications in the Westpac.  • Developed Web applications and Rest API's using Java Spring MVC framework and Hibernate as Server-Side framework.  • Experience working on Client-side development using Angular 4 Framework.  • Improved the user experience by making web pages interactive using JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax calls and Bootstrap.  • Exposed Rest API's using Rest Controller annotation in Spring which exposes JSON Data to be consumed.  • Consumed Data from RESTful Web Service using Rest Template in a Java spring Applications and Angular Front-end applications.  • Hibernate Framework as Object relational Mapping for Performing CRUD operations on relational databases.  • Improved the team performance by acting as an anchor between international teams for requirement gathering and communication.  • Debugging and Unit testing of Code using Junit, Power Mockito and eclipse IDE. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communications JNTU Kakinada - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, J2Ee, Java J2Ee Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/narendravuddanti https://github.com/nandu911