Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - WORLD BANK Washington, DC • Around 4 years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, Struts, Spring Web Services, Spring Boot, Spring Integration, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading etc.  • Experienced with developing rich user interface applications using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, React JS, jQuery Mobile, XML, JSON that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using different design methodologies/ process frameworks like SDLC, Rational Unified Process (RUP) and tools like UML, Rational Rose.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Experience in using Struts, Spring & Hibernate framework for various web/portal-based application development.  • Experience in NodeJS, implementing NodeJS callbacks, NodeJS web server, NodeJS Restful.  • Expertise in JDBC API with Oracle 10g/11g, MS SQL Server, MySQL, DB2 and Microsoft Access. Experience in implementing Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) using Axis framework.  • Experience in dynamic web applications design using open source MVC, Spring and Struts Frameworks.  • Experience in importing& exporting various data sources using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Significant experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products  • Worked with testing tools such as JUnit for Java, Q Unit for JavaScript, and A/B Testing for Website Design and its traffic flow.  • Expertise in Spring, Hibernate, Struts application frameworks Experienced in implementing Web services using WSDL, SOAP, REST  • Implementation experience of Rich User Interfaces using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript  Worked with databases like Oracle 10g/11g/12c, MySQL,  • Strong experienced in SQL, PL/SQL programming, Stored Procedures, and Query Optimization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer WORLD BANK June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture and frameworks such as Dao and service layers, Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC.  • Worked with BEA Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, and Apache Tomcat & JBOSS Application server.  Proficient in XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, Schema, SOA, JAXB, JAXP.  • Designed and developed UI screens with Struts to provide interactive screens to display data.  • Worked on front-end interface development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Created detailed AWS Security Groups which behaved as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances.  • Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern, DAO Design Patterns based on the application requirements. Worked on project build-script by using MAVEN  • Involved in rendering additional components with custom HTML tags using React.js  • Designed, developed and tested Java/J2EE/JEE/Portal applications also using Spring and Spring IOC. Worked on Spring DAO, Spring MVC and Spring AOP Interceptors in Logging and Auditing.  • Requests were processed using the powerful Scala collections and persisted to the database in synchronous fashion.  • Worked on the UI for the Provisioning feature using Jakarta Struts Framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js.  • Developed and provided support to many components of this application from end-to-end, i.e. Front-end (View) to Spring Controllers & configurations to Model and Hibernate mappings.  • Created detailed AWS Security Groups which behaved as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances.  • Coded the Custom JSP, Java Beans packages for Product Features functionality. This module takes care of changing the password if the user logs into the system for the first time.  • Involved in developing & exposing web services and also consumption of Web Services like RESTFUL Services.  • Developed internationalized multi-tenant SaaS solutions with responsive UI's using Java or ReactJS, with NodeJS and CSS.  • Deployed application in local for testing performed in JBoss and final Testing, Stage and Production versions are deployed and released using the Web Sphere Application Server & Used JSF, Java Script, XHTML, CSS as UI components.  • Provided extensive pre-delivery support using bug fixing and code reviews. Used spring framework for the business layer using DAO, and Spring Web MVC.  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, in order to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Developed stored procedures, packages and database triggers to enforce data integrity. Performed data analysis and created crystal reports for user requirements.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers such as EC2 and storage such as S3 buckets using AWS Cloud Watch.  • Designed, developed and tested Java/J2EE/JEE/Portal applications also using Spring and Spring IOC.  • Requests were processed using the powerful Scala collections and persisted to the database in synchronous fashion.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js and Node.js.  • Implemented Microservices architecture to convert monolithic heavy application into smaller applications.  • Making changes to the existing web applications and creating new components using React.js.  • Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and JBoss as application server & Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Client and Server layer. Java Developer AT&T - Miami, FL October 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Heavily used Core java (Collection API, Exception Handling, Generics, Annotation) to manipulate and transfer data in the back-end.  • Involved in design and implementation of web tier using Servlets and JSP.  • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Developed the user interface using JSP and Java Script to view all online trading transactions.  • Testing and production support of Core java based multithreading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into Oracle11g database using JPA/Hibernate.  • Developed highly Complex Stored Procedures, Packages, Functions, Cursors and Materialized Views in PL/SQL Developer, Toad in Oracle 10genvironment.  • Implementing Microservices and modules using cutting edge reactive technologies. Created client-side validation tool using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Using Angular JS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Writing Asynchronous code on the server-side for fetching data and communicating with the front-end application using AJAX calls from Front-End application using jQuery.  • Involved in developing java microservices which are interconnected in the AWS cloud.  • Coded and debugged the stored Procedures, Packages and Views in Oracle Databases using SQL and PL/SQL, which were called by user-oriented application modules.  • Built the reusable service components using Angular JS services with Object Oriented JavaScript, J Query, HTML, CSS3 based on the visual designs.  • Developed various AngularJS directives to help build the functionality and UI behavior using JavaScript with extensive knowledge of and use of Angular JS directives to bring additional functionality to HTML.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with spring framework & Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and JBoss as application server.  • Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Client and Server layer & Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing using j unit.  • Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used J Test Tool for performance testing. Software Developer BNY MELLON - Pune, Maharashtra July 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designing, Development, JUnit testing and Integration of the project & Design involved the use of several J2EE design patterns.  • Worked with the Business Analyst for requirement gathering and organized regular Demos during development while following Agile methodology.  • Used JSPs, Servlets and different Java design patterns. Ant build file creation and usage of Maven.  • Provided solutions for bug fixes in this application & Created queries, procedures & triggers in the Oracle9i database.  • Used Clear case as a version-controlling tool for managing the module developments. Prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades. Conducted code review for team members, involved in Unit testing.  • Involved in developing presentation layer using JSPs and model layer using EJB Session Beans while Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment, integration and conducting walk-through code reviews.  • Worked with relational model databases using T-SQL and Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Manager. Application developed with strict adherence to J2EE best practices.  • Created UML class and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose along with Implemented the web-based application following the MVC II architecture using Struts Framework. Migrated entire application, from using MS Access queries to SQL Server stored procedures.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using JDBC and performed configuration of JAVA Application Framework. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ Skills Design Patterns (3 years), EJB (2 years), HTML (1 year), J2EE (3 years), JDBC (2 years), Java, Angular, Javascript, Soap, Spring, Rest, Java J2Ee, Hibernate