Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Citi Bank Dallas, TX • 4 years of strong IT experience in software development experience involving object-oriented analysis, design, development and support of web based, and n-tier client/server applications based on Java, J2EE and UI technologies.  • Experienced in implementing Enterprise Applications with each phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Reviews, Coding, Unit and Integration Testing.  • Implementation of System and Web Applications, using J2EE and various open source framework like Spring 3.2, 3.0, 2.5, Struts 2.3.x, 2.2.x, 2.0.x, JSF, Hibernate (3.0, 4.0, 4.1, 4.3) and JMS.  • Expertise in Client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, CSS JavaScript, JSTL, AJAX, jQuery, Ext.js, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular.js and Node.js, Ext.js.  • Extensive knowledge and working experience in Service-Oriented architecture (SOA), Rational Unified Process (RUP), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Object Relational Mapping technologies, UML and J2EE Architecture.  • Experience in Software Quality Assurance (QA) testing user cycle & experience in regression testing and defect fixing.  • Experience in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object-Oriented Concepts like Collections API, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Polymorphism, generics, reflection, and JDBC.  • Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database.  • Worked proficiently in various IDEs including Eclipse, RAD.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, XPath, XQuery.  • Developed Java applications and tools to automate tests run in UNIX environment.  • Worked on the dependency injection using Spring framework with Application Context XML file.  • Involved in creating and modifying the class diagrams, sequence diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Experienced in deploying, configuring, maintaining applications on application servers such as RedHat JBoss, Web sphere, Web logic, and Tomcat 6.0.  • Have undergone the training in Software Development Processes like Waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Experience in writing SQL queries to generate the reports for several applications and good understanding of PL/SQL.  • Extensive experience in Linux systems including Shell scripting, build scripts etc.  • Experience in working with Continuous Integration (CI), Continuous Deployment Practice, Cloud based implementation using Jenkins, Maven tools.  • Expertise in working with relational database management systems like Oracle, MySQL, POJO/ data Objects, SQL Server.  • Experienced in developing build scripts, deploying applications using Maven, Ant and CI servers.  • Worked on Xpath, Angular.js, Java Persistence Architecture (JPA) • Expertise in analyzing and resolving Cross-Brower compatibility issues and provides coding solutions to reusability problems.  • Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis, process flowcharting and documentation • Multi-cultured Team Player with complete flexibility to work independently as well as in a team and have quick grasping capabilities to work with the newly emerging technologies.  • Expertise in using log4j for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and quick learning skills with proven ability to adapt to different project environments.  • Expertise in Amazon Cloud Services and its features AWS EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, snapshots, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Lambda, SES, SQS, SNS, RDS, ELB, EBS, CloudWatch, S3 etc.  • Expertise on Core Annotations using Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Implemented SOAP Client (Consumer) using Apache CXF Work Experience Java Developer Citi Bank - Dallas, TX October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    ·        Responsible for Requirements gathering, Conceptual Design, Analysis, Detail Design,  Development, System Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Data Validation, Version  Controlling and deployment.  ·        Used core java concepts like Collections, multithreading while developing server-side services.  ·        Worked on ETL Automation Java, Spring Boot, Selenium Web Driver  ·        Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for micro-services.  ·        On-board Applications to CI/CD and use tool/technologies like AWS, Jenkins, Docker, etc.  ·        Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more on look and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS, DHTML, AJAX is being used intensively.  ·        Implemented Core Java concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  ·        Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience on implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  ·        Followed Agile methodology and participated in Sprints during development.  ·        Used log4j for logging and Git for version control  ·        Created SOAP based web services also consumed other services  ·        Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ·        Developed the application using Struts Framework that uses the Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  ·        Wrote JavaScript's for validating the client-side user information based on their business rules.  ·        Coordinate activities and motivate others through leadership and a positive outlook, having Strong analytical and debugging skills.  ·        Developed Custom tag libraries for providing multi-lingual functionality.  ·        Responsible for debugging, testing, maintaining and deploying the application.  ·        Implemented JQuery and JSON to minimize code and manage complex data set.  ·        Used JUnit for testing the application and Maven for building Projects.  ·        Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS and JQuery  ·        Used standard J2EE 1.6 design patterns and Model View Controller in application design  ·        Used Spring-Hibernate integration and JPA, ORM in the back end to fetch data from Oracle and MySQL databases.  ·        Developed several POJO classes to map the data into Java Object  ·        Used JAVA Mail API and implemented an automated functionality to generate e-mails to the managed whenever a user registers for the applications.  ·        Used Oracle 11g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures.  ·        Used Toad database tool to build, edit, and format database queries, as well as eliminate performance issues in the code.  ·        Implemented the JMS Queue to receive the input in the form of XML and parsed them through a common XSD.  ·        Created SOAP based web services also consumed other services J2Ee Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA February 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities: • Designed dynamic and cross-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used the node.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  Building Web application using AngularJS for front-end and Node.js for building Server-side API's.  • Created custom angular directives and filters for filtering the data that we display on the web page.  • Worked on technologies like Angular.js, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, CSS bootstrap.  • Applied jQuery Validation Plugin to validate the user input and to improve user experience.  • Used Bootstrap and Media Queries in creating a responsive website across different size of screen, from cellphone to laptop.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Extensively involved in the integration of the frontend web interface with the controller using Spring MVC.  • Developed Spring MVC controllers, services and DAO's.  Obtained experience in using Hibernate 3.0 framework to interact with Oracle database.  • Created POJO's and DAOs for the database entities using Hibernate Annotation mapping.  • Extensively used Spring MVC for servlet configurations both during application Development and Test.  • Developed REST services using Jersey implementation.  • Implementing systems components or systems using relevant technologies and methodologies.  • Used Subversion (SVN) for change management and used Maven based POM to facilitate build management.  • Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application.  • Developed backend components using Spring and involved in integration of various other frameworks.  • Used Maven as the building tool and involved in designing database schema changes and J2EE software upgrades to support new features.  • Involved in technical mentoring, production system support and customizing solutions.  • Involved in Designing and deploying AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups. Supporting Systems Infrastructure comprised of Linux OS, AWS, EC2 clusters.  • Worked on instantiating multiple AWSEC2 servers by using YAML Script in Ansible playbook.  • Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda functions.  • Hands on experience with an in-depth level of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS cloud-specific technologies including Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), AWS Kinesis, Simple Storage Services (S3), Route 53, Cloud Formation, Elastic IPs, Simple Queue Service (SQS), Elastic Mapreduce (EMR), Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), RDS and Cloud Watch.  • Designed and implemented a GUI framework for Swing. Developers using the framework define actions, popup menus in XML, the framework builds the graphical components. Java Developer LightPath - Orlando, FL June 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities: • Involved in design and development of core product with J2EE &Struts2 architecture for Application development.  • Involved in developing the internal workflow using Action classes for online and data migration transactions for this product and implemented the application using Struts Framework and which is based on Model View Controller design pattern for clean separation of business logic from the presentation layer.  • Development UI modules using HTML5, JSP, Angular JavaScript and CSS.  • Design and developed Microservices business components using Spring boot.  • Developed JSP custom tags for different JSP pages & client-side validations using  JavaScript in application development.  • Used Hibernate as an Object Relational Mapping tool for the data persistence.  • Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Involved in the discussions with business users, testing team to finalize the technical design documents.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML • Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Analyzed the performance of system software code and wrote code to tune it.  • Hibernate Tools were used as persistence Layer - using the database and configuration data to provide persistence services (and persistent objects) to the application.  • Created and maintained mapping files and transaction control in Hibernate.  • Helped to integrate the dynamic data HTML and validated them using JavaScript.  • Build user interface using JSP, Java Script, custom tags and AJAX.  • Used OSS framework and Designed a dataflow to migrate data from SOAP XML'S to DB.  • Written SQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Collaborated with the infrastructure, network, database, application and BI teams to ensure data quality and availability. Education M G University March 2014 Bachelor's B-Tech Computer Science Skills AJAX (4 years), CSS (4 years), J2EE (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), XML (4 years) Additional Information ·         Java, J2Ee, UI technologies.  ·        Spring (3.2), Struts (2.3.x), JSF, Hibernate (3.0), JMS, spring boot, selenium, HTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JSTL, AJAX, jQuery, Ext.js, JSON, Dojo, Bootstrap, REST, SOAP, Angular.js and Node.js, apache cfx.  ·        SOA, RUP, OOAD, ORMT, UML and J2EE Architecture.  ·        Core Java, API, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Polymorphism, Inheritance, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  ·        generics, reflection, JDBC.  ·        Hibernate framework (ORM)  ·        XML, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, XPath, XQuery.  ·        SQL queries, PL/SQL.  ·        CI/CD, Jenkins, Maven.  ·        Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Toad, POJO.  ·        Shell script, build scripts, log4j, Git.  ·        Xpath, Angular.js, JPA.  ·        Waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  ·        RedHat JBoss, Web sphere, Web logic, and Tomcat 6.0  ·        AWS EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, snapshots, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Lambda, SES, SQS, SNS, RDS, ELB, EBS, CloudWatch, S3  ·        CI/CD technologies like AWS, Jenkins, Docker, etc.