Services developer Services <span class="hl">developer</span> Services developer - HCL AMERICA - PENFED CREDIT UNION • 4 + years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, testing, Implementation with Frameworks like  Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, ReactJS, ReduxJS, jQuery, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Node.JS using Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with the help of ReactJS, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery, CSS LESS, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Experience writing React JS code for developing Single page applications (SPA) used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules.  • Proficient with CSS preprocessors including LESS and SASS along with JavaScript building tool like GulpJS.  • Strong working Experience with building Rest Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Strong working Experience on relational Database Design- SQL, PL/SQL (Oracle, MYSQL, DB2).  • Knowledge on Project Management Methodologies, Software Estimation Methodologies, Project Planning,  Tracking, Execution, Resource Management and Risk Management.  • Good knowledge of emerging technologies like Web Services (SOAP, REST) • Written Cucumber, JUnit, Jasmine and Karma to run test.  • Performed performance testing and generated reports using JMeter.  • Excellent work experience with Version Control Tools such as IBM - RTC, GIT.  • Experienced in Full SDLC life Cycle such as Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, Enhancement, Production  Support and Change Management of business-critical applications.  • Very good team player, self-motivated and good communication skills. Adapt quickly to an existing, complex environment. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Services developer HCL AMERICA - PENFED CREDIT UNION December 2017 to Present Project: Enterprises Services Team  The Enterprise Services Team Develop Rest Micro Services using Spring Boot and provides Rest Apis for various  LOB across the organization.  • Developed Rest Micro Services using Java, Spring Boot and Maven in ATDD methodology.  • Written JUnits and performed Integration and Scenario based testing using Cucumber and Mockito framework.  • Performed performance testing and generated reports using JMeter.  Mock the sample request and response and provide online documentation using tools like Swagger and Wire Mock.  Attend and contribute to team ceremonies in an agile manner  Update the Jira Story boards and Document the specification documents in Confluence.  Environment - Eclipse, Java, Spring Boot, AWS, Rest Web services, Cucumber, Mockito, Swagger, Postman. Java developer HCL AMERICA - USAA - San Antonio, TX October 2014 to December 2017 Project: Add external Insurance to Accounts Page  This application is designed to add and display members external insurance details to my accounts page of USAA bank • Worked in Agile environment with constant interactions with client and third party vendors.  • Modify existing software to improve its functionality and performance.  • Developed single page application in Angular 2 to display the insurance details.  Consume and produce both soap and RESTful web services.  Develop and direct software system testing and validation procedures, programming, and d ocumentation.  Environment - WebStorm, ReactJS, ReduxJS, Java, Soap/Rest Web services, Ps framework, JavaScript,  GulpJS, es6.    Project: Wealth Management Process Automation  This application is developed to automate the wealth management process of advising the member about the available opportunities and closing the opportunities and alert the advisor about the member's action.  • Developed a daily batch using Spring Batch that checks for new accounts being opened and matches with existing opportunities.  • Created the triggers and workflow rules in salesforce to close opportunities automatically.  • Created Alerts to send an email when the opportunity is closed.  Consuming RESTful web services.  Performed Unit testing and performance testing on the entire application.  Environment - Salesforce, Java, RESTful Web service, Spring Batch.    Project: Event Badge Scanner  This is a mobile application used to check if an attendee at an event is member of USAA by scanning Driver's License and signup a member if attendee is interested in joining with USAA.  • Developed a hybrid mobile app which provides the ability to scan driver's license using ionic 2, Angular 2 framework.  • Utilized third party plugin (Manatee-scanner) for the scan functionality and customized it for the application specific needs.  • Developed UI compatible with both IOS and Android for the entire application using Ionic 2, TypeScript and scss.  Consumed RESTful web services to determine if attendee is a member.  Stored Scanned data in to the Saleforce and Velocify systems.  Used deep dive method to communicate with other inter application to sign up for USAA membership.  Wrapped the application inside secure Hub  Environment - WebStorm, Ionic 2, RESTful Web service, XCode, TypeScript, Angular 2, Jasmine, Karma. Education Master's in applied computer science in software engineering NORTHWEST MISSOURI STATE UNIVERSITY - Maryville, MO July 2014 Skills Java (4 years), JavaScript (3 years), Rest (4 years), soap (3 years), Web services (4 years), HTML, XML, SQL, MySQL, Git Additional Information SKILLS  • Languages: JAVA/J2EE (JSP, Servlet, XML, JDBC), SQL.  • Front end Stack: JavaScript, ReactJS, ReduxJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, XML.  Frameworks: Apache Wicket, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Maven, Spring Batch, Web Services (SOAP and  Rest).  • Mobile Development: Ionic 2(Hybrid), Apple Swift, XCode.  • Misc.: AWS, MySQL, Git, RTC, JIRA, JMeter.