Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - TechieRoom DeKalb, IL Highly motivated and passionate software engineer with 3+ years of technical experience in software industry, and a computer science graduate student who can adapt to dynamic working environment. Work Experience Java Developer TechieRoom June 2018 to Present Project Description: 529 Plans: A 529 is an investment account designed specifically for saving for college  • Worked in an Agile environment, including attending release planning meetings, sprint planning meetings, sprint retrospectives and daily scrums.  • Created RESTful Webservices for transactions of data over various applications.  • Created RESTful endpoints for Automation of media output.  • Used Spring Framework for handling request processing and dispatch action.  • Used JPA to deal with database operations.  • Involved in batch processing using Spring Batch framework to extract data from database and load into file.  • Handling server-side form validations for more security than client-side JavaScript validation.  • Worked on Junit Test cases.  • Configured Spring beans in context xml files to inject configuration parameters.  • Involved in bug fixing, build and deployment. Software Developer Akshara Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to November 2016 • Developed dynamic website design and User Interface pages for the end client using technologies like JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, Bootstrap, and AngularJS.  • Worked for organizational projects on google cloud and used Python as back-end.  • Developed Python scripts that dump the collected data into Excel or CSV files.  • Installed and configured MySQL database server on Linux.  • Experience with Python development under Linux OS.  • Worked in production support, I used to analyze the issue and fix the code.  • Increased site performance through debugging invalid HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript code snippets.  • Used AngularJS directives, Factories and Services for developing Single Page Web Applications and for achieving Two-Way data binding between HTML and JavaScript objects.  • Task Manger web application created for employees in company which conceived to handle tasks across client projects at the organization.  • Akshara Manager web application built for day to day operations management which conceived to handle the day to day operations of the organization.  • Used Data tables to populate large datasets and perform operations like searching and sorting.  • Developed project concepts and maintained workflow.  • Single Page Application development using AngularJS. Education MS in Computer Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL December 2018 BTech in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University May 2015 Skills API (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), C (Less than 1 year), database (2 years), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), GIT (Less than 1 year), HTML5 (1 year), Java (1 year), JavaScript (2 years), JSP (Less than 1 year), Maven (Less than 1 year), MySQL (1 year), Rest (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate