Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Warrensburg, MO Highly-enthusiastic, dedicated, and professional Computer programmer 2 years of experience in analyzing user requirements and technical specifications as well as designing, modifying, developing, testing, and implementing Java applications and related programs accordingly. Work Experience Java Developer NepFlight - Kathmandu, NP August 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:    • Involved in Scrum daily standup meetings throughout the process of design and development.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding and unit testing of the project.  • Involved in requirement gathering from the Client and actively participated in various group meetings.  • Involved in designing of high level details like Use Case diagram and low-level design like Class and Sequence diagram.  • Developed Servlets, JSP's, Customs Tags, XML, XSL, EJBs and UML.  • Implemented Client-Side validation using JavaScript.  • Implemented Session Beans for business logic and Message Driven Beans for asynchronous messages.  • Used clear case as the version control software.  • Involved writing Junit test scripts to check the functionality of the middle tier and aid in debugging phases.  • Application is built and packaged using ANT.  • Written test cases to verify the functionality, performance of the application based on requirements.  • Involved in deploying and running the application on JBoss and fixed issues at the time of production.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JSP, Spring, hibernate, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, Web Services, Eclipse 3.0, Weblogic9.0, SOAP 1.2, WSDL 2.0, Rational Clear Case, SQL, ANT, Custom Tags, JSTL, JUnit 3.8.1. Java/J2EE Developer Shikhar Insurance Co. Ltd - Kathmandu, NP March 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Converting user requirements into technical requirements for the project.  • Participated in multiple phases of project life cycle.  • Used Spring (MVC) framework to develop the application.  • Used Factory, DAO, Singleton, DTO design patterns.  • Used Rational Rose to draw UML diagrams and to develop the Use cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams.  • Implemented the Spring framework for Dependency Injection (DI/IoC).  • Implemented Spring-ORM for Hibernate using the Hibernate Template class.  • Designed and developed the Object Relational mapping using Hibernate to store and persist data in MySQL database..  • Developed JUNIT test cases for unit testing.  • Used Eclipse as development environment tool.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Activities, Tasks and Defects.  • Used SVN to manage the source code.  • Documented the Migration process to make it easy for the future migrations.  • Used Log4j for writing the logs including errors, info, etc.  • Used ANT build scripts.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, MVC Architecture, Servlets, Struts, EJB, JDBC, XML, XSTL, JBOSS, JavaScript, HTML, Design Patterns, CVS, UML, ANT, Windows XP, Rational Rose, Tomcat, MySQL. Education Master's in Big Data Analytics and Information Technology University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO August 2018 to August 2019 Master's in Computer Information System and Information Technology University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO August 2016 to May 2018 Skills Java J2Ee, Spring, Javascript, Hibernate, Java, J2Ee, JSP, MVC, Python, Tableau, R, Machine Learning Algorithm, Deep Learning Algorithm, Angular 2, HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, Maven, AWS, Spark, Angular, Jquery Additional Information Academic Projects  1.Saloon Web App  • Manage product, payment and customer for adding, update and delete.  • Customer can take the appointment.  • Admin can view the appointment and schedule the stylist.  • Tools used: Spring MVC 5.0, hibernate 5.0, MySQL, JavaScript, Bootstrap 4.0, HTML5, CSS3    2. Travel USA  • Responsive Web app build using only front-end technologies  • User can see different places to visit in USA  • Data's are stored in XML files and retrieved using AJAX request  • Tools used: HTML5, CSS3, XML, AJAX    3.Student Management System  •  Admin can manage the students.  • Students can enroll to subject according to their choice  • Tools used: HTML5, CSS3, Servlet, MYSQL, JSP and JavaScript    4.Machine Learning: Customer Churn Prediction:  •  Used machine learning algorithm’s like clustering, classification and regression.  •  Split the dataset using SciPy for training and testing purposes.  • Used R for statistical analysis.  • Used Random Forest and predicted the churn rate with accuracy of 95%.    5.Deep Learning: Image Classification:  •  Used Python for coding to clean, and manipulation for unstructured data.  • Split the dataset into train and test using SciPy.  • Worked with keras API.  • Visualized using seaborn. Used Convolutional Neural Network algorithm and achieved the accuracy of 89%.    6.Data Reporting: World Ranking University:  • Used Python script for cleaning and preprocess the dataset.Found the top 10 university across the globe based on alumni employment rate, number of publications, quality of education, patent, etc.  • Used tableau for visualization of data.   • Used R for sentiment analysis using twitter API and visualized the analysis of top 5 university. 