J2EE Developer J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> J2EE Developer - IStream Solutions Inc ? Java Professional with 4 years of progressive experience as Jr. Developer using various technologies - Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, ESB, APIGEE and SQL.    ? Experience in developing and maintaining Enterprise level projects making them more flexible, reusable and customizable.    ? Experience in developing Micro Services and clear understanding of Micro Service Architecture  ? Hands on experience to manage API services using APIGEE  ? Strong experience with Java/J2EE as a developer in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including system design, development, and delivery of enterprise software.  ? Experience includes application development in Java J2EE (client/server), JDBC, Servlet programming, JSP, Enterprise Java Beans, Struts, Spring, JPA, SQL Queries, PL/SQL procedures, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server etc. using IDEs like Eclipse, RAD and NetBeans.  ? Strong Experience in implemented Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) and Microservices using Spring Boot, REST web Services.  ? Have hands on experience in design and development of Java, J2EE & Web Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JDBC, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JMS.  ? In-depth experience in using Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Microsoft SQL Server databases.    ? Proficient in developing Web Services, related technologies & frameworks: WSDL, SOAP, REST, SOAP UI and generating clients using Eclipse for Web Services consumption.  ? Hands on experience in Hibernate and configuring using configuration files and annotations.  ? Configured Log4j, JUnit and developed unit test cases and determining application functionality.  ? Experience in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Data Access Object.  ? Experience on different IDEs such as IntelliJ, Eclipse, and deployment using Application Servers Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic.  ? Experienced in RDBMS such as Oracle, MySQL databases.    ? Supported the application in production and worked closely with on-shore teams.  ? Ability to work effectively in cross-functional team environments and experience of providing training to business users.  ? Proficient in developing Web Services, related technologies & frameworks: WSDL, SOAP, REST, SOAP UI and generating clients using Eclipse for Web Services consumption.  ? Extensively worked in Unit Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, Defect Tracking Systems and Performance testing of the software systems.  ? Experience in unit testing, Integration testing, performance testing and JUnit Testing tool.  ? Superior ability to communicate and work with functional and technical groups, under tight deadlines and changing priorities.  ? Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies.  ? Experience in Managing a team and providing technical support as required towards deliverables. Work Experience J2EE Developer IStream Solutions Inc - Ashburn, VA April 2017 to Present Description:  IStream is a leading technology company providing cloud-based platforms empowering data-driven healthcare. We bring to the marketplace a national-scale capability to interconnect with the healthcare ecosystem, aggregate and analyze data in real-time, and empower the application of resulting insights to drive meaningful impact at the point of care.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular 4.0.  • Implemented UI components using Angular 2.0 dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  Collection objects, array operations and Enhanced concurrency methods.  • Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for different  • Secured the REST API's by implementing OAuth2 token-based authorization scheme using Spring security.  • Implementing the Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of RESTand Apache Kafka and zookeeper message brokers.  • Created RFP (Request for Proposal) micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Extensively used Hibernate 4.5concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty checking and transactions.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) technique for mapping data from MVC model to MySQL Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Designed UI using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Prepared Business requirement specification and technical documentation.  • Used JavaScript for validation.  • Involved in the Front-End validations using JavaScript and AJAX.  • Involved in writing service layer in custom MVC framework to write business logic.  • Wrote complex SQL queries to generate reports.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders and components.    Environment: Java and J2EE design patterns, HTML5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, Angular 4.0, Node JS, JavaScript, Ajax, Maven, SpringBoot, Microservices, Hibernate 4.x, Docker, REST, MongoDB, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Jenkins, Java Developer Sayah Consulting - PK January 2015 to November 2016 Project: Online Job Portal  The Online-Jobsite is a web application designed to make job selling and finding a job easier for recruiters and job seekers. To use the features of this application users, have to first register as recruiters or job seekers by providing their details like name, date of birth, place of birth etc. Then users logged in as recruiters can search for suitable candidates for their openings and download their profiles and users logged in as job seekers can check for available openings matching their profile and send their profiles to the desired openings. Recruiters can also use this site to advertise their job listings and job seekers can use site to advertise their profile.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering and validating functional specifications.  • Used Struts framework along with JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation layer) for the application  • Used Rational Rose to design UML diagrams (Use Case Diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams).  • Used Clear Quest tool to keep track of the application bugs and to coordinate with the Business and QA analysts Designed UI using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Prepared Business requirement specification and technical documentation.  • Used JavaScript for validation.  • Involved in the Front-End validations using JavaScript and AJAX.  • Involved in writing service layer in custom MVC framework to write business logic.  • Wrote complex SQL queries to generate reports.    • Used CVS for version controlling and Eclipse as IDE.  • Apache Tomcat and WebLogic servers are used for deployment and administration of components.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Struts 1.x, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JavaBeans, JDBC, XML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Oracle, Junit, WebLogic, CVS, Eclipse, Ant, Rational Rose. Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java 6/7/8, SQL, PL/SQL, C++, C  Databases Oracle, SQL Server, MS Access, MongoDB  J2EE Technologies JDBC, JNDI, JSP, Servlets, EJB  Web Technologies JSON, XML, HTML5, JQuery, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax  Application Servers JBoss, Web Sphere  Web Servers Apache Tomcat  Database Tools TOAD, SQL Developer, MySQL Workbench  Operating Systems Windows, Unix and Linux  Methodologies Waterfall, Iterative, Agile, Scrum, SDLC  IDE & Versioning Tools Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, Net Beans, Concurrent Versioning System (CVS), SVN, GIT  Frameworks Spring, AOP, Hibernate, JPA  Java Scripting Libraries Angular JS, Node.js, React JS Bootstrap  AWS Achieved AWS Developer Associate Certification and have good idea on AWS Components.  JDK1.8 Developed services using Java 1.8 and have good idea on Lambda and Functional interfaces