Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer - Nielsen Florida, Tampa Richmond, VA • Having around 5 years of IT experience and technical proficiency in Java/J2EE technologies, Micro services, Spring Cloud, AWS, CI/CD and Junit.  • Experience in developing Restful microservices and deployment in the AWS Cloud using spring boot and Spring Cloud (Zuul, Eureka, Hystrix, Feign, Ribbon, Zipkin).  • Experience in Big-Data Technology Hbase API and CRUD on NoSQL Hbase tables and testing the applications.  • Experience in writing java batch applications also willing to learn spring batch.  • Experience in web front-end development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript and Angular 6.  • Good in Core java concepts including Collections, Exception Handling, Multi- Threading, Generics, data structures and algorithms.  • Experience in end-to-end development and migrating the application to Cloud using the Amazon web services(AWS) availing various services of AWS like EC2, S3.  • Experience in developing CI/CD pipelines writing Jenkins file and Ansible for deployment  • Decent knowledge with SQL working with Oracle, My-SQL, Postgres SQL.  • Proficient in using J2EE Frame-works: Hibernate, Spring Boot Technologies.  • Expertise in writing and executing Unit Test cases using JUNIT testing framework.  • Experience working with MAVEN as Build tool, log4j for logging and STS/Eclipse for IDE.  • Experience in deploying and configuring application servers such as Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • Familiarity with Jira, Confluence, Bitbucket, GitHub, Splunk.  • Experience in working on agile methodology and used Jira as agile tool, actively participated in scrum meetings.  • Very much interested to learn new frameworks and gain knowledge. Work Experience Java developer Nielsen Florida, Tampa - Tampa, FL August 2017 to Present Project: Media Streaming Process  Responsibilities:  • Determine operational feasibility by evaluating analysis, problem definition, requirements, solution development, and proposed solutions.  • Prepare and install solutions by determining and designing system specifications, standards, and programming.  • Design, develop, and support of high volume applications using Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring cloud, Hibernate.  • technologies.  • Jenkins and octopus CI/CD Pipelines for deployment in scheduled intervals.  • Implementing API'S, messaging, middleware, Restful microservices using Spring boot (SOAP, REST).  • Hadoop technologies using the Hbase DB as a persistent layer.  • Developing micro-services using spring boot and spring cloud technologies.  • Accomplish engineering and organization mission by completing related results as needed. Full stack Developer CAPITAL ONE - Wilmington, DE July 2016 to July 2017 Project: Retail- Bank and Card  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile - Scrum methodologies using Jira to do requirements gathering, analysis and sprint planning.  • Involved in creating java batch applications, Restfull API'S with Spring Technologies, implementing micro services  • Migrating the application to Cloud environment using the Amazon web services- EC2, S3 and various services of AWS.  • Manging CI/CD pipelines for application deployment.  • Used Hibernate to create data layer to the services to do CRUD operations to DB.  • Creating UNIT, Integration test cases, used maven as build tool and Eclipse as IDE. Java Developer Aspire Infinite Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to July 2015 Project: Electronic medical Record System  Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, design and implementation of front-end part widget based application.  • Involved in client-side tooling and testing & development with Bootstrap, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Developed Application in Spring Framework using MVC architecture.  • Used Java Messaging Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Developed Hibernate Mapping files and DAO components for interacting with DB components. Java developer Aspire Infinite Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2013 to June 2014 Project: Loan Application System  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of the User Interface  • Created Spring Configuration files using XML & used annotations to auto-wire the Java Components using Spring Dependency Injection.  • Business layer is built on Spring 3.0 using Dependency injection and IOC principles and hibernate.  • Extensively used Core Java for writing business logic and Helper Classes. Education Bachelors in Engineering and Technology in Engineering and Technology SRM University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central missouri Skills J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, Java J2Ee Additional Information Technical skills:  Languages: Java, Javascript, TypeScript SQL.  Core Java: Collections, I/O, Multithreading, Serialization, JDBC.  Java Frameworks: Spring Boot and spring cloud Technologies, Hibernate, JUnit, Log4j.  Cloud Technologies: AWS- EC2, S3, EBS, SQS, lamda, Server less API's  Application/Web Server: Weblogic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  Database: Oracle11g/9i, SQL Server, MySQL, RDBMS.  Other: Git, JIRA, Jenkins, IDE, MS Office.  Operating System: Windows, Linux, Mac OS.    About Me:  I see everyday as an opputunity to learn something new. Highly interested to learn new frameworks and get engaged with project.  Remove this line before resume submission*****H1B Visa, No low bill lates, Ready to join immediate*********