Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Boeing ? Over 6+ years of experience in Object Oriented software development, implementation and maintenance of web and distributed Enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in designing and developing web-based applications using Java, J2EE, Web Services, both SOAP/WSDL and REST, MVC framework, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Struts, Oracle and SQL.  ? Extensive experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Deployment and Maintenance of Web services, Client /Server and Web based applications using J2EE/ Java, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, Servlets, JMS and Object-Oriented Programming techniques.  ? Expertise in core java concepts like Collections, Threads, Exception handling, Generics, Strings etc.  ? Experience in working on various Spring modules (Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring MVC) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  ? Experience in implementing DAO layers using ORM technology like JPA and Hibernate.  ? Proficiency in XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, XPATH, DTD, XSD, XMI, JAXB, JAXP.  ? Experience in working with producing/consuming SOAP based web services using Apace Axis, CXF engines. Experience in producing and consuming Rest based web services.  ? Proficiency in designing applications using Java and J2EE Design Patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Module-View-Controller etc.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis, Design / Development Methodologies, Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using UML. Strong knowledge on Hibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions.  ? Experience in implementing presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Angular, jQuery, Java script and servlets.  ? Extensive Experience in Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception handling and Collection Frameworks.  ? Experience with build tools like MAVEN, ANT which support building, testing and deploying applications.  ? Experience working with continuous integration tool Jenkins, Dockers.  ? Experience working with different methodologies like Agile Scrum, SDLC Waterfall.  ? Familiar with UML which includes creating Use-Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Interaction diagrams (Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams) using Designer tools like Rational Rose.  ? Experience in designing and developing complex Internet systems.  ? Experience in WebLogic, JBOSS, IBM Web Sphere Application Server and Apache Tomcat Application Server.  ? Expertise with database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL, MS Access.  ? Experience with version controller tools like Git, CVS and SVN.  ? Experience with AWS Java SDK for Amazon S3 and Amazon Glacier.  ? Extensive experience on different operating systems Linux, Mac OS X and Windows. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Boeing - Bellevue, WA May 2018 to Present Worked on all phase of agile development life cycle.  ? Worked extensively on Core Java Concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency framework.  ? Followed techniques and principles provided by test driven design TDD paradigm for developing quality code.  ? Analyzed, designed and implemented application based on Object Oriented programming i.e., Object oriented Analysis and Design.  ? Documented and communicated application design using UML diagrams like sequence diagrams, class diagrams, use case diagrams.  ? Developed Enterprise JavaBeans EJB 3.0 for implementing application's business rules and policies.  ? Familiarity with Service oriented architecture SOA by developing web services based on JAX-WS and Axis frameworks.  ? Developed WSDL for defining contract between requestor and provider.  ? Exchanged SOAP request and response on HTTP protocol for implementing web services.  ? Developed application on Spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC.  ? Used spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into spring beans.  ? Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  ? Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing.  ? Worked on Java Message Service JMS API for developing message-oriented middleware MOM layer for handling various asynchronous requests.  ? Worked with topic for creating publish/subscribe messaging model.  ? Developed persistence layer based on JPA framework for providing POJO persistence model for object-relational mapping.  ? Used Hibernate as an implementation engine for JPA API.  ? Worked closely with marketing, risk management and operations teams to identify business problems and designed Big Data analytical solutions, SQL Server  ? Created Oracle store procedures for handling and processing complex data-based logics.  ? Wrote complex SQLs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting data in oracle database.  ? Developed store procedures and complex queries using tool called PL/SQL developer.  ? Developed, Tested and Deployed application in IBM WebSphere 7.0 IBM RAD 7 server.  ? Wrote scheduled batch jobs on UNIX environment for handling various huge databases update logics without manual interventions.  ? Participated in front end development using Java Server Faces 2.0 JSF 2.0, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML 5, CSS 3.0  ? Used Concurrent Version System CVS as source control tool.  ? Developed unit test cases and suits on Junit framework for unit testing  ? Worked on SOAP-UI tool for testing web service by passing soap request to web service provider.  ? Used Maven for building, deploying application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application.  Technologies Used: Java 1.6 Java 6, Agile, TDD, UML, Ejb3, Jax-WS, JAXB, Axis, WSDL, SOAP, SOA, SQL Server, Spring, JSF, GWT, Ajax, JavaScript, CSS 3, JMS Messaging, Queue, Topic, JPA, Hibernate, Junit, Easy mock, Oracle, SQLs, WebSphere, RAD, PL/SQL developer, SOAP-UI, Unix, CVS, Eclipse, Maven. HIPAA 4010/5010, EDI 834 Java Developer AIM Specialty Health - Chicago, ILDec - Chicago, IL 2016 to December 2017 Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Worked to create an initial prototype of both Self-Pay Remittance as well as Formal Payment Plan, following OOD and discussed SOA to get positive feedbacks from the Test Clients before start of heavy coding.  ? Worked in managing credit card payments through EDI.  ? Attended every day Scrum meetings to provide current project status demonstrations in every two weeks, thus implementing Agile Methodology Scrum with Test Driven Development.  ? Written SQL queries for data fetching and posting using Oracle PL/SQL Developer and CCL Plus and performed CRUD Operations along with Inner/Outer joins.  ? Followed Spring MVC pattern for the project with Servlets/JSP and JDBC.  ? Used REST Web Services API's with extensive use of AJAX call.  ? Implemented UI pages with JSP, HTML, CSS using JavaScript and J-Query with JavaScript libraries like Node.js, Handlebar.js, and Moment.js etc.  ? Used JSON structure for request as well as for reply.  ? Used Java Swing for few components in accordance with SWT application with multithreading environment with Concurrency and Java Collections.  ? Used Jetty server during development using FileZilla for file transfer.  ? Used Eclipse 3.0 IDE during development.  ? Written JUnit Test cases with Mockito while performing unit testing.  ? Used Tortoise SVN as source control tool.  ? Worked with QA team during various testing phases and resolved defects.  ? Used Maven build tool for compiling and packaging the application.    Technologies Used: Java 1.7, Core Java/J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Node.js, Handlebar.js,  Moment.js, AJAX, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, Multithreading, OOD, SOA, REST Web Services, Jetty Server,  WebSphere Application Server 7.0, RAD, Eclipse, Maven, JUnit, Java Swing, Mockito, Oracle 10g, CCL Plus, Oracle PL/SQL Developer, SVN, FileZilla, Linux, UNIX. J2EE Developer Cybernet Solutions - Vancouver, WA December 2014 to December 2015 Involved in the review and analysis of the requirement specifications of the entire system.  ? Involved in the design of application using Model View Control MVC Architecture and designed Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  ? Responsible to ensure compliance with J2EE framework and enhance Reuse and Portability of the application by using various design patterns like Front Controllers, Facades, Value Object, Business Delegate, Service Locators, DAO.  ? Extensively used Spring MVC framework to develop the web layer for the application.  ? Implemented spring configuration files for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using spring's Dependency Injection.  ? Developed different modules using Servlets, spring, Hibernate and JMS.  ? Designed and implemented the rules of Business Logic using spring and EJB's.  ? Extensively involved in the development of persistence layer using Hibernate and used SQL server as backend database.  ? Designed JSP pages. Designed and developed the form beans and action classes associated with each JSP page and developed several custom tags.  ? Extensively used JavaScript for client side data validation.  ? XML SAX and DOM API, JDOM, XSLT was used for informative view representation.  ? Responsible for data validation on the Client side by using JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Interacted with database using JDBC and java.sql package.  ? Extensively developed Stored Procedures and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Responsible for deploying the entire application on WebLogic Application Server 9.2.  ? Used JUnit for writing several test cases and extensively involved in the testing of entire application in various environments.  ? Documented all phases of the project and implemented system changes in accordance with the objectives and requirements and developed user documentation.  ? Managed the documentation and coding of entire system using CVS.  Technologies Used: Java, J2EE, EJB, spring 2.5, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, Eclipse 3.3, JDBC,  JMS, JNDI, UML, Rational Rose, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Server 2008, XML, XSLT, XSD, RAD, WebLogic 9.2, JUnit,  HTML/DHTML, Concurrent Version System CVS, UNIX and Windows. Jr. Java Developer Vipany Management Consulting Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2014 to November 2014 Core Java, highly concurrent Multithreaded coding.  ? Design components based on Object Oriented Design using UML.  ? Worked closely with the Business/Users team in proposing technical requirements.  ? Developed and executed Test cases using unit testing JUnit integration testing.  ? Participated in demonstration of the applications to the Business team during Testing and UAT phase.  ? Involved in bug fixing, Client requested enhancements during the maintenance.  ? Developed SQL and PL/SQL scripts for Affiliation and Groups module.  ? Extensively worked on CVS version control tool.  ? Developed Web Services using Apache Axis.  ? Extensively worked with SQL Database.  ? Responsible for deployment of application at development and testing environments.  ? Developed clients for Web Services and tested it using SOAPUI.  ? Developed various helper classes for the persistent in correlation with Hibernate.  ? Applied CSS Cascading Style Sheets for entire site for standardization of the site    Technologies Used: Java/j2ee, Oracle 11g, PLSQL, HTML, CSS, WebLogic Application server 10, Toad, PVCS Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science New Mexico State University - Las Cruces, NM 2018 Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2014 Skills Eclipse (3 years), Html (4 years), Java (4 years), Pl/sql (4 years), Sql (4 years)