Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - T-Mobile Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA March 2018 to Present Description: T-Mobile, Inc., provides mobile communications services in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands. The company offers voice, messaging, and data services to 72.6 million customers in the post-paid, prepaid, and wholesale markets. It also provides wireless devices, including smartphones, tablets, and other mobile communication devices, as well as accessories that are manufactured by various suppliers. In addition, the company offers services, devices, and accessories under the T-Mobile and MetroPCS brands through its owned and operated retail stores, third party distributors, and its Websites. It also sells its devices to dealers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed the application based on AngularJS MVC architecture.  • Developed UI using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap responsive framework and JSP for interactive cross-browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages.  • Used AngularJS for DOM Manipulation, Filters, and Directives.  • Worked on AngularJS routes using $scope object to create a view using controllers.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using AngularJS.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Created architecture towards a micro-services approach using RESTful java web-services framework.  • Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading.  • Worked on Spring MVC for code enhancements.  • Applied Spring IOC to facilitate Dependency Injection.  • Implemented Spring Batch and Spring Task Scheduler to automate importing data from CSV files sent from the client into DB2 database.  • Generating Scala and java classes from the respective APIs so that they can be incorporated into the overall application.  • Coded Rest API for Product service using spring boot.  • Used Hibernate for generating entities and writing HQL queries.  • Created automated test cases for the web application using Selenium.  • Wrote SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers, packages on Oracle Database.  • Built-in support for concurrent programming by running multiple threads  • Developed application based on document-based Database like DynamoDB.  • Worked on Rest Web services, to specify the business behaviors and backend calls.  • Integrating Microservices and JSP's using Ajax and jersey client based on the Rest template which is generated using Swagger.  • Used GIT for code management and JENKINS for continuous integration.  • Used Log4j to record the log messages to the log files.    Environment: Spring 2.x, Spring Batch, Web Services, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, GWT, Angular JS, React JS, Node-RED, SOAP UI, XML, WSDL, Java 1.8, J2EE, Scala, Kafka, Agile Methodology, Rally processes, GIT, Design Patterns, PL/SQL, JSON, Junit, Maven, intellij, IDE, CVS, NOSQL. Java/J2EE Developer ARRIS - Phoenix, AZ January 2016 to February 2018 Description: Arris International Plc is a telecommunications equipment manufacturing company incorporated in England and Wales that provides cable operators with high-speed data, video and telephony systems for homes and businesses.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed system specifications and business requirements of end clients and used Agile Methodology.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) for one of the projects.  • Used Multi-threading and concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  • Extensively involved in the development of the Agent module, which involved Multi-threading and GUI for this product, which was developed in Swing.  • Created and injected Spring Services, Spring Controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Heavily used Spring Inheritance, Auto-wiring, Core Container, Security, AOP, ORM modules as part of migration from EJB to Spring, Spring Quartz for scheduling tasks to generate reports and emails to clients.  • Used a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers  • Implemented Authentication & Authorization with Site Minder and Spring Security and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks  • Worked within SOA based enterprise framework to build web services for Middle Tier processing.  • Used Streams and Lambda expressions available as part of Java 1.8 to store and process the data.  • Worked on Java 1.8 upgrade using new library for refactoring, lambda, functional interfaces, streams -parallel processing and aggregations.  • Used Java 1.8 feature, Stream API and Date time API to facilitate the pipeline processing.  • Good working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, EBS, ELB, S3, RDS, VPC, SNS, Route 53, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch,  • Designed and developed the UI using spring view component HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid. Client-Side code were written in React js, jQuery and server-Side Code were developed using MVC4  • Responsible for implementation of java integration components for JBPM and DROOLs.  • Used Node-RED for wiring together hardware devices. Created JavaScript functions using its flow editor.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 by consuming Restful web services & Used Angular 2.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Extensively used Hibernate Relational mappings (One-To-Many, Many-To-Many) in the secondary project.  • Extensively worked on Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  • Involved in the development of underwriting process, which involves communications without side systems using Rabbit MQ and JMS ( Java Messaging Service)  • Maintained, structured, and surveyed documents within the NoSQL MongoDB database, ensuring data integrity, correcting anomalies, and increasing the overall maintainability of the database  • Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, and Jenkins Jobs.  • Developed Protractor test classes for end to end testing in Front end.  • Used GIT as version management, JIRA for defect management system  • Proficient in writing Selenium Web Driver automation scripts in JAVA using Maven, Cucumber, and TestNG Automation Testing for Web Applications  • Written highly referenced blog posts on Error Handling in Scala and Problems Scala Fixes.  • Tests developed in Eclipse to start and to stop the selenium server and to execute the tests in browser.    Environment: Web Services, Spring 4.x, Spring Batch, Rabbit MQ, Hibernate 5.0.7, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, GWT, Angular JS, React JS, Node-RED, SOAP UI, XML, WSDL, Java 1.8, J2EE, Scala, Kafka, Agile Methodology, JIRA processes, GIT, Design Patterns, PL/SQL, Junit, WebSphere MQ, Maven, Eclipse IDE, CVS, Selenium, Cucumber, Oracle 11g.    Client: Polaris,  Location: Chennai, India Java/UI Developer AJAX and CSS January 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding and analyzing the requirements of the project.  • Implemented server-side programs by using Servlets and JSP.  • Designed, developed and User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  • Used JavaScript to perform Client-Side Validation.  • Implemented using the MVC design pattern.  • Used JDBC to interact with the underlying MySQL Database.  • Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Involved in Unit testing for various components.  • Used Log4J for any logging purposes during the development of the application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Eclipse, JUnit, MVC, Apache Tomcat and MySQL. Education Masters California State University - Los Angeles, CA Bachelor's in electrical engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills DATABASE (4 years), J2EE (4 years), JAVA (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), JUNIT (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS  ECLIPSE (4 years), J2EE (4 years), JAVA (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), JSP (4 years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Languages - Java 1.5, 1.6 1.7, Java 1.8, JavaScript, SQL, PLSQL, HTML, XML/JSON  • Technologies - J2EE (EJB, JNDI, JDBC, JMS, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JPA, JavaBeans)  • Web Services - (REST & SOAP)  • Frameworks - Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Angular JS.  • IDEs - Eclipse, Net Beans.  • Web / Application Servers - Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic.  • Database Tech/Tools - Oracle, My SQL.  • Build/ source Tools - Maven, JUnit, Log4j, GIT.