Java Intern <span class="hl">Java</span> Intern Java Intern Jersey City, NJ • A motivated proactive professional 4+ years of Experience, coupled with strong analytical and adaptive skills in implementing various business applications and products using JAVA/J2EE Technologies and Web Technologies for enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in designing both Frontend & Backend applications using Java, J2EE Web frameworks including core Java concepts, JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, Script, jQuery.  • Experience in working with Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, IBM Web sphere (WAS), and Log 4j for logging.  • Experienced with wide range of software development environments, including Java, J2EE, Spring Cloud, Spring boot micro Services, SOA, Web Services - (SOAP/REST), RDBMS, NoSQL, E-Commerce, Mobile, Cloud Foundry and Spring Boot Micro services.  • Experience in administering cloud tools Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and build tools like ANT and Maven.  • Experience in working with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model.  • Capable of quick learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team with good communication and inter personnel skills.  • Ambitious, have strong work ethic, have a strong willingness to learn and highly dedicated, strong Analytical skills, strong in communication.  • Expert in Core Java and implementing concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections in various projects.  • Worked on testing and deployment automation with Docker, Jenkins, AWS and Ansible.Experienced with Deploying applications on to production servers, configuring various parameters of servers like Apache Tomcat, web logic, Web sphere.  • Strong experience with Version Control like GitHub, SVN and CVS. Experienced in deploying applications on Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, and WebLogic.  • Used Maven and Jenkins as build tool and deploying the application using Kafka.Experience in publishing and consuming Web Services (RESTful/SOAP).  • Worked in developing Web Services (SOAP) using JAX-WS. Familiar with Oracle Database, SQL Server, h2 and some knowledge of NoSQLand experience in web applications servers including Apache Tomcat, WebLogic Server.  • Experienced in using Spring Framework (Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO) and Hibernate framework for ORM  • Expertise in developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and Angular JS with webpage cross browser compatibility and responsive web design and have knowledge on Server scripting language like Node JS.  • Experience in publishing and consuming Web Services (RESTful/SOAP) and for implementing webservices used JSON, XML, and XSL.  • Extensive experience working with AJAX framework and single page web applications using AngularJS.Working knowledge of PL/SQL and databases like MySQL Server, Oracle 10g/11g and tools like oracle SQL Developer.  • Experience in using IDE's like Eclipse and NetBeans, integration with Maven Work Experience Java Intern SiriusXM February 2018 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology.  • Experience writing angular.js code for developing Single page applications (SPA) used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules.  • Developed java modules implementing business rules and workflows using Spring Boot. Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Developed the application using Core Java, Multi-threading, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, J2EE, Hibernate and Web Services REST.  • Diverse experience in utilizing tools like N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Cassandra, My SQL and Restful Web Services.  • Unit testing of developed product features using JUnit and Mockito frameworks as part of development cycle and Angular 2 MVC framework that connects to internal RESTful API's.  • Good knowledge on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon Cloud Services like Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  • Extensive experience on modern front-end template frameworks for JavaScript including Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS etc.  • Used HTML, CSS, Spring MVC, JSP, and JQuery, JavaScript, React.js, Angular 2, Node.js, Bootstrap in the development and the designing the UI.  • Support Client-side libraries like angular 2.0, 4.0 and database connection like MySQL through the Node base Microservices and have them connected with API calls  • Involved in generating Hibernate Configurations files, hibernate mapping files and Hibernate Data Objects to communicate data in persistence layer.  • Directed towards full stack development using both front-end driven and core concepts. Equipped utilizing Spring Framework.  • Involved in test-cases using JUnit, debugging Implementation and deployment activities.Successfully involved in test driven development model using JUnit.  Environment:Core Java 7, Java8, AWS, J2EE, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, Angular 2, Microservices, Jenkins, Maven, Git, XML, Spring Web Services, Spring Boot, CSS3, IBM WebSphere, TDD, Red Hat JBoss Fuse, NoSQL, CI/CD, JSP, SOAP UI, HTML5, React Js, JBoss Fuse Server, API, ANT, JSF, PL/SQL, node.js, Junit, Linux. Java Software Engineer WIPRO May 2015 to December 2016 INDIA    Responsibilities:  • Developed multi-tiered web-application using JAVA EE standards.Used Spring for bean management across layers and for loading database configuration and hibernate mapping files, created data source instance for instantiating HibernateDaoSupport Session Factory object.  • Implemented the project using the Spring Framework (used Spring IOC and Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Boot).  • Used annotation based configuration in spring.Used Hibernate for object Relational Mapping and used JPA for annotations.  • Extensively worked on java 8 features like Lambda Expression, Functional Interface and Stream API.Involved in implementing the rich user interface using JSP Standard Tag Libraries and worked with custom tags  • Used Spring Boot to wrap the application in "Microservices" architecture.Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment.  • Designed and developed Web Services to store and retrieve user profile information from database. Used RESTful Web Services for web services communication.  • Used GIT as the version control system and Maven for building the application.  • Used scrum methodology for iterative development of the project and familiar with development using Agile methodology.  • Develop and execute Unit Test plans using JUnit, ensuring that results are documented and reviewed with Quality Assurance teams responsible for integrated testing.  • Provided extensive pre-delivery support using Bug Fixing and Code Reviews.    Environment:Spring (IOC, AOP), Hibernate, JSP, Java 8, RESTful Web Services, WSDL, Oracle 10g, JUnit, Log4j,  Maven, Microservice, Agile methodology, GIT, Eclipse. Java Developer Flagbits Technologies - IN May 2013 to April 2015 India    Job Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the implementation of application system with Core Java and Spring Framework.  • Involved in all phases of the end-to-end implementation project requirements gathering, analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Implemented major concepts of Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, MVC, Spring Framework, Java Beans and XML.  • Implemented the application using concrete principles lain down by design patterns such as Singleton.  • Worked on JDBC framework encapsulated with Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to connect to database.  • Experienced in writing SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL Server.  • Developed presentation layer with JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.Used Postman to test transmission of REST API.    Environment:Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, MVC, Spring Framework, Java Beans, XML, Singleton, Data Access Object (DAO), SQL Server, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Postman Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Relevant New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY December 2018 Relevant Maharishi Dayanand University May 2013 Skills JDK (1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8), Servlets 2.4, JSP 1.2/2.0, HTML5, EJB 2.0/3.0, JDBC, Swing, XML (DTD & Schema), Java Beans, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), JAXP (DOM-SAX), Web services (SOAP, WSDL), AJAX (JQuery framework). (3 years), Java, C# .net, PL/SQL, HTML, Python, Oracle 10g/9.x/8.x, DB2, MySQL, MS Access, NoSQL and SQL. (3 years), DBC, Servlet, Spring MVC. Restful SOAP (SOA and WSDL), AJAX, Microservices, JSON, SOAP, AWS, JMS, JAXB, BootStrap, AngularJS, XHTML, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML (4 years), MS SQL Server, MS Access, MySQL, Oracle 10g (4 years), Eclipse, Net Beans, Visual Studio (4 years), Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate (4 years), Microsoft Windows, Linux, Mac OS (4 years)