Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - PNC Technologies Cleveland, OH Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer PNC Technologies - Strongsville, OH December 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed the application architecture of the System is based on Spring MVC (Model View Controller) and J2EE specifications.  ? Developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  ? Troubleshoot and debug Hadoop ecosystem run-time issues  ? Implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations, and Spring integration with Hibernate.  ? Extensively worked on of Spring & IOC, AOP, Spring MVC and springs integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  ? Developed SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  ? Designed and developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  ? Worked on writing JUnit Test cases for Java and J2EE applications.  ? Used SCRUM for agile development and participate in team-led solutions, reviewing peer's code for quality and completeness.  ? Worked on Eclipse or IntelliJ IDE's, various plug-ins, Maven, Nexus, Git.  ? Worked on Spring Security for application authentication.  ? Manage, integrate and secure ART store's services in the cloud (AWS, Cloud Bees, and JIRA etc.).  ? Worked on Spring framework, Spring Boot, Web service (REST) frameworks, web service security, Docker, IBM MQ, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, XML, JSON, Messaging framework.  ? Worked on Spring Quartz framework and developed various quartz jobs.  ? Responsible to support the operations, monitoring, reporting according to the requirement of the higher management team by making Splunk Dashboards.  ? Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring boot, Spring RESTFUL template.  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  ? Implemented the application using design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  ? Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query, and Criteria.  ? Implemented and developed UI components using Angular JS features like Dependency Injection, Models, data binding, and controllers.  ? Developed Interactive web pages using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Administered and deployed applications into WebSphere Application Server.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for the reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  ? Developed Spring Quartz jobs to run the backend jobs and generated reports.  Environment: Java 8, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Eclipse IDE, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Script, Agile, AngularJS, HTML 4.0, CSS, JMS, JAXP (SAX & DOM), Oracle 11g, WebSphere Application Server, Eclipse/RAD 8.0, Oracle 11g, SOAP, RUP, Maven, Junit, XML, Web Services, Hadoop Ecosystem, GIT Java Developer Asurion - Nashville, TN September 2017 to November 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed UI Components using Angular.Js, Bootstrap, HTML, Java Script and CSS.  ? Used Angular-JS, AJAX for asynchronous validations for the input fields of the forms with the data existed in the database.  ? Created single page applications with nested and multiple views using Angular UI-router, custom directives for reusable components used in the application.  ? Extensively used Core Java collections, Generics, Exception handling, Design patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information also developed Services, Business Delegate, POJO, Controller, and DAO.  ? Create RFP (Request for Proposal) Microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Created entities in Scala and Java along with named queries to interact with the database.  ? Used Scala collection framework to store and process the complex Customer information.  ? Extensively Implemented Spring boot, Dependency Injection (DI) and aspect-oriented programming (AOP) features along with hibernating.  ? Used JMS ( Java Mailing Service) API to mail notifications upon the success or failure when the backend processes are completed and to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  ? Wrote Hibernate Criteria queries for data retrievals and have performed the ORM mappings to map java entities to database tables.  ? Used SCRUM for agile development and participate in team-led solutions, reviewing peer's code for quality and completeness.  ? Configured Spring declarative transaction manager and implemented transaction management in DAO layer.  ? Implemented Restful web services using Rest Easy (JAX-RS).  ? Implemented RESTFUL web services using spring boot and consumed using spring REST services. Published Rest services for performing CRUD operations from the database.  ? Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML and WS-Security for authenticating the REST messages along with encryption and decryption.  ? Designed and implemented a stream filtering system on top of Apache Kafka to reduce stream size.  ? Performed code build using MAVEN.  ? Involved in setting up AWS services with EC2 instances, S3 bucket, IAM, RDS took part in deploying the application in AWS.  ? Worked on writing and retrieving files to and from AWS S3 bucket for UI to render data faster that involves complex and time-consuming server-side logic.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the actual functionality.  ? Worked on Atlassian products such as Git for Version control, Source tree, Jira for project tracking, Confluence for project Wiki.  Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Struts, Spring 4.3, Spring boot, Spring AOP, Scala, Hibernate 4, JMS, JSF, MAVEN, REST, log4j, JUnit, Jenkins, Gradle, Hadoop Ecosystem, XML, Ajax, XSD, javaScript, jQuery, Angular-JS 1.5, Mongo DB, Linux, Tomcat, Spring Tool Suite(STS), IBM RAD, Jenkins Java Developer Info View Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2015 to July 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed the business domain layer using Java, J2EE, JDBC and used DAO, Transfer Objects, Singleton, Factory and Front Controller design patterns.  ? Developed Struts Framework Action Servlets classes for Controller and developed Form Beans for transferring data between Action class and the View Layer.  ? Developed the front-end UI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Implemented Struts Validators framework to validate the data.  ? Developed Stored Procedures in the Oracle 9i database.  ? Involved in writing unit test plans and developing test cases using Junit.  ? Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces (JSF), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), and XML.  ? Developed the Enterprise Java Beans (Stateless Session beans) to handle different transactions such as online funds transfer, bill payments to the service provider.  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  ? Extensively worked on MQ Series using point-point, publisher/subscriber messaging Domains for implementing Exchange of information through Messages.  ? Developed XML documents and generated XSL files for Payment Transaction and Reserve Transaction systems.  ? Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Transfer Object, and SOA.  ? Worked closely with team members to determine how the application is supported in production, including back-ups, disaster recovery and system performance.  ? Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, HTML, jQuery UI, jQuery 1.1, Struts 2, EJB 3, Hibernate, XML, JavaScript, Web services, Servlets, Oracle, HTML, JUnit, Eclipse, LDAP, Apache Commons Libraries, WebLogic Application Server Software Engineer Siemens Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2013 to January 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the extensive usage of HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, and Ajax for client-side development and validations.  ? Developed dynamic Emails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML and CSS.  ? Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from backend systems).  ? Created Statistical Reports in Jasper using XLS sheet as Data Source and Decision reports for viewing the data using MySQL database as data source.  ? Developed the User Interface using Swing, UI components in JSP and HTML.  ? Database schema design development and coding of DDL and DML statements, functions.  ? Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries  ? Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  ? Used Firebug for application webpage troubleshooting and Eclipse debugger for the bug fixes. Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Java, Spring, Web Services, JSP, MySQL, jQuery Education Master's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology Kent State University - Kent, OH 2017 Bachelors' Degree in Electronics & Communication Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engineering JNT University 2014