Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - HSBC New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Developer HSBC - New York, NY September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Efficient in using J2EE Frameworks like Struts, Restful Web Services, Hibernate, Spring Technologies.  • Configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Microservices and lambda functions using Jenkins CI/CD serve & Prepare build scripts for projects using Maven/Gradle.  • Involved in design, development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Core Java, Java Collection Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, XML, JSON, JavaScript.  • Developed the application using JSF Spring framework that used MVC architecture with JSP as the view.  • Assisted in frontend development with GWT, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and wrote Java code to interact with third party JSON services.  • Implemented OAuth for authentication-based web application and accessed their APIs for fetching data services.  • Involved in CI/CD process using GIT, NEXUS, Jenkins Job Creation, Maven Build create Docker image and Deploy in PCF environment.  • Designed the Front-end Screens using JSP, Servlets, HTML and JavaScript. We are using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS, and Java Script as front-end technologies to develop the portals.  • Worked with Zookeeper, Kafka and created topics and stored the data in to No-SQL Cassandra for storing Big data using Microservices  • Implementation of new post login navigation system and new Branding experience using Microservices (Spring boot, Java/J2EE and JSON logic  • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on Rabbit MQ synchronously and asynchronously.  • Designed and created Cassandra tables as data repository to host transactions and implemented Kafka consumers move transaction data from Kafka to Cassandra & Worked closely with Cassandra DBA to configure and deploy Cassandra & has Experience on automation testing tools like SeeTest Continuous Testing Platform & Calabash.  • Developed microservices which renders the authenticated customers rewards information using spring boot, REST, Java/J2EE.  • Developed code changes using Core Java, J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JMS, EJB's, Spring, Eclipse Link JPA, Hibernate JPA, Oracle SQL's, Perl/Unix Scripts  • Built Restful web services securely using Spring MVC framework and Spring boot & hands on experience on Appium automation tool for testing mobile applications  • Development of a Continuous integration/Continuous delivery (CI/CD) infrastructure using Agile development methodologies for large scale JAVA.  • Integrated Kubernetes with network, storage, and security to provide comprehensive infrastructure and orchestrated container across multiple hosts.  • Created Docker images using a Docker file & Worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing docker volumes and experienced with Docker container service  • Worked on Database's Cassandra Java API to interact with the Cassandra Cluster & Used rest endpoint URLs in the service layer to get the data from the backend in Jason format.  • Used JSP, jQuery, AJAX and JSON in implementing presentation layer, validation components and navigation to controller layer using Spring MVC.  • Written the Kafka producer in Java, to consume the messages from JMS Queues and used the AVRO Serialization to send the stream into Kafka brokers for partitioning and distributing in cluster.  • Implemented continuous integration web hooks and workflows around Jenkins to automate the dev test deploy workflow around Puppet codebase.  • Designed and developed XML configuration-based Spring REST web services using Spring REST framework  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes. Providing JSON response to UI layer through spring MVC.  • Experience in implementing AWS lambda to run servers without managing them and to trigger run code by S3 and SNS.  • Implemented Restful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Developed CI/CD solutions for running an AngularJS application from a Tomcat container using Jenkins  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC and Apache Kafka. Used Angular JS and JBPM for making restful API calls and data binding  • Implementing business logic in service levels of the spring MVC pattern. Built the application using MAVEN and WebSphere application server 8.5 for deploying EAR files & Created CI/CD Jenkins for deployment.  • Used REST and SOAP UI for testing web service for server-side changes & Involved in deployment process of Tomcat/Web logic Servers.  • Created bean XML files and row mappers to map tables and fields in the database & Worked on package manager tools such as Bower, and task runner tools such as GruntJS.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Extensively worked on every module of spring framework which includes Spring-Core, Spring-Context, Spring-DAO, Spring-JDBC, Spring-ORM, Spring-JMS, Spring-Web Services and Spring-AO  • Used JSP, jQuery, AJAX and JSON in implementing presentation layer, validation components and navigation to controller layer using Spring MVC.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC and Apache Kafka.  • Using Java Persistence API (JPA) for accessing, persisting, and managing data between Java Objects/ classes and a relational database.  • CloudFormation, Cloud Trail services and CloudFront to setup and manage cached content delivery. Created Elastic load balancers (ELB)and used Route53 with failover and latency options for high availability and fault tolerance.  • Worked with Mongo DB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in Mongo DB replica set & Worked on migration Microsoft azure service to AWS service for a project.  • Worked on Mongo DB concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, sharing, replication, schema design. Sr. Java Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA September 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:    • Worked on test-driven development, continuous integration systems, and Agile software development.  • Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc. using MVC.  • Designed and developed JSP pages using Spring MVC framework and created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Used CDI to bind the lifecycle and interactions of stateful components to well-defined but extensible lifecycle contexts  • Extensively used Spring DATA JPA in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  • Developed Single Page applications using angular JS2, DHTML, CSS, Semantic UI libraries.  • Designed and developed User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular-JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON and Gulp.  • Worked on the front end of the application using technologies such as JSP, JSF, Restful, Face lets and JavaScript.  • Developed Rest API using Node-JS using various modules in node like express.  • Created database tables and implemented SQL Stored Procedures, triggers, and complex queries in MySQL.  • Created RESTful Web service for updating customer data from sent from external systems.  • Involved in writing RESTful Web Services for supporting web application consuming those services on different applications.  • Used Node JS for doing non-blocking design operation for server-side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Involved in Development using Spring Java (Back-end), Hibernate (Also SQL) and Junit following Agile Methodologies. Used SVN and Maven for version control.  • Wrote Apache ANT build scripts for building the application and unit test cases using JUnit for performing the unit testing.  • Used Web Services (JAX-WS using Axis 2.0) for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting data from different module and used SAX XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Created/managed Mongo DB collections & Developed Server-side automation using Node.js scripting and connecting different types of SQL stores.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management in AWS beanstalk.  • Used spring frame work Spring AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications  • Developed server-side common utilities for the application and the front-end dynamic web pages using JSP, JavaScript and HTML Developed EJB components encapsulating business logic.  • Worked on tools like GIT and JIRA for version control and bug tracking.  • Worked closely with DevOps team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Maven and GIT and deployed Rest API Application in AWS Cloud & Used Mockito to test individual methods for unit testing  • User Docker as the container technology with Spring Boot REST API and worked on creating this application for POC where micro services communicated through the API. Java Developer Barclays - Pune, Maharashtra January 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for coding with the use of Object-Oriented Principles and implementing MVC with JSP, Struts & Used Spring Framework extensively in all layers of the application including UI, backend and integration. Dao's were implemented using IBATIS, Hibernate.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, REST, Apache CXF while integrating with the license server to validate the licenses.  • Developed the Spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application and Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Implemented the front end using JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, Ext.JS, React JS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and used AJAX for dynamic web content.  • Wrote the front-end look and appearance for the screens using Java, Core Java, NO SQL, AWS, Bootstrap, Ext.JS, JavaScript, AJAX, and jQuery and Developed web pages with JSP, JSF, jQuery, AJAX, java scripts & Developed code using Core Java to implement technical enhancement following Java Standards  • Used JPA ( Java Persistence API) with Hibernate as Persistence provider for Object Relational mapping.  • Developed and implemented Swing, Spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Used Apache camel for end-to-end messaging. Worked in configuration of APACHE CAMEL and executing routes, integrating applications using Red Hat Jboss Fuse  • Data Warehouse (DW) data integrated from different sources in different format (PDF, TIFF, JPEG, web crawl and RDBMS data MySQL, oracle, SQL server etc.)  • Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications and Used MongoDB database high availability concepts with data replication, for the failover design.  • Also wrote complex PL/SQL queries using Joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, and Indexes in Data Access Layer.  • Participated in developing web pages using JSP, JavaScript and Google Web Toolkit, DWR (Ajax Framework) for better user interface experience & Worked as backend developer of this app using Nodejs, Socket io and mongo dB.MQ  • Implemented the project using JAX-WS based Web Services using WSDL, UDDI, and SOAP to communicate with other systems.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system and Worked on a large-scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions Education Bachelor's in computer science engineering in computer science engineering University of Mumbai 2013 Skills Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring