Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - DRW Holdings Chicago, IL • Having 5+ years of experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment of desktop, Enterprise and Web based applications using Java, J2EE technologies.  • Strong application development experience in using Agile Software Development methodologies like Scrum, Sprint and Traditional software models like Waterfall and TDD.  • Expertise in developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap with webpage cross browser compatibility and responsive web design and Server scripting language like Node JS, Backbone.Js.  • Expertise in Web Front End Technologies Struts, Tag Libraries and Struts custom validation rules, Tiles, JSTL, Java Script, DHTML and XML/XSL.  • Developed web-based enterprise applications using core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), MVC framework (Struts, Spring MVC), SQL and Object-Oriented Programming techniques.  • Proficient in core java concepts like Collection Framework, Multi-threading, Generics, Annotations, Serialization, Thread pools, JavaBeans, Externalization.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring (Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Batch), JSF, AJAX frameworks (Rich Faces, My Faces) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate, IBATIS.  • Expertise XML technologies like DTD, XSD, XSLT and various parsers like DOM, SAX and JAXB.  • Extensive experience working with RDBMS such as MySQL, MS SQL Server, Teradata, DB2, Oracle.  • Experience in working with the NoSQL Database like MongoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  • Expertise at JDBC API for connection and access to databases.  • Expertise in Creating Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate Mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Proficient in developing Web Services, related technologies & frame works: WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI and generating client's client using Eclipse for Web Services consumption.  • Knowledge on Java8 features like lambda expressions and Java Stream API.  • Experience with and solid understanding of MicroServices.  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Worked on deployment, installation, configuration and issues with Application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, BEA WebLogic and JBoss Enterprise Application Server.  • Experience in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Data Access Object and Business Delegate.  • Experienced in developing UML diagrams with Star UML, Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio.  • Experience on different IDEs such as RAD, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, and IntelliJ, WebStorm.  • Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.  • Subversion SVN, CVS, GIT and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.  • Experienced in transferring data from different data sources into HDFS systems using Kafka producers, consumers and Kafka brokers  • Configured auto-scaling groups for applications like Elastic search and Kafka to scale automatically when needed.  • Hands on experience in building tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle.  • Extensively used Apache Camel for transformation and used both Java DSL and XML DSL.  • Extensively worked on Pivotal Tracker and JIRA tools for tracking stories in a Project in a different methodology of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Used Apache POI to convert XML files to Excel files and to read Excel files.  • Configured and created application log files using Log4J to trace required application messages.  • Having Experience on UNIX, Linux commands and Deployment of Applications in Server and ability to work effectively on Windows platforms.  • Ability to work effectively in cross-functional team environments and experience of providing training to business user. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer DRW Holdings - Chicago, IL May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created applications, connection pools, deployment of JSPs, Servlets, and EJBs in WebSphere.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular 6 and Node JS.  • Enhanced application performance by Angular 6 Component based development in view of future Angular framework transitions.  • Experience with creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and SOA services.  • Used Build Tool Maven for Developing Kafka Ingestion and Spark- Scala project.  • Ensured proper working of Micro services by configuring micro services using Naming Servers (Eureka).  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as customer performs application tasks.  • Create POC and educated application teams to take advantage of Automatic maintenance, STMM and Monitor collect settings enhancements available in DB2 V9.7.  • Designed roles and groups using AWS Identity Access Management ( IAM ) maintained user accounts , RDS, Route 53, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS & SNS services in AWS.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Installed Kafka cluster with separate nodes for brokers.  • Used API Gateway for easily migrate from one API Gateway to other which increase portability.  • Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate.  • Proficient in development and deployment of Micro services using Spring Cloud & Docker containers.  • Develop innovative and quality solutions by making use of latest tools and technologies like Apache CXF, Spring Core, and Spring AOP.  • Developed REST architecture based web services using JAX-RS 2.0 to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Engaged with Eclipse for visually designing, constructing, testing and deploying J2EE application and web services.  • Interacted with QA Automation team and managers to nail down the technical problems.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • The UI is enriched with JQuery JavaScript library that facilitates dynamic and asynchronous screen manipulation and AJAX request.  • Worked extensively on features of DB2 Client, DB2 Connect and IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using Web sphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  • Developed a Filter View & back-end components with the Spring MVC, JSTL, Dojo, JQuery, JSTL  • Was involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content  • Developed pom.xml for the build of the application using Maven.  • Involved in the design and development of application built in Java/J2EE using Struts, Spring and Hibernate.  • Building Reusable services and API's for future use.  • Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  • Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Developed REST micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Docker and deployed them to AWS.  • Developed SQL queries, Joins with JDBC API, Hibernate ORM to access data.  • Designed and implemented four Agile Scrum teams for product development.  • Worked on Redux with React to handle large chunks of data for the better performance.  • Implementation of API Proxy security and data protection.  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Involved in writing services using EJB in WSDL.  • Involved developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas, and JAXP.  • Prepared the REST and SOAP based service calls depending on the data passing to the web service.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Object) using Hibernate as ORM to interact with Oracle database.  • Designed and developed Generate PDF functionality using spring framework.  • Used Value Objects, Service Locator and Singleton design patterns.  • Design and develop GUI and back-end components for analysis and collaboration software in Google Web Toolkit, Java and XML in a UNIX environment.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JQuery, AJAX, Sencha, ExtJS, JavaScript, Oracle, Crud, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Rest, Eclipse, Web logic, Kafka, ClearCase, Junit, Agile, UML JSP, JSTL, JAX-RS 2.0, Servlet, Maven, Itext, GWT, Jasper report, ILOG, Web 2.0, SOA. Jr. Java Developer Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Palo Alto, CA January 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile environment using JIRA as a tool for tracking user stories and issues throughout the project.  • Business layer is built using Spring Boot, Spring MVC Spring AOP and the persistent layer uses JPA Hibernate.  • Rest architecture-based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers and used Postman to test the web service responses.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSTL, AJAX, Java Script, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Angular 2.  • Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services using JAX-RS.  • Used Postman Client for testing REST WebServices and Swagger for documenting the services.  • Produced and consumed centralized Spring Restful Web Services for Enterprise and web applications to consume in JSON format and in trusted client-server environment.  • Extensively used MySQL through JPA.  • Worked on Git as version control management and JIRA as Defect management for bug, issue tracking of application. Used Jenkins for CI/CD process.  • Hands on experience with Testing application using Junit and Mockito.  • Used Maven, Jenkins as build tools.  Environment: J2SE, J2EE, Swing, AWT, Spring4.0, Spring REST, Log4j, Junit, REST, SOAP, XML, Jersey, ANT, Linux, JDBC, MySQL, SQL, WebSphere, Struts, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Eclipse, JIRA, AGILE/SCRUM, GIT, Windows, Unix/Linux Shell Scripting. Jr. Java Developer Ramnet Communications Pvt Ltd August 2014 to July 2016 Location: Telangana, India    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Deliver new and complex high-quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements.  • Designing the front end using JSP, jQuery, CSS and Html as per the requirements that are provided.  • Extensively used jQuery selectors, events, Traversal and jQuery AJAX with JSON Objects.  • Developed Responsive web application for backend system using Angular JS with HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Spring AOP to enable the log interfaces and cross cutting concerns.  • Developed payment flow using AJAX partial page refresh, validation and dynamic drop-down list.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in Java/J2EE and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java.  • Used spring validation and wrote validation rules.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects.  • Implemented the application following the J2EE best practices and patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Façade, MVC and DAO.  • Developed Business components using Java Objects and used Hibernate framework to map the Java classes to the database.  • Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  • Designed and implemented customized exception handling to handle the exceptions in the application.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Implemented Hibernate taking advantage of Java features like annotation metadata, auto wiring specification that is used to implement the DAO layer with Hibernate Entity Manager's Session Factory, HQL, and SQL.  • Used Spring IOC framework to integrate with Hibernate.  Environment: HTML5, CSS Angular JS, Bootstrap, Spring MVC, Hibernate ORM, WebSphere Application server, JSP, jQuery, JSF Framework, JDBC, Hibernate, XML, REST, Junit, Log4j, Oracle10g, UNIX, Ant, Agile Scrum, JBoss Application Server, Jenkins. Education Masters of science in computer science University of Illinois Bachelors in computer science Jawaharlal Nehru technological university Skills AJAX (4 years), ANT (3 years), Bootstrap (2 years), database (2 years), Eclipse (2 years), HTML (2 years), HTML5 (3 years), J2EE (4 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (2 years), JDBC (4 years), JSP (4 years), JUnit (4 years), Oracle (2 years), Servlets (2 years), SQL (4 years), testing (4 years), UNIX (4 years), WebSphere. (4 years), xml (4 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, Core Java, JEE, Angular, Soap Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows, Linux and UNIX  Database  SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, Mongo DB,  JavaScript Frameworks Angular JS/ Angular 6    Programming Languages  C, C++, Java, PHP, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Script  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, JPA, JDBC, JSP, Applets    Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, XML  Web & Application Servers  Oracle WebLogic 10.x/9.x, IBM WebSphere 8.x/6.x, Apache Tomcat 8.0/7.x/6.x  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM    Software Visual Studio, Rational Rose and Microsoft Office  Build Tools  Maven, Gradle, ANT  IDEs Eclipse IDE, Spring Tool Suite (STS)    Testing Tools JUnit, Mockito, Mocha, Chai, Selenium  Frameworks Spring 3.0/4.0, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring Core, JSF, iBatis  Web Services XSD, WSDL, Apache Axis, Restful, JAX RS, JAX WS  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM