Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - JPMC Anywhere ? Having 4+ years of professional IT experience in Project analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of Web Based Applications using Java/J2EE. Actively involved in each phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC)  ? Strong application development experience in using Agile Software Development methodologies like Scrum, Sprint and Traditional software models like Waterfall and TDD.  ? Expertise in developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap with webpage cross browser compatibility and responsive web design and Server scripting language like Node JS, BackboneJS.  ? Expertise in Web Front End Technologies Struts, Tag Libraries and Struts custom validation rules, Tiles, JSTL, Java Script, DHTML and XML/XSL.  ? Developed web-based enterprise applications using core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), MVC framework (Struts, Spring MVC), SQL and Object-Oriented Programming techniques.  ? Proficient in core java concepts like Collection Framework, Multi-threading, Generics, Annotations, Serialization, Thread pools, JavaBeans, Externalization.  ? Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring (Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Batch), JSF, AJAX frameworks (Rich Faces, My Faces) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate, IBATIS.  ? Expertise XML technologies like DTD, XSD, XSLT and various parsers like DOM, SAX and JAXB.  ? Extensive experience working with RDBMS such as MySQL, MS SQL Server, Teradata, DB2, Oracle.  ? Experience in working with the NoSQL Database like MongoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  ? Expertise at JDBC API for connection and access to databases.  ? Expertise in Creating Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate Mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  ? Proficient in developing Web Services, related technologies &frame works: WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI and generating client's client using Eclipse for Web Services consumption.  ? Knowledge on Java8 features like lambda expressions and Java Stream API.  ? Experience with and solid understanding of Microservices.  ? Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elasticsearch, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  ? Worked on deployment, installation, configuration and issues with Application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, BEA WebLogic and JBoss Enterprise Application Server.  ? Experience in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Data Access Object and Business Delegate.  ? Experienced in developing UML diagrams with Star UML, Rational Rose.  ? Experience on different IDEs such as RAD, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, and IntelliJ.  ? Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.  ? Subversion SVN, CVS, GIT and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.  ? Experienced in transferring data from different data sources into HDFS systems using Kafka producers, consumers and Kafka brokers  ? Configured auto-scaling groups for applications like Elasticsearch and Kafka to scale automatically when needed.  ? Hands on experience in building tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle.  ? Extensively used Apache Camel for transformation and used both Java DSL and XML DSL.  ? Extensively worked on JIRA tools for tracking stories in a Project in a different methodology of Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Used Apache POI to convert XML files to Excel files and to read Excel files.  ? Configured and created application log files using Log4J to trace required application messages.  ? Having Experience on UNIX, Linux commands and Deployment of Applications in Server and ability to work effectively on Windows platforms.  ? Ability to work effectively in cross-functional team environments and experience of providing training to business user. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer JPMC - Tampa, FL April 2018 to Present Description: JP Morgan Chase is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.6 trillion and operations worldwide. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small business, commercial banking, financial transaction processing, and asset management.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  ? Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues.  ? Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  ? Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template, using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  ? Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, factory patterns.  ? Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  ? Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security  ? Implemented Batch jobs to deal with Large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  ? Used Hibernate, object relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Used Apache POI for uploading Excel files and optimized the load time by extensively leveraging Java 1.8 lambda expressions, Streams and parallel Streams.  ? Implement Java 1.8 features including Lambda, Advanced for each loop, and Streams.  ? Implemented RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  ? Implemented the REST API's and data transformers using the JAVA connector which involves use Java 1.8 features Lambda and Streams in particular.  ? Involves in the design and development of RESTful Web Services using Apache CXF.  ? Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  ? Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Worked with AWS cloud service in creating EC2 instances and providing them roles and sometimes participated in writing custom policies and deployed applications on Elastic Bean Stalk and EC2.  ? Participated in troubleshooting issues on AWS, Netflix Eureka and Cloud environments.  ? Worked with core java concepts like Collections Framework, Multithreading and Memory management.  ? Develop Docker based microservices deployment modules with Jenkins 2.0  ? Worked with Docker to deploy Microservices in modern containers to increase Isolation.  ? Worked with Spring Ribbon and /Kafka broker service to handle heavy traffic.  ? Involved in developing Hive DDLs to create, alter and drop Hive tables and storm, & Kafka.  ? Used Apache Camel for routing the exchanges between different systems.  ? Used Apache POI to create, modify, and display MS Office files using Java programs.  ? Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment  ? Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and Mockito framework JUnit for unit testing  ? Automate build process through Maven build framework  ? Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  ? Setup the continuous Integration (CI) process for the application using the Jenkins.  ? Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Agile(SCRUM), AngularJS, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Servlet, XML, GIT, JSP, Spring MVC, JDBC, Mockito, JUnit, Maven, IBM WebSphere, BackboneJS, Methodology, Kafka, Restful, Apache POI, Docker, Log4J, Postman, MongoDB, AWS, Java8, Microservices, Mockito, Apache Camel, JIRA, Jenkins and STS. Java/J2EE Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT April 2017 to March 2018 Description: Aetna Inc. is an American managed health care company, which sells traditional and consumer directed health care insurance plans and related services, such as medical, pharmaceutical, dental, behavioral health, long-term care, and disability plans.  Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete SDLC including design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  ? Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  ? Documented detailed technical design documents including class diagrams, technical flow diagrams and sequence diagrams.  ? Responsible for development of Business logic in Core Java.  ? Involved in the front end using JSP, JSTL JQuery, Servlets, HTML, JavaScript, and AJAX.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, Ajax and Java script.  ? Implemented MVC architecture using JSP, Spring, Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.  ? Involved in development of Agent Verification System using Spring MVC framework.  ? Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Used Spring AOP for logging, auditing, transaction management to distinguish business logic from the cross-cutting concerns.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ? Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  ? Interfaced with the MySQL back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  ? Consumed RESTful Services APIs, and Local Storage for Data Persistence.  ? Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware-based API's with Mongo DB integration  ? Implemented MongoDB database concepts such as Locking, Transactions, Indexes, Sharding, Replication, Schema design.  ? Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.  ? Used object storage container to store the secured files and retrieved from API by using Amazon web services (AWS).  ? Designing and developed a data migration strategy and source to target mapping to migrate the data out of the legacy systems into the Cassandra customer DB.  ? Responsible for design of WSDL files and schemas. Designed and hosted SOAP based Web Services on Web Sphere Application Server.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.  ? Implemented quartz jobs for running the batch jobs based on the cron triggers configured in the spring files.  ? Developed Unit /Integration test cases using Junit tool.  ? Used Gradle tools for building and deploying the Web applications.  ? Used JIRA tool for tracking stories progress and follow agile methodology.  ? Used logging techniques provided by Log4j tool for efficient logging and debugging.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (SVN).  ? Involved in Maintenance and Enhancements for the project.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Agile, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Servlets, JSP, Junit, AJAX, JQuery, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, Cassandra, Log4j, Apache POI, RESTful, Mule ESB MongoDB, PL/SQL, web services, AWS, WebSphere Application Server, Apache Camel, Selenium, MySQL, Eclipse, Gradle, Junit, JIRA, SVN. Jr. Java Developer Soft Pro Systems Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to May 2015 Description: This project is mainly an Intranet application meant for employees in the organization. They are Intranet Mailing System, Chatting, File Transfer and Remote Login. This project is based on the client server methodology.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern to this project  ? Developed user interface by creating at least one webpage for each component using Struts web MVC and Action Servlet as front controller for this application  ? Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file  ? Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc. using MVC  ? Developed Single Sign On (SSO) functionality, through which we can run SCM from Oracle Applications  ? Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  ? Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute  ? Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  ? Extensively worked on Oracle for writing complex queries in the business logic layer. Used joins, debugging the SCM related packages and customization  ? Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc. in Oracle Applications    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC, Servlets, Oracle, XML, UML, UNIX, CVS. Education Master's in EE University of New Haven - West Haven, CT January 2016 to December 2017 Skills Java (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), JSP (3 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (3 years), Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring, J2Ee, JEE, Angularjs, Core Java, MVC