Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - T-Mobile Bellevue, WA Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer T-Mobile January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Strong analytical skills and ability to design & develop high performing Java/J2EE applications using frameworks such as Spring & Spring Batch.  • Solid knowledge of high-scale, multi-tenant Web service development, including REST/JSON and Micro-Service patterns with integrating applications.  • Design and implementation of REST APIs, services, system tasks and cloud solutions Implement Docker images to support Development and Testing Teams and their pipelines; distributed Jenkins images.  • Virtualize the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs and configuration automation using Docker container.  • Design and implement scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services.  • Develop the scripts for creating of new snapshots and deletion of old snapshots in Amazon S3.  • Knowledge on setting up the life cycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 bucket data.  • Junit with Mockito and Power Mockito framework for Unit testing of application.  • Collaborate with team members on best practices, code reviews, internal tools and process improvements.  • Manage AWS EC2 instances utilizing Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancing and Glacier for our QA and UAT environments.  • Evangelize new ideas within your team as well as across teams.  • Explore open source or industry standard solutions that could be a fit for the organization.    Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC 3, Spring JDBC, Spring Rest, spring boot, AWS (S3, Lambda), GitHub, JavaScript, Micro services, JSON, MySQL, Apache Tomcat 7.0, RESTful web services, Eclipse, Spring Junit, APIGEE, Splunk. Java/J2EE Developer Quality Software Solutions INC, MD May 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development with both iterative (Agile, Water fall).  • Interacted with Managers & Business users for performance issues, discussed about key Aspects based on requirements and its relational mapping to the application with users.  • Collaborated on responsive front-end development using JavaScript, Bootstrap and Coffee Script with DevOps development principles.  • Develop various screens for the front end using AngularJS and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Developed a dashboard based on Ajax calls with Business Customers Count, Flags, Real-time graphs for Analytical Reporting using NodeJS.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using AngularJS and JSON to interact RESTful web services.  • Developed Application using Spring MVC 3 widely with annotations, Dependency injection, IOC, integrated with the Struts 3 framework with views based on JSP.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Used Multithreading and concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  • Working extensively on core Java, low latency side using Java Concurrency on the back-end of the application.  • Integrated version controller-git with the spring application to connect the git server and managing the code.  • Developed critical components of the application including Spring forms, Spring controllers, JSP views, and business logic and data logic components that include Hibernate Entities, Spring-Hibernate DAO and Spring V4.x models following MVC architecture.  • Developed re-usable utility classes in Java 8 for validation that are used across all modules.  • Implemented app using design patterns - Session Facade, Business Delegate, Adaptor, Bean Factory and Singleton.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Implemented NoSQL persistence pattern for some data within app to increase performance by indexing.  • Implemented Map-reduce functionality in MongoDB to maintain customer order tracking.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database, automating data changes and reporting.  • Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application.  • Developed JUnit using Mockito and spring boot Junit Runner framework.  • Involved in Web Services Testing using SoapUI to create and execute automated functional, regression, compliance, and load tests.  • Provided JUnit support for the application for debugging the system and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Used version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA for issue tracking.  • Used Redux as a build tool and retrieved all the dependencies required for the application.  • Involved in fixing bugs the bugs or defects in the application.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Spring, Spring Transactions, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Hibernate 3.5, XML, SOAP, WSDL, jQuery, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JUnit, Bootstrap, Git SCM, AngularJS, Maven, SoapUI, Tomcat 7, JBoss, Unix, Eclipse, Oracle 11g. Java/J2EE Developer NEXUS INFORMATICS - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed Applications using J2EE Patterns like Service Locater, Session Facade, Transfer Object, Composite Entity etc.  • Designed and developed a fully configurable, web-based research database.  • Database Design and Normalization on Oracle.  • Trigger Design and Implementation.  • Application testing using JUnit.  • Resolved Security issues using Multiple Authentication which breaks authentication message passing time and guarantees more robust authentication.  • Resolved Session Management Issue on the thick clients.  • Developed various layers using jQuery, JSP, Servlets, and Business Objects.  • Responsible for Build & Release of the product to the Client & Testing Team.  • Requirement study, analysis & design using MVC design pattern, CI/CD, UML (Rational Rose).  • Implementation of design patterns, Sequence, Component and Deployment diagram.  • Development using JMS, JavaScript, AngularJS for form validation & scripting.  • Responsible for System Level Database implementations.  • Developed Class libraries.  • Database Design, and Conventions to be followed for the system. Active involvement in database design, development and coding of PL/SQL, SQLDDL&DML statements, functions, views.  • Responsible for organizing and managing team.  • Reviewed the code and test cases written by the team members and correct it wherever necessary.    Environment: Java, EJB, J2ME, J2EE, Jasmine, JSP, GIT, AngularJS, jQuery, J Boss Application Server, Node JS, Jenkins, SVN, JDBC, MVC, Oracle, SQL, PLSQL. Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Visual studio, C++, Hadoop, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Json, Python, AWS, Core Java, JEE, MVC, Rest, Java J2Ee, Angular, Angularjs