Thingworx and Java Developer Thingworx and <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> • Java/J2ee (Cloud/Thingworx IOT) Professional having 3+ years of experience and possesses a proven track record in successfully delivering mission-critical and innovative applications.  • Extensive experience in Struts MVC and Spring frameworks, successfully implemented web based applications  • Successfully designed and implemented systems based IoT (Internet of Things) and Cloud which integrate with many other systems.  • Successfully designed and implemented systems based software life cycle agile model, using RAD tools.  • Expertise in object modeling and OO design methodologies with UML diagrams like Class, Sequence, Use Case, and Activity Diagrams using Rational Rose IE & Visio.  • Hands on in-depth experience in Thingworx7.0 Application development using Core Java, JavaScript, SQL, HTML, Json, LDAP.  • Excellent in the area of sensor communication using java, .net and Python.  • Excellent in the XML technology such as XML and developed Web Services using SOAP, and Restful.  • Hands-on experience in designing databases, namely Oracle 9i/10g, SQL and wrote  • The Queries and Stored Procedures using SQL , PostgreSQL and PL/SQL  • Experience in Installation, Configuration and Deployment of applications in the Apache Tomcat and Thingworx.  • Extensive experience in using Eclipse3.0.  • Extensive experience worked in Innovation, development, Enhancement and production support activities.  • Awarded for Best Innovation in 2015 from Cognizant  • Extensive experience worked in SDLC life cycle models like Water fall and Agile.  • Excellent in Analysis, Design, Coding, Unit Testing and System Integration Testing. Work Experience Thingworx and Java Developer Sealed Air - Saint Petersburg, FL January 2015 to August 2015 Project: CookBook  The objective of this project is to support debug (troubleshooting) process for repair devices in IQOR after Market Services.  As part of this project to be repaired devices are scanned and retrieved information related to the device using External interface. The device is troubleshooting by connecting with real time devices and reduces decision making process required from debugger. This project succeeded in attaining reduced skill set and time required for ramp up of the debuggers as the complete trouble shooting process is automated and requires minimal user interaction. Once the troubleshooting process is done the fault analysis is performed, identifies the defect in the device and decides whether the faulty piece is to be repaired or replaced. In case of part replacement, a request is placed dynamically for all the parts that are to be replaced. The device is allowed to send to other WorkCentre for Repair.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis of Requirements and defining the System Requirement Specifications.  • Used Rational Rose for providing the UML design for the given modules, and applied OOAD principles in designing the applications  • Understanding and analyzing the existing CookBook applications and upgrading to IoT platform as per CookBook requirements.  • Involved in mentoring and helped other developers and help them to progress their tasks quickly and resolving critical issues.  • Worked on design and development of Agent application using java, which is core part of the project and collect data from sensors and updates the server in a synchronous mode.  • Used Log4j for the application logging.  • Worked on SOAP and RestFull web services to get and send data to other systems.  • Worked on CSV parsing.  • Work on UI development using Thingworx.  • Work on Business Logics development using Java Script in Thingworx.  • Written SQL queries to retrieve the data from SQL Server tables  • Involved in the Unit testing and resolving the issues.  • Involved in all the phases of the application life cycle.  Environment: The system has been developed using Thingworx 5.0 technologies such as java Script, SQL Server, log4j, java, Rational Rose, Soap and Restfull web services. Thingworx and Java Developer Sealed Air - IN June 2014 to January 2015 Project: VM Remote Monitoring  VM Remote Monitoring is a IoT(Internet of Things) based Project developed using Thingworx platform. This application is design to monitor the virtual Machines by collecting the health information like CPU, RAM and Network utilization, services running etc every second. Sends the alerts using mail service.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis of Requirements and defining the System Requirement Specifications.  • Involved in User story Documentation.  • Used Rational Rose for providing the UML design for the given modules, and applied OOAD principles in designing the applications  • Involved in mentoring and helped other developers and help them to progress their tasks quickly and resolving critical issues.  • Worked on design and development of Agent application using java, which is core part of the project and collect data from VMs and updates the server in a synchronous mode.  • Used Log4j for the application logging.  • Worked on CSV parsing.  • Work on UI development using Thingworx tool.  • Written SQL queries to retrieve the data from SQL Server tables  • Involved in the Unit testing and resolving the issues.  • Involved in all the phases of the application life cycle.  Environment: The system has been developed using Thingworx 5.0 technologies such as javaScriptSQL Server, log4j, java, Rational Rose. Java Developer SNIT - IN July 2013 to June 2014 Project: Airport Management System  Airport Management System (AMS) is a system used for adding the plane details along with pilot details, adding the hanger and allotting hangers to the planes and displaying the details of the hangers scheduling    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis of Requirements and defining the System Requirement Specifications.  • Used Rational Rose for providing the UML design for the given modules, and applied OOAD principles in designing the applications  • Involved in Web application development using Struts MVC Framework.  • Developed the application and written code in MyEclipse IDE  • Written SQL queries to retrieve the data from SQL Server tables Using JDBC api  • Involved in the Unit testing and resolving the issues.  • Involved in all the phases of the application life cycle.  Environment: The system has been developed using Java/J2ee technologies, Struts MVC Framework, Struts tag library, JDBC, SQL Server and MyEclipse IDE Education Bachelor's Degree Skills thingworx (3 years), Java (3 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages core Java/J2ee, Struts and Spring frameworks, Hybernate , C, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and SQL, Python,PHP  Packages/Software JDK1.4/1.5/1.6, JDBC, Servlet, Log4j, JQuery, AJAX, CXF, Rest Web services, SoapWeb services and Ant.  Web/ Servers App Tomcat 8.0  Databases Oracle, SQL Server, DB2 and mySql    Operating Systems Linux, Windows XP/7/8  IDE Eclipse, ThingWorx  Design Tools Rational Rose IE, Microsoft Visio