Senior JAVA Developer Senior <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior JAVA Developer - HCL San Francisco, CA • Overall very good experience in developing Client-Server based enterprise applications in different domains including Finance, HealthCare and Telecom using J2SE/J2EE technologies.  • Analyzing and understanding the business use of functional and system requirements, suggesting appropriate approaches by considering technical challenges and implementing solutions to the finalized requirements, testing implemented solutions against requirements.  • Good experience in using spring framework with Spring Rest, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM, Spring batch, Spring AOP.  • Experienced in using ORM tools like Hibernate to match java objects with relational database tables Annotations, HQL, Named Queries, Criteria, Projection, and Query by Example.  • Experienced in implementing REST API's in different Media Type according to the need using spring boot.  • Good experience in working with J2SE concepts like Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Collections, Object Oriented Programming, Generics, I/O Streaming.  • Good understanding in using Java 8 features like asynchronous programming, streams, optional, lambda expressions, Predicates, Functions.  • Proficient in XML technologies like XSLT, SAX, DOM, XPath, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, XSD, JAXB.  • Experience in using application servers such as WebLogic, JBoss, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  • Extensive experience in development and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise-based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Skillful in working with Relational Databases Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, IBMDB2 in terms of wring Queries, PL/SQL procedures, functions, triggers, RDBMS Objects.  • Extensively used Kafka, Rabbit messaging queue for order processing.  • Experienced in using build tools like Maven, SBT as project management tool and build tool. Proficient in using IDE tools Eclipse.  • Experienced in designing patterns like Singleton Classes, Factory methods, MVC (Model, View and Controller), Service locator, DAO, DTO, Observer, Adapter and Strategy.  • Experienced in working with software methodologies Waterfall model and Agile. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior JAVA Developer HCL - Redmond, WA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Understanding business requirements and involving in meetings with business owner to discuss about technical challenges and assigning story points to each story based on the amount of work that needs to be done in each sprint.  • Implemented Micro services using play/akka and spring boot, configured play and akka modules, created controllers and actors.  • Used elastic search with java to fetch data based on queries, used Redis, Guava for cache mechanism  • Created various proto serializers to communicate between modules.  • Used java8 asynchronous programming to make various concurrency calls to business components, used Scala html templates to get HTML content  • Used Kafka as an order processor, extensively used JAX-B and Gson for data in and out flow.  • Extensively used Java 8 features like streams, lambda expressions, completable feature, optional, Predicates, Functions to process objects effectively  • Using Java Script, jQuery, React JS concepts like redux store, controllers, reducers, actions  • Extensively involved in using Kibana message queue processor to monitor logs and health check of the application.  • Extensively implemented API's using spring boot with various media types.  • Used Hibernate to make DB operations like user transactions, Heat Map, Web service logs, Flows, session configurations.  • Extensively involved in using DOM parser, JAX-B parser, XSLT, X-path to manipulate XML structure.  • Configured Hibernate second level cache using Ehcache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Implemented generic engine in JAVA for business-driven flows. With these engine, business users able to create flow and all the flow controlling is done through JAVA engine.  Environment: Java 8, play/akka, Spring Boot, elastic search, Redis, Guava, proto serialize, Scala HTML, Kafka, JAXB, JSON, Java Script, jQuery, NodeJS, React JS, Spring Rest, Hibernate, Kibana. JAVA Developer Redflex - Phoenix, AZ February 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Migrated legacy loan accounting applications to next generation using open Spring Batch, Spring REST and IBM rules engine Operational Decision Manager (ODM).  • Contribute to review and analyze of user stories, solution specifications, and architecture and design documents.  • Implement services using spring framework IOC/JDBC/ORM, AOP and Spring Batch.  • Configured spring batch partitioning for loan events processing  • Called ODM business rules APIs engine to validate events data.  • Implemented asynchronous audit logging framework using AspectJ and processed using Spring Batch to load into file system.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring framework and Hibernate O/R mapping tool for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Created and consumed web services using Spring 4.0, implemented microservices to get desirable pay load from total payload to reduce network load.  • Used Spring framework for implementing IOC/JDBC/ORM, AOP.  • Implemented Transactions using Spring Transaction Management and AOP framework.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in conjunction with spring functionality.  • Responsible for the oracle schema design, generating various POJO objects and generating their corresponding Hibernate mappings (.hbm) files.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Template support    Environment: JEE, Spring, Spring Batch, Spring REST, Spring Boot, Hibernate, LDAP, ECLIPSE, SVN, RESTful, Oracle11g, Maven 3.0.4, JUnit 3.8, XML, WebLogic, UNIX. Jr. Java Developer Livendec - IN December 2013 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in understanding and suggesting proper solutions to the user requirements with onsite team.  • Used Agile PLM as a business tool to configure business objects like Change, Part, Workflow, Item, Events, Supplier and User.  • Wrote process extensions and Custom Events in java to process and present business objects.  • Wrote complex queries and PL/SQL procedures to retrieve data from Oracle PLM database and checking on going schedulers and running process in the system and monitoring their status.  • Fixing the issues with the scheduled process by decreasing the running time.  • Consumed Restful Web Services from SOA team to integrate data between different platforms.  • Wrote RESTful Web Services and gave contract details.  • Used XML parser to read data from XML files.  • Serialized object data to store in files, De-serialized the saved object from files to read them back.  • Wrote User Defined Exceptions to display proper error message to the user interface.  • Used CVS to manage code between changes and used different versions of code to track the changes in the code.  • Used JDBC to save form data in Oracle database by following MVC architecture.  • Resolving tickets generated by users within threshold time and gave permanent fix for the problems.  • Used Eclipse IDE for Java development and SQL Developer for Oracle    Environment: J2SE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Oracle Agile PLM, Oracle 9i, SVN, Log4j, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL, PL/SQL, WebLogic 9.2, MVC Architecture, Restful Web services, WSDL, UDDI, XML, I/O streaming, File Management, Serialization, UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills database (3 years), html (3 years), Java (4 years), Jdbc (3 years), oracle (3 years)