Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Walmart Bentonville, AR ? Around 3+ years of software development experience in object-oriented programming of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB), Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets, Struts, and Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  ? Expert in Core Java with in-depth knowledge of Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Synchronization, Collections, and Event/Exception handling.  ? Experience in developing client-side applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.JS, etc.,  ? Experience in deploying J2EE applications using web/application servers like Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic, etc.,  ? Excellent knowledge on Object Orient Programming concepts (OOPS).  ? Knowledge in writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP.  ? Good experience working on Angular.Js for building user interfaces.  ? Understanding of relational database concepts, and experience in query construction using SQL.  ? Developed multi-tiered object-oriented system architectures using uses cases, UML.  ? Experience in working with the Databases environments SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Hands on experience in developing Java and J2EE applications using Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio 2017.  ? Experience using Java Messaging System (JMS).  ? Experience in Spring-Boot microservices and Hibernate ORM.  ? Developed applications and deployed them on a Cloud computing architecture like AWS.  ? Involved in designing of the application using UML (Unified Modeling Language).  ? Hands on experience in working with Node.js applications using Visual Studio Code.  ? Created connection pools in Visual Studio Code and configured as needed.  ? Experience in writing SQL queries, stored procedures, prepared statements and triggers.  ? Extensive experience working with Junit, Selenium testing tools.  ? Hands-on experience using the building tools like Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  ? Working experience on Agile methodology like Scrum.  ? Excellent communication skills. Adept in building strong working relationships with coworkers and management.  ? Involved in testing and fixing the bugs.  ? Talented problem solver able to think "outside the box."  ? Fast learner, good at team work and ability to adopt new technology. Work Experience Software Engineer Walmart - Bentonville, AR January 2019 to Present Walmart Inc. is an American multinational retail corporation that operates a chain of hypermarkets, discount department stores, and grocery stores.    Responsibilities:  ? A small amount of Java Development via the Eclipse IDE (most of us were given one programming task). The task I performed was a String masking of the password attribute in an XML file.  ? Using GIT as a repository for the application project folders.  ? Worked with Spring, Hibernate, and Faces frameworks.  ? Used Eclipse debugger in-order to fix the bugs.  ? JIRA for trouble tickets and Confluence for our knowledge base.  ? Worked with the development technologies like: Enterprise Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  ? Efficiently worked on Core Java technologies, SDLC, and design & development of web-based application.  ? Worked on RESTful web services on Java8 version.  ? Evaluated and solved trouble tickets by coordinating with DBAs and my Java team.  ? Actively participated in AGILE SCRUM meetings. Java UI Developer Houston, TX February 2018 to October 2018 Slokatech work together to focus the vision, align actions, processes, and technology, and engage people to deliver sustained excellence.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, and Code Development.  ? Developed unique user experiences that drove interaction, using JavaScript.  ? Implemented responsive web design and mobile friendly design using AngularJS.  ? Created forms to collect and validate data from the user using AngularJS and JavaScript.  ? Created and maintained the front-end standards document and oversaw production of JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  ? Tested front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  ? Leveraged responsive web frameworks to consistently complete product deliverables ahead of schedule.  ? Designing and developing the algorithms for server module that configures process management engine using Java8.  ? Experience in working with SQL, Stored procedures and Database Schema.  ? Worked with Node.js and similar back-end Express web application frameworks.  ? Designed the scalable, reliable and secure software architecture using Node.js.  ? Wrote JavaScript validations to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  ? Used Node.js runtime environment for developing server-side web applications and possessed basic understanding of Google's V8 JavaScript engine.  ? Implemented back-end features for the gateway application running a Node.js stack providing communication between devices and storage.  ? Wrote MS SQL queries to retrieve the data, update the data from the database and to connect database in the DAO implementation classes.  ? Created tables and worked on MS SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions and packages for complex inserts and updates in the database. And used Stored Procedures in the application.  ? Web Service using AngularJS and AJAX and render the JSON data on UI.  ? Created Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and implemented the Error Handling in the Stored Procedures and SQL objects and modified already existing stored procedures, triggers, views, indexes depending on the requirement.  ? Developed a distributed and scalable web application on .Net framework using Visual Studio 2017.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NodeJS, MSSQL, AngularJS, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio 2017, Postman, SQL Server, .Net Java Developer Cito Infotech Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Analysis, design, and development of application based on J2EE and design patterns.  ? Involved in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) and used OOPS concepts.  ? Used HTML, JavaScript, XML, JSP, and CSS to enhance the portal UI and provided the client-side JavaScript validations.  ? Involved in developing functional model, object model, and dynamic model using UML.  ? Development of the Java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets.  ? Implemented asynchronous functionalities like email notification using JMS.  ? Implemented Multithreading to achieve consistent concurrency in the application.  ? Developed various objects using Java and HTML5 and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with controllers to get data from the database.  ? Handled the exceptions using try and catch blocks.  ? Developed server-side services using Core Java multithreading and collections.  ? Used Collection Interface to develop internal logic of the application.  ? Exposed and implemented top-down and bottom-up SOAP web services.  ? Used the spring framework for managing the navigation and page flow and working with applets development.  ? Implemented Spring-Boot Microservices to enable building production ready application quickly.  ? Worked with Node.js framework for backend services.  ? Extensively used GIT for push and pull requests of the code.  ? Created SQL queries and used PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Used Test Driven Development approach and wrote many unit and integration test cases.  ? Involved in writing flexible queries at DAO layer.  ? Developed and Implemented DAO classes using Hibernate for database transactions.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Followed strategy of TDD using Junit based testing where test cases first and then writing logic based on test cases to reduce QA cost.  ? Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application.  ? Utilized Eclipse for workbench to provide a complete environment for Java, Java EE, web services, and server development tools.  ? Control repository management using GIT.  Environment: Core Java/J2EE, OOPS, HTML5/DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JSP, JMS, Git, SQL, PL/SQL, Eclipse, JIRA, Maven, Web services. Jr. Java Developer Interactive Data Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in complete lifecycle of software development including designing, developing, testing, and deployment of application.  ? Developed the front-end UI with HTML, styling with CSS, and used Java Servlets and JavaScript for responsive web pages of the application.  ? Designed and deployed server side EJB (Session Beans and Entity Beans) components on WebLogic 8.1 application server.  ? Design, develop, and coordinate among the team members in developing JSPs, Customs Tags, and re-usable Java Beans across all the modules.  ? Created database tables and implemented SQL Stored Procedures, triggers, and complex queries in MYSQL.  ? Developed Action Forms and Action Classes.  ? Developed several web pages using HTML, Stylesheets, JSP and JavaScript to perform checking and validations at Client's side.  ? Responsible for creating Enterprise Java Beans for the Façade layer and Business Layer of the Application.  ? XML documents developing using XML schemas.  ? Hands on DOM parsers using to parse XML documents to retrieve the data.  ? Written SQL queries and created stored procedures and used table level and system level triggers for handling database processing.  ? Implemented the SQL queries for database interaction.  ? Used UML for developing use case diagrams and class diagrams.  ? Created several database tables regarding student details and other information and connected with Java using JDBC API and retrieved the data to the front-end.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, WebLogic 8.1, SQL, XML, UML, JDBC API Education Master of Science in Design, Information Systems Technology Wilmington University Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Hyderabad institute of Technology And Management (JNTUH) - Hyderabad, Telangana Additional Information SKILLS:  ? Programming Language: Java and J2EE, C/C++, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, PHP.  ? Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript.  ? Development Approach: Waterfall and Agile.  ? IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio Code.  ? Testing & Continuous Integration: Selenium, JUnit & Jenkins.  ? Version Controls: GIT, AWS.  ? Frameworks: Node.JS.  ? Design Technologies: OOAD and UML.  ? Database: SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Application/Web Server: Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic  ? Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS and FTP.  ? Operating Systems: All versions of Microsoft Windows.