Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Converge One Parsippany, NJ • Having 4+ years of experience on Java/J2EE Technologies Web Development, Software development and client/Server Implementation • Have extensive knowledge and working experience on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets and frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring Security, spring validation, Spring JDBC, Hibernate.  • Experience in server side programming like Servlets, JSP, JDBC • Experience in developing applications using Waterfall, RAD and Test Driven methodologies.  • Hands on in Core Java (multithreading, JDBC, Servlets).  • Experience developing rich application UIs using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, AJAX.  • Experience in Spring MVC architecture, Spring IOC, and Hibernate • Strong Working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller) spring, Hibernate and EJB.  • Experienced in various AUT (Application under Test) such as Automation testing, Manual testing, Integration testing, System testing, Smoke testing, Regression testing, Performance testing and Functional testing.  • Extensive experience in web development using HTML, JavaScript, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS.  • Good Knowledge in web technologies like XML, JavaScript, Angular, JQuery, AJAX and CSS.  • Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, Glassfish, WebSphere, WebLogic, and JBoss Servers.  • Experience in Designing and developing the applications using Java Server Faces (JSF) and Spring web flow • Extensive experience in XML related technologies/tools such as JAXB, XSL, XQuery, and Path.  • Experience in Providing in Auto deployment scripts (Jobs) and Auto execution of Joint scripts.  • Experience in implementing REST web services using Jersey / JAX-RS.  • Experienced in SQA (Software Quality Assurance) with tools, HP Quick Test Professional, JIRA and version one.  • Extensive knowledge on SQL.  • Extensive experience in SQL programming language in Oracle PL/SQL, and MySQL database environments. Committed to enhancement of software reliability, performance and adherence to coding standards while contributing to the technical code documentation.  • Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and TFS.  • Strong knowledge and experience in developing applications using servers like Websphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  • Experience with Agile/Scrum and Test Driven development (TDD).  • Experience using tools like Ant, Maven, Junit and Jenkins.  • Experience with different J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, DAO, Data Transfer Object,  Session Façade, Template, and Service Locator.  • Quick Learner, highly motivated team player with excellent organizational and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Converge One - Parsippany, NJ May 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Developed Web application using JavaScript, MVC and OOP client side validation using JavaScript.  • Involved in various business meeting with partners for gathering requirements.  • Implemented Spring Batch with hibernate for various projects.  • Providing enhancement, development, production support and maintenance for a suite of time critical applications.  • Bug fixing, Functional Testing, Production support and Maintenance.  • Involving and implementing Java1.8 features for our applications.  • Implemented the backend business layers using Spring Beans, EJBs and Web services • Implemented persistence Layer using Custom JDBC DAOs to handle CRUD operations • Carried out design and development of various JSP pages using TIERS custom framework.  • Involved in development of e-commerce/web service project.  • Highly used Angular 2 router to build single page application for navigates through the different status and multiple modals.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Used Message Driven Beans for asynchronous messaging which act as façades that routes the request to the next layers.  • Performed SOA / Web Services testing using SOAP UI.  • Custom Java code for implementing our subscription based e-commerce model.  • Implementing Business logic based on user selection using JQuery and Angular JS.  • Used Data Access Object (DAO) design pattern to manipulate data.  • Developed Web services for the external systems to send XML requests to our systems in both synchronous and asynchronous modes.  • Implemented MicroServices Architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST, SOAP.  • Used Eclipse for writing code, Used Tomcat for deploying various components of application.  • Enhanced domain, hosting order creation, billing and invoicing, online payment system with usage of ActiveMQ, perfectly designed DAO factory on Hibernate component with Spring ORM framework, JDBC batch process.  • Web professional specializing in full stack web development, balancing the technical skills of a programmer with the visual skills of a designer, incorporating best practices in user interface design, web standards and accessibility.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology using Rally Agile Development Software.  • Involved in Pre and Post Staging/Production deployment Support with documentation and Smoke Testing after deployment using Soap UI, Mockito.  • Developed Servlets and JSP pages based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Involved in post-production support and maintenance of the application.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI layout and front -end programming for responsive web design that matches requirements.  • Coding to build REST MicroServices using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON and Spring Config.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing also corresponding testing efforts with the QA team.  • Used Angular JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Used Core Java concepts covering Multithreading and collections.  • Work for various E-commerce websites with inclusion of advanced features for client and user convenience and safety.  • Built and configured MySQL databases for development and testing purposes.  • Built MicroServices using spring boot with continuous deployment and continuous integration using Jenkins.  • Created complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexes, Tables, Views and other T-SQL code and SQL joins for applications.  • Worked in TDD and version management tools GitHub, SVN.  • Involved in QA support for various projects.  • Used MAVEN and ANT for building various applications.  • Deployed web applications and Domain Services on to web logic and Tomcat Servers.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, AJAX, JSTL, ANT, TOAD, spring boot, HTML, XML, JavaScript, HTML5,SQL, JDBC, MySQL, Web Logic , React JS, TFS,TDD,AWS, Tomcat, Oracle, Struts, T-SQL, Hibernate , Maven, Ant, QA, Net beans. Java Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities: • Using core JAVA developed a web-based Quiz and testing software.  • Developed an original object model design using database objects.  • Developed user interfaces using JSPs, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Generated Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams with Microsoft Visio and RAD.  • Design patterns implemented such as Singleton, Front Controller, Factory pattern, Data Access Object.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction.  • Unit testing, bug fixing in multiple environments (DEV/INT/CERT/PROD) and reproduce bugs for fixing and code review of individual modules in the application.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit framework.  • Accessed and manipulated the Oracle10g database by writing SQL Queries.    Environment: JDK , JSP, JDBC, HTML, XML, Microsoft Excel, MS Access, Unix, ANT, PL /SQL, MVC, Oracle, UML, Eclipse 3.3.2, JUnit, CVS, JIRA, CSS, SQL, AJAX. Java Developer Allianz Cornhill Information System (Allianz) - Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala August 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities: • Preparing the documentation for High Level design, Low Level design of the application and Process Flow of control for the entire application.  • Played key role in the design for the implementation of this application.  • Implemented the Consolidated applications front-end pages • Used JavaScript for client-side validations. Used JUnit for unit testing of the system and Log4J for logging • Implemented validation rules using Struts framework.  • Designed the Web application implementing the spring framework for Model-View -Controller (MVC) pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Used Hibernate for Database Persistence to perform CRUD operation like insert, update, retrieve.  • Configured Logger, appender and layout using log4j.  • Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development.  • Used Ant for building JAR and WAR for the application.    Environment: Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts, Hibernate, JNDI, HTML, CSS, XML, JUnit, DOM, SAX, ANT, Web logic Server, Oracle9i. Education Master's Skills ANT (4 years), CSS (4 years), Eclipse (4 years), HTML (4 years), Java (4 years)