Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Visa Austin, TX 4 years Experienced Java developer and team player with diverse experience utilizing Java tools for client-server environments and fluid understanding of many programming languages including C, JAVA, JavaScript, TypeScript, XML, CSS and HTML. Worked with business teams and Java developers to maintain and improve company projects. Assisted with disaster recovery environments for critical business applications. Work Experience Sr Java Developer Visa - Austin, TX March 2018 to Present Project: Visa Direct    VISA is the one of the major payment processing company which is has fortune 50 clients as it clients. I am working here on VisaDirect application. This VisaDirect is heart of the visa payment industry, which will perform end-to-end operation starting from accepting a transaction to processing it withrequired validations and completing the transaction. To perform this operation VisaDirect integrated with issuer bank and recipient banks and with the help of these banks and other VISA client application within the organization it will complete pull and Pull transaction to complete a payment cycle.  • Worked in prime payment industry with fortune 50 financial clients with robust and challenging tasks.  • Collaborated with Clients, Issuer and recipient's banks for business use case meetings and changes requests.  • Worked in Agile driven environment to achieve dynamic and fast faces goals of organization.  • Involved in R&D meetings and participated in internal codeworks events to bring in new and emerging technologies.  • Implementing web application using Spring (IOC, AOP & spring templates) frameworks.  • ORM framework implemented for persistence with oracle DB.  • Implemented JWT utilities to produce JWS signatures and Encryption using JWE.  • Created web services (REST) between different components and also exposed few web services to client • apps get metadata for the specific entities and documents • Used REST web services to provide server layer for the project.  • Developed Spring REST Exception Mappers.  • Created Hibernate persistent and configuration files for ORM implementation.  • Developed generic DAO tier for fetching the navigation items through the Legacy Intranet; connecting to the SQL server database and fetching data using Hibernate ORM Mappings.  • Used Log4J to capture the logging errors that includes runtime exceptions.  • Worked on Integrated multiple applications.  • Conducting the code reviews as per coding standards.  • Worked and resolved production issues on rotational basis and was part of the war team.  • Maintained code coverage using JUnits and Mockito.  • Application code maintained and consumed from the Source control version GIT.  • Team progress and stories status tracked and maintained using Rally.  • All the production and functional issues listed and tracked using JIRA.  • Application deployments and release performed using JENKINS.  • Used Postman and SOAPUI for testing the application. Full-Stack Java Developer Bank of the West - San Ramon, CA December 2016 to January 2018 Project: ScreeningKYC    This is the critical application in compliance group, which help to on customer on boarding process. ScreeningKYC is web service is process input party payload submitted by the client and interact with multiple vendors and other services in organization and based on business rules it will provide score that helps client/Business to take decision on customer onboarding.  • Works in a tightly integrated product suite in a fast-paced, highly collaborative, Agile /Scrum development  Environment.  • Sprint team member participating in Story workshops, Design meeting, estimations, building backlogs, planning, stand ups etc.  • Designed and developed applications from scratch Using JHipster based on DDD (Domain Driven design).  • Design and develops the UI using Angular 1/2/4, Spring MVC, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript/TypeScript, JQuery, AJAX.  • Developed application using SpringBoot framework, REST, Tomcat, Maven, Gradle.  • Extensively used AngularJS filters to display the table data, NgGrid to deal with grid components and angular- selectize for multi select pick list.  • Applied DAO and BO pattern to separate the persistence logic from the business logic • Implemented Data Access Layer using Spring Hibernate ORM framework.  • Involves in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection, transaction management.  • Implemented multithreading for SpringBatch applications.  • Utilized MongoDB database management system for keeping user generated data.  • Configured the crosscutting concerns like logging, auditing, security using Spring Aspects and Security.  • Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC • Participates Production Dev support on rotation bases.  • Developed and Consumed RESTful services using Spring framework.  • Implemented and Consumed SOAP based web services using Spring for external systems integrations • Uses SOAP UI for testing and automating the Web services by sending SOAP requests.  • Automates important business scenarios using Java, Selenium Web Driver, Junit, Cucumber Java framework.  • Automated the build and deployment process using MAVEN, Gradle build script.  • Worked in Deployment tools like PUTTY, FileZilla Jenkins.  • Used Yarn, npm for dependency management.  • Worked on oracle 11g database.  • Used Liquibase for database update and monitoring.  • Implemented several design patterns like Singleton, MVC, Factory, Façade, Observer, DAO patterns • Integrated the test suites to Jenkins to execute them automatically after every successful deployment.  • Using Jira tool to track Product backlogs, planning, releases etc.  • Using Test Track to track defects, test cases and test runs. Java Developer American Family Insurance - Madison, WI June 2015 to November 2016 Project: Risk Reports Service    The RiskReports application designed and developed to generate various reports for American Family Insurance to assist with the customer requirements. The reports generated from various vendors and customer data Hub that makes integration of application with numerous other services. The application webpages provide various options for user to order and view reports. It mainly provides the users with a facility to retrieve information for different requests and the related memos attached to those reports.  • Implemented modules by understanding requirements and OOPS concepts in coding the business logic and involved in work sessions with the Business analyst to maintain the standards.  • Persistence layer was implemented using Hibernate Framework interacts with the database.  • Developed the user interface using Struts, JQuery, and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing XML queries and created runtime XML result objects.  • Involved in coding business logic and DAO to interact with database.  • Developed back-end logic with Core Java using technologies including Collection Framework, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Generics and Annotations.  • Used Web Services like SOAP and WSDL to communicate over internet.  • Involved in the JMS Connection Pool and the implementation of publish and subscribe using Spring JMS.  • Worked extensively on XML parsers DOM and SAX to parse the XML documents.  • Developed the loosely coupled code by SpringDependencyInjection (DI).  • Followed design patterns like Business Delegate, DAO, MVC.  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in JBOSS Application Server in construction phase.  • Worked on application support and handled issues in production.  • Involved in writing and verifying SQL Queries using DB Explorer provided in Eclipse and implemented in DAOs perform data access from the Oracle DB database.  • GIT used as version control.  • Implemented logging using the log4j.  • Developed test classes in JUnit for implementing unit testing. Education Masters in Electrical and Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Fairfield University May 2015 Electronics and Communications Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 Skills CSS (1 year), Eclipse (1 year), GIT. (2 years), HTML (1 year), Java (3 years), JavaScript (2 years), JIRA. (2 years), JMS (1 year), Junit (2 years), Maven (1 year), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (2 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (2 years), MVC (2 years), oracle (3 years), Rally. (1 year), REST (2 years), SOAP (2 years), testing (3 years), web services (3 years), XML (1 year), Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, J2Ee, Angular Additional Information • Expertise in JIRA for defect tracking and handling.  • Hand on experience on TFS and Rally.  • Developed the Smoke test suites for the regression testing of the service    Professional Skills  Java, J2EE, C, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, UML: Expert  JDBC, Hibernate, JMS, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL: Expert  SpringBoot, Core Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SpringBatch: Expert  Apache Tomcat, SOAP, WSDL, REST, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, LINUX, UNIX: Advanced  IntelliJ, Eclipse, GIT, ANT, Maven, Gradle, JUnit, Yarn, npm, Selenium, SoapUI, Log4j, Agile: Advanced