Java/J2ee Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2ee <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2ee Developer - Wells Fargo • Around 5years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of Object Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in Java Application Development, Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies like Spring, Hibernate, XML, EJB, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JavaScript, Java Beans and Servlets.  • Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture and considerable experience in various front-end technologies.  • Experienced in frameworks: springand Hibernate.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD/Schema.  • Experience working with Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat Server.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts.  • Experienced in writing complex SQL queries, Triggers in various databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MS SQL.  • Experience in document preparation including Requirement Specification, Analysis, design documents, Test cases and User Training documents and Technical Help documents. Work Experience Java/J2ee Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC December 2018 to Present The Community Banking segment includes Regional Banking, Diversified Products, and Consumer Deposits groups, as well as Wells Fargo Customer Connection (formerly Wells Fargo Phone Bank, Wachovia Direct Access, the National Business Banking Center, and Credit Card Customer Service).    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the Business requirements.  • Involved in requirement gathering and brain storm stages.  • Working on Java, J2EE and some of the spring frameworks like Spring MVC and SpringBoot.  • Involved in daily stand-up calls with the team, Manager and Architect Included.  • Used Bamboo to automate builds and deployments.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using JSP, HTML/DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Coded the front end Applications using HTML, JSP, JSF, Ajax, Struts Tag-libraries, custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering and used JavaScript validations to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  • Implemented backend application using Java, Spring MVC.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and Functions to process and established data integrity among all tables residing on Oracle Database.  • Perform unit and integration testing.  • Involved in implementing source code Branching and performed Check-in/Check-out in Subversion.  • Developed Messaging frame work for Asynchronous service using JMS (ActiveMQ) and Message Driven Beans.  • Involved in bug fixing, cleanup of code and for the new enhancements.  • Used Junit Testing framework for performing unit testing.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP 2.1, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, XSL, POJO's, Hibernate 2, Tag libraries, Spring Framework, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, CSS ), MS Access Database, Web Services, Servlets 2.5, log4j, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer JPMC - Wellington, FL November 2017 to November 2018 OMS Application: JPMC is an American multinational banking and financial services holding company. Worked for a project TEX, a global order management trade capturing OMS application used by JPMC Front office desks (Equities Sales and Trading desks).The application is used to capture the workflow inherent in the day to day business for price requests and trade ideas between the Marketers and Traders.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding business objectives and implementation of business logic.  • Involved in various phases like design and development of Software development life cycle(SDLC)  • Used Rational Rose for the use case Diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Developed the application using agile methodology and planned the Scrum meetings.  • Server- Side implemented on J2EE, Eclipse platform  • Designed and developed the UI using Swing, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Developed complete business tier with stateless, stateful session beans and CMP entity beans with EJB 2.0 standards.  • Built NoSQL schemas and maintaining sessions by MongoDB.  • Responsible for development of the functionality using Struts framework  • Used hibernate to store the persistence data into the DB2 database and written HQL to access the data from the database.  • Used JMS for communication with different platform.  • Used spring core annotations for dependency injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.  • Developed and maintained user authentication and authorization by employing EJB.  • Provided database interface using JDBC drivers with back-end as DB2.  • Used Statement, Prepared Statement and Callable Statement classes for implementing the database interface.  • Using Teradata as a database source.  • Developed rich UI pages using Html5, CSS3, JavaScript.    Environment: Swing, HTML5, CSS, Hibernate, JSP 2.0, JMS 1.1, EJB 2.0, Eclipse 3.1, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, Mongo DB, Apache Camel, AngularJS, UML, Log4j, Unix, Maven. Java/j2ee developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to August 2017 Description: Sales & Distribution System  A web application to provide a solution for automating their sales and distribution across the country. The application facilitates the regional sales office to input their purchase orders, generate invoices, Store customer profiles, generate sales reports, year to date sales, pending indents, purchase orders.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle, such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development  • Ensured clear understanding of customer's requirements in validating the business process analysis of customer before developing the final proposal  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase. Used Java Design Patterns like DAO, Singleton etc.  • Written SQL Statements for retrieving and updating data with varied complexity  • Involved in implementing multithreaded environment to generate messages  • Used JDBC Connections and WebSphere Connection pool for database access  • Used tag libraries (like html, logic, tab, bean etc.) and JSTL tags in the JSP pages  • Involved in development using Struts components - Struts-config.xml, tiles, form-beans and plug-ins in Struts architecture  • Developed and Deployed the Application on WebLogic using ANT build.xml script  • Developed SQL queries and stored procedures to execute the backend processes using Oracle  • Deployed application on WebLogic Application Server and development using Eclipse    Environment: Java 1.4, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Validation Framework, tag Libraries, JSTL, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle 9i (SQL), UNIX, Eclipse 3.0, Windows XP/2000, Tomcat Server, LINUX. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering MBICT College, Gujarat Technological University Master of Engineering in Computer Engineering BVM College, Gujarat Technological University Additional Information Technical Skills:    J2EE Technologies Servlet 2.3/2.4, JDBC 2.0, JSP 1.2/2.0, JMS 1.1.  Programming Languages Java 2, C/C++, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, UML, Visual Basic (VB6.0).  Frameworks and Tools Spring, Hibernate 2.0/3.0, J2EE Design Patterns  Web Technologies XML, HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript  RDBMS Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MySQL.  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat 3.3.  IDEs Eclipse with MyEclipse, Net Beans    Operating Systems Windows NT/2000/XP, UNIX