Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Verizon Wireless Somerset, NJ • 5 years of IT experience in development and implementation of enterprise, client server, distributed applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Strong programming skills experience in Java 8, J2EE, Struts1.2.X/2.0, Applets, Servlets, JSF, JSP, JPA, JMS, JSTL, JDBC, JavaScript, jQuery, SPRING, Java Beans, EJB 2.0.  • Experience in web service technologies like XML, DTD, JSON, REST, SOAP, WSDL and web-based application like HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, jQuery, JSP, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Strong Knowledge in Design Patterns such as MVC and Data Transfer Object.  • Good Knowledge with Struts Framework, Hibernate Framework and Spring Framework  • Experience in developing application using open source technologies like Apache ANT and Maven, Log4J.  • Experienced in Software Development Processes like Waterfall, Agile Methodologies and using IDE's like Eclipse 3.0, Rational Application Development (RAD).  • Experience in developing the Use-Case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Interaction diagrams using UML  • Expertise in Enterprise software architectural solutions for distributed computing systems using J2EE and Design Patterns.  • Extensive experience in working with and administering various application servers like Tomcat. Worked with different IDEs like Eclipse. Strong background in successful application of OOPS designs principles and methodologies.  • Expertise in developing UI using JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, HTML, DHTML.  • Experience in using Struts Validator (XML validations) frameworks.  • Expertise in developing applications using Struts and Hibernate.  • Good experience in defining the XML schemas and in working with different XML parsers like DOM to read and validate the data held in XML documents.  • Good experience working in a Production Support role for multiple applications.  • Experience in drawing UML diagrams like Use Case, Sequence, Solution, Flow and Class Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Used Git, SVN, and Accurev repositories for source code version controlling and team collaboration.  • Experience in SQL and Worked on databases like Oracle and IBM DB2, MySQL, Postgres.  • Developed web applications using UI technologies like HTML5, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, CSS, Bootstrap and Ajax.  • Experience on Object-relational mapping using JPA, Hibernate, and Spring-Hibernate Template.  • Excellent implementation knowledge of Distributed / Enterprise / Web / Client Server systems using Java, J2EE, Rabbit MQ, TIBCO, XML, Ant, Apache Maven, Drools & Oracle technologies.  • A self-motivated team player, with excellent inter-personal and communication skills  • Effective Team Member with proven track record of Quality Attention to Detail, Defect Free Implementation and On-Time Delivery  • Experience with Software Development Processes & Models: Agile, Waterfall & Scrum Model.  • Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and a proactive team player  • Experience with SQL Queries and stored procedures for quality assurance and analysis  • Excellent oral and written communication skills and ability to learn new tools and technology quickly Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Verizon Wireless May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Provide accurate estimates & Participate in regular planning activities.  • Develop solutions using JAVA, J2EE, Oracle etc.  • Used JSON for transferring/retrieving customer information data and customer transactions data between different applications.  • Implemented reader and writer to work with the application and update the data in database using Spring Batch framework.  • Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections, multithreading and for effective sorting mechanisms and Streams to store and process the data  • Developed applications using Spring Boot with Micro Service Architecture  • Experience working with various modules of Spring Package like Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, IOC, Spring Rest Template, Spring AOP, Spring Persistence, Spring Cloud.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with Angular4 in creating the Application.  • Experience in designing single page application using Angular 2+ framework.  • Unit test the code using the Junit framework.  • Involved in Unit integration, debugging the code, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, code reviews.  • Implementing rendering of task from functionality using Java, JSP, JSTL, Custom Tags, and Custom Java class Loader, XML.  • The entire project is built with the Eclipse IDE by integrating it with the Apache Maven to resolve the dependencies within the application.  • Created test coverage for the web services by using Junit.  • Designed and Developed user interactive screens using JavaScript and HTML5, CSS3 and JSP.  • Developed Spring Framework based RESTFUL Web Services for handling and persisting of requests and Spring MVC for returning response to presentation tier.  • Used WebLogic Workshop for the development of Application where LDAP was used for the user authentication.  • Familiar with continuous integration tools Jenkins.  • Designed and development automation tools using JUnit.  • Used GIT & Accurev as a Version Control Tool.  Environment: Java 1.8, Oracle, PL/SQL, SOAP/REST Services, Spring, Microservices, JMS, HTML5, AJAX, Restful, Angular 2,4, JavaScript, Junit, Log4j, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Windows, XML, GIT, Accurev, JAXB, Servlets, Jenkins. Java Developer Allergan Pharma October 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in study of User Requirement Specification.  • Developed in Agile/Scrum methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Followed techniques and principles provided by test driven design paradigm for developing quality code.  • Experience in developing UNIX shell scripts.  • Developed Windows and Linux Scripts that will call the backend Rest Micro services through CURL calls in getting the JSON Format to integrate with User Interface Application.  • Used Spring MVC to consume web services and JavaScript, CSS, AngularJS to display data in front end.  • Functionality is implemented by developing RESTful web services using spring Boot, JPA, and Oracle Responsibilities.  • Developing Ant and Maven scripts to automate the compilation, deployment, and testing of Web and J2EE applications.  • Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server.  Implemented Life Quote POC using Spring core, Spring MVC, SOAP, AJAX, and JQuery.  • Developed front end of the enterprise application with jQuery, Angular.js and Spring MVC.  • Developed the application implementing MVC Architecture, integrating JSF with Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Actively participated in the off-shore calls with the developers  • Responsible for implementation of the presentation layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, Angular JS.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in Oracle database.  • Developed web services Soap, WSDL and web services clients using JAXB and XML.  • RESTful services and API database web interface development.  • Used Struts framework to implement the MVC architecture.  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, LDAP, JMS, and MQ Series by using IRAD. Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Designed the application by implementing JSF Framework based on MVC Architecture, simple JavaBeans as a Model, JSP and JSF UI Components as View and Faces Servlet as a Controller.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection, transaction management.  • Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC Implemented Business Logic using POJO's and used WebSphere to deploy the applications.  • Used JMS (Asynchronous/Synchronous) for sending and getting messages from the MQ Series.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  • Used Spring with ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for development of the application.  • Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database.  • Used GIT for version control    Environment: Java 1.8 &1.7, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Agile, Unix, WebLogic, JavaScript, Micro Services, Maven, JSF, Struts, MongoDB, AngularJS, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, RESTful Services, Hibernate, Apache CXF, JSON, GIT, JUnit, WebSphere Application Server, JAX-RS, Log4J, JIRA and Jenkins. Java Developer Global Greens HYD May 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:    • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Design, Code, Integrate, and Deployment and production phases.  • Implemented Jakarta Struts Framework1.2 along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects [DTO] and Data Access Objects [DAO] patterns.  • Developed presentation-tier JSP pages in HTML, Implemented JQuery Data Grid control, Validation control and other Widget controls.  • Experience in working with Spring framework.  • Developed Web forms/user interfaces using Struts MVC and JSP.  • Developing form pages with Swing/AWT in Net Beans IDE.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Used JavaScript accordingly for validation purpose, browser detection and controls.  • Developed various AJAX controls and widgets to build a rich User Interface for the application.  • Used Hibernate framework to communicate with oracle database.  • Created Windows services to create automation processing of XML.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to maintain design consistency across all web forms.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Struts, Ajax, Servlets, Spring, Struts, JSP, Multi-threading, XML, EJB, ANT, JDBC, Oracle, Hibernate, UML, Agile Methodology and Web Sphere Application Server. Education MS in Information in Information Security University of the Cumberlands April 2017 to December 2018 MS in Computer Science in Computer Science Virginia International University January 2016 to April 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU June 2009 to April 2013 Skills Ant (4 years), Apache (2 years), Application server (4 years), Eclipse (2 years), Git (2 years), Html5 (2 years), Java (4 years), Jms (2 years), Jquery. (4 years), Jsp (4 years), Junit (2 years), Maven (2 years), Model view controller (4 years), Model-view-controller (4 years), Mvc (4 years), Oracle (4 years), Security (3 years), Servlets (4 years), Struts (4 years), Xml. (4 years), Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Rest, Spring, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java (JDK 1.6/1.7/1.8), Scala, Java Swings, Java AWT, JUnit, Log4J, Ant, Jenkins, Maven  Application/Webservers Apache Tomcat, WAS (IBM WebSphere Application Server), Oracle WebLogic, JBOSS.  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, Angular JS, jQuery, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, WSDL, SOAP, Apache Camel, Spring Boot  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton  XML/Web Services XML, XSD, WSDL, SOAP, JAXP, REST  Frameworks  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, EMG (Eclipse Modelling Framework), Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Groovy.    IDE Tools Eclipse (Galileo, Helios, Índigo, Mars, Neón, Oxygen), IntelliJ Idea  Databases Oracle, MYSQL, HSQLDB, SQLite, MongoDB, Cassandra, DB2, PostgreSQL  Version Control SVN, CVS, GIT, ACCUREV  Testing Selenium, Karma, Junit  Messaging Tools JMS  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix