Java/Application Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/Application Developer - Johnson & Johnson Bridgewater, NJ Work Experience Java/Application Developer Johnson & Johnson - Bridgewater, NJ March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing of application, developed using AGILE methodology.  • Managed all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including design, development and bug-fixing.  • Developed and debugged the applications and services using Spring Tool Suite.  • Developed and configured automation processes as per Technical design document (TDD) to meet the defined requirements  • Consumed external web services/APIs to support the functionalities in the services and involved in publishing of the web services.  • Service layer was implemented using Spring Integration and IOC Framework.  • Developed Batch processing jobs using Spring Batch Framework.  • Maintaining Git branches during project development. Conduct merge and using maven to build and deploying the services to the server.  • Experience in handling Multi-Threading Environments & Client- Server architecture.  • Extensively involved in creating complex SQL queries and calling Stored Procedures.  • Worked extensively with Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment of the application.  • Worked on UNIX environment for deployments and Unix Shell Scripting was used for scheduling batch jobs  • Used SVN and GitLab to manage the versioning, merging the code and migrated the code from SVN to GIT.  • Used SONAR tool to maintain code quality compliance.  • Performed Unit testing for various modules using JUnits.  • Used Jenkins for the CI/CD of different applications and wrote Jenkins groovy script for automation of build jobs.  • Version control and Management is done using Bitbucket, Apache Maven as the software build tool and Log4J for logging errors and messages.  • Configured local environment such as Jdbc, Webservice urls and Qcf's using WebSphere Server and configuring property files.  • Used Github extensively as versioning tool and used Maven for automated building of projects.  • Used JIRA tracking tool to manage and track the issues reported by QA and prioritize and act based on the severity.  • Transferring and receiving of input and output files from and to different clients through MBOX.  • Used Agile principles to implement the projects using two-week sprints, planning meeting, daily standups, grooming, estimation and retrospectives.  • Working on the Service Request from production like Data issues & configuration issues, also worked on enhancements as required by the business users.  • Provided 24/7 support for the project as required.    Environment: Java 1.7, Hibernate, Spring MVC, JDBC, JSP, Html5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Maven, JBOSS, Junit, Web Logic, Eclipse, Oracle 10g/11g, GIT, Apache Tomcat, Web services, REST, Windows 8.1, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA. Java Developer SunEra Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Used AWS SDK to connect with Amazon SQS for bulk email processing.  • Tested the Web services using SOAPUI and by writing Web service client in Java for transmitting the offender's information in XML data using the WSDL provided  • Strong experience in deploying J2EE components on JBoss, Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, and IBM WebSphere application servers, good exposure to cloud computing with Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Implemented a messaging API to send/receive messages, pull messages from third-party messaging providers using Java SpringBoot, micro-services and MongoDB.  • Implemented functionality using Spring IO / Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM  • Experience building REST Api's in Java and NodeJS using Springboot and ExpressJS respectively  • Implemented Docker -maven-plugin and maven pom to build Docker images for all Microservices and later used Docker file to build the Docker images from the java jar files.  • Used MAVEN as a build tool on java projects for development of build artifacts on the source code.  • Configured Kickstart and Jumpstart servers to initiate installation of RedHat Linux and Solaris on several machines at once.  • Creation of WebLogic domains and setup Admin & Managed servers for JAVA/J2EE applications on Non-Production and Production environments.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Used advanced core java features like annotations, generics, enhanced for loop etc. throughout the application  • Developed a Java-based ETL tool which extracts data from sources like MySQL and dumps data in the target tables in MySQL database.  • Maintained version control of the Java files with SVN and GIT.  • Participated in code review and mentoring sessions and used GIT as version control and GIT Bash for GIT interactions.  • Experienced in building Java application using make files (Ant utility), Shell Scripts.  • Involved in Installing, Configuring and Upgrading of RedHat Linux AS 4/5, Solaris 9/1 0 operating systems  • Experienced in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x, 5.x, 6.x, 7.x, Debian, CentOS 4.x, 5.x, suse Linux, Oracle Enterprise Linux, Solaris 8,9,10 and VMware vSphere ESX/ ESXi environment. Also, involved in migrating Linux/ Windows servers to cloud (AWS) and testing.  Environment: Java, J2EE, REST, SOAP, HTML 5, CSS, XML, Web-Services, JSON, Bootstrap, JUNIT, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AWS, SQL, Jenkins, GIT. Java\J2EE Developer Apollo HealthCare - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Designed Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Created architecture towards a Microservices approach using RESTful java web-services framework. Involved in using Core java concepts - Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading.  • Developed and implemented DAO design pattern including JSP, Servlets, FormBeans and DAO classes and another Java APIs. Used Message Driven Beans for asynchronous messaging. Used Java Message Service API to create, send, receive, and read messages between application components.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging test information, as it is smaller and easier to parse compared to XML.  • Provided connections using JDBC to the database and developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.  • Integrated usage of CRUD operations, performed Inner/Outer joins, used stored procedures, stored functions and cursors using Oracle PL/SQL.  • Performed unit testing using JUnitto have defect free application code.  Environment: Java 1.6, Core Java/J2EE, WebSphere, HTML, CSS, JSON, XML, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Multithreading, SQL, Oracle, JUnit, ANT, Log4j. Education Master's Additional Information Skills: * Project Management * Strategic Planning * Resource Allocation * Effective Communication * Team Collaboration  Technical Proficiencies:  Languages Java/J2EE, JavaScript  Cloud Technologies AWS  Web Technologies JSON, JSP, Servlets, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JMS,  Databases MS SQL Server, MySQL  Scripting Languages UNIX Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting, Ruby, JSON  Operating Servers UNIX, Windows, RedHat Linux CentOS  Network Protocols TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, SNMP, SMTP, Ethernet, NFS.  Methodologies SDLC, Agile, J2EE Design Patterns  Documentation Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint  IDE's Eclipse