Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - SWISSLOG LOGISTICS Newport News, VA Strategic Software Engineer with 6+ years' experience providing out-of-the-box solutions for design and execution of cutting edge technologies that lead to mission success.    ? Works cross-functionally with Agile teams to test and implement innovative technical solutions.  ? Leverages development and troubleshooting skills to identify and mitigate emerging issues on software and application development.  ? Thrives in fast-paced, complex environments that require critical thinking and attentive knowledge of tech trends to support teams in business and tech growth. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Engineer SWISSLOG LOGISTICS - Newport News, VA 2016 to Present Provide exceptional service to high-profile clients in developing best-in-class automation solutions as representative of global supplier. Oversee application lifecycle from design to deployment. Collaborate with teams to align update releases with aggressive deadlines.    Michelin:  • Assisted sales team in closure of $60MM deal, translating client demands into a user-friends software solution.  • Provided servant leadership to team through design and execution of Monorail transport flow.  • Maintained enterprise workflow by conducting application analysis and troubleshooting for WebLogic Application Server.  • Implemented multiple complex SQL queries facilitating order allocation and releases.  • Worked in tandem with test team to analyze and deliver project initiatives for commissioned, onsite projects.  • Utilized a number of technology tools including Junit for unit testing, Maven for build projects, and SVN for version control.    Tesla:  • Streamlined external source systems responses through the design and development of high-volume web services using Soap WSDL and RESTful.  • Improved operational workflow by devising multiple strategies for ASRS systems, BWCS & FLEXICELL robots, and inventory control.  • Prioritized the customer experience by collaborating with the help desk team to identify and mitigate all issues related to production systems.    Wal-Mart / John Deere:  • Reduced project timelines by 500+ hours through documentation and maintenance of project records.  • Coordinated with business teams to discuss project development and mission requirements.  • Initiated quick-testing processes through new automated test cases.    SWISSLOG LOGISTICS Software Engineer ~~~~~~~~~~)  • Improved site automation using a new sorting algorithm for Auto-Store resulting in a facilitated approach to best order. Java Developer BANK OF AMERICA - Plano, TX 2015 to 2016 Supported business development and customer acquisitions for multi-national investment banking company through expert application development and maintenance. Assisted test teams on all case evaluation and improvement.    • Drove web development through use of Spring on a number of projects including Dependency Injection, MVC architecture, and as an integration piece for Hibernate.  • Designed and executed data access layer with DAO, Session Façade, Business Delegate, and Singleton design patterns.  • Defined and monitored enterprise open positions through automated job control system. Java Developer AGILE TRAILBLAZERS - Philadelphia, PA 2015 to 2015 Assisted in 360-degree customer-facing project to drive Solar sales for NRG through database optimization and product marketing. Utilized a number of tools including Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO, and Service Locator to facilitate project implementation and success.    • Utilized numerous tools including Junit, DB unit and Spring frameworks, and Hibernate to streamline project operations and support business objectives.  • Ensured compliance with Agile development process, developing expertise in stand-up, retrospective, demo, and code review.  • Developed parsing logic for CSV file from FTP site to Amazon SQS before loading result to POSTGRES database.  • Conducted code refactoring to simplify code structure and improve overall maintenance. Java Developer CONVERGYS - IN 2012 to 2013 Participated in all phases of application lifecycle including analysis and verification for customer and information management company.    • Identified and created new system for web services, redefining architectures based on service-oriented SOA.  • Built new publishing framework and reusable UI component library for front-end use.  • Leveraged expertise in J2EE practices and patterns to support business initiatives and customer service operations. Education Master in Science UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA - Tampa, FL Bachelor of Technology in Technology LINGAYA'S INSTITUTE OF MANGAEMENT AND TECHNOLOGY Skills deployment. (3 years), Java (4 years), Soap (3 years), solutions (3 years), Sql (3 years), MySQL, Javascript