Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - EClinicalWorks, LLC • Around 3.5 years of experience in Software Development through Java and J2EE technologies, hands-on-experience working in all phases of Software development life cycle Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Maintenance.  • Strong hands on experience in developing the Enterprise and Web applications on n-tier Architecture using Java/J2EE, Spring, JSP, Hibernate, Servlets, EJBs, Struts, Web services, XML, and JDBC.  • Good knowledge of spring's IOC, AOP, Spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Extensively worked with AWS services along with wide and in depth understanding of each one of them.  • Experience developing the application in Microservices architecture using Spring Boot, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database  • Practical Knowledge in designing and developing web-based enterprise applications using Java, J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC and XML.  • Practical knowledge and working Experience with EJB, Java Persistence Query Language, Transactions, Exceptions, Java Message Service (JMS), Java Transaction API (JTA).  • Experience in implementing the Web Services using REST based architecture which helps easy intercommunication between multiple systems.  • Worked on database servers like Oracle 10g, MYSQL made use of PL/SQL in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Proficiency in SDLC methodologies like Systems Engineering Methodology (SEM), Agile.  • Experience in deploying web applications on Apache Tomcat 7.0/8.0 Web Server.  • Expertise working with version Control Systems like GitHub.  • Experienced in troubleshooting issues in Linux Environment worked on Ubuntu and Solaris.  • Knowledge of working on build tools like Maven.  • Good knowledge of designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in using web traffic inspecting tool such as Fiddler.  • Quick learner with an ability to rapidly achieve organizational integration, assimilate job requirements and employ new ideas, concepts, methods and technologies. Energetic and self-motivated team player. Work Experience Java Developer EClinicalWorks, LLC - Westborough, MA August 2018 to Present Project - Patient Portal  Project deals with developing web portal for patients where they can login to see all the information regarding the clinical data. Patients can see all the clinical data regarding appointments, medications and billing information.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on developing the interfaces platform using Spring boot for providing different entities to exchange health care information in efficient manner.  • Coded the backend logic using Java Collections and handled service requests using Multithreading and Serialization.  • Participated in design and developing dashboard for the application using Angular JS, Jquery and CSS3 to monitor the transactions that pass-through interfaces.  • Worked on developing individual modules into Spring Boot microservices for easier maintainability, cleaner code and better testing of the application.  • Constant checks on synchronous communication between the entities was performed using Postman to confirm the successful communication health level data  • Involved in creating SQL queries using Stored procedures to perform crud operations for storing the transactional data.  • Utilized Hibernate framework to make database calls to Oracle 12c database.  • Strong Healthcare domain knowledge including clinical documents.  • Involved in working with Shell scripts to verify health checks on different services on the remote servers.  • Deployed the configuration changes on the remote nodes using Chef.  • Worked with Splunk for troubleshooting the errors that occurred in production.  • Involved in Code Reviews, Mentoring and Team Discussions for designing new architectures.    Environment:  • JDK1.7, Spring 3.0, MySQL, Servlets, Eclipse Luna, SQL Developer, Junit, Ruby 2.3, Shell Scripts, Chef, GitHub, Linux. Java/J2EE Developer AtLink Communications - Houston, TX January 2018 to June 2018 Project-Tiers /Your Texas Benefits  Application deals with providing a platform for residents of Texas to apply for Benefits provided by HHSC, State of Texas such as Food Stamps, Medicare savings and help for disabled people/elderly people through Your Texas Benefits application. Different Modules are used in the project such as application module, Case generation module and eligibility determination module. I worked on the Application module which deals with getting the details of end users and processing & validating the information. In our Application Module we had additional functionalities like submitting new Applications, Renewals and Changes Reporting.    Responsibilities:  • Spring MVC Framework was used in the development of Framework level backend logic to process and handle large number of service requests for easy maintainability.  • Development of Application Backend was done based on Enterprise Java Beans to utilize its security and transactional features.  • Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  • Developed the batch app for consuming messages from IBM MQ sent from customer identifier application and parsing it using Xml Beans persisted them using Hibernate.  • Developed REST based Web Services for easy communication between different modules of the project.  • Created components using Angular 4 used built-in $http service from controller through dependency injection to make Rest API calls.  • Deployed the Application on IBM Web Sphere 7.0 server and used IBM RAD as IDE for developing the code.  • Used Postman and JSON to test the request and response of the Web Services.  • Used Oracle 10g as database Storage and wrote complex Stored Blocks to perform certain data operations when events are triggered.  • Used Spring for Bean injection and JDBC Template to interact with Oracle database.  • Used IBM Clear Case as the version control system and used Splunk Tool for Monitoring the Applications and retrieving the logs for analyzing the errors in production.  • Experience working in an Agile environment with fast paced development and sprints to keep track of the progress of the project.  Environment:  JDK1.7, Spring 3.0, JavaScript, EJB 3.0, Angular 4, JSON, IBM Web Sphere7.0, Splunk, , Rest Web Services, Oracle10g, Servlets, EJB, AJAX, IBM RAD, PL/SQL Developer, and UNIX. Junior Java/J2EE Developer Vistex Asia Pacific Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to August 2016 Project: Home Loan Application  Description: Project dealt with providing loans, insurance services for bank of America employees. Worked on developing the web application to allow the user to apply for new loans, view existing loans on the dashboard and also existing coverages can be reviewed and requested for change. Validation module would then verify all the details and complete the process.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing Rich UI of Patients Screens using HTML, CSS, JSP and validations were done using JavaScript.  • Participated in building web-services using REST Web Services that allowed integrating the CPRS module of application with the other modules.  • Developed Business logic using Java beans, Servlets, Interfaces and POJO Objects.  • Used Spring 2.0 for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and Struts.  • Participated in back-end Database programming using PL/SQL and wrote Complex queries in Oracle 10g.  • Developed various UML Diagrams using Visio to ease the flow of development.  • Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR & dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto Application Server.  • Successfully improved the performance by using HQL Query tuning as well as application tuning.  • Involved in development of Hibernate objects to persist data into the database  • Participated in the programming of JBOSS Enterprise SOA environment.  • Involved in development of multithreading interface to handle long running calls to xml web services and stored procedures.  • Used Java Mail to send the email notifications for Hiring managers whenever an applicant accepts the job offer  • Developed unit tests using JUNIT and used SVN for version control.  • Involved in guiding, mentoring new contractors to understand the application.  Environment:  J2EE 5.0(Generics, Annotations), JDK 1.5/1.6, Oracle 10g/11g, Spring, J Boss 6.x, Hibernate, JQuery, Ajax, PL/SQL, Web services (REST), EJB, JMS, Multithreading, JPA, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, XML. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University Of Houston - Houston, TX May 2018 Bachelor's in Information Technology in Information Technology Sri Indu College Of Engineering and Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 Additional Information TECHINICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages- SQL, Core Java /J2EE  UI Technologies- HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS  Frameworks- Spring, Hibernate ORM, EJB 3.0  Design Patterns- Front Controller, Singleton  Databases- Oracle 10g, MySQL, SQL server  Web Services- REST  Design and IDE Tools- Eclipse, Visual Studio, Rational Rose  Other Tools- Chef, Maven, AWS EC2, AWS RDS, AWS S3 and Postman.