Full-Stack Java developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Full-Stack Java developer houston, TX Work Experience Full-Stack Java developer Denim Group - Austin, TX January 2017 to February 2018 Project Description: Denim group provides security services to the clients which create resilient software that can be deployed to withstand attacks. Role included Designing, developing and testing software solutions. Applied latest development principles to assist in design and development of new applications, modules and features.  Responsibilities:  • The system was designed per J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet.  • Worked in developing web pages using Angular 4, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, Node.js and Ajax.  • EJB's was used to communicate to the database and JSP along with HTML, XML was used to control the client view  • Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE, XML, Servlets, JSP  • Client-side validations are done using JavaScript and server-side validations are done using Struts validator framework.  • Implemented AWS IAM for managing the credentials of applications that run on EC2 instances.  • Used IAM for creating roles, users, and groups to provide additional security to AWS account and its resources.  • Automated the deployment process using JULES (customized Jenkins) pipeline for the microservices  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that Leverages Classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture  • Created table and different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  • Extensively used Collections and Exceptions in the batch program for database cleanup.  • Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • The application was developed using Eclipse on Windows XP.  • Integrated Web Services in ESB Layer.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Created (Jenkins) CI/CD for deploying and for integrate with other tools.  • Used Junit framework for Unit testing of application and Clear Case for version control.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Angular 4, JavaScript, Windows/Unix, Struts, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Eclipse, JDBC, DB2, ClearCase, AWS Java Developer Orbit Healthcare - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2014 to November 2016 Project Description: Orbit is a healthcare management system. It assists in managing the patient information for the hospitals. It supports different type of users and shows appropriate information according to the type of the user. Orbit user module team is responsible for logging, validation and session information. It provides access to patients for viewing their information and making appointment with the doctors. And doctors use it to keep track of all the patient information.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project.  • Created template driven Angular 2 forms and performed validations by tracking form status.  • Followed MVC model and used spring framework for developing the Web layer of the application.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using JSF, JavaScript, and AJAX using RAD.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client-side validations.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Decomposed existing monolithic code base into Spring Boot microservices. Developed new features and provided support for all Microservices.  • Implemented integration using AWS-Amazon Web Services. Worked with cross browser compatibility issues and fixed bugs for supported platforms and browsers.  • Worked on AWS Lambda to run the code in response to events, such as changes to data in an Amazon S3 bucket, Amazon DynamoDB table, HTTP requests using AWS API Gateway and invoked the code using API calls made using AWS SDKs.  • Automated deployment of micro services to pull an image from private Docker Registry and deploy Docker swarm cluster using Ansible.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate and Session Facade.  • Write front end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Involved in preparing Maven builds scripts, deployments, integration and configuration management of the entire application modules.  • Used Jenkins and Maven to manage automated builds from IBM Clear Case and to track promotion status.  • Used spring, Hibernate module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over SQL database.  • Developed the business components using EJB Session Beans.  • Involved in Database design for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and Log4j for logging.  Environment: Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Eclipse 3.3, Maven, Jenkins, JUnit, Clear Case, AWS, CSS, HTML, XML, XSD, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM WebSphere Application Server and UNIX. Jr. Java Developer Dhanush InfoTech Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to August 2014 Project Description: The application we worked on is an intranet-based point-of-sale (POS) system. This application allows state agents and customers to activate different types of transactions like the bill payments, Tab Renewals and involved in applications for processing the service information and activation of payments, fulfillment of orders.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis and Design using UML and OOAD.  • Involved in development of application using Struts, RAD and Oracle data base.  • Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, JSPs and AJAX.  • Migrated existing application into micro services architecture using REST APIs, spring boot.  • Client-side validation is done using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed the Application using Model View Controller Architecture.  • Developed different modules using J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI)  • Integrated the Application with Database using Hibernate.  • Communicated between different applications using JMS.  • Used JNDI for registering and locating Java objects.  • Interacted with backend Oracle and wrote stored procedures, functions and cursors for deleting and inserting using PL/SQL.  • Deployed the Application in WebLogic App Server.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit framework.  • Worked on production issues.  • Interacted with the Users and Documented the Application.  Environment: Java, WebLogic App Server, Struts, JDBC, JNDI, JSP, JMS, HTML, XML/XSL/XSLT, J2EE, PL/SQL, SQL, Oracle 9i, JUnit, Windows Education Bachelor's Skills Spring Core, Spring Data, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, Spring Scheduler, AngularJS, Restful Web Services, SOAP Web Services (6 years), Hibernate, Oracle 11g, JSP, JSTL, AWS, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JSON, XSD, Web Sphere, Tomcat, JUNIT, Mockito, log4J (5 years), UML, Rational Rose, Maven, SVN, SOA, Design patterns, Eclipse IDE, Windows (5 years), JAVA, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Angular 4, JavaScript, Windows/Unix, Struts, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Eclipse, JDBC, DB2, ClearCase, AWS (5 years), Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Eclipse 3.3, Maven, Jenkins, JUnit, Clear Case, AWS, CSS, HTML, XML, XSD, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM WebSphere Application Server and UNIX (5 years), Java, WebLogic App Server, Struts, JDBC, JNDI, JSP, JMS, HTML, XML/XSL/XSLT, J2EE, PL/SQL, SQL, Oracle 9i, JUnit, Windows (5 years)