Sr Full Stack Java Developer Sr Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Full Stack Java Developer Work Experience Sr Full Stack Java Developer Intuit - Mountain View, CA January 2014 to August 2015 Description: Intuit is a business and financial software company that develops software for personal finance, small business, tax and accounting. Intuit flagship products are TurboTax, QuickBooks and Mint. Handles the creation of budgets for future, see bills and money together, receive alerts for unusual account charges, get custom tips for reducing fees and saving money and free credit score and the details about how can improve. And 100% accurate in calculating taxes and make sure no penalties, tax deduction and credit qualify for to get the biggest tax refund and comprehensive review of tax return.    Key Contributions:  • Used Agile-scrum Software Development for developing the application.  • Involved in user requirement specification and preparing requirements documents and translated business rules into business component modules.  • Designed User Interfaces using Angular, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Extensively worked with consuming the REST services in the front-end using Angular.  • Created custom Plugins, templates, and functions for Angular JS application.  • Design Developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring framework.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several JAVA/JEE Design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO)  • Extensively worked on form validation using the Spring, Hibernate Validator framework.  • Involved in working with SQL queries, function and procedures for performing CRUD operations on database using JDBC/JPA concepts on Oracle database.  • Configured Transaction management and followed best practices to implement transaction support for consistent database updates using Spring transactions.  • Has done development using Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, ORM Integration.  • Implemented look-up method injections using spring core to incorporate proto type beans into singleton beans.  • Implemented Spring aspects like logging, transactional, session aspects to implement cross-cutting functionality.  • Used Hibernate mapping annotations to map POJO classes with tables and implement inheritance strategies.  • Implement Internationalization using Spring MVC interceptors, Spring resource bundles and Spring core components  • Created XML Schema, and managed the flow of the same to and from the already existing web services (REST)  • Used WSDL, SOAP, AXIS and JAX-WS technologies to create web services by generating stubs and consuming the existing services.  • Utilized spring Batch APIs (Partitioning, reader/writer/processor, batchlets etc.) to implement batch jobs and configured thought Tivoli Work Loader to run at Scheduled times.  • Created a number of custom-built tag libraries in JSP to support the already existing custom widgets in JavaScript  • Wrote SQL and PL/SQL queries for database creation and modification.  • Worked on implementing SOAP based web service to validate business scenarios.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions  • Used Maven as a build tool for the application.  • Wrote UNIX commands for file permissions, resource usage and other basic services.  • Involved in the Integration testing support and involved in bug fixing.  • Involved at the time of deploying the code in the production environment and do the functional checkout and merging code using the distributed version control system (GIT)  • Involved in CI/CD using Jenkins and integrated with Sonar Qube to report Bus, Vulnerabilities and Code smells.  • Developed detailed design documents for all the functional modules of the application to be used by the testing team to setup test cases.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring - IOC, AOP, MVC, Batch, Hibernate, JDBC, Angular, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap, XML, Web Logic, Eclipse, EJB, Perforce, Oracle, JUnit, Web Services (SOAP, REST), AXIS, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Log4J, Maven, Unix, GIT, Sonar Qube, Sr Java Developer Humana Health Care October 2011 to December 2013 Description: Humana's diverse lines of business position us to serve many types of consumers, including seniors, military members, and self-employed individuals. It markets and administers health insurance for about 11 million customers.    Key Contributions:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application using TDD methodology.  • Analyzed use cases, created interfaces and designed the core functionality from presentation layer to business logic layer using UML and Rational Rose.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture for an efficient implementation of the view level customizations and interfaced with the application logic.  • Used JSF MVC framework for developing J2EE based web application  • Developed client-side validation front-end screens using HTML, JSF, Prime Faces, CSS, JSTL, JS and AJAX  • Used Apache Axis Service Engine for creating and deploying Web Service clients using SOAP. WSDL.  • Incorporated an efficient way of doing builds and deploying the application to WAS and automating entire process.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deploy on Web Logic Application Server.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Created custom tags that facilitate developers in building the pages faster.  • Responsible for code review for different modules of the application.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Used Spring-Hibernate Template mechanism for persistence operations.  • Manipulated DB2 for data retrieving and storing using Hibernate.  • Hibernate used as ORM tool for persisting the data.  • Used Ant for project management and automation.  • Design, Develop Servlets and Sessions to implement business logic and deploy on the Web logic Application Server.  • Created Connection Pools in Web Logic and configured as needed.  • Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server to code configuration files.  • Used CVS as source control.  • Used J Unit to write repeatable tests mainly for unit testing.    Environment: Java, JEE, Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, Hibernate, HTML, JSF, Prime Faces, CSS, JSTL, Java Script and AJAX, Oracle - SQL, PL/SQL, JUnit, Ant, Log4J, VersionOne. Java Developer AppDev Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2010 to August 2011 Description: Online Banking Application defines new application architecture to support the development of new systems to support the bank's sales process and facilitate proposed future third-party integrations. Enhancements were done to the existing Banking Applications which offers various features like online banking, creating new accounts and personal loan applications.    Key Contributions:  • Involved in complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) - Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, system and user acceptance testing of the application.  • Coordinated complex information system developments and implemented technical functions in the Apache Tomcat environment to achieve the desired result in the system enhancement.  • Followed approved life cycle methodologies, created design documents and performed program coding and testing.  • Created UML diagrams (Use Case, Class, Sequence & Collaboration diagram) based on the business requirements using IBM Rational Software Modeler.  • Developed Business Modules and User Interaction Modules for the existing system.  • Implementation of MVC architecture by separating the business logic from the presentation logic using Struts2.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP for user access management service application.  • Developed UI Object for rendering user data and UI using AJAX, JavaScript and JQuery, JSP, HTML & CSS.  • Implemented the Model layer with POJO java classes, integrated with Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping and used MySQL as the database.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit for the newly implemented system.  • Performed extensive cross browser compatibility testing.  • Participated in peer design and code review and analysis and resolved technical issues through debugging, research and investigation. Application developed with strict adherence to J2EE best practices.    Environment: Java, Struts 2, Hibernate ORM, XML, Apache Tomcat 5.5, MySQL 5.6, JUnit 4.7, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Eclipse, Windows XP/Unix, Junit, Java & J2EE design Patterns. Education MS in Computer Science St Mary's University 2006 BS in Computer Science Osmania University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana 2003 Skills CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), JAVA (4 years), JUNIT (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years) Additional Information Skills:    CSS (8 years), Java (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (8 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (8 years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: Java, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, Unix, XML  Java Technologies/ Frameworks: J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, JSTL, EJB, JDBC, MVC), Spring, Struts, Hibernate  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, JSF/Prime Faces, Angular-JS  Web Services &XML REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML, JAXP-DOM, SAX, JSON, JAXB, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Application/Web Servers IBM Web Sphere, Web logic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Databases Oracle, DB2, MySQL  IDE Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, STS  SCM/ Version Control GIT, SVN, CVS, Clear Case  Tools Maven, Ant, Jenkins, JIRA, QC, Rally    Operating Systems Windows:    UNIX, LINUX.  Others JSTL, JUNIT, Custom Tags, Log4J, Soap UI  Amazon Web Services EC2, S3, Cloud Watch, Amazon S3, Amazon RDS  EAM MAXIMO 6.2.5