Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Tempe, AZ • 4+ years of IT experience as Java Developer in application software industry. Experience in web application analysis, design, development and deployment of enterprise application with strong hold on Object Oriented JAVA, J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Skillful, with knowledge of Core Java 6/7, spring framework 4.2.x/4.3.x, RESTful web service, Web Pages using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, Servlet, and Spring Frameworks, spring MVC. Deployment server like Apache tomcat.  • Advantage of having worked in different phases of software development lifecycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, reviews, coding, testing, debugging, documenting, building and deployment.  • Worked in deployment of Java Applications from On Premise to AWS.  • Experience in deployment of SaaS application into AWS using orchestration tools like Docker and Cloudify.  • Worked on BigData, installation of Hadoop and connecting to Hbase database using Talend IDE. And recording transaction time for a large amount of data.  • Expertise in Junit Testing with Mockito.  • Good Experience and programming skills in Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and OOPs concepts.  • Experience in building IOT (Internet of Things) solution using java technology and remotely monitor and control of hardware wifi-hub via the internet.  • Worked on front-end design using HTML 4.0/5, CSS 3, XML, JQuery, Ajax, JQWidget, SentiSight API.  • Experienced working with logging frameworks like log4j.  • Experience in using Design Pattern: Singleton Pattern, Factory pattern and MVC Pattern.  • Strong experience in RDBMS technologies like, MySQL, Oracle, SQL.  • Good experience on build tool maven and SVN version control system. Work Experience Java Developer L&T Technology Services Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2014 to August 2016 Client: Spectrum Brand - United Pet Groups  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, requirement analysis, implementation, and testing phases of software development life cycle.  • Implemented web-application for vendors to upload/update the aquarium data into MongoDB.  • Building IOT (Internet of Thing) application using Java, J2ee, Apache Tomcat, Maven, Junit, Spring IDE.   • Provided API’s for both Android/IOS and wifi enabled HUB. Including processing request and response from both cell-phone application and hardware device.   • Applied multi-threaded techniques for creating high performance applications.   • Parsing the commands of hardware devices using core java functionalities.   • Used SMTP server for sending email notifications on user registration.   • Taking care of syncing of the latest data or sending emergency messages in to mobile app and wifi hub by sending notification and alerts through push-notifications.   • Tested application for more than 1000 users’ requests by creating threads.   • Created Mongo collections and written queries to read & write data in Mongo Database.  • Worked on Cloud Migration including transfer of application from orchestration tools like Docker and cloudify into AWS environment.   • Testing of SaaS application in Docker by creating nodes and enabling database communications.  • Deployed applications into AWS cloud environments and configuration for securities within AWS by enabling https requests.   • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time.  • Worked on creating UML diagrams, Flow charts, class diagrams, use-case diagram and data flow diagrams using lucid chart Java Developer L&T Technology Services Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2014 to December 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Used spring core container to implement IOC concept to avoid tight coupling.  • Developed Controller class and defined spring configuration mappings.  • Core  java development for different components. Developed the application using Core  Java, Multi-Threading, Spring Core, JDBC, ORACLE, and Maven.  • Used JSON for data transmission from service layer to UI webpages  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, JQWidget and JSP.  • Development of test cases using Mockito to check expected results and Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Provided Log4j support for the application for debugging the system.  • Agile software development technique is using, to manage product development, understand and resolve problems daily scrum strategy is used. Software Engineer/ Java Developer Wipro Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2012 to January 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Core and Advanced java training with complete flow of web-application and communication with the MySQL.  • Develop the Java web Application based on client server architecture. Implemented RESTfull web services.   • Created UI using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, and Ajax  • Created Admin and user pages for video subscriptions and suggestions based object recognition using SentiSight API   • Core Java techniques, framework is used to handle user data and used JSON to transfer data between presentation layer and service layer.   • Trained the objects using SentiSight API’s and saving it in the SQLite database; the created database is used for object recognition.  • Tested time taken for transfer of large amount of data using Big data technologies like Hadoop. Installation of Hadoop and using map-reduce for transaction of data using talend IDE.   • Used different CSS styles to achieve attractive look and user-friendly environment.  • SVN is used for vision control. Education Master's in Computer/Information Technology Services Administration and Management Ottawa University, Phoenix - Pheniox August 2018 to August 2020 Bachelor's in Computer Science Maharaja Insitute of Technology - Mysuru, Karnataka January 2007 to July 2011 Skills Apache (1 year), AWS (1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), deployment (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Hadoop. (1 year), HTML (1 year), J2ee (1 year), Java (4 years), JSP. (2 years), Junit (2 years), Linux (Less than 1 year), Maven (2 years), MongoDB. (1 year), MySQL. (1 year), Servlet (Less than 1 year), SOAP (Less than 1 year), MYSQL. (3 years), Apache Tomcat Sever (4 years), web services. (2 years), Spring (2 years), Rest API, Web Service (2 years), Java J2Ee (3 years), Core Java (4 years)