Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - American Express • 3 years of hands-on experience in Software Process Engineering, designing and building various Application using Java/J2EE Technology & open source technologies.  • Good knowledge in working with API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory, Interface (JNDI), Remote method Invocation (RMI)  • Experience in using Front End Technologies: JSP, HTML, Bootstrap, jQuery, React.js, Angular.js, and Backbone JS.  • Expertise in using IDE like Eclipse / My Eclipse /RAD.  • Experience in GIT and Jenkins as well.  • Experience in implementing Web Services based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP, Restful Web Services, JAX-WS, WSDL, WADL.  • Worked on developing applications using Java technologies include Core Java, J2EE, Java Server Pages (JSP), Servlets, Java Script, JDBC, JMS, Apache Camel and EJB.  • Experience in working with XML in transferring data across various platforms, performing data validations, reading and writing data using XML (DOM&SAX) parsers.  • Worked on building fast and scalable network applications using Node.js  • Excellent team player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements. Work Experience Java Developer American Express - New York, NY June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed backend application using Core Java 8, JSP, Spring MVC,  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) of the application like Design, Analysis and code development.  • Used Scripting Languages like jQuery and JavaScript to implement several client-side functionalities like validations, service calls, sorting, filtering etc.  • Designed and developed the UI using Swings, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, XML and jQuery.  • Deployed EJB Components (both Session and Entity Beans) in IBM WebSphere Application Server, which encapsulate business logic and build up the model for the system.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in UI using was a part of moving the existing Angular 2 component based legacy application to Angular 4 typescript. Junior Java Developer Morgan Stanley - Windsor Mill February 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript and AngularJS to Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 4 components, routing and service modules.  • Used Services in Angular 4 for Cross-Component Communication and dealt with reactive forms Validations.  • Performed backend REST Web Services using Angular 4 Http services to get and post JSON data.  • Used Angular CLI for application creation, compilation, limiting, running unit and integration test cases and to create production ready code.  • Building enterprise web -based solutions using Java technologies like Java, JEE, Spring MVC.  • Participated in Agile Scrum methodology for application development. Analysis, design, coding, unit, and integration testing of business applications in an object-oriented environment.  • Used HTML, AngularJS, Bootstrap for developing mock-up screens in the prototype to demo the application screens to business users and integrated dynamic pages using AngularJS and jQuery. Software Engineer Leidos - Washington, DC September 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing requirements, technical design, development of various modules assigned.  • Developed several User Interfaces by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and XML, configuring.  • Implemented Struts 2.0 for business layer and developed JSP files for developing UI using HTML, CSS, Ajax, JSP.  • Implemented new modules and themes into Drupal core to allow for rapid development Developed server-side services using Java, spring, Web Services (Restful, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC), SOA (Service oriented architecture)  • Used Spring Injection/Inversion of Control, Hibernate ORM to get data as objects and for backend Queries writing easily.  • Developed the user interface using JSP and JavaScript to view all online trading transactions.  • Created client-side validation tool using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed Data Access Objects (DAO) to access the database.  • Coded Java Server Pages for the Dynamic front end content that use Servlets and EJBs.  • Coded HTML pages using CSS for static content generation with JavaScript for validations. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), HTML (2 years), XML (2 years), HTML5 (1 year), Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, J2Ee Additional Information SKILLS  • Languages: - Java 8, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, Python, JEE/J2EE.  • Web Technology: - HTML, HTML5/4, CSS3, XML, Angular.js 1.0/1.5/2.0/4.0, Node.js, Ext.js, JavaScript, CSS, Angular2, React.js, AJAX, XML, XSLT, Java Beans, JMS.  • Methodology: - - Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC, Jenkins.  • Application Framework: - Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, Apache Spark.  • Data Base: - Oracle, MySQL, SQL, Server, DB2, Cosmos DB, MongoDB, JAXP, Tools ANT, Big Data My Eclipse