Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - CVS Wheeling, IL • Oracle Certified Associate, JAVA SE7 Programmer.  • Having work experience of 2 years with Java 1.7 and 1.8 (JDK, JRE), J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, Spring and Hibernate frameworks, Restful web services, WebLogic, SQL and ETL tools.  • Committed to building high quality software with a collaborative, team-player attitude, great problem-solving skills, and excellent programming ability.  • Experience in supporting application teams and Troubleshooting in a DEV, SIT, UAT, and Production environment.  • Good understanding of full software life cycle development processes. Self-motivated and enjoy working in a technically challenging environment.  • Exposure on Java 1.8 features Lambda expressions, Stream API and Method references.  • Experience in RESTful based web services, spring framework and Hibernate ORM's.  • Experience in developing and executing unit test cases using Junit.  • Knowledge on other languages such as Scala, spark and python.  • Experience in Application integration with Bigdata environment such as JDBC, spark context and Cassandra.  • Working knowledge of Agile Development-Scrum and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in using source control systems such as SVN, Git and build tools such as Maven.  • Proficient in Java/J2EE Design patterns including Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO). Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections and multithreading.  • Experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container Module, Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework, Spring AOP Module and Spring ORM Module in Spring Framework.  • Experience in design and development of Web Services using SOAP (JAX-WS), REST (JAX-RS) with extensive knowledge of specifications like WS Security and WS-Policy.  • Worked on IDE's such as Eclipse, IntelliJ and RAD for developing, deploying and debugging the applications.  • Experience working with databases such as Oracle, Cassandra, MS-SQL Server and using PL/SQL to write stored procedures functions and triggers for different Data Models.  • Knowledge on writing functions and procedures implemented inheritance relationships in databases. Work Experience Java Developer CVS Health - Buffalo Grove, IL August 2018 to Present • Assist in the design, development and implementation of application systems Java/J2EE architecture.  • Designed and developed the Form Validations, Controller Classes and Java bean components.  • Debug and revise programs based on Performed enhancements to existing applications.  • Create and execute test cases in JUnit for unit testing of application.  • Worked on Cassandra as database. Usage of JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.  • Maintain proficiency in programming languages, program development, testing and serve as an expert in area of responsibility.  • Perform application systems development tasks which include working with users to define system needs, analyzing and designing applications to meet user needs, translating logic diagrams into program statements, deploying and implementing packages and conducting research in emerging technologies.  • Configure the Application context file based on the spring and hibernate entries.  • Involve in code review, bug fixing and production support.  • Working on agile environment.    Environment: Java, Spring Framework (IOC, DAO, MVC, AOP, Security), Spring Boot, RESTful Web services, JSP, JDBC, MySQL, Hadoop, Cassandra database, Agile, Production Support, Testing, Junit, Apache Tomcat, PL/SQL, NoSQL, JavaScript. Desktop Engineer University of North Texas - Denton, TX September 2016 to May 2018 • Involved in installing and maintain equipment and software to help the end-users by solving their technical issues.  • Provide technical support to college of North Texas which include troubleshooting network issues as needed in a timely manner.  • Managed computer labs in UNT for testing purposes.  • Configuration and installation of various software's. Performed enhancements to existing applications. Java Developer ProseSoft Solutions April 2015 to May 2016 • Coordinate development activities, evaluate and report performance of projects.  • Initiate system analysis, lead the definition of user requirements and assesses impacts. Determine alternate solutions with risk analysis and identify opportunities to use technology to improve availability and advance business initiatives.  • Involved in using java features like oops concepts, collections, Exception Handling, J2EE, spring framework.  • Schedule and prioritize work and plan a sequence of development activities that accomplish the planned targets. Set priorities and provide reports to the management.  • Mentor team members in design and analysis activities.  • Involved in the development of application in J2EE application server environment.  • Implemented Restful web service with the use of URI templets and content negotiation. Involved in integration testing and deployment of the module as part of or application.    Environment: Core Java, Spring Framework (IOC, DAO, MVC), RESTful Web services, JSP, JDBC, Agile, Production Support, Testing, Junit, apache ANT, Apache Tomcat, MySQL. Internship Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited January 2014 to March 2014 • Worked alongside with our technical lead engineer to develop the application.  • Provided technical support for BHEL employees.  • Involved in the development of new application and server.  • Troubleshooting issues in the organization. Education Master's in INFORMATION SCIENCE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH TEXAS - Denton, TX August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor's in ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING JNTUH UNIVERSITY August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Java, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, Soap, Core Java