Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - JP Morgan & Chase Bingham Farms, MI ? Self-motivated Software Engineer with 2+ years of work experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance.  ? Experienced in working on Web, Client server applications using JAVA/JEE/J2EE technologies and Cloud Technologies.  ? Possess good working knowledge of Agile and Waterfalls software development methodologies. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer JP Morgan & Chase - Houston, TX March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology  ? Used Java 1.8 Streams & Lambda expressions available as part of to store and process the data.  ? Involved in designing user interface by using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed the system used for AWS Elastic Environments, and SNS, SQS for asynchronous  workflow.  ? Used Docker to containerize the Services.  ? Implemented Micro Services using Spring Batch, Spring Boot and deployed on AWS.  ? Used Spring IOC to make the code loosely coupled and Spring's Hibernate Support for transaction management.  ? Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, Generics  ? Developed SQL and PL/ SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases.  ? Configured and deployed the application on IBM WebSphere.  ? Using Rabbit MQ as a Message Oriented Middleware for integrating applications.  ? Test Driven Development thereby creating JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality  ? Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in application servers.  ? Implemented Continuous Integration & Continuous Delivery using DevOps tools like Jenkins.  ? Developed server-side scripts in shell to customize GIT and integrate it with tools like JIRA  ? Configured log4j to enable/disable logging in application. Java Developer Infor - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Used Maven as build automation tool and Jenkins to perform continuous Integration.  ? Used GIT for version control tool and Eclipse for IDE.  ? Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of files.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality.  ? Designed & developed client-side application in a MVC architecture and responsive webpages using Bootstrap.  ? Involved in designing and development setting up the env for spring boot using the micro services architecture.  ? Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services and Lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  ? Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and Spring AOP for reusability logging purpose.  ? Development of RESTFul web services using JAX-RS & SOAP based Web Services with JAX-WS  ? Used Hibernate ORM solution technique of mapping data representation from MVC model  ? Written complex SQL queries, PL/SQL procedures for database.  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture using JMS.  ? Rabbit MQ as Java Messaging Service for producing & consuming data between applications. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAX-WS, JBOSS, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, C++, CASE TOOLS, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, SVN, VISIO, XML, Rest, Java J2Ee, JEE