Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - State Street Bank Quincy, MA • 3+ years of professional experience in Software Development Life Cycle, mainly designing, development/implementation, testing and maintenance of Business-to Business, Business-to-Customer, Web applications and Client/Server build on Java and J2EE.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System and Multi-Threading.  • Hands on experience in Java and J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring JDBC Template, Hibernate, JMS, and XML.  • Experience in developing server-side applications using Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Experienced in developing web applications implementing MVC style applications using Spring MVC Frameworks.  • Experience in Spring Framework such as Spring MVC, Spring IOC (Inversion of control), and Spring JDBC and Spring AOP modules.  • Integrated the application with Spring-MVC using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (DI), and Spring Annotations.  • Good experience with Source code management collaboration tools GIT, SVN, GitHub, Bitbucket, Gitlab.  • Knowledge of application development for Cloud platforms using technologies like Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Microservices. Experience in Microservices and Spring Boot application development.  • Experience in various development tools like Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ  • Good experience in producing/consuming REST web services using JAX-RS API (Apache CXF, Jersey) and spring with REST API.  • Work with Development, Storage and Network teams in installation and administration of MongoDB in the IT Enterprise Environment.  • Experience in using J2EE Application Servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, and JBoss.  • Experience in writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, and Functions.  • Experience in handling version control Systems tools like subversion SVN, GIT and CVS.  • Experience in use of build tools like Maven and ANT scripts for build and deployment.  • Experience in developing test cases for Unit Testing using JUnit, Integration Testing and System Testing.  • Excellent Written, Verbal communication and interpersonal skills.  • Excellent team player with very good analytical and problem-solving skills. Work Experience Java Developer State Street Bank - Quincy, MA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Analysis, Design and Implementation/translation of Business User requirements.  • Responsible for system analysis, design and development using J2EE architecture.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, Angular JS, CSS and Java Script.  • Developed the application use cases using the open source framework such as spring and Hibernate.  • Integrated the Spring MVC framework with Hibernate framework.  • Application designed in multi-tiered J2EE design and coding utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Created SQL queries, Stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle.  • Implemented Swagger Configuration in Java Spring boot for auto generating swagger Json files for REST API calls.  • Developed the automated unit test cases for the Microservices using Junit, Mockito, and Sonar and deployed them in the Jenkins pipeline.  • Migrate mongo dB shared/replica cluster form one datacenter to another without downtime.  • Implemented and configured the business objects of an application by using spring beans.  • Developed Restful Web Services using JAX-RS which were exposed to other applications.  • Used AJAX to make asynchronous calls to the framework which formatted the request (basically JSON data) using the JSON to Java Transformer mechanism inbuilt into the framework.  • Write unit test cases by using JUnit framework to perform the unit testing.  • Used JBoss Server for application deployment in the clustered Linux environment.  • Implemented the debugging functionality in an application by using Apache Log4Jframework Java J2ee Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN June 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:    • Design of the project using UML Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Object diagrams, and Class Diagrams.  • Worked in Agile methodology and delivering the accepted functionality in each sprint.  • Designed and developed User Interface using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and XML in a responsive grid layout..  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring Application Framework  • Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the MySQL database and written HQL to access the data from the database.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception handling to implement various features and enhancements.  • Developed Web services using XML, SOAP and RESTFUL web services.  • Developed Web Services to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Used SOAP protocol, JAX-WS and Apache CXF in development of web services.  • Using JAXB for xml binding and SAX parser for xml parsing.  • Developed JMS API using J2EE package.  • Automated the build process by using ANT build tool.  • Developed Packages to validate data from Flat Files and insert into various tables in MySQL Database.  • Responsible for performing Code Reviewing and Debugging.    Environment: Java, Core Java, Spring, Hibernate, MVC, UML, MySQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, JMS, SOAP, REST Web Services JSP, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, ANT, Apache Tomcat, UNIX, SVN, WebSphere, Agile. Jr. Java Developer Key Bank - Dallas, TX December 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathering Customer requirements and Implementation.  • Established the Development Standard Guidelines.  • Designed the Java Server Pages (JSP) that uses Style Sheets for customization.  • Developed page handlers for the JSP pages.  • Developed Java Script functions for front-end validations.  • Created a Servlet that redirects the requests to page handlers.  • Used Spring DAO module for database connectivity.  • Used JDBC to access database and developed Stored Procedures for executing SQL statements to efficiently using DB2 Database.  • Maven used for the automatic builds process.  • Developed and deployed Java Beans to display views and graphs to represent data.  • Coding, debugging, unit testing of the various modules of the system.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing.    Environment: Java, JSP, WebLogic Server, DB2, JDBC, Java Script, Servlets, MVC, JavaBeans, Maven, JUnit, Agile. Education Westerville Central High School - Westerville, OH Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Db2, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Rdms, Sql, Java J2Ee, MVC, JEE Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS.    Frameworks Hibernate, Spring, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot.  Web Services  XML, WSDL, SOAP (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS), Restful (JAX-RS),  Microservices, AWS.    Web Technologies Angular JS, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX.  Web/App Servers IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat.  Methodologies MVC framework, Agile/SCRUM, Waterfall and Iterative.  Version Controls GIT, SVN.  IDEs Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, STS, IntelliJ, RAD.  Operating Systems Windows, Unix/Linux.  RDMS Oracle, MySQL, SQL, DB2, MongoDB.  Other Tools Log4J, Ant, Maven, JUnit, JIRA, Jenkins.