Software developer Software <span class="hl">developer</span> Software developer Silver Spring, MD Work Experience Software developer JACOBS September 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities: -  • Worked as a UIS production support  • Attended daily standup meetings with the team to give solutions.  • Created a ticket for login management problems in Jira.  • Worked on Responding on Data Calls.  • Worked on Open AM DDD(Deployment Description Document).  • Worked on checking if sandbox could be accessed on Mobaxterm.  • Logged in Unix Ldap found a user and added the idm dev group to the user on integration and development environment.  • Worked on Installing and Configuring SAS.  • Created action request for different Universities.  • Created and reset a password for a user using IBM Rational Clear quest.  • Created contractor renewal Action request.  • Created contractor and system Account on the acceptance environment for users.  • Worked on creating SOP for system account creation. Java developer Wipro with client CapitalOne January 2018 to September 2018 • Took trainings on production support and worked on production support.  • Installed and configured eclipse and maven.  • Attend daily standup.  • Utilized java and MySQL from day to day debug and fix issues with client processes.  • Maintained various projects in java.    Java Trainings ( Java Boot Camp)  • Attended Extensive Java/J2EE Bootstrap Development Training by Experts (Workforce  Development Montgomery College)  • Grasped great knowledge on Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JPA,  • Spring integration with Hibernate and jpa.  • Grasped great knowledge on Thymeleaf, Html, Css.  • Grasped great knowledge on Version Control ( Git, Github)  • Grasped great knowledge on IntelliJ Java JEE engineer Technology solutions provider inc March 2016 to May 2017 Project: Soils, CPS, DP    Responsibilities:  • Was closely involved with design, development and implementation of the application.  • Enterprise Content Management application development and deployment utilizing IBM FileNet P8  ACCE (Administrative Console for Content Platform Engine), IBM Content Navigator.  • Configuration and Customization of IBM FileNet Content Navigator.  • IBM FileNet P8 API Creating Document properties, custom object properties, Document classes,  Choice Lists, Security ACL, security policies.  • Enterprise Content Management application customization and deployment using Widgets  customization using Dojo.  • Working with Technical Analysts and Business Analysts to understand short and long-term business  needs and develop enterprise-wide solutions for Content management and Information governance.  • Participating in technology and functional planning processes to help develop development standards  and solutions for the enterprise.  • Have worked on quark technologies.  • Tested the application on WebSphere Application Server.  • Created File uploader application using java technologies.  • Worked on quark technologies like installing and customizing.    Environment: ACCE, NAVIGATOR, PROCESS DESIGNER Education diploma in Computer in Computer Hilcoe School 2009 Bachelor of Science in applied Physics and computer science in applied in Physics and computer science University of Gondor 2006 Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems in Information Systems Strayer University Skills MySQL, Git Additional Information Technical Skills:    Desktop JAVA SE, DOJO  Web Development Java JEE (JSP-servlet, JPA, Hibernate, Spring(IoC, mvc, ORM), Web Services (RESTful)  (X)HTML/CSS  Databases SQL Server, MySQL.  Software/IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, Netbeans.