Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Commonwealth of Massachusetts - Department of Transitional Assistance Professional experience in software development using Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  Software Development Life Cycle for Design, Development and Staging phases using  Dataflow, Process Models, and E-R Diagrams.    • Extensive experience in analysis, design, development, implementation and testing of  enterprise applications with web technologies, distributed technologies and client-server  architecture environment.  • Experience in client interaction to gather requirements, elicitation, analysis and  documentation.  • Good understanding of programming languages like C, Java, Python, HTML, JavaScript  and CSS.  • Expertise with Oracle tools like SQL *PLUS, SQL Loader, SQL Developer and TOAD.  • Extensively used SQL Developer IDE to work with Oracle SQL.  • Extensively worked on backend programming using Java, SQL, Procedures, Functions,  Packages, Database trigger and SQL queries/reports/scripts.  • Good knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, SQL.  • Extensively work with XSD and XML Beans.  • Extensively used UNIX shell scripts for automating Java batch programs.  • Extensive knowledge on build automation tools such as Apache ANT, Maven and good  understanding of test-driven development.  • Expertise in using software repository tools like CVS, Git and Bitbucket.  • Technical experience in Screen mockups, data conversion and data mapping.  • Ability to work in a fast paced and changing environment with short deadlines,  interruptions, and multiple tasks/projects occurring at simultaneously. Work Experience Java Developer Commonwealth of Massachusetts - Department of Transitional Assistance - Boston, MA April 2016 to Present • Notice Reconciliation  • Verification Redesigning  • DTA PATH    Responsibilities:  • Develop notices generated through online and batch programs using Python, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, MVC and JSON skills.  • Extensively work with XSD and Xml Beans to work with XML documents.  • Resolve defects, write unit tests using Junit, and customize framework.  • Continuously collaborate with product management and external development teams that use  Agile processes and scrum methodology.  • Program and prepare code for interfacing with Apache Tomcat systems.  • Manage different code branches and maintain Continuous Integration and Continuous  Development (CI/CD) for fast paced robust application development environment.  • Develop entity attribute descriptions, definitions for data models and design database schema  objects.  • Experience in Tomcat Application Server on AIX.  • Modify current database by adding tables, altering referential integrity and relationships to support the control system.  • Use Maven to compile the application, build WAR files and deployment on the server.  • Use Spring Web MVC framework for implementation in the web application.  • Perform in PL/SQL code review and modification for the development of new requirements.  Create & maintain batch jobs using Shell scripting.  • Actively participate in code reviews, scrums, sprint planning, reviews and retrospective meetings.  • Apply CRUD operations on MySQL using JPA and JDBC to maintain user information.  • Design tables, views for various SQL queries, stored procedures and functions.  • Work with production support and operations teams to resolve production issues in a timely and efficient manner.  • Write user stories in JIRA as per requirements. Education Master of Science in Computer Science City University of New York - College of Staten Island - Staten Island, NY January 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013