Software Engineer - Currently Software Engineer - Currently Software Engineer - Currently - StubHub Oakland, CA Work Experience Software Engineer - Currently StubHub - San Francisco, CA March 2018 to Present designing and Implementing a diagnostic tool with new technologies and frameworks and  understanding company procedures for better production support. More over working on APIs used by clients  mostly focused on fixing the existing APIs by understanding the use-cases and issues from the client side.  • Participate in requirements gathering and design meetings with clients.  • Work with application teams to help them implement the solution.  • Work in collecting issues and develop a diagnostic tool to triage issues.  • Work cross-functionally to resolve issues and provide production support    Tools: Java, Confluence, Jira, Jenkins, Postman, Node.js, Zendesk, Splunk, ExpressJS, GitHub, Visual Studio  code, Sublime, STS. Java Developer Kobalt Music ltd - London September 2015 to March 2017 Project Name: SAX  Backend Developer mostly focused on creating new features and fixing existing bugs. Worked as a team member in agile team and worked with the product owners to review user stories, participated in sprint reviews and demos.  Participated in business analysis and database designs. I worked on migration from Bamboo to Jenkins. The  system was used to collect payments for artists when their song gets played in streamers such as YouTube and it  was capable of dividing the royalty according the peoples' contribution.  Tools: Core java, MySQL, Oracle, Tomcat, maven, eclipse, sublime, Git, Gitbash, Scrum, Jira, Junit, Jenkins,  Confluence and Bamboo.    Selected Achievements:  I worked as part of a team developing new features, maintaining existing bugs and testing a system used in house and by other outside clients. I was working actively with the social team to organize social events for the  employees at Kobalt and I was involving in many volunteering roles.    Resume Java Developer Bank of New York Mellon - London May 2014 to October 2014 Project Name: TAPESTRY  I worked as part of three different agile teams developing three different projects and worked with the product  owners to review user stories. I participated in sprint reviews, demos, business analysis and database designs.    Tools: Java7, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Liferay, Velocity, HTML, XML, MySQL, Tomcat, maven, eclipse,  sublime, Gitbash, Scrum, Confluence, Jira, Junit, Selenium Jenkins and Bamboo.    Selected Achievements:  I gained experience on a number of technologies. I improved my presentation, communication, teamwork and problem-solving skills. I participated in all planning sessions, all group meetings and I did many presentations as  well as demos. I worked in a global project to deliver a diversity website and delivered the project on time as a main developer. I took some TDD courses given by one of the team members. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Business Information Technology University of Bath - Bath GCSE in Design & Analysis of Algorithms Tower Hamlets College - London Skills Design Patterns (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Linux/Unix (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/rahel-abreham-83722882 Additional Information Operating systems: Linux/Unix, Windows/Mac  Design Patterns: Singleton, Factory, Iterator