Java Microservices Designer/ Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Microservices Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Microservices Designer/ Developer - AT&T Richardson, TX • 5 years of experience in IT industry with Requirements Gathering, Software Design, Development and Testing with expertise in Java microservices, Cassandra and Oracle.   • Excellent coding and problem-solving skills with ability to work as Full Stack Developer & Designer.  • Strong working knowledge in developing Java Restful webservices and micro services.  • Experienced in handling big data systems using NoSQL DB, Cassandra & data streaming tools like Kafka in multi-data center clusters.   • Actively involved in working with Apache Kafka /Zookeeper data streaming tool for near real time replication on billions of transactions between clusters.  • Expertise on RDBMS like Oracle PL/SQL, SQLite. Oracle Certified SQL Expert (1z0-047).  • Flexible with working on Linux environment and capable of coding shell scripts when required.  • K2view expert in designing Lu’s, parsers etc. using k2view fabric, a data-as-service platform.  • Worked on deploying code to kubernetes platform using CDP.  • Ability to work in fast-paced environment and can adapt to various situations prioritizing multiple work assignments simultaneously.  • Gained hands on experience with HTML, JavaScript, CSS, PHP, MySQL.   • Proven ability to work efficiently in a problem-solving environment and supporting large-scale distributed applications in a mission-critical production environment.  • Designing, developing, testing, debugging, code reviewing and documenting as per business requirements and ensuring delivery timelines are met as per agreement with client.  • Participated in every phase of software delivery life cycle in agile & scrum methodology.  • Very good at understanding project hindrances and able to develop automation tools as add-ons along with project work.  • Hands on performance tuning with JMeter, reviewed code to deliver high quality code adhering to best practices and well versed in production defects handling.  • Capable and enthusiastic to work with spring boot, react, node, angular js, python, flutter on project demand.  • Excellent analytical, communication, organizational and problem-solving skills coupled with a strong work ethic.  • Well versed with various other tools like Toad, Eclipse, sql developer, Jira, Rally, SVN, Git, k2view K2Fabric, JMeter, Xampp/Lampp server, putty, VMware, Rally, TDP etc. Work Experience Java Microservices Designer/ Developer AT&T - Plano, TX August 2017 to Present Environment: Java, Cassandra, SQLite, Oracle, Kafka, XML, JSON, JMeter, Red Hat Linux OS, Kubernetes, CDP, SVN, Git, UNIX, putty    K2view project intends to provide real-time holistic view of customer. This is a migration project that uses cutting edge technologies to build micro services and web services enabling client to provide 360-degree logical view by binding disparate accounts of customer from various legacy systems.    Roles and Responsibilities • Extensively worked on development of webservices & microservices with technologies like Java, Cassandra, SQLite, and PL/SQL.  • Actively interacted with client, data analysts and designed AID, DMS design documents.  • Worked with jaxb jars, quartz schedulers, Json-Simple-API etc. to deal with xml & json parsing.  • Designed and developed logical units that depicts relation between entity objects using k2fabric.  • K2view Expert in designing and development.  • Worked extensively on data streaming tools like Kafka/Zookeeper, Java Messaging Services (JMS), Solace and Data Router.  • Worked with Kafka data streaming tool for achieving real time data sync between data centers i.e. for active-active replication.  • Extensively involved in data modeling Cassandra schemas and migrating billions of records from RDBMS to NoSQL.  • Worked with test architects to review design documents and test documents.  • Co-coordinating closely with ETL (Golden Gate) team to ensure un-interrupted Active-Active replication between data-centers. Developed an alert mechanism to monitor the process.  • Developed dynamic cron scheduler, used voltage encryption technology, introduced heart-beat mechanism to monitor the health & lag of data migration processes.  • Created Unix shell scripts to monitor health of golden gate process and trigger mail notification based on customized events.  • Extensively worked on performance tuning of multiple microservices and was successful in achieving the required results.  • Used JMeter to perform load tests.  • Co-ordinated closely with offshore to ensure that code is delivered on time without compromising quality.  • Ensured peer code-review is done before delivery to the QC.  • Mentored and coordinated offshore onshore teams, supporting their growth and managing their backlog on daily basis.  • Managed user stories, defects in TDP and depicted the potential road blocks to the scrum master in daily scrum calls.  • Deployed the enhancements live after successful UAT and supported business activities to ensure stability post deployment.  • Involved in identifying and fixing production issues on critical time lines. Java/Oracle Developer AT&T - Pune, Maharashtra June 2014 to July 2017 Environment: Red Hat Linux OS, Oracle 11g, Java, XML, Unix.    CCR-R is a centralized Oracle repository containing customer data sourced from U-verse, wire line, DTV and wireless data sources. Its primary purpose is to bind disparate account information from different business units to support a unified view of each customer, supporting applications that need the capabilities that a relational data store can provide.    Roles and Responsibilities • Worked on more than 30+ stored procedures as part of developing and enhancing API's using oracle SQL & PL/SQL.  • Actively interacted with client, data analysts and designed AID, DMS design documents.  • Analyzed and improved response time of stored procedures by performance tuning the SQL queries.  • Extensively worked on stored procedure to vend out response in few milliseconds.  • Worked with PL/SQL Collections, CTAS Scripts and DDL, DML statements.  • Involved in data migration of billions of records between databases using dB link, chunk it & java multithreading.  • Designed and developed database refresh automation tool that prepares environment for development, simulating production.  • Co-ordinated with QC & Production teams to extend support for flexible delivery and deployment of code.  • Prepared unit test cases, performance tests and worked with test architects for each deliverable.  • Actively solved many production issues under huge pressure and tight time lines.  • Worked on JMS, Solace, data router message streaming tools.  • Created Shell Scripts to generate data files and send to clients via data router using cron scheduling.  • Used I-track (Jira) to keep track of deliverable from requirement phase to production delivery.  • Created User stories using rally to keep track of tasks and sprint timelines.  • Along with the project work and regular deliverables, managed to develop tools that automate the process saving weeks of human efforts and cost to the client.  ? Database Refresh Tool - Refresh Database environment using batch programming & sql.  ? Web Cache Log Reader - Extracts the logs and writes to database statistics using java, jdbc.  ? DB Inventory - Inventory management for environments & credentials.  ? Dme2 Generator & Tester - PL/SQL script to generate web URL of stored procedure & html page to test the stored procedure. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science And Engineering Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies - Nuzvid, Andhra Pradesh May 2010 to May 2014 Skills Java (5 years), Oracle (3 years), Cassandra (2 years), UNIX (5 years), Java J2Ee, Rest, Core Java, Hibernate, Spring, microservices, kafka, k2view Links http://www.learnmodeon.com/rams https://www.linkedin.com/in/rameshpoludasu/