Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - CATERPILLAR Inc Chicago, IL • 4+ years of experience in developing the applications using object-oriented programming and java/j2ee technologies.  • Expertise in Server-Side Programming using J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, Spring MVC, Angular JS, HTML, JavaScript, EJB, Swing, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Good hands on experience in Spring Core (IOC and AOP) and Hibernate frameworks.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object-Oriented Design (OOD) using Rational Unified Process (RUP) and UML (Unified Modeling Language).  • Expertise in designing and developing web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies and frameworks like JDBC, Servlets2.3/2.4 , JSPs1.2/2.0, Java Beans, XML, HTML and UML.  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and familiarity with AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming).  • Knowledge on software development methodologies such as Agile and waterfall  • Sound skill in Spring MVC architecture, design patterns, Collections Frameworks, Exceptions handling and multi-threading.  • Good experience on Eclipse and Net beans IDE  • Hands on knowledge on SQL and oracle databases  • Good communication and strong interpersonal skills to quickly adapt to new environment  • Expertise in Agile and Waterfall Software Development Methodology including Scrum technology.  • Expertise in database modelling, administration and development using SQL, PL/SQL , MySQL, Mongo DB and SQL Server environments.  • Wrote RESTFUL microservices with Spring Boot.  • Good hands on experience in Spring Core (IOC and AOP) and Hibernate frameworks.  • Worked with Version Control Systems like GIT, Subversion and SVN.  • Experienced with creating unit tests by using JUnit in test driven development(TDD) approach.  • Hands on experience in using Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery.  • Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE design patterns and AngularJS.  • Good Experience on IOT PlatForm and C3type Scripting.  • Experience writing Unit TestCases Work Experience Sr. Java Developer CATERPILLAR Inc September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked as a C3 -IoT Developer for the Enterprise Data Hub Platform team.Worked on C3 types and its associated Transformations. Hands on experience in J2EE framework and extensively used Core Java and Spring API in developing the business logic using Agile Methodology.  • Designing C3 type designs as per the Enterprise Data Model.Created various Types for ingesting data into S3. Working Experience in using Restful web services and Created a proxy Spring Rest API to consume from Auth0 API and secured it with Spring Security.  • Integrated Auth0 for authorization and authentication of users and API calls from different  application.  • Using advanced level of HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring. Developed various UI (User Interface) components using JSP, and HTML.  • Created AngularJS directives, factories and services for developing single page web applications.  • Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database.  • Hands on experience in J2EE framework and extensively used Core Java and Spring API in developing the business logic using Agile Methodology.  • Using advanced level of HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring. Developed various UI (User Interface) components using JSP, and HTML.  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using Agile and waterfall methodology.  • Worked as a full stack senior Java developer for this project. Implemented change request from start to end touching all the layers. Used Struts framework for the MVC implementation with Spring for DI and Hibernate as ORM tool for database communication.  • Experience in Windows Azure Services like PaaS, IaaS and worked on storages like Blob , Sql Azure.  • Configuring Azure Event Hub to receive messages.  • For Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD), we use GitLab and deploy it on OpenShift.  • Writing Jasmine test cases for the transformations of the C3 Types.  • Providing support to the developers of the various teams during production.  • Tracking the failed test cases from the dev environment and following up with teams.  • Worked on the Jasmine test cases for the C3Types.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework and extensively used Core Java such as Multi-threading, exceptions, and collections.  • Interaction with Oracle database is implemented using Hibernate. Created Stored procedures using SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based presentation using JSF framework.  • Used Git branching strategy for the development code.    Environment: Java, Spring Boot, Spring 3 (Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP),Spring MVC ,JavaScript, TML5,CSS3, Hibernate, Angular JS,REST, WebLogic, JQuery,JMS, AJAX, ANT,JIRA, JSP, servlet , C3TypeScript, Restful webservices,S3, Azure Event HUB, GIT, C3 Platform, Data Modeling, ER Diagrams, Jasmine ,Junit. Internship IMCS GROUP April 2018 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Participated in design and development as a Core Java and J2EE Software developer. Understanding business and software requirement plus utilizing technology to enunciate data flow between front end and back end technologies.  • Pooling up most apposite design pattern for DAO and implementing interface to reduce code reuse. Understanding the Business process and developing logic and software stack based on business flow.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery and used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  AWS S3 to store code bundles to deploy onto AWS    • Used EC2 Instances  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using JQuery and JavaScript. Involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content. Used WebLogic for deployment of applications.  • Implemented MicroServices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Worked with Docker to deploy Micro-services in modern containers to increase Isolation.  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Experience in scripting deployments to AWS.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence. Involved in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework and extensively used Core Java such as Multi-threading, exceptions, and collections.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using Java with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  • Utilized Agile Scrum Methodology (SDLC) with Atlassian JIRA to manage projects and participated in daily stand up meetings.  Environment:  Java, Spring Boot, Spring 3 ,Spring MVC ,JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Hibernate ,REST, WebLogic, JQuery,JMS, AJAX, ANT,JIRA, JSP, servlet , Oracle, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, Eclipse, Junit, MAVEN, Jenkins, Log4j, Agile Scrum. Java Developer Suchir Softech March 2013 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in design and development as a Core Java and J2EE Software developer. Understanding business and software requirement plus utilizing technology to enunciate data flow between front end and back end technologies.  • Developing or maintaining a production-level cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images like AMI.  • Pooling up most apposite design pattern for DAO and implementing interface to reduce code reuse. Understanding the Business process and developing logic and software stack based on business flow.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery and used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using JQuery and JavaScript. Involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content. Used WebLogic for deployment of applications.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework and extensively used Core Java such as Multi-threading, exceptions, and collections.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using Java with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  • Hands on experience in J2EE framework and extensively used Core Java and Spring API in developing the business logic using Agile Methodology.  AWS S3 to store code bundles to deploy onto AWS    • Used EC2 Instances  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework and extensively used Core Java such as Multi-threading, exceptions, and collections.  • Extensive experience of developing Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services.    • Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database.    • Deployed GUI code to WebLogic application environment and standalone components to JBoss Server.    Masters Projects  • Xreading Virtual Library - Developed a website for extensive reading easier for teachers, and more accessible for students. Agile methodologies were followed throughout the project phases. Developed modules like parser Integrater,Multilingual functionality    • Technologies: Java ( JDBC), Apache Tomcat server,JavaScript, Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS3, Hibernate, Angular JS, SOAP, REST, WebLogic, JQuery, AJAX, JSP, servlet, Mongo DB,AWS, MAVEN,eclipse.  • Personalized career services for professionals (Path street) - Pathstreet is a Premium Job Search engine for professionals. Developed a modules to demonstrate how data is maintained and fetched at database in an optimized way. Website facilitates students to apply, find information about Jobs etc.  Technologies: Java ( JDBC), Apache Tomcat server,JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Hibernate,  Angular JS, SOAP, WebLogic, JQuery, AJAX, JSP, servlet, Mongo DB, MAVEN,eclipse    • AMPSIDC - Developed a Website where data are saved about medicines transported from the main house to the all district warehouses.developed a module to show availability of medicines.  Technologies: Java ( JDBC), Apache Tomcat server,JavaScript, Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS3, Hibernate, Angular JS, SOAP, REST, WebLogic, JQuery, AJAX, JSP, servlet, Mongo DB, MAVEN, eclipse.    • SPEECH INTERACTIVE SYSTEM FOR TELUGU TO ENGLISH DICTIONARY USING LEGAL  TERMINOLOGY - Developed a mobile app to convert Telugu to English in text and speech.This application converts text to speech, text to text , speech to text,speech to speech  Technologies: Spring MVC, MySQL,Jsp, HTML5, CSS3, Hibernate, Angular JS, SOAP, REST, WebLogic, JQuery, AJAX, JSP, servlet, Mongo DB, MAVEN,eclipse. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Illinois Springfield - Springfield, IL December 2017 Skills Java, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, J2Ee