Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Renton, WA Innovative developer with 4 years of hands-on professional experience in software engineering using  Java/J2EE in conjunction with web services and databases seeking challenging full-time position.  Eliminates time, effort, and costs, while providing capabilities, researching and executing multiple projects  concurrently throughout all phases of software development lifecycle. Identifies opportunities to increase  business, project, and sales volumes by leveraging latest technologies and tools to provide added-value  for company and customers.    CORE COMPETENCIES & TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: Java, SQL  • Java Technologies: Java server pages(JSP), Java Servlets, JavaScript, Java Database  Connectivity(JDBC), Java Collections Framework, Java Multithreading, Web Service (SOAP  &RESTFULL), Spring, Hibernate.  • Scripting Languages: JavaScript, React JS.  • Web Mark Up Languages: HMTL5, XML  • Web Framework Technology: Spring MVC, Spring Boot  • Mapping Technology: Hibernate.  • Web/ Application Servers: Tomcat, WebSphere  • Design Pattern: Model View Controller (MVC), Singleton, Factory  • Database: MySQL, MS SQL server, DB2  • Tools & Environment: IntelliJ, Junit, Git, Maven, CI/CD, Liquibase.  • API Documentation  • Platforms: Windows, Unix, Linux.  • (SDLC) Methodologies: Agile. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer ITSCTechnology Support, - Seattle, WA January 2018 to Present I joined as java developer in a major enterprise project and implemented designs and coded software  modules for large enterprise software programs. Made contributions to the Human Resource project. The  project was developed using React Js, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Rest, Hibernate, Tomcat, SQL Server, Maven, CI/CD and Git.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Transforming design concepts and specification to quality code.  • Analyzes for improvements, designs and performs product verification & validation.  • Confirms program operation by conducting tests, modifying program sequence and/or codes.  • Work effectively and cooperatively with fellow work group members.  • Analyze business domain knowledge, perform requirements analysis, develop business domain  process models.  • Worked cooperatively with team mates to deliver software products according to client  specifications.  • Drive best practice, quality and consistency within design and development phases.  Environment: React JS, Java, spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, Spring Boot, SQL Server, Git, CI/CD. Java Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Chicago, IL May 2013 to December 2015 Chicago IL.  May 2013 - Dec 2015  I have been the core member of the professional service team that develops Health Insurance  applications that allows members to fulfill their benefit desires and provide easy way to manage their  accounts. Some of the projects I involved were Value Based Insurance Design(VBID), Claim Flow  Handler(CFH). The projects are developed using different technologies such as java, JSP/Servlet, subversion (SVN), SOAP, DB2, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Hibernate, WebSphere and so on.    Role: Java Developer  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Enhance functionalities of systems.  • Add new functionalities based on customer's need.  • Designing modules by developing Class and Sequence Diagrams based on the Functional  Specification.  • Confirms program operation by conducting tests, modifying program sequence and/or codes.  • Work effectively and cooperatively with fellow work group members.  • Wrote Database SQL Statement for the performance of the Database.  Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, WebSphere, Tomcat, DB2. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA 2016 to 2017 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science BahirDar University 2005 to 2009 Skills Node, Java, Javascript, React