Java Engineer <span class="hl">Java</span> Engineer Java Engineer - COLLINS AEROSPACE Work Experience Java Engineer COLLINS AEROSPACE - Irvine, CA April 2018 to Present Description:  Venue Cabin Management system project is aimed to integrating cutting edge technologies and hardware to provide user experience of the devices intended to connect in the aircraft. Tools includes  Programmable Switch (PSW), Media Center Device (MCD), Cabin Configuration Designer (CCD), BDP Test App Tool and Venue Catalog Editor.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, debug and document software components for Venue Cabin Management System software C++, Core Java, Linux and Test and Simulation tools.  • Interfacing with System Engineers to study and analyze the Hardware and System Requirements for Venue(TM) Releases.  • Define Concept of Operations and generate Software Requirements Specification for Venue(TM) Releases.  • Maintain source code using SVN.  • Participate in product brain-storming meetings with System Engineers, Project Managers and other stake holders during the design phase of the project.  • Software development and system integration of various components with Venue(TM) involving support for existing features.  • Prototype Graphic User Interface (GUI) flow and Proof of Concept application to get sign-off from the end customer.  • Resolve key issues raising during the integration testing and support Integration Test Plan (ITP) execution.  • Providing End to End support for the testing activities during System Testing.  • Resolve defects coming out of Software Operational Test (SOT), System Verification Test (SVT).  • Design and implement acceptance criteria, test cases, and test plans for new and existing features.  • Involved in bug-fixes, enhancements and code refactoring. Java Developer Secure ID - Las Vegas, NV August 2017 to January 2018 Description:  Secure ID application is developed as a completely Object Oriented J2EE application to enable all employees and suppliers to order Secure token cards over the intranet, Internet and extranet. It is designed as the one application that would help the user order, register and manage his/her PIN information and support all the functions throughout the life cycle of his/her card.    Responsibilities:  • Developed technical platform for global client-to-vendor connectivity.  • Upheld quality control and data validity for Java programs.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software, involved in System Requirements study and conceptual design.  • Prepared UML diagrams like Use case, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Build and Deployment of Eclipse plugins.  • Developed a web-based system with HTML, XML, Java Script, JSP Tag Libraries, CSS and Custom Tag Libraries using Struts 1.2 framework.  • Worked with J2EE Design patterns and Model View Controller Architecture (Model 2 Struts) and used API interface classes. Implemented Java standard Edition concept (J2SE).  • Used ANT, Maven and Gradle scripts for building and deploying the application in web/App servers.  • Deployed and maintained web, Java, and enterprise applications.  • Installed and configured plugins such as Apache, Tomcat, and Sun One with WebLogic.  • Configured JDBC with databases such as Oracle and Point Base.  • Tested the development by using Junit and used GIT for version control.  • Deployed the application in the WebSphere using RESTful Web services.  • Created new REST web service operations and modified the existing service's WADLs Web Application Description Language. JSP Developer ICICI Corporations - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2014 to January 2016 Project Description:  Enhancement of intranet portal site. Using various J2EE technologies redesigned the intranet portal. Intranet portal site is used by employees for several purposes such as HR functions, Account level updates, Company news, events update, Finance department, Travel help desk, Leave management and so on. Employees access the intranet portal for managing leaves, periodic checking of latest news & events, posting travel queries, access project documents, participate in surveys, etc. Created several JSP pages which had several forms and links to other pages. Used servlets and hibernate to load the form values into a table. Created bean classes for abstraction of data.  Responsibilities:  • Java/JSP Developer.  • Worked on process flow documents.  • Used HTML/CSS.  • Java script coding for adding few functionalities.  • Developed a JSP based interactive intranet site.  • Used Struts Framework.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Springsecurity modules.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML files that contains declarations and another dependentobject declaration.  • Used Spring Rest Controllers, Spring Web MVC and Spring Boot extensively to implement server-sidebusiness logic. Education Bachelor in computers in computers Osmania University 2012 to 2014 Master in Information Technology in Information Technology Campbellsville University Skills Java, Core Java, Rest, Spring, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, J2Ee