Software Developer ( Java/J2EE) Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> (<span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE) Software Developer Oakland, CA Passionate Java developer with 5 years of hands-on experience developing a wide variety of web applications, and software solutions, which improve productivity and reach company goals. Organized and analytical, with excellent communication and time management skills which allow project deployment within tight deadlines. Expertise in advanced technologies, SDLC methods, and algorithms, ensuring the highest performance and quality of final projects. History of implementing projects in the financial, healthcare, and banking business domains. Work Experience Software Developer ( Java/J2EE) POLYTECH COMPUTER SERVICES - Asmara, ER 2015 to 2017 CAREER NOTE: Completed on-campus studies and currently taking distance education courses to complete a Master's Degree in Computer Science (Available for full-time, W-2 employment).    POLYTECH COMPUTER SERVICES, Asmara, Eritrea • 2015-2017  Leading software development company delivering IT products to private and government entities.    Software Developer ( Java/J2EE)  Designed and implemented software and custom frameworks which support operations in business, Planned work breakdown structure, as well as module structures and product deliverables. Evaluated business requirements and developed reusable code.    Tasks Performed:  • Developed industry standard code and performed code review and refactoring.  • Conducted requirement analysis and prepared functional specifications.  • Developed back-end logic using Spring, Hibernate, MySQL  • Created high quality webpages based on design and requirements.  • Implemented user interface using HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.    Achievements:  • Delivered all projects on time and within budget.  • Expanded knowledge of web development flow, core technologies and concepts.    Technologies Used: Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, Spring (Core, Boot), Hibernate, JPA, MySQL, STS, Maven, JUnit, Mockito, Agile/Scrum    Project: Employee Management System  • Designed web application enabling employers to post open positions, including job requirements and detailed descriptions. Employees may view data and search jobs.  • Supported internationalization and implemented security with Spring Security.  • Coordinated with product owner to identify priorities and participated in Agile/Scrum meetings.  • Tested application components for functionality and performance.    Technologies Used: JSP, HTML, CSS, JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, JSTL, EL, Spring (MVC, Security, Email), Hibernate/JPA, JMS, REST, STS, MySQL, Tomcat Java Developer LIYA ENTERPRISE - Asmara, ER 2013 to 2014 Developed and delivered desktop application with check-in and check-out modules, using MySQL for back-end database function and JavaFX with Eclipse for user interface.    Tasks Performed:  • Analyzed and designed user requirements.  • Implemented back end logic using Core Java,  • Designed user interface as per the user requirement.  • Designed and implemented database tables using MySQL.    Achievements:  • Improved applications with efficient coding and testing.  • Satisfied customer needs with a high-performance product.    Technologies Used: Java, JavaFX, Hibernate, JPA, MySQL, NetBeans, JUnit, Agile/Scrum Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA October 2020 Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Eritrea Institute of Technology - Asmara, ER 2013 Skills MySQL, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/yahia-nurhussein