Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - BnyMellon, Pittsburg, PA Pittsburgh, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer BnyMellon, Pittsburg, PA April 2018 to Present Bnymellon Provide a secure payment gateway for all types of transactions. They are technological expertise for secure transactions. All the Bank clients can check their transaction details using their secured login into the web portal. Clients can manage their account and services at any time from the web portal. Generating reports and online payments can be done through the portal.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering and understanding the system requirements by interacting with the business users and client.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Development html views with HTML, CSS, JSON and AngularJS.Have extensively used J CSS3 and HTML5 for the front end.  • Worked on AngularJS framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs.  • Developed Micro Service to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such Hibernate and JPA and messaging engines.  • Developed java modules implementing business rules and workflows using Spring Boot.  • Implemented action controllers, action forms, validation framework, tag libraries and look up dispatch action.  • Involved in Agile processes like SCRUM daily standup meetings, Sprint planning and Sprint retrospectives.  • Developed Restful Web services using Spring Framework.  • Configured and used JMS to send messages from one application to other application internally.  • Worked on code optimization and performed peer reviews.  • Used POSTMAN tool to test exposed web service methods and perform load testing.  • Developed SQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures, functions to interact with the Oracle database.  • Worked with IBM Rational Clear Case version controller and used Clear Quest for defect tracking.  • Performed in-depth and rigorous testing of the developed solution to confirm that requirements are met.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.    Environment: JDK 1.8, J2EE, Eclipse, Spring Boot, RESTful Service, Tomcat 8, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, JMS, Junit, SQL Developer, PostMan, Angular JS Java Developer Prokarma Softech Private Ltd, Hyd January 2016 to June 2017 This application is a J2EE web-based application for corporate customers. This Application enables the corporate users to manage their corporate mobile phones which involves Activation of Handsets under their corporate, Mass Activation, adding subscribers under the same Billing Account Number (BAN), Adding inactive equipment, adding alternate lines to the existing active accounts, adding price plans to his account, updating the information of the accounts, Subscribers and Corporates, changing price plans, Bulk Activities, Check Billed Usage etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparation of functional definition documents and Involved in the discussions with business users, testing team to finalize the technical design documents.  • Enhanced the Web Application using Struts.  • Created business logic and application in Struts Framework using JSP, and Servlets.  • Documented the code using Java doc style comments.  • Wrote Client-side validation using Struts Validate framework and JavaScript.  • Wrote unit test cases for different modules and resolved the test findings.  • Implemented SOAP using Web services to communicate with other systems.  • Wrote JSPs, Servlets and deployed them on WebLogic Application server.  • Developed automated Build files using Maven.  • Used Subversion for version control and log4j for logging errors.  • Wrote Oracle SQL Stored procedures, triggers.  • Helped production support team to solve trouble reports    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Hibernate, SOAP, WebLogic, Log4j, Maven, CVS, PL/SQL, Oracle, Windows Education Master's degree in Computer Information System UCM (University of Central Missouri) - May, MO May 2018 Skills Javascript