Java consultant <span class="hl">Java</span> consultant Java consultant - Expedia Bellevue, WA Work Experience Java consultant Expedia - Bellevue, WA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with java 1.8 concepts like filter, streams for looping and filtering criteria.  • Involved in developing the presentation layer using Spring MVC, AngularJS, EXT JS, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Micro Services and AJAX.  • Used various directives, filters and in-built services in Angular JS. Written Controllers and service objects.  • Written server side and client-side validations.  • Developed presentation layer using Struts framework.  • Having good experience in salesforce integration & spring.  • Involved in developing the service layer using Spring.  • Worked with SOA Technology, Created and consumed SOAP and Restful web services.  • Extensively used SOAPUI and Postman for testing web services.  • Worked on Spring Boot module and Amber Road Software.  • Used Spring JMS to perform asynchronous operations.  • Used Futures from concurrent API and Spring Async annotation to execute web service calls asynchronously and concurrently.  • Experience in web servers and Written unit tests using Junit and Mockito.  • Worked with object-oriented design principles like inheritance, polymorphism.  • Written queries to save and retrieve user data from MongoDB.  • RAD used as IDE tool for application development and debugging.  • Extensively used Core Java concepts Collections, Generics, Enums, Annotations and several utility classes from Apache like CollectionUtils and StringUtils etc.  • Involved in writing UNIX shell scripts for automating tasks.  • Configured Hudson jobs and fixed sonar violations.  • Provide the production support for the application to the business users.  • Worked with deployment shell scripts and Used Maven as a build tool.  • Written complex SQL queries and Used SQL developer for interacting with data base. Java/J2EE Developer DirecTV - El Segundo, CA December 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experienced in Agile Methodology, participated in Sprints and daily Scrums to deliver software tasks on-time and with good quality on basis with onsite and offshore teams.  • Responsible for analysis of current programs including performance, diagnosis and troubleshooting of programs presenting challenges and design solutions to overcome such.  • Core Java multithreading, Collections, File Handling, Localization, Inheritance.  • Created Spring Boot applications testing suite using Spring Junit plugin and Mockito framework.  • Used Spring Rest Template to use the exposed REST web services.  • Developed end to end application on Spring boot framework (REST API Application / Spring JPA using JPA repository).  • Knowledge of CI (Continues Integrations) and CD (Continues Deployment) methodologies using Jenkins, which I used the pipelines to build or deploy the code to Environments.  • Developed Application using Spring DAO, Spring AOP and Hibernate, Web Services like SOAP and Restful Web services.  • Experience in built web services using Spring framework and Apache CXF operating offering both REST and SOAP interfaces.  • Involved in code base migration from SVN to GIT Lab.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC and Java Spring security modules  • Knowledge with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS. And with the creation of RESTful Web service  • Experienced in using Spring Controller, Service and DAO layers to create flexible application subsystems.  • Used Jenkins tool and made customizations according to the local build to track out the build status.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the Oracle 12c database. Java/ J2EE Developer eBay - San Jose, CA October 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project.  • Coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using spring and Hibernate framework.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool for performing the database related operations and mapped the tables to entity classes using XML configurations.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), Serialization, and Java Beans.  • Used DB2 to store, analyze and retrieve the data efficiently.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Core Java and Hibernate.  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Designing of underlying architecture along with other members of the team and preparing the base code for the application  • Installing and Configuring PostgreSQL from source or packages on Linux machines.  • CRUD related operations with Database are achieved using Hibernate JPA Repository.  • Logging of errors in application is achieved by Log4j and unit testing of the developed code is done by JUnit Framework.  • Implemented error checking/validation on the Java Server Pages using JavaScript.  • Configured Check Style in eclipse to ensure that Java code adheres to a set of coding standards.  • Involved in developing class diagrams, sequence diagrams in UML showing generalization and other relationships and describing the interaction of object respectively. Education Bachelor's Skills data base. (2 years), Java (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), Junit (2 years), testing (2 years)