Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Capital One • Extensive experience and actively involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Reviews, Coding, Code Reviews, Unit and Integration Testing.  • Implemented the service projects on Agile Methodology and involved in running the scrum meetings.  • Extensively involved in Test Driven Development.  • Has enough knowledge in using JAVA 8 features like Lambda Expressions, Streams, Method References, Repeating Annotations and Method Reflections.  • Experience with amazon web services (AWS) and amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers), Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring).  • Deploy application updates to AWS and monitored the load balancing of different instances.  • Knowledge of application development for Cloud platforms using technologies like Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Micro Services.  • Experience in Micro Services and Spring Boot application development.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages like HTML, CSS.  • Hands on experience in working with Collections, Exception Handling and Multithreading.  • Experience in Spring Framework such as Struts, Spring IOC, Spring Resources, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Security, spring Boot, JSF, Junit, Hibernate, Jasper reports.  • Good Experience using Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tool like Hibernate and JPA.  • Experience in writing the SQL queries in Oracle, MYSQL and SQL Server.  • Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Experience in deployement process by writing shell scripting and also expertise using WinSCP and secure FTP for sharing the files between Linux boxes and windows.  • Experience in developing web-services using REST.  • Experience in designing transaction processing systems deployed on application servers including Web logic.  • Good Experience on Quality Control, JIRA, Tracking the tickets like accepting the tickets/defects, Reviewing Code and closing the tickets etc.  • Used CVS, Git Source code version control.  • Experience with various IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite.  • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring.  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  • Excellent communication, analytical, interpersonal and presentation skills.  • Expertise in implementing client-server business applications using Micro services.  • Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.  • Decent experience in building tools like Maven.  • Involved in issue tracking and agile project management using JIRA.  • Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Capital One - Plano, TX July 2018 to Present Description: Capital One Bank offers exceptional full-service banking and lending expertise with a distinctive, personal focus. Chartered in 1987 as a federal savings bank, today Capital One has assets of $16.9 billion, is the fifth largest bank mortgage originator nationally and the third largest savings bank in the country.    Responsibilities: • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  • Used Java 1.8 features like stream, Lambda expressions, functional interface, collections, Date/Time changes and type annotations.  • Implemented micro services using Spring boot, Micro Services, and enabled discovery using Netflix eureka server.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Designed and developed third-party services, REST services to offer users convenient payment methods using various APIs provided by various third-party payment processors based on OAuth 2.0 protocol.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) and Hibernate.  • Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  • Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 to deploy Docker containers.  • Designed and developed MicroServices business components using Spring Boot.  • Developed Restful MicroServices using Spring Boot and Rest.  • Developed REST architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using Restful web services by using Jersey.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing.  • Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  • Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template, using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) and continuous Deployment (CD) process for the application using the Jenkins.  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Environment: Java JDK 1.7, JDK 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, Elastic Search, Agile(SCRUM), Hibernate 4.3, Spring 4.2.4, Spring Batch, Spring Boot 1.3.2, JSON, XML, GIT, JUnit, Maven, WebSphere 7, Rest Restful, Log4J1.7.x, AWS, Micro Services, JIRA, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Developer Megasoft Ltd July 2014 to October 2015 Description: The Payroll module is a freeware application, which uses Struts framework for Smart Switch Corporation. The module allows the user to add a new employee, his pay structure, generate pay slip, deductions, Income Tax calculations and other payroll activities. The user can also modify the pay structure with a user-friendly GUI and uses Hibernate for the back-end transactions.    Responsibilities: • Responsible for Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Data Validation, Version Controlling and deployment.  • Design and developed front end UI using JSF, Apache My Faces and Rich Faces components.  • Designed and Developed Business Process layer components and integrated with Spring framework.  • Developed complex service components for Data Access Layer, DAO classes to interact with backend using Java and Hibernate Framework.  • Created and maintained mapping files and transaction control in Hibernate.  • Configured web.xml, faces-config.xml for navigations and managed beans. Integrated JSF, Spring and Hibernate Frameworks.  • Developed dump and Load Utility to extract and load the data to DB2 using Java and JExcel API.  • Designed and developed Web Services to provide services to the various clients using SOAP and WSDL.  • Experience in Web Services development using Apache-Axis, JAX-RPC, JAXB and Security architecture for marinating security levels for business process.  • Developed complex DB2 stored procedures (common shared routines) to interface with Aging and Youth application.  • Integrated various modules and deployed them in WebSphere Application Server.    Environment: J2EE, Microsoft Visio, EJB 3.0, JSP, JSF, JBoss, Web services, Spring, JMS, JavaScript, HTML, ANT, Agile, JUnit, JBoss 4.2.2, MS SQL Server 2005, My ECLIPSE 6.0.1. Education technology KL University April 2014 Skills J2EE (2 years), Java (2 years), JUnit (2 years), Web Services (2 years), XML (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Java, J2EE, HQL, SQL, PL/SQL  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, , MVC, Log4j, XML, JUNIT, Web services, Multithreading, Custom Tags  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3.  Frameworks Spring Boot, Hibernate, JPA, OAUTH2.0  Web/Application Servers Web Logic.  Web Service Technologies RESTful  Build Script Maven  IDE's Eclipse, STS, IntelliJ  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall.  Database Environments Oracle 12c, MySQL.  Operating Systems Windows, Mac.