Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Nexcent Digital Glendale Heights, IL ? Over 3 years of experience as a Java/J2EE/WebSphere developer working in highly scalable websites using J2EE technology and is specialized in IBM WebSphere Commerce software.  ? Strong experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, deployment and support ? Experienced on front end, business logic and back-end optimizations and interrogations.  ? Developed and worked on user Interface Screens for presentation logic using JSF, JSP, HTML, DOJO, JQuery, XML, JSON.  ? Designed and developed application using Spring Frameworks (Spring IOC), Spring DAO.  ? Built REST web service to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  ? Evaluated code to ensure that it is valid, properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices or operating systems.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, presentation and problem solving skills.  ? Strong communication & relationship management skills, enthusiastic & self-driven, with a high degree of commitment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Nexcent Digital - Chicago, IL August 2017 to Present Worked on Loyalty program integration tasks which included email signup, account signup, account updates, personal preference updates and personalization of the user's storefront experience.  ? Worked on user's email verification for signup process with the Loyalty program.  ? Created a designated page to track the status of the order for both the registered and guest users.  ? Customers are given option to cancel the order in the same page, if the order placed is less than x minutes, where x is a configurable value.  ? Customized the Order confirmation page, My Account page and Order Confirmation email by including cancel order button with a timer.  ? Customize the Asynchronous Order Feed generation process by including custom attributes.  ? Worked on creating REST Handlers, Registry, smart data beans, controller commands and task commands.  ? Worked extensively on JQuery based JavaScript API.  ? Experience working with Agile methodologies ? Created the technical design documentations. Downers Groove, IL Java Developer Netsphere Strategies Inc October 2015 to June 2017 Worked as a software developer on multiple ecommerce projects to support our existing B2B/B2C clients that include www.allenedmonds.com, www.scheels.com, www.praxiar.com, and www.howardmiller.com ? The responsibilities included implementing new features/customizations at the bequest of new or existing clients who utilize IBM WebSphere Commerce platform, developing new features/plugins/modules to the ecommerce clients, preparing technical design documents, documenting the customizations, and applying new features and maintenance packs to the ecommerce environment.  ? Worked on an ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) product called BalanceMaxx which integrated SORs (System of Records) like Stone Edge, Quick Books, etc. with the ecommerce Market places such as Amazon, Sears, Buy.com, etc.  ? Worked on building a connector to facilitate the transfer and exchange of messages between Stone Edge SOR (System of Records) and the WebSphere Commerce Market Place.  ? Used Apache Camel, CXRF web services, Service Mix engine, Active MQ, etc. to build a custom ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) ? Used Maven tools to manage and deploy the projects.  ? Integrated UPS address validation API for Aurora Starter store.  ? Added logging and debugging capabilities using Log4j ? Worked on integrating the FedEx Address validation for Aurora Starter store.    Client: Allen Edmonds ? Developed an outbound web service for www.allenedmonds.com to integrate the Bongo International checkout system.  ? Worked on integrating the FedEx Address validation and FedEx shipping label generation web services with WebSphere Commerce for www.allenedmonds.com.  ? Helped the clients set up Adobe Test and Target campaigns.  Worked on creating smart data beans, controller commands and task commands.  ? Used JSPs to create WCS e-Marketing Spots for new promotions; used WCS Accelerator to configure promotions.  ? Identified, found root cause and solved issues dealing with production application bugs and follow up fixes, plus requested client enhancements.  ? Extended the deployment/build process using Ant scripts for Allen Edmonds Inc.  ? Worked on adding color swatches to the product detail page and product listing page by extending the catalog data model, creating base JDBC helpers and extending the product data bean.  ? Worked on adding the color filtering to the product listing page.  ? Customized order confirmation page to display the nearest store information.  ? Customized the product detail page to add the ability to check the Gift Card Balance.  ? Worked on automation of disabling the parent products when all its item beans are unpublished.  ? Implemented email validation on the server side.  ? Extended the calculation subsystem to configure custom shipping modes and taxes for different jurisdictions.  ? Worked on other multiple UI changes on the product listing/product detail pages for the client. ? Created and managed several data feeds used for Google, Certona, Bazaarvoice, etc.  ? Used CVS for version controlling.    Client: Praxair ? Applied maintenance packs and feature packs at regular intervals.  ? Provided support for maintenance and feature enhancements on Praxair's B2B sites.  ? Upgraded the WebSphere Application Server from 7.0.0.25 to 7.0.0.27.  ? Resolved critical issues and provided customer support.    Client: Scheels ? Upgraded WebSphere Application Server to fix pack 7.0.0.35 ? Enabled Feature pack 8 on WebSphere Commerce v7 environment.  ? Applied Fix pack 9 to the WebSphere Commerce version v7.  ? Resolved critical issues and provided customer support after enabling the features.  ? Made changes to UI which involved HTML/CSS/DOJO and JSP changes.  ? Modified the payment user interface within the order summary page. Education Master of Science in Computer Science North Eastern Illinois University - Chicago, IL December 2014 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science National College of Engineering - Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu May 2006 Skills J2Ee, Spring, Java, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, Rest, Core Java, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Application Platforms:  WebSphere Commerce Server ("WCS") v6/v7, IBM WebSphere Application Server ("WAS") v6/v7  Apache Active MQ 5.7, Apache Camel 2.1.4, Apache Service Mix 7, IBM HTTP Server.  Databases Platforms:  DB2, My SQL, MS SQL server.  Tools:  IBM WSAD 5, RAD 6 and 7, JUnit, JMeter, Eclipse, CVS, VSS, SVN Modeling:  Rational Rose, UML  Operating System Platforms:  Linux, Windows NT/2K/XP/7/8, iSeries/AS400, AIX  Programming Languages:  C, C++, Core Java, J2SE/J2EE, JDBC server-side (JSPs, Servlets) programming, XSLT, JSTL, JavaScript  Persistence Layer  EJB 1.x, EJB 2.0, IBM WebSphere Commerce DSL (Data Service Layer framework), IBM WCS Access Beans  J2EE Frameworks  Struts, Tiles, Spring MVC, AppFuse, SOI (Service Oriented Integration), BOD (Business object Document), REST, and SOAP.  Miscellaneous  SOA Web Services, XML, CSS, HTML, Responsive Design, Dojo, JQuery, WebSphere Commerce AJAX API, WebSphere Commerce Lazlo API, and JSON/JSONP.