Sr. Programmer Analyst Sr. Programmer Analyst Ellicott City, MD • Over 5 years of IT experience in developing Web Based applications.  • Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases in Agile, including  Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing.  • Expert in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, MVC frameworks such as AngularJS as a platform for Web applications.  • Extensive experience in AngularJSfor application implementation, proficient in creating modules, controllers, directives and customizable directives, factory, services, customizable filters.  • Extensively worked on various design patterns such as Factory Pattern, Singleton, Session Facade, Data Access Object, and Data Transfer Object.  • Experience in implementing RESTful Web Services.  • Experience in developing applications using CSS such as CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors.  • Expertise in writing optimized SQL queries & Stored Procedures using PL/SQL.  • Proficient in version control tool such as Git.  • Knowledge on Spring Boot, Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Possess excellent communication skills and ability to work independently as well as in an environment with good team spirit. Work Experience Sr. Programmer Analyst UPS - Maryland City, MD August 2018 to Present ·        Worked with BA team to understand the requirements and implement the new functionality and work.  ·        Part of an agile environment with bi-weekly sprints, and daily scrum meetings with backlogs and story points.  ·        Involved in multi-project development, maintenance and release processes.  ·        Developed the project in Java, different J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.   ·        Creating abstract interfaces documents to ensure all the requirements are met before the development cycle.  ·        Used log4j for logging.  ·        Built custom backend Restful API's using Java Spring framework and MVC design patterns.  ·        Developed RESTful Web Service which supports JSON and XML to access back-end data.   ·        We have consumed and exposed Web Services using REST.  ·        Used JDBC in Data Access layer for data manipulation.   ·        Implemented Spring MVC framework and integrated all products with web services.  ·        Deployed Web Services for updating the information to the workflow steps and getting the pre-configured workflow processes.  ·        Deployed applications on WebLogic, Tomcat and Apache servers.  ·        Developed DAO classes for the data interaction and service classes for the business logic Apache Tomcat, web logic server was used for deployment and administration of components.   ·        Setting up the servers with environment specific configurations to build and deploy the developed code.  ·        Configuring the servers on windows and Linux Operating systems  ·        Used JSON for data exchange between client and server and AJAX to reduce the load of network and update the certain components of website.  ·        Implemented Spring Boot controllers, components and services to read/write data to/from SQL and DB2  data sources.  ·        Used Eclipse and STS as software development platform for developing the whole application.   ·        Used GIT as a distributed version control and file management system.  ·        Created SQL queries and stored procedures.   ·        Developed and deployed the applications using Tomcat.   ·        Performed Unit Testing.                ·        Documented the application process as needed. Java Developer Xfinity Mobile - Philadelphia, PA June 2017 to August 2018 Xfinity Mobile website is designed for customers to buy/upgrade mobile devices & mobile accessories with new wireless service as a new/existing customer. It uses the latest technology and infrastructure for user to access. Account summary details such as bills, upgrade eligibility, order tracking and also it is integrated with different backend systems to gather and present information on the website. The same GET/PUT API's are exposed for Retail app on tablets in retail store to present the information for retail care agents.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, and Angular JS.  • Extensively worked on developing multi-tier web application and designing website using Spring MVC.  • Performed Client-Side validation using JavaScript, Entity Framework and Web API.  • Implemented CSS3 and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  • Integrated jQuery and Ajax to consume RESTful web service.  • Developed SOAP and Rest web service to communicate with third party vendors.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Worked on various PL/SQL queries to store and retrieve the data from database.  • Utilized Agile/Scrum development methodologies to manage the development life-cycle.  • Used Git for version control.    Environment:  Spring4.0, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Apache, Windows XP/7/8/10, SQL. Java Developer BSNL - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to April 2016 The system provides online access to Members, Employers and Brokers regarding Patient Administration, Billing and Pharmacy Management functions for the hospital. The major functions are Member registration and Medical Record information, Pharmacy Information, Appointments, Handling Hospital Admissions, and Assigning Insurance Details for Billing, Recording Transfers within the hospital and Creation of Discharge Summary and Details. The system is developed using J2EE Technologies with Spring Framework and Hibernate technologies. .    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC starting from gathering the requirement, Analysis, Design, Development and testing of the application.  • Developed XML schemas for defining request and response messages for web services.  • Consumed and produced JAX-WS and JAX-RS based web services and have generated Java code and proxies for the same from WSDL in the process.  • Developed Web services using XML, SOAP and REST.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, JSON, HTML5, and JavaScript.  • Development of the Java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets.  • Developed Application based on Spring MVC.  • Developed Spring Action classes using Spring controller component.  • Used Dependency injection in Spring for Service layer and DAO layer.  • Responsible for Developing and integration of ORM framework like Hibernate.  • Created the Application Context files for Spring core modules.  • Involved in developing the POJOs and service beans using the Spring DI.  • Integrated the spring framework with the Hibernate framework.  • Used GIT for version controlling and JUnit for unit testing.  • Configured and implemented Log4j for logging and Maven for CI integration.  • Efficiently managed the tasks and working and delivering features in a fast paced scrum environment and provide critical reports to end users on time.  • Used Test Driven Development approach, and wrote many unit and integration test cases.  • Troubleshooting and coded corrections for production issues discovered.    Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, Oracle, Spring framework, Hibernate, MySQL, PL/SQL, XML, SOAP, UML, JUnit, GIT, Maven, REST, Log4j, Tomcat. Education Bachelors in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering JNTU Skills CSS (4 years), HTML (5 years), java (5 years), Pl/Sql (5 years), SQL. (5 years), Javascript, Angular Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, J2EE, Shell Scripts, SQL & PL/SQL  Java Technologies Swing, Applet, JNDI, JSP, Struts, Servlets, JDBC, Web Services, Hibernate, SpringBoot, Amazon Web Services (AWS).  Web Programming HTML, Java Script, XML, XSL and CSS  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server 2012/2016, MS Access  Operating Systems Linux, Windows  Application/Web Servers Tomcat, Apache