Java / J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> / J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java / J2EE Developer - IBM Cloud and Cognitive Software Irving, TX ? Having 3 years of extensive IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes Development, Design, Analysis, Testing and Integration of various web based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Used Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions to make the code concise and Stream API to increase the performance.  ? Experience in developing and deploying applications on Cloud Platforms like Kubernetes  ? Proficient with container systems like Docker and container orchestration like Kubernetes, worked with Terraform.  ? Portable deployment of applications as a single object using Docker.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Java/J2EE, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP & RESTful services) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  ? Expert in Core Java and implementing concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections in various projects.  ? Developed and maintained components using Spring Boot in a Micro Services Environment.  ? Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Criteria API and Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  ? Proficient in developing RESTful web services in Java using XML, JSON.  ? Experienced in using Enterprise Messaging Systems like Tibco, JMS, Rabbit MQ and Redis MQ for sending over asynchronous email notifications to the clients as well as subscribers.  ? Hands on experience in writing Unit Test Cases for UI and Backend with JUnit and Mockito.  ? Experienced with deploying applications on to production servers, configuring various parameters of servers like Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, BEA Web logic, IBM Web Sphere.  ? Used version controller tools like Tortoise Subversion(SVN) and GIT.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub.  ? Experience in working with IDE'S like Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite (STS), and Intellij.  ? Have extensive experience working on Windows, Linux and UNIX Operating Systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java / J2EE Developer IBM Cloud and Cognitive Software - Dallas, TX June 2018 to Present Description: IBM Cloud and Cognitive Software is a full-stack cloud platform that spans public, private and hybrid environments. Build with a robust suite of advanced data and AI tools, and draw on deep industry expertise to help us on our journey to the cloud.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  ? Worked on Netflix Conductor which is a Workflow Orchestration engine that runs in the cloud.  ? Introduced RabbitMQ support to Netflix Conductor.  ? Used Java 1.8 features like stream and Lambda expressions for writing Concise code.  ? Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all Netflix Conductor builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes.  ? Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes, Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on GCP (Google Cloud Platform). Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy Netflix Conductor.  ? Involved in development of test environment on Docker containers and configuring the Docker containers using Kubernetes.  ? Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like JAVA. Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and NodeJS.  ? Developed API's to read and publish data from Elastic Search cluster using native Java Transport client as well as REST client. Worked on Spring Integration with the Elastic Search.  ? Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  ? Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between Oracle database and Objects in Java.  ? Used WebLogic server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebLogic and used JMS in e-mail notification.  ? Worked on Enterprise Messaging Systems like Tibco, JMS, RabbitMQ and RedisMQ for sending over asynchronous email notifications to the clients as well as subscribers.  ? Hands on Coding to build REST Micro Services using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON, Spring Config, and Jenkins.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  ? Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.  ? Performed web service API testing.  ? Performed Load/Performance testing of web applications with Jmeter and IBM Rational Performance Tester.  Environment: Agile methodology, Java 1.8, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, XML, Oracle, JSP, Micro Services, Kubernetes, Docker, JMS, GIT, JIRA, PL/SQL, STS, JUnit, Jmeter, IBM Rational Performance Tester, Maven, Jenkins. Java / J2EE Developer Samsung Smart Things Inc - Minneapolis, MN January 2018 to June 2018 Description: SmartThings Inc. is a technology company headquartered in Mountain View, CA with a software development center in Minneapolis, MN. SmartThings is building an open platform for smart homes and the consumer Internet of Things. SmartThings makes a hub (sometimes called "gateway" or "home controller"), cloud platform, and client applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  ? Developed UI pages for Samsung Syndicate Scene Services to navigate between scenes.  ? Used Java 1.8 features like stream and Lambda expressions for writing Concise code.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services Samsung (Syndicate, Cortex, Tailor and Shepherd) business components using Spring Boot.  ? Developed the monolithic application and involved in migrating existing monolithic application in to Micro Service Architecture based RESTful Service and deployments were done on Kubernetes.  ? Developed API's to read and publish data from Elastic Search cluster using native Java Transport client as well as REST client. Worked on Spring Integration with the Elastic Search.  ? Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  ? Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between Oracle database and Objects in Java.  ? Used WebLogic server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebLogic and used JMS in e-mail notification.  ? Worked on Enterprise Messaging Systems like Tibco, JMS, RabbitMQ and RedisMQ for sending over asynchronous email notifications to the clients as well as subscribers.  ? Used GIT in version controlling and worked on Jenkins for continuous Integration (Devops) of the project and deployed source code in the Kubernetes cloud.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  ? Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.  Environment: Agile methodology, Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS Hibernate, Spring, XML, Micro Services, Kubernetes, Docker, JMS, GIT, JIRA, PL/SQL, STS, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins. Java Programmer Marketing line - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2015 to May 2016 Description: The objective of this project is to implement a web based front end system which can be used by the employees, managers and higher-level management having specific role permissions for effective processing of day to day business activities in the company like leave management, project management and resource management etc.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in understanding and analyzing the requirements of the project.  ? Followed Waterfall Methodology to implement the features.  ? Used Java JDK features to implement the functionalities.  ? Designed and developed the User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  ? Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern.  ? Developed Action Class components for performing business process execution and involved in configuration of struts configuration specific xml file.  ? Created and handled Custom-Exceptions that are related to business operations. Created child Threads to improve the performance by running some independent tasks at background.  ? Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  ? Used Log4j for logging purposes during the development of the application.  ? Used JDBC to interact with the underlying MySQL Database.  ? Extensively worked on SQL for writing complex queries in the business logic layer.  ? Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server and used CVS as the version control manager.  ? Used Mantis for tracking the issues and for enhancements of any features.  ? Used Eclipse IDE to integrate the different frameworks to build the overall application.  Environment: Java, JDBC, JDK, Servlets, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, HTML, XML, ANT, Log4J, CVS, RAD, Putty, MySQL, Mantis, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse IDE, Waterfall Methodology. Education Master's in computer science in computer science University of Central Missouri 2016 to 2017 Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2012 to 2015 Skills ANT (1 year), Apache (1 year), Eclipse (1 year), GIT (1 year), J2EE (1 year), Java (2 years), JSON (Less than 1 year), JUnit (1 year), Maven (1 year), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (2 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (2 years), MVC (2 years), MySQL (1 year), Oracle (1 year), SQL (2 years), testing. (1 year), Tomcat (1 year), User Interface (1 year), version control (1 year), XML (2 years), Rest, Spring, Soap, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, RabbitMQ (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java 1.8, J2EE, SQL.  Mark-up/XML Technologies XML and JSON.  Tools & Framework Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, JUnit, SOAP UI, Google Web Toolkit, Jersey.  Build Automation ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Gradle.  Web services SOAP, RESTful, Micro services.  Cloud Technologies Kubernetes.  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  Databases Oracle, MS SQL-Server, MySQL.  IDE tools Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite (STS) and IntelliJ.  Testing Tools/ Others JMeter, JUnit, Soap UI and Mockito.  Version Control Tortoise SVN and GIT.  OS & Environment Windows, Linux, UNIX