Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Thermo Fisher Scientific Coraopolis, PA • Currently working as Software developer at Thermo Fisher Scientific.  • 4+ years of experience in development of web and enterprise applications using Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, SpringBoot MicroServices and developing soap and restful web services.  • Proficient experience with SQL/NoSQL databases like MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Adhered to Agile Scrum by participating in daily stand up meetings, product demos, sprint retrospective, and sprint planning meetings Work Experience Software Developer Thermo Fisher Scientific - Pittsburgh, PA November 2017 to Present • Developed product detail pages for ecommerce website and worked on enhancing its features.  • Developed MicroServices using SpringBoot to migrate the ecommerce website from legacy systems like IBM WCS commerce.  • Worked on IBM WCS for enhancements of existing functionality on the site.  • Contributed to development of high level system architecture documents and detailed design specifications to serve as guide for product development.  • Provide estimates for work required to be completed based on user requirements.  • Developed automated tests and worked on enhancing existing programs to ensure that the product continue to meet standards and user requirements.  • Performed Integration and Unit Testing using Groovy and Spock Framework.  • Performed Integration Testing using embedded Cassandra.  • Installed Kafka and zookeeper on Linux servers for data process.  • Used Kafka with spring cloud to process the data and store in NoSQL DB Cassandra, MongoDB and SQL DB PostgreSQL.  • Used Spring Data JPA in the persistence layer to do CRUD operations with Database.  • Worked on Data Modelling and creating schemas.  • Defined and documented contracts for the web services.  • Used Redis for caching the results for increasing performance.  • Developed Jenkins Scripts for zero downtime deployment for the MicroServices in production.  • Performed CI/CD using Jenkins.  • Developed procedures and function for SQL Oracle DB.  • Applied best practices of software development, tools, programming languages and techniques Java Developer VISA Inc - Foster City, CA March 2017 to November 2017 • Developed data service application that transfers files from one server to other server.  • Used different protocols like SFTP, SMTP to transfer files from one server to other server.  • Configured Scheduled jobs to send the files using quartz scheduler.  • Used asynchronous process to run the jobs.  • Developed Restful web services using JAX-RS specification.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework to communicate with SQL Oracle DB.  • Performed Integration testing and automated test cases using Junit Tests.  • Performed CI/CD using Jenkins and Udeploy. Web Developer UMKC - Kansas City, MO September 2015 to November 2016 • Developed a Client-server based software for the University. It gives information about class schedules and Students can login and mark attendance which uses geolocation while marking attendance.  • Performed Testing using Junit. Java Developer Insigna Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to July 2015 • The project involves to redesign the customer care website for the end users and the website functionality was extended by providing the customers to login and perform online transactions.  • Developed solutions using frameworks like Spring, Hibernate and MySQL database. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Missouri - Kansas City, KS December 2016 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU May 2015 Skills Java (4 years), Spring (3 years), Microservices (3 years), SpringBoot (3 years), C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Groovy (3 years), HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, AngularJS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON, DOJO, Bootstrap (3 years), Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, Spring Boot, Spock, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web logic. Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra, Postgresql. Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD, Spring Tool Suite (STS), SonarQube, Maven, Gradle, JIRA, SourceTree, WinSCP, Log4J, Putty, Kafka Tool, mRemotNG, GitBash, TortoiseGIT. Hibernate. Kafka SOAP, RESTful, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, CXF-WS, Axis2, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Micro Services. Agile, Waterfall JUnit, Soap UI, PostMan Jenkins. GIT, SVN, Stash.