Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Fidelity Investments Miami, FL •3+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and  testing of web using Java and J2EE, Springs Framework, Struts Framework, Hibernate, JavaScript,  HTML, CSS, AngularJS, AJAX and XML.  • Strong experience in Object Oriented Software Development using Java/J2EE technologies.  •Experience using Java core concepts including, Java 6, Java 5 generics, multi-threading, data  structures and collections in Java/J2EE applications  •Expertise in architecture/application development utilizing J2EE based technologies, such as  Java1.8, J2EE, JSF, Spring 4.3, Spring Boot, Struts 2.0, Hibernate, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSTL,  Servlets, JSP, RMI, JDBC, ANT, MAVEN.  •Expertise in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS,  Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS to make better Single Page Application(SPA)working on Node.JS  Server.  •Good hands on experience in Springs Core (IOC and AOP), Struts 2 and Hibernate frameworks.  •Well-versed in developing applications with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using WSDL,  SOAP, JAXB, AXIS, JAX-WS and Restful web services.  •Proficient in using various design patterns such as MVC, DTO, VO, Singleton, Factory Pattern and  DAO  •Expertise in designing and developing web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies  and frameworks like JDBC, Servlets2.3/2.4, Struts, JSPs1.2/2.0, EJB 2.0, MDB, JNDI, JMS1.1, Java  Beans, Log4J, XML, HTML and UML.  •Expertise in database modelling, administration and development using SQL and PL/SQL in  Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), MY-SQL and SQL Server environments.  •Used Hibernate and JDBC to connect to databases like Oracle, MYSQL and DB2 to store, delete,  manipulate and retrieved data from them in many of my applications.  •Expertise in deploying applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server 9.0/8.5, BEA Web  logic 9.1/7.x, J-Boss 4.0 application servers and Tomcat 8.0 web server.  •Experience in working on source controller tools like Subversion (SVN), CVS, IBM Clear case,  Perforce, and GIT.  •Motivated team player with excellent analytical, communication, management, technical and  written skills and ability to work both as a team and individually. Excellent analytical and critical  thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Fidelity Investments - Merrimack, NH June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyze, Design, Implement and test technical solutions on a platform dedicated to handle large  volume of data and transactions using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Analyze business process, anticipate requirements, uncover areas of improvement and develop  and implement solutions for Shadowsuite application which is a backend process for a vast variety of front end applications.  • Design and develop high performance web services and backend solutions in an enterprise  environment.  • Used Maven, Jenkins and uDeploy for continuous Integration and deploy applications onto IBM  WebSphere Application server v9.0 (WAS).  • Developed REST services using Spring Boot to serve the UI with JSON data and involved in creating controller advices to handle exceptions and bad requests  • Involved in building a web service to provide access to the models and exposed it using a REST  API that emits JSON  • Used My Eclipse IDE, configured and deployed the applications onto Apache Tomcat 8 and IBM  WebSphere v9.0 application servers.  • Involved in developing applications using Java and J2EE technologies like spring 4.0, JDBC,  EJB, JSP.  • Implemented Collections Framework for fetching and appending strings from the deployed UI.    • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JSP, JavaScript, Angular and Bootstrap    • Consumed WSDL provided by Web Service using SOAP protocol to communicate with external  applications and vendors.  • Performed CRUD operations on DB using restful web services.    • Build Restful API by building Node JS Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end JQuery Ajax calls.  • Developed a RESTful web API using Spring Boot    • Wrote internal and external API services using Node JS modules.    • Implemented Database application programming for Oracle server using Stored Procedures,  Triggers, and Views etc.  • Worked with JMS MQ Queues for sending messages in point-to-point mode.    • Implemented Java Web Services based on SOA Architecture with SOAP and WSDL    • Integrated Spring Data Mongo Repository to retrieve and update the data from Mongo DB.    • Created Responsive Designs (iPad/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap.    • Contributed as key resource of the Angular 2 Framework Team in conversion of existing (XMI)  UI screens of the application to Angular 2 based UI.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using jQuery, CSS and HTML5.    • Developed Single Page Responsive Web UI using Angular2, HTML5, AngularJS, Bootstrap,  CSS3, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Good Exposure on Web development using Java, Angular, jQuery, SOAP, REST and Micro  services architecture.  • Installed Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository and Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven Repository and also used web hooks to ensure Jenkins is listening to a particular branch.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. Java/J2EE Developer Progressive Insurance - Cleveland, OH February 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Design,  Code, Integrate, and Deployment and production phases.  • Initiated and Developed majority JPA Implementation, Caching strategies and coordination and conversion JDBC.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using UI frameworks Angular JS and Webpages using  HTML and JSP's for user interaction.  • Using Spring Boot in RESTful APIs created the Request for Proposal (RFP) micro services.    • Used persistence frameworks, Hibernate ORM, JPA to map POJOs to a relational database.    • Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding,  replication, schema design.  • Implemented Hibernate in the Data Access Object layer to access and update information in the Oracle12c Database.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, serialization, Garbage Collection,  Exception Handling, Collection API's to implement various features and enhancements.  • Used My Eclipse IDE , configured and deployed the applications onto Apache Tomcat 7.0and  Apache Tomcat 8 application servers.  • Wrote test cases in JUnit, Mockito and Power Mock for unit testing of classes.    • Consumed and produced Web Services using Rest based services.    • Used JAX-WS Web services to retrieve credit history of the applicants.    • Design and implemented Oracle SQL based database to persist high-volume user profile data  for vertical teams.  • Used BIT Bucket version control to track and maintain the different version of the application. VA - Java/J2EE Consultant RBS Citizens Financial Group September 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participating in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements.    • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.    • Designed and developed Class diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML.  • Developed Styles, Skinning, Charts using Flex controls    • Used Java Script libraries for developing the Java Script Programs.    • Developed various Action classes and Form bean classes using Struts framework.    • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table  persistency.  • Implemented Batch Updates using spring and configured beans in Application Context file.    • Used the features of Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring AOP, Spring ORM layer and Spring DAO  support layer to develop the application  • Involved in the configuration of Struts Framework, Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping  tool  • Implemented different types of messaging prototypes using JMS.    • Implemented service oriented architecture (SOA) using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI    • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database.    • Created data base tables according to the application requirement.    • Developed Maven and ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in JBoss  server. Education Masters in Information Systems in Information Systems University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX 2013 to 2015 Bachelors in computer science Engineering in computer science Engineering Osmania University 2009 to 2013 Skills Apache (3 years), Database (3 years), J2EE (3 years), Java (3 years), ORM (2 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Ubuntu, Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10, LINUX.    Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA, J2EE, LUA.    Programming Shells: Eclipse Mars, Eclipse Neon, Torch, Borland Turbo C, Turbo C++,  Dev C++, CMD.  Java, JDBC, Spring, J2EE, Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, JSP, Struts,  Technologies: Bootstrap, NodeJS, React.Js, IDE IBM RAD, RSA, Eclipse,  NetBeans, JBuilder, IntelliJ Application/Web Server IBM  WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat and  Glassfish, HTML, DHTML, AngularJS, JQuery, XML, XSLT, CSS,  JSON, JSON-DTD, AJAX.    Database: SQL server and MySQL (Queries, Stored Procedures, Functions,  Triggers, DB Normalizations), DB2, MongoDB.    XML Technologies: XML, XSLT, XPATH, SAX, DOM, JDOM, AXIS, JAXB.  Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC,  Application Frameworks: Factory Pattern, Core, Spring Context, Spring DAO, Spring IOC,  Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Spring, Boot, Spring Batch, Spring  with Hibernate) ORM Frameworks JPA, Hibernate, Spring JPA,  DAO OO Modeling Rational Rose, MS Visio Version Control  Clear.    Editors: Notepad, Notepad ++.    Gaming Engines: Game Maker, Epic Unreal 4.    Version Control: GitHub, Bitbucket, Git Bash.    Software Development Rational Rose 98 Professional Edition, Matlab.  Environment: