JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - JPMC Chicago, IL • Around 6 years of experience as full-stack developer in analysis, design and development of Single Page Applications (SPA) and Client/server Applications in various business domains like Financial, Health Care and E-commerce.  • Rich experience in software development methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile (Scrum) and good Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Recent Experience in building single page applications (SPA) using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Struts, Angular JS.  • Experience in developing the microservices to get the advantage of rapid performance and inter module communication across the application.  • Development using java, JMS, EJB, Spring, Oracle10g, Junit, WLST, Test logic, seed, ANT  • Hands on experience in implementing client-server business applications using MVC, SOA architecture and Microservices  • Experience in Selenium Web Driver/IDE Automation tool for testing Web based Applications.  • Good understanding in creating automation framework along with developing, executing and maintaining automation testing script with Selenium Web Driver.  • Expertise in developing J2EE web applications using Java 8, Spring MVC framework, Spring Boot, Hibernate ORM framework and JPA, JSP, JSF, Servlets, SOA, RESTful & SOAP Web services.  • Solid Experience with Java 8 technologies including: Java Collections, Interfaces, Synchronization, Serialization, IO, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Java Beans, Web Services SOAP, REST API, WSDL.  • Expert in Designing and implementing Hybrid, Keyword and Data Driven Automation Frameworks  • Integrate the web services using Apache Camel routing and Spring.  • Implemented Continuous Integration using Jenkins and GIT Working with DevOps practices using AWS, Elastic Bean stalk and Docker with Kubernetes.  • Experience in developing Service Oriented Architecture using Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) and JMS.  • Expert of Spring framework including configuring Spring Application Context with Dependency Injection, Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Spring AOP (Aspect-oriented Programming), Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring JPA and Spring Batch.  • Experienced in messaging services like RabbitMQ, JMS.  • Experienced in web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss 4.2.2 and Web logic.  • Automation scripting experience in Internet applications using Selenium Web Driver and SOAPUI  • Used Kubernetes to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  • Having experience in Kafka and different streaming.  • Experience with container-based technologies Docker used in CTRL plane design specifications and implementation plans  • Good Knowledge on Client-Server application development using Oracle PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, TOAD.  • Good knowledge on the cloud platform like azure, pivotal cloud foundry, AWS.  • Used ANT, Maven and Gradle scripts for building and deploying the application in web/App servers  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in ANT, Maven and Gradle tools  • Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.  • Experience in unit test cases like Junit, Selenium and performance testing tools like JMeter.  • Worked in both Unix, Linux and Windows based development environments.  • Good knowledge in Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies, build schedule using GitHub, Bitbucket and SVN. Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER JPMC - Chicago, IL November 2018 to Present • Involved in all phases of SDLC implementation, including analysis, design, development, integration, and testing of application modules using Agile methodology.  • Gained knowledge of Stateful/ Stateless Session EJBs and Entity EJBs.  • Worked with SOAP based and RESTful Web Services to fetch dynamic content from backend databases.  • Implemented transaction management, high level authentication and authorization, logging and Exception Handling using Spring and AOP.  • Developing build script using Maven to build, package, test and deploy Web applications in Tomcat container.  • Efficient use of various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Service locator, DAO and Business Delegate in the development of distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience with Apache Tomcat 8.x/7.x of J2EE standard compatible application servers.  • Experience in Struts2 framework to support the application.  • Extensively experienced in designing and developing Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using PL/SQL.  • Performed unit and functional testing using Junit and Mockito mocking framework.  • Extensively used jQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • Worked with Oracle database to access data in the database at different Levels and stored procedures to build the queries.  • Supporting the existing application with bug fixes in the existing mode of payment which is point of sales (POS) devices.  • Rewriting the logic and writing the test cases, observing the performance with POS device to make a transaction.  • Experience in all major versions of technology stack including Database, Forms, Reports, PL/SQL.  • Using Intellij IDE for developing and testing.  • Extensively used jQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • Used the Jenkins and Jules tool for build and deployment that is CI/CD.  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Experience in working Jira to track the errors.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS, Core Java, XML, Maven 4.0, Eclipse, Ajax, jQuery, Junit, , Linux GIT, UML, Jenkins. FULL STACK DEVELOPER SWISS RE- HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE - Armonk, NY November 2017 to October 2018 • Involved in all phases of SDLC implementation, including analysis, design, development, integration, and testing of application modules.  • Integrated Spring & Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  • Worked with SOAP based and RESTful Web Services to fetch dynamic content from backend databases.  • Consolidated to a single-page application for a streamlined user experience via Angular 5 and AJAX.  • Implemented transaction management, high level authentication and authorization, logging and Exception Handling using Spring Security and AOP.  • Implemented REST web services using jersey with the enabled OAUTH and development of Spring Boot application with microservices.  • Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Created and developed the internal Angular 5 framework applications projects. Unit testing with jasmine and developed Angular 5 services to retrieve JSON data from the RESTful web Services and displayed the response in User interface pages.  • Designing and developing RESTful API and Services to interact within the Micro Services and with the front end. Using Spring MVC and Spring rest. Security is provided by tokens and Spring security.  • Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Hands-on experience in Azure Cloud Services (PaaS & IaaS), Storage, Web Apps, Active Directory, Application Insights, and Logic Apps.  • Write RESTful microservices with Spring Boot.  • Experience in Microsoft Azure Cloud Computing development and support.  • Involved in designing mockups for the angular 5 component development.  • Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploys  • Tested a complicated star detection algorithm inside a Docker container and made the program easy to deploy and friendly with cloud computing technologies.  • Integrated Jersey with Jackson to serialize Java Object to JSON and reserialize JSON to Java Object.  • Performed unit and functional testing using Junit and Mockito mocking framework.  • Handled CORS issues in integrating various APIs with the app from different API vendors.  • Extensively used jQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • Developed presentation tier using JSF components and used Spring Web Flow controlled page navigation.  • Worked with RabbitMQ and AMQP Java 8 APIs for Queues to build the application as SOA platform  • System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  • Experimented with Java 8 lambda, JavaScript engine.  • Used the Jenkins tool for build and deployment that is CI/CD.  • Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  • Developed Camel routes using Scala DSL and developed custom message converters.  • Integrated configured Camel with ActiveMQ to use it as bus.  • Expertise in Apache Camel message implementations and their integrations with the systems  • Developing Micro Services leveraging in an Azure cloud environment.  • To convert the Entire event flow as a SOA based architecture used Apache Camel as a queues and BUS.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using Azure Identity Access Management (IAM) and managed network security using Security Groups and IAM.  • Worked with NO SQL Databases (MongoDB) to access data in the database at different Levels.  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Managing Product development / implementation using Azure cloud infrastructure.  • Experience in working Jira to track the errors.    Environment: Java 8, CSS, AWS, Apache Kafka, MongoDB, SOAP, RabbitMQ, RESTful, PostgreSQL, Core Java, XML, Maven 4.0, Azure, Apache Camel, Eclipse, Ajax, jQuery, Junit, Spring-Hibernate integration framework, Linux GIT, UML, Jenkins. FULL STACK DEVELOPER ACCIDENT FUND - Lansing, MI August 2016 to October 2017 • Consolidated to a single-page application for a streamlined user experience using AJAX.  • Worked with RESTful Web Services to fetch dynamic content from backend databases.  • Involved in designing mockups for the component development.  • Tested a complicated star detection algorithm inside a Docker container and made the program easy to deploy and friendly with cloud computing technologies.  • Integrated Jersey with Jackson to serialize Java Object to JSON and reserialize JSON to Java Object.  • Created multiple reusable components and services using built-in and custom directives.  • Performed unit and functional testing using Junit and Mockito mocking framework.  • Extensively used jQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • Implemented client-side form validation to validate the use inputs before passing to back-end.  • Created GUI which will show the complete system during in running mode  • Updated the dashboard front-end to support multiple dashboards and their crud operations using Typescripts.  • Designed and developed Micro services business components using JAVA 8/J2EE, Spring Boot. Implemented REST web services based on RESTful APIs.  • Involved in application development for Cloud platforms using technologies like Java 8/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Micro Services, REST.  • Developed RESTful API's, which takes in an HTTP request and produces the HTTP response in JSON Format using micro services.  • Designed / Implemented micro services communication with Auth server.  • Development of web modules and middleware components using AWS.  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Worked with NoSQL like and ran scripts for developers as needed during sprint weekends for their Agile processes  • Leverage experience in a wide variety of programming languages and tools as well as user-friendly Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs).  • Loading the data to Cassandra cluster with the help of java 8 API.  • Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool using Chef on AWS EC2 instances.  • Used Jenkins continuous integration tool to do the deployments.  • Composed and executed NoSQL scripts to insert and update NoSQL database; automating data changes and reporting.  • Proficient in test strategy preparation for the software projects (Automation, Manual and Performance Test).  • Experience in importing the data from various sources to Cassandra cluster using java API's  • Involved in Designed automation tests using Java with Selenium and Cucumber frameworks.  • Experience in working JIRA to track the errors.    Environment: Java, CSS, AWS, SOAP, RESTful, Core Java, XML, Maven 4.0, Eclipse, Ajax, jQuery, Junit, Cassandra, Spring-Hibernate integration framework, Linux GIT, UML, Jenkins. JAVA DEVELOPER UIT SYSTEMS - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to January 2016 INDIA    • Designed the web UI using HTML5, XSL/XSLT, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and AJAX controls.  • Extensively used User interface controls which use of JQuery and jQuery Data Tables to handle the client-side validations and to display the data in tabular form.  • Implemented MVC Design Pattern using Struts MVC Framework.  • Involved in writing validation classes using core Java and Struts validation rules.  • Involved in creating various backend SOAP services using Java Spring framework as per the business requirement.  • Developed Validation framework to show custom validation on JSF Screens  • Developed Service layer classes to support the business functionality with Spring MVC.  • Building web application using Template Toolkit, JQuery and tested transactions created electronically through message injection using JMS.  • Used JSP, HTML5 and CSS to create UI pages.  • Used Java script for client-side validations.  • Used JDBC to connect with Sql Server data base  • Effective execution of the prepared Test Cases.  • Build & deployment the code using Ant.  • Responsible for design, developed Tables, Views, SQL queries, Stored Procedures, triggers, Constraints for application enhancement using TOAD.  • Involved in unit testing JUNIT and in integration testing.  • Developing the new modules for newly added services to the client's domain.  • Implemented column level updates service using JSON Object.  • Applied Log4j to entire project for error logging.  • Hibernate ORM framework used to perform operations on database.  • SonarQube has been extensively used to check and improve the coding standards.  • Used CVS repository for version control.    Environment: Core Java, HTML5, JSP, Servlet, Ajax, Struts 1.2, Jasper Report, MS SQL Server 2005, JBoss Server 6.0, Subversion, Eclipse Skills EJB, J2EE, J2SE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAX-WS, JCL, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, DESIGN PATTERNS, DOCKER, GRADLE, GROOVY, BOOTSTRAP Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/saichinnu04