Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer Atlanta, GA • About 6 years of experience in developing web and enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies in business domains like Health care, Insurance and financial.  • Expertise in design and development of web applications using J2ee, Servlets, JSP, Custom tags,  JSTL, JavaBeans, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON.  • Solid understanding of web developments concepts like MVC, HTTP, Request/Response model, client-server communication.  • Worked with MVC frameworks like Spring MVC and Struts in developing web applications.  • Good experience in developing web Applications using Spring MVC, Restful calls, AJAX,JSON.  • Knowledge of using Bootstrap CSS and AngularJS for responsive web design.  • Experience with ORM framework like Hibernate and integrating with JPA and Spring ORM.  • Experience working with advanced technologies such as Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Web Services.  • Experience in SOAP Web Services technologies like SOAP,JAX-WS, WSDL,JAXB,XML,XSD and JAX-RS  Restful Web services using Jersey.  • Knowledge of SOA, ESB for the middleware services.  • Utilized Design patterns MVC, VO, DI, DAO, Factory Method, Singleton.  • Experience in working with multiple Servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic, and Apache Tomcat.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, RAD  • Experience with Maven, ANT and CI tools like Jenkins for continuous integration and builds.  • Experienced in using Log4j for the application logging. Used UML for class, sequence diagrams  • Experience in using various Configuration Management tools like SVN, GIT.  • Worked with databases like Oracle and MYSQL. Implemented PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, triggers, DDL and DMLSQL queries  • Experience with Agile SCRUM methodology for the SDLC. Worked in TDD and pair programming  • Good performer with team and individual contribution. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Equifax - Atlanta, GA May 2018 to Present Description:  Indirect Services are used for enrolling a consumer into various features. This app allows enrolling, adding Feature, removing feature and canceling an enrollment. It also has capability of onboarding a tenant and partner.    Responsibilities:  • Designing and developing Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate, JPA, and Spring Data JPA.  • Experience in using JSP and Servlets to create web interfaces and integrating apache tools like Kafka.  • Working on Angular2.0 version for mobile app development.  • Deploying the application on WebLogic Application Server cluster on Solaris 10 environment  • Using ECMAScript6 (ES6) for writing complex applications and modules.  • Analyzing changes in online transactional processing, business processes, and modifications, to improve quality of applications and meet additional requirements through MongoDB.  • Building a highly scalable, low-latency Node-JS API Gateway to interact with MongoDB database with JSON.  • Working on the Node v6.0.0 version of Node JS.  • Using the web application framework Express for designing web applications and APIs.  • Using Ajax calls extensively - using jQuery, inside the Web Apps and create a seamless flow of Quotes.  • Developing Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Spring Framework.  • Developing and implemented the business logic component in middle tier using JDBC and EJB framework including stateless session classes and Entity bean classes  • Using Apache CXF for building and developing services and used frontend programming API s like JAX WS and JAX-RS.  • Working on DenodoExpress6.0 version for fast deployment on AWS cloud.  • Using the Mongo DB cloud manager for managing and monitoring the MongoDB infrastructure and used cloud manager backup for data backup and data restoration  • Creating PL/SQL procedures, functions and complex SQL queries for admin services.  • Using Java Messaging Service JMS for messaging, configured queues and topics on the WebLogic 10.3 Application Server and used them for messaging.  • Developing Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  • Creating Maven build file to build the application and deployed on a WebSphere Application Server.  • Building RESTful web services using spring.  • Deploying and developing my project using AWS EC2, S3, Data pipeline, Elastic Beanstalk, cloud watch, Elastic search, AWS server migration service, Lambda, Amazon messaging services (SQS and SNS) and Amazon Kinesis services.  • Using the AWS mobile hub for quick storing and retrieval of app data in AWS DynamoDB.  • Developing Micro service with Spring MVC to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each Micro service in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Using the AWS mobile SDK which helps to build high quality mobile apps quickly.  • Using AWS data pipeline service for moving data between AWS compute and storage services and created complex data processing fault tolerant and repeatable workloads.  • Using AWS Elastic Beanstalk service for deploying various infrastructures which orchestrates various AWS services.  • Using Amazon Elastic search service for application monitoring and full text search.  • Using GWT and Amazon AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS (EC2/EBS).  • Using JBOSS application server for run time integration of j2ee applications.  • Using Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Writing JUNIT (TDD) test cases for testing Spring Framework classes and wrote many JavaScript to do client-side validations.  • Using Jasmine testing framework for JavaScript. Run the Jasmine tests by using Karma, a simple JavaScript test runner tool.  • Highly used Angular 4 router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  • Involved in migrating application from Angular 4 to Angular 5.  • Used GitHub version control system as a source repository to organize the code base.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, WebLogic, Rest, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, WebSphere, Drools, JSTL, Servlets, AWS, SDN, Oracle, Denodo Express 6.0,Mongo DB, Apache SOLRCRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, EJB, UML, Eclipse, JUnit, JSF, Maven, JBOSS, Apache Hadoop, Apache CXF, Mongo dB, Amazon Elastic search, Express, GWT, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, Angular 2.0& Angular 4,Typescript,Node.js v6.0.0,CSS, Clear case, Jasmine, Jasper Report, ILOG, Agile, Web 2.0, Adobe Flex, SOAP. Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, spring data JPA Full Stack Java Developer New England Center for Children - Southborough, MA August 2017 to April 2018 Description:  Integrated Student Information System is a modernized all-in-one student information solution that Provides teachers, counselors, administrators, and others with access to student information all in one place. Shows how a student is progressing toward graduation at any point in time, Follows every student through his or her educational lifespan - from pre-kindergarten to graduation and also Allows the user to view student information for as long as that student has been in the District. Designed around the educational life of a student, bringing together attendance, assignments, grades, test scores, health, program eligibility, and more. Is being improved with the help of educators and others who use it every day to support students. Is the first fully-integrated student information system.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Worked with the development team to create appropriate cloud solutions for client needs.  • Implemented database layer using EJB 3.0 and Java Persistence API(JPA) in maintenance projects.  • Responsible for developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Involved in Preparation of the technical design documents and involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Singleton and DAO etc.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, JSTL, HTML, JSON, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, indexes, sharing, replication, schema design.  • Used Apache Camel frame work provided concrete implementations of all the widely used Enterprise Integration Patterns (EIPs) and connectivity to a great variety of transports and APIs.  • Contemporary applications rely on relational databases, NoSQL databases and messaging infrastructure for achieving the internet scale. Cloud Foundry exposes MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, RabbitMQ and Redis as services that offer the database and messaging capabilities  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Developed the application using My Eclipse 8.5 and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, and formatting and build automation.  • Responsible for designing and developing Manage Purchase Order Web Service and presentation layer with Spring MVC.  • Responsible for Requirement gathering, coding, testing and documentation.  • Architected and deployed Java based web product matching framework that matches products across multiple retailers.  • Designed and integrated the full-scale Spring/Hibernate persistence solution with the application architectures.  • Designed and developed the messaging framework for communication between workflow manager and other Enterprise Applications over Java class and MQ-Series using JMS.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made RESTAPI calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and O Auth.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Handling user requests such as code enhancements, bug fixes.  • Integrated with MDM for managing user data, login and registration information are retrieved from MDM and synced with Ecommerce database.    Environment: Java, J2ee, Java beans, Servlets, JMS, JSP, Drools, Angular 1.2, Node.js v0.11.10, Servlets, GWT, Hibernate, EJB, JPA, Spring, Java Script, JDBC, UNIX, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, Eclipse, Web Services, MySQL, SQL Plus, LDAP, Log4j. Full stack java developer Assurant - North Miami Beach, FL December 2016 to August 2017 Description:  The Agent Portal project involves the design and development of a Web based application to provide online insurance services. The application provides services such as Auto Insurance and home insurance and is used for accessibility into the appropriate Agent Center applications and it provides functionalities such as policy management, profile management, and claim reporting.    Responsibilities:  • Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files, configured XML files, hibernate query language.  • Developed JSP pages for correspondence team.  • Implemented web services using WSDL/SOAP and created web services and clients to use those services.  • Designed and Developed Rating Engine as a Web service following the top-down approach using ApacheAxis2.  • Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging logic.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Obtained JSON responses to front-end using GSONAPI.  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in conjunction with validation.xml functionality.  • Used Jenkins plugins for code coverage and to run all the test before generating war file.  • Developed rich User Interface using jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Used AJAX function calls using jQuery functions to handle the user requests asynchronously and to have faster responses from the server by directly connecting to the server.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  • Developed the application using Core Java, J2EE and JSP's.    Environment: Java/ J2EE, JEE7 JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring MVC, XML, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, HTML, XPATH, XSLT, DOM and JDBC. Java Developer Gmr Group - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed the project in Java, different J2EE technologies like Struts, JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Implementation of MVC architecture by separating the Business Logic from the presentation Logic using Struts framework.  • Used JDBC in Data Access layer for data manipulation.  • Wrote SQL queries for JDBC prepared statement and used callable statements to call stored procedures.  • Developed XSD, WSDL for SOAP web services which are implemented using JAX-WS metro.  • Created SOAPUI project to test the Web Services with test data.  • Developed and deployed the applications using Tomcat and SVN for the version management.  • Used Eclipse as software development platform for developing the whole application.  • Tested the application in different environments like DEV, QA and UAT.  • Worked with QA team in working with issues from QA environment and BA team for UAT defects    Environment: Core JAVA, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC, Tomcat, Eclipse, SQL, Struts, XSD, WSDL, SQL Developer, QC, SVN Education Bachelor's Skills Java, React, Angular, Javascript, Node, Angularjs, Python, AWS, Nodejs, Jquery, C# Additional Information Skills Summary    J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JPA, JMS, JNDI, JAX-WS  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, Angular JS  Frameworks Struts, Hibernate, Spring, JSF  XML/ Web Services JAX-WS, Apache CXF, Restful, Jersey, Spring Rest  Databases Oracle, MySQL  Application / Web Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat  Methodology /Design Pattern OOAD, UML, DAO, Singleton Pattern, Front Controller, Factory Pattern  IDEs RAD, Eclipse, My Eclipse    Operating Systems Windows, LINUX, UNIX  Other Tools ANT, Maven, JUnit, Mockito, Log4J, TOAD, Jira, GIT, SVN, Firebug