Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer Pittsburgh, PA • Over 8+ years of experienceas Full stack Java developerinvolving analysis, design, implementation, integration, administration, and testing of various enterprise applications.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Experience in developing applications using Core java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring 3.2, Spring 4.0, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, REST), JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JMS, JDBC, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular, XSLT, JSON, Ajax and jQuery.  • Experience in J2EE Software Development Life Cycle SDLC of business applications on Web and client-server environment using Java and J2EE patterns, together with JSP, Servlet, SOAP, AJAX, JDBC, XML, XSLT, JavaMail, JAXB, REST.  • Expertise in J2EE Design Patterns, Data Modeling and Data Base Management.  • Experience in database development skills like MySQL, Oracle andNoSQL Cassandra,MongoDB.  • Developed Object oriented code and worked with JavaScript validation.  • Experience in developing websites using Java Server Faces in Rational Application Developer.  • Proficient in developing front-end systems with JavaScript frameworks such as JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS and JavaScript frameworks such as Angular, Node, React, Backbone and D3  • Proficiency in server-side Java development with exposure RESTful web services, AJAX powered web applications.  • Extensive experience in OpenSource Java frameworks such as: Spring Boot,Dependency Injection, Inversion of Control, Aspect-Oriented Programming, Spring MVC, Hibernate and Struts.  • Expert in deploying applications on application servers like IBM Web Sphere Application Server, WebLogic, JBoss and Tomcat.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Design and implement a Web based content management utilizing XML, JAXB, DOM, XSLT, XPath, and JavaScript for data generation and presentation with JSF, spring, Hibernate, Framework and Oracle.  • Extensively worked with tools like Hudson, Jenkins to implement build automation.  • Expertise in spring framework, include Spring Boot 2.0,Spring IOC/Core, Spring DAO support, Spring ORM, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Cache and Spring Integration.  • Proficient in integration of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) with existing applications and using services provided in distributed applications through Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS).  • Very good experience with Model2 (MVC) architecture and Jakarta Struts/Tiles. Solid experience in using Jakarta Apache frameworks like Struts, Maven, ANT, JUnit and Log4J.  • Solid Experience with ELK stack implementation.  • Used the best practices of SDLC as well as Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  • Developed Web applications to consume JSON response using callback functions.  • Developed and designed web interfaces and layouts using JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Created UML models, technical specs and XML configurations for state-driven, document-centric application.  • Hands on experience in Web application Testing and Database testing with emphasis on Software Development Life Cycle, Software testing Life Cycle in Front End and Back End applications.  • Strong knowledge of Java Messaging Service (JMS), IBM MQ Series and RabbitMQ.  • Experience in creating sites that have SSO (Single Sign On) using CAS and springsecurity.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using JSF Framework including JSP, Servlets, and EJB.  • Experience providing training to development teams on how to track, plan and analyze using JIRA.  • In depth Knowledge of LDAP& Identity access management products.  • Good experience in unit testing with Karma, Jasmine and JUnit.  • Good working knowledge of Grunt, Bower, Generators.  • Excellent understanding of relational databases involved in application development using RDBMS like MySQL, Oracle, Mongo DB, DB2,Ms SQL,NO SQL  • Experience with and solid understanding of Microservices.  • Excellent communication, analytical, interpersonal, problem solving and presentation skills.  • Up to date knowledge with the latest industry trends, and having the ability to work in tight schedules and efficient in meeting deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer EXPRESS SCRIPTS July 2014 to May 2015 Description: CDH (Consumer Driven Health) is primarily a data exchange system which provides Express Scripts and its vendor's accumulator information (and limited claims information) in different formats via various methods of transmissions (like HTTPS, TCP Socket Connection, and Message etc.). When Pharmacy submits claim for an individual to express scripts. There accumulator information like deductible, out of pocket and HRA will update in centralized system and same accumulator information will be shared with Medical Vendors as well. Mule ESB facilitates the exchange of information through various endpoint configured in the system.  Responsibilities:  * Worked as a Senior Java Developer, assisting the team in developing a Web-based application.  * Used the functionalities for writing code in HTML, CSS, Angular.js, D3.js, Node.js, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  * Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  * HTML and CSS latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data.  * Styling pages with CSS and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  * Developed interactive web application using Spring MVC, Ajax, JQuery, CSS and HTML.  * Designed and developed Application based on SpringMVC Framework using MVC design pattern.  * Integrated spring with Hibernate using Hibernate Template to perform CRUD operations against database.  * Designed and Implemented the DAO layer using spring, hibernate.  * Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  * Developed server-side services usingJava, Spring, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL).  * Wrote custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering.  * ImplementedJava/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, and Singleton.  * Used Hibernate in persistence layer and developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) to handle all database operations.  * Used JMS for sending and receiving Message through application server  * Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  * Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  * Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  * Web application frontend development utilizing Angular Js, CSS and JavaScript.  * Implemented MVC architecture by applying Angular JS framework.  * Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  * Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development.  * Create edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  * Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  * Used spring framework to support developing robust java applications very easily and very rapidly.  * Experienced in all phases of UI/UX implementation of a Travel Search and Booking web application including Design, Prototyping, Development and testing phases.  * Met with the project manager frequently for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future developments and researching their fields for UI design.  * Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  * Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  * Used natural language processing web services to compute statistic report from large data sets collected from customer.  * Used UNIX shell scripting, writing UNIX wrapper scripts and monitoring the UNIX logs to check for any errors.  * Managed and deployed microservices onto Docker using Vagrant, VirtualBox, and Puppet  * Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  * Developed required Restful web services for the application with integration of existing softmart Web application.  * Applied data transformation business rules to transform code from one format to another format using Nodejs.  * Developed BDD tests using Cucumber by writing behaviors and step definitions. Developed required Selenium support code in Java for Cucumber and Expert in designing Test Automation framework and report generation strategies in Selenium for web-based applications.  * Installed and maintained NoSQL Database MongoDB.  * UsedApache Camel for message routing  * Used Jenkins, Gradle for the automatic application build process.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.js, Bootstrap, JSP, Spring, Node.js, Hibernate, Microservices Maven, Spring MVC, JMS, Apache Camel, Restful web services, Spring boot, Selenium, Gradle, Shell scripting, Mongo DB. Full Stack Java Developer FIFTH THIRD BANK - Charlotte, NC December 2013 to June 2014 Description: The Online Account Opening (OAO) portal provide an online platform for prospective customers to open an account with FifthThird Financial Group. It serves all products - new deposit accounts, Loans, Credit Cards and all channels - online, mobile, branch, call center. Additionally, the OAO Admin portal provides the customer service representatives the ability to access and review the pending applications. The OAO portal which will be used by applicants to open new Deposit Accounts (Checking, Saving, Money Market) And Customer Care representatives and branch personnel shall be provided access to allow them to complete an application on behalf of a customer, as well as search for and finish incomplete applications.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and reviewed client requirements and design.  • Followed agile methodology for development process.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, and CSS3, Ajax.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts.  • Used RESTful Web services for transferring data between applications.  • Configured spring with ORM framework Hibernate for handling DAO classes and to bind objects to the relational model.  • Adopted J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator and Business Facade.  • Developed POJO classes and used annotations to map with database tables.  • Involved in the implementation of Stateless session beans(EJB) for business logic layer and Entity beans for persistence  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as Credit card transactions report.  • Used Multi-Threading to handle more users.  • Design and development of JAXB components for transfer objects and Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML.  • Developed Hibernate JDBC code for establishing communication with database.  • Worked with DB2 database for persistence with the help of PL/SQL querying.  • Used SQL queries to retrieve information from database.  • Developed various triggers, functions, procedures, views for payments.  • XSL/XSLT is used for transforming and displaying reports.  • Used GIT to keep track of all work and all changes in source code.  • Used JProfiler for performance tuning.  • Wrote test cases which adhere to a Test Driven Development (TDD) pattern.  • Used JUnit, a test framework which uses annotations to identify methods that specify a test.  • Used Log 4J to log messages depending on the messages type and level.  • Built the application using Maven and deployed using WebSphere Application server.  Environment: Java 1.6, Spring framework, Spring Model View Controller (MVC), Struts 2.0, EJB 3.0, XML, Hibernate 3.0, UML, Java Server Pages (JSP) 2.0, Servlets 3.0, JDBC4.0, JUnit, Log4j, MAVEN, Win 7, HTML, REST Eclipse, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, WebSphere 6.1. Full Stack Java Developer MORNING STAR - Chicago, IL October 2012 to November 2013 Description: Morningstar, Inc. is a leading provider of independent investment research in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia. The company is a global provider of investment processing, investment management, and investment operations solutions. Duties included gathering requirements from systems users and work on developing a rich UI based application as per the business requirement document and developing rich internet applications in highly team-oriented and deadline-driven setting, including security, design.    Responsibilities:  • Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Ruby and rails, Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client side validations using JQuery functions.  • Developed source code to consume JSON response received through XHR/AJAX calls using JQuery.  • Participated in development of a new business application for the layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Integrated the frontend JQuery UI with backend REST API.  • Designed user-friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using JQuery.  • Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  • Involved in Designing, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing of Databases and Web pages.  • Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS, HTML widgets / libraries for complex UI controls.  • Responsible for JavaScript / AJAX UI upgrades and improvements.  • Designed web pages using with HTML, CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • Created the SQL script for the database changes and rewrote the entity layer together with the Hibernate mapping changes.  • Designed and Implemented the DAO layer using spring, hibernate.  • Implemented RPC integration style using Restful web services.  • Used Spring Core for concept Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection.  • Implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6.  • Facilitated User Testing sessions to solicit feedback on prototypes.  • Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission.  • Created and consumed web services using Restful and SOAP web services  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Used Multithreading as a programming and an execution model that allows multiple threads to exist within the context of a single process.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Developed test scripts in Selenium Web Driver using Java Language.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration.    Environment:HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP web services, spring batch, Spring core, Spring security, Spring MVC, selenium, Rest webservices using apache CXF, multi-threading, JUnit, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, MySQL. Full Stack Java Developer CHG HEALTH CARE - Salt Lake City, UT June 2010 to September 2012 Description: The CHG family of companies is one of the largest providers of healthcare staffing in the country and the leading supplier of locum tenens and have also broadened services to include both temporary and permanent placement of physicians, nurses and other healthcare professionals. Worked on Master Data Management and various job Crawlers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed front end modules using JAVA, JSP, JSF and Servlets.Created interactive web pages and applications by usage of HTML, CSS, Node JS and jQuery.Created and modified the CSS classes to change look and feel.  • Developed the application using Eclipse 2.5 as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, and version control (CVS).  • Worked on jQuery for user interface interactions, effects and themes built on top of the jQuery java Scripts.  • Worked on agile environment uses incremental approach and also have daily standup meetings.  • Used Web Services (SOAP & REST) to exchange data between portal and other modules of the application.Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration.  • Worked on Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) as service side model that encapsulates the business logic of an application in the middleware.  • Deploying applications using AWS ECS and Docker containers.  • Worked on Spring Cloud Config, Pivotal cloud foundry and AWS SQS to deploy Spring MVC application to cloud.Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Developed Hibernate 2.0 in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database through Object/Relational Mapping (ORM).Extensively used the Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for data retrieval from the database and process the data in the business methods.  • Developed the application using NOSQL on MongoDB.Created Docker images for SOA projects that are developed as Microservices.  • Developed payment system module using Spring Microservices on Pivotal Cloud Foundry after successful execution of the main business model.  • Used Spring BOOT to create stand-alone spring applications.Developed backend services using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring AOP and Dependency Injection and JPA.  • Used Spring 2.0 Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate.Developed Ant build scripts to automate the deployment to various Webservers.  • Developed server-side scripts in shell to customize GIT and integrate it with tools like JIRA and Jenkins.  • Coded Maven build scripts to build and deploy the application on JBOSS 9.0.Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  Environment: Java 1.7, Eclipse 2.5, Jenkins, AWS, Microservices, Mongo DB, Maven, JBOSS Application Server 9.0, JSP 2.0, Servlets, JSTL, Spring Boot, Hibernate 3.0, HTML3, JavaScript, Node JS, CSS, JAX-WS, XML, EJB, CVS, Maven, JUnit, SOAP. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering CA data center infrastructure management suite - San Jose, CA May 2017 to Present Skills INTEGRATION (4 years), INTEGRATOR (4 years), JAVA (4 years), JUNIT (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Development HTML5, SASS, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, JQUERY, AJAX, XML, SOAP, REST, WSDL, JAXP, JAXB  Databases MySQL, ORACLE, NoSql,Mongo DB, DB2, MS SQL, SQL Server, RDBMS  Programming Languages C, C++, JAVA, SQL  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, MS-DOS  Software Tools & Testing Tools Front end Libraries and plugins, Back end, Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jasmine along with Karma, JUnit, Selenium, Jenkins  IDEs worked on Eclipse, Sublime Text, Visual studio,Intellij IDEA  Frameworks AngularJS, D3, Struts, JSF, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Integration, Hibernate, JPA, JDBC, Spring ORM.  Application Servers Apache Tomcat Server, IBM Web Sphere, JBOSS, Oracle Web Logic  Version Control Git, Svn