Test Engineer Test Engineer AWS Certified Developer Associate McKinney, TX • AWS Certified with total of 3.6 years experience in Java Development and Automation testing.  • Having 2+ years of experience in automating web and mobile applications.  • Having 1+ years of development experience using Java.  • Worked on automating web applications using QTP/UFT.  • Worked on automating mobile applications using Seetest.  • Worked on developing an eLearning website using Java.  • Working experience on E-Learning, Healthcare, and Airline domains.  • Good exposure in requirements gathering and analysing.  • Experience in developing and executing Automation Scripts for mobile application on iOS and Android.  • Exposure in programming skills C, Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and VBScript.  • Acquired good skills in Automation script development, debugging and execution.  • Working knowledge on Application development and maintenance life cycle process.  • Experience in integrating code using version control tools Github, TortoiseSVN.  • Troubleshooted the challenges faced in the execution of automation scripts.  • Capable of learning new technology and applying them in my job to get the best outcomes.  • Have strong interpersonal, analytical and problem-solving skills with the ability to work within a team environment and independently.  • AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner and Developer Associate.  • Exposure in AWS Services EC2, CloudFormation, CI/CD Pipeline, DynamoDB, S3, Lambda. Work Experience Test Engineer Cigniti Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to March 2016 PROJECT #1:  Project Title: Southwest Airlines (Mobile)  Designation: Test Engineer  Technologies Used: Seetest, Java, Github  Team Size: 8  Project Description:  Southwest airlines mobile app enables you to do almost everything that you can do with the web app like booking, check-in, check your flight status, boarding position, gate information, access your mobile boarding pass and lot more. It supports both android and IOS devices. Main modules are login, booking, check-in, flight status.  Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the test script development, debugging and execution.  ? Analysing business requirements for the mobile application suite of Android, IOS and Mobile Web Applications.  ? Played a key role on maintaining the test scripts.  ? Responsible for execution of all the test cases authored.  ? Also involved in updating the test scripts based on feature releases.  ? Individual and Batch Execution of suites.  ? Defect detection by manual flow of scenarios.  ? Worked on authoring reusable functions for the sub modules.  ? Worked on parallel execution using Seetest Cloud.    PROJECT #2:  Project Title: Napier Health Care  Designation: Test Engineer  Technologies Used: QTP, VB script  Team Size: 30  Project Description:  This project is three-tier architecture-based web-application that covers all departments of a hospital and automates various functionalities of each department and integrates them. One track in this project aims at implementing health care services. It allows the patients to take online appointment and to capture their details. It can also be used by hospital officials in various departments to capture and maintain patient data, services provided to patients, details of stock in various departments, check for infections periodically in various departments etc. The Project is a Web based application on HIS (Hospital Information Service) product. The main modules are Master Data Management and Security, Front Office, Nursing Station, Physician, Inventory, and SCM. It is a Flex and Extended Java script-based application.  Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase.  ? Responsible for the test script development, debugging and execution.  ? Responsible for understanding the manual test case, analyse the test case then develop the automation script for the functionality mentioned in manual test case.  ? Played a key role in script execution phase in critical release period and exceeded the management expectations in getting the sign-off from the customer.  ? Contributed in a best way to meet the automation deliverables deadline.  ? Played a key role in script enhancements and test data management activities.  ? Responsible for the integration of the developed test scripts to validate the end to end (E2E) functionality.  ? Participated in preparation of Test Automation Architecture manual and Automation Standard Operating Procedure Manual.  ? Involved in Test Data Integration of different modules in Health Care Domain.  ? Responsible for collecting the status from each team member and circulate the same to both internal management and customer management. Java Developer Fortunapix pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to October 2013 PROJECT #3:  Project Title: Fortunapix eLearning website  Designation: Java Developer  Technologies Used: Java, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS  Team Size: 4  Project Description:  Developed an Application for schools to design their curriculum from the available library. In this system admin, Teachers and students are the main roles. In this system Admin designs the Library from the content available. At any instant of time dynamically he can add / update / delete the library items. Teacher can create the student user, and have the following module permission - Assign the Syllabus, Design the syllabus, Create the Assignment, Design the Assignment, Create the user, Create the group, Assign the Assignment to the selected users / groups, Conducts the Test to the selected users / groups, Create the events on Calendar, Assign the calendar events to the selected users / groups, Can perform the search for the desired content, Can view the reports of the selected user. Student can view the syllabus, which has been assigned to him, view the list of assignments which has been assigned to him, perform search operation for the content, add content as favorites, view his recent content, view his most viewed content, create the events in the calendar, view all the list of events from calendar, view his own reports, view his own usage report for Assignment and syllabus, send the feedback, send message to the selected users / groups.  Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed User Interface using SmartGWT components.  ? Integrated SmartGWT with spring framework.  ? Creating tables in database using POJO's.  ? Writing database queries using hibernate.  ? Embedding html into SmartGWT widgets.  ? Running the application in tomcat and jetty.  ? Developing the application as per customer requirements.  ? Prepared documentation for the project. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2010 Skills MySQL, Javascript, Java (2 years), HTML (2 years), CSS (2 years), Python, Amazon Web Services, TortoiseSVN, Seetest, UFT, Google web Toolkit, VBScript, C, Tomcat, Jetty, Git, HTML 5, Spring (2 years), Hibernate (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/srividyakoneru Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Developer-Associate April 2019 to April 2022 AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner April 2019 to April 2022 Additional Information Technical SKILL SET    Automation Tools: Unified Functional Testing (UFT) 11.5, Seetest.  Software Testing Skills: Manual, Mobile and Functional Testing.  Programming Languages: Java, C, Python, VBScript.  Webservers: Tomcat 7.0, Jetty.  Web Designing: HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  Database: MySQL, Oracle.  Cloud Computing: Amazon Web Services.  Version Control Tools: Github, TortoiseSVN.