Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer • I'm a technocrat about 7 years of software development experience in JAVA.  • I have extensive exposure in the end-to-end development of software products from requirement analysis to system study, designing, coding testing, de- bugging, documentation and implementation.  • I have demonstrated abilities in leading teams & successfully executing various projects as per the SLA's.  • I'm adept with Java, J2EE, Spring Hibernate and web services. I'm a skilled communicator with strong interpersonal & relationship management skill.  • I possess significant experience & ability to work in multicultural environment and leading personnel from varied cultures & backgrounds.  • I've hands-on knowledge of android development having developed an android app completely on my own (in my spare-time). It's currently live on Google Play store and well received with multiple 5 star ratings.  • I'm currently working at Quest Global for the client Apple Inc.  • Previously I had worked with Accenture and IBM. Work Experience Developer Carrier Services July 2017 to September 2018 Platform: Java, J2EE Hibernate, spring, Web Services    The application is a part of their ecommerce website using which the iPhone is purchased by the end customer.The application interfaces with the different carriers to enable the customers to buy or upgrade their phone.    2. Application: DLL Beacon Support  Client: DLL Developer November 2010 to December 2011 Platform: Java, J2EE Hibernate, spring, Web Services    Overview: De Lage Landen's proprietary N@once finance is a eCommerce solution for leasing assets that simplify how business partners interact with DLL. The secure, user-friendly N@once finance websites enable business partners to quickly close sales opportunities through easy quote generation, and online credit scoring that provides immediate credit decisions. This helps streamline sales cycle times and facilitates repeat equipment sales.    The tool is built on the Spring framework and uses Spring for dependency injection. It uses Webwork for MVC. It uses XML as an interchange format, to exchange data seamlessly between N@O and the external applications.    Responsibilities:  ? I'm responsible for the design, Implementation and unit testing of enhancements for the DLL New@Once System.  ? I'm also responsible for the investigation of the defects and fixing of bugs on the New@Once tool    Key Achievements:  I received appreciation from the clients for my work. I also was awarded a Thanks Award for my work with DLL within 6 months of my joining the team. I was able to analyse and implement complex requirements within a short span of time. Developer Ericsson January 2010 to September 2010 Platform: Portal Technology, Java, J2EE, Hibernate    Overview:  Ericsson Intranet Website is based upon the Websphere Portal Server and majorly built  Using the JAVA, J2EE technology and uses the hibernate framework. The website is used as a gateway for a number of other websites. The website is integrated with Teamsite and Lotus WCM.    Responsibilities:  ? I'm responsible for the design, Implementation and unit testing of enhancements for the portal website.  ? Support for System Integration Testing  ? Installation support  ? I'm also responsible for the investigation and fixing of bugs and defects in the website. Java Developer AT&T March 2008 to December 2009 Platform: JAVA, Servlets, Velocity, XWORK, SPRING Framework, DB2, Websphere, Linux    Overview:  KOSMOS is a web based Knowledge Management System which provided a platform for an integrated and collaborative approach to create, organize, share, retrieve and use Knowledge Assets. It was developed to capture the application and the domain knowledge. KOSMOS was also used to quickly train the freshers with the application and domain knowledge and help them to be productive in the least possible time. It was primarily used by the Migration team to migrate applications into the account in helping them capture as much details as possible for which the team won accolades from the higher managements as well as the clients.    Development on JIRA and LOTUS QUICKR involved customization of the tool.    Responsibilities:  ? I designed, developed and unit tested new plugins to add new features to KOSMOS depending on the adhoc requirements that came in from the users in a short span of time.  ? I designed and developed new features on the KOSMOS tool.  ? I was responsible for the customization of the KOSMOS tool.  ? I was involved in the peer review process  ? I was responsible for training the new members who joined the team.  ? I was responsible in advertising and marketing the KOSMOS tool to all the users in the account.    Key Achievements:  ? The KOSMOS tool won the prestigious Business Award within the organisation and was introduced in other accounts of the organisation.  ? I won an award recognizing my work in the development of the YELLOW PAGES PLUGIN.    5. Automation Tool:  Client: AT&T  Duration: 8 Months Team Size: 4  Role: Java Developer  Platform: JAVA, JSP, Servlets, Oracle Pl/SQL, Tomcat, Windows, Solaris  Overview:  This project involved developing an automated tool [web application] which served to the provisioning arena in the telecommunication domain. This application was developed to retrieve the Order information and Service Center activity information from the database. It facilitated for the users to input the order details from the front end based on which the order information was retrieved and reports generated. With the reports and loss could be identified.    Responsibilities:  ? Implementation of project in Java and Unit testing  ? Support for System Integration Testing  ? Installation support    The project was delivered with zero User Acceptance Test defects from users and having no post production defects till date. The project helped in removing the tedious manual effort which was involved in the retrieval which was also highly error prone which was highly appreciated by the clients.    6. Enhancement Project:  Client: AT&T  Role: Developer Team Size: 2  Duration: 6 Months  Platform: AIX, Websphere, Java, Oracle PL/SQL  Overview:    This is an application which serves as an exemplary model, that describes the functioning of a Decision Support System. This application helped the client to quickly react to changes in the market rates offered by various telecom carriers for terminating international calls originating from client's network. The project involved addition of Quality of Service feature to this DSS based application to ensure that telecom carriers adhere to high standards of quality parameters like call answer to call seizure ratio and average length of call.    Responsibilities:  ? Design and develop the implementation of the enhancement.  ? Support for System Integration Testing  ? Installation support  The project was delivered with zero User Acceptance Test defects from users. Education BE in Information Science Bangalore Institute of Technology - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN 2006 Additional Information SKILL SET:  Languages: Java (JDK 1.8)  Framework: Spring, Hibernate  Platforms: Windows, LINUX, Android, MacOS  Databases: Oracle, MYSQL  GUI: Java Server Pages (JSP), HTML  Web Server: Tomcat 6.0, Websphere  Configuration Management Tools: SVN, GIT    KEY PROJECTS HANDLED    I'm currently working in Quest Global for the client Apple.    1. Application: Radar  Duration: October-2018  Role: Developer  Platform: Java, J2EE Hibernate, spring boot, Web Services, Oracle DB    Radar application is an internal tool developed by Apple and used primarily for their bug tracking, project management, and reporting tool. I joined the team as a developer for rewriting the web services api used by different clients like the web app, mobile app and the desktop client to perform the crud operations on the different components/ problems of the radar application.