Full-Stack Java Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Java Developer - Capital One Richmond, VA ? 7+ years of experience in the field of Information Technology with an excellent skill in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and deploying various software applications.  ? Experience in Gathering Requirements and Analysis, Time Estimates, Development, Testing and Deployment of an application  ? Experience in development of applications using J2EE technologies like Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Web services (SOAP/REST), JMS and EJB's.  ? Good understanding of all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Experience in UI technologies like Html, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.  ? Experience in working with tools and IDEs like Eclipse, STS, IntelliJ, RAD, TOAD, SOAP UI, SQL Developer  ? Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Spring Framework and Hibernate  ? Experience in developing applications using the Java 8 features  ? Performed in developing light weight business components and integrated applications using Spring Framework, and Spring Web MVC.  ? Expertise in configuring the Spring Application Context with dependency injection and using Spring Framework integrated with Struts, Hibernate, Web Services and JDBC.  ? Strong work experience in Web based application development, Database programming, distributed computing, Server-side programming and Client Server computing in multi-threaded software systems using Java technologies.  ? Having experience on using the Application/Web Servers like Web logic, Web sphere, Tomcat.  ? Experience in developing services like REST API and SOAP. Used Postman and SOAP UI testing tools for services call locally.  ? Experience developing applications using Java (Multithreading, I/O Stream, Serialization, Collections, RMI, JDBC and Java Beans)  ? Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in the production test environment and experienced in Maven and Ant.  ? Knowledge in coding SQL, PL/SQL, Procedures/Functions, Triggers and Packages on database (RDBMS) packages  ? Experience in Database technologies: Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, and MySQL.  ? Experience in AWS technologies like Lambda, EC2 and EMR  ? Experience in AWS technologies i.e. ECS containers for deploying the Code image, TD files and Infra files creating AWS infrastructure, RDS Databases, Route53 for routing the traffic.  ? Experience on Jenkins, CICD pipelines, AWS blue green deployment and EC2 AMI rehydration  ? Hands on experience with the AWS S3 bucket for storing documents and script files.  ? Hands on experience in running the regression test using the Automation test scripts using Junit, Mockito.  ? Hands on experience on performance testing using JMeter  ? Have an excellent Relational Database understanding and experience with Oracle 10g/11i, IBM DB2 and MySQL.  ? AngularJS, React JS, HTML to enable client-side data to meet specific criteria by applying various validations.  ? Experience in using JIRA board for creating stories and sub-tasks  ? Used Confluence Page and SharePoint tracking tools for application and design documents.  ? Experience in supporting the system components during system testing, integration testing and during the promotion of these components to the production environment.  ? Experience in reviewing of work product and deploying the application in the test environment and initiate the process of user acceptance testing. It includes fixing of bugs and Fixing Technical Errors that may come up during this phase  ? Knowledge of development methodologies like Waterfall and Agile. Experience in Agile Methodologies including XP, SCRUM. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full-Stack Java Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA October 2018 to Present Description: Batch jobs which will process the user financial account information to salesforce where salesforce is the backend for the process. Basically, these are running through Ab-initio tool which are legacy migrated to spring technology for better result. And web application for customer login and registration page where he can able to subscribe to alerts and manage alerts. Rest API and SOAP web services development for calls and give successful response. Each Customer and account level alerts contact information communicating with downstream API's to interact with databases.    Responsibilities:  ? Batch jobs development for better performance and good result using Java technology  ? Followed Agile/Scrum methodology for development and sprint planning/sprint review for every two weeks.  ? Developed the batch jobs using Spring Boot technologies  ? Design and Development of modules using Spring Boot, spark and Java 8 features.  ? Batch job code deployments in AWS EMR clusters and using lambda functions to trigger the batch job on time  ? Good Experience with spring, a high - level Java framework. Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts.  ? Used Angular JS for front end web application development  ? Used Spring MVC model architecture for development and hibernate ORM tool to interact with database.  ? Used Angular technologies for enhanced user experience in web modules by testing and implementing the enterprise application with Angular Js, React Js and Spring MVC.  ? Wrote shell script for several functionalities within the application order to download the files from AWS S3 bucket  ? Experience on writing JUnit test cases using power Mockito for all the developed modules.  ? Knowledge on Java 8 features  ? Restful and SOAP webservices development and Postman, SOAP UI testing tools for testing the service  ? Resources like GET and POST operations used for User alerts service and DELETE, PUT operations for contact API's.  ? AWS auto scaling (ASG) for scale in and scale out the instances based on the incoming traffic. And routing the traffic using AWS Route53 service  ? EC2 instances AMI rehydration for every 45 days and deployments in AWS console. ALB and target groups creation.  ? Used Log4j to create logs of the application's flow of control.  ? Used GitHub for source code repository and trigger the webhook build to get the snapshot of the code.  ? JIRA Board to assign and create the stories. Stories will be assigned for each sprint i.e. 2 weeks.  ? Used Docker image to build the image by defining the CPU and memory utilization. Running the containers based on the traffic level.  ? Jfrog artifactory for storing the all snapshot versions and using the appropriate version by defining the artifactory path  ? Used Maven repository for all dependencies and Maven build to create JAR file of the developed service.  ? Used spark commands to in order to process the huge amount of data at a time.  ? Fixing all the bugs that may arise in production and deployment of the enhanced modules.  ? Efficiently worked with the team for business related updates and functionality change. Monitoring all services which were in production environment and production support for existing jobs.  ? Data validations of AWS Lake jobs and work with DDE team if any differences found in processing data.  Environment: Java /J2EE, spring, Spring Boot, Java 8, Linux, Shell Script, Angular,JS, AWS S3, AWS EMR, AWS Lambda, AWS EC2, Eclipse IDE, Maven, Spark, JUnit, JIRA and Nebula. Full-Stack Java Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA October 2018 to Present Telangana    Description: Prime Soft Solutions Inc offer Product Development, Enterprise Applications, Mobile Applications and Quality Assurance services to clients from venture funded start-ups to publicly traded companies in E-Commerce, Healthcare, Networking, Telecom and Banking.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirement and worked on application architecture and process flow wherever applicable  • Developed the application based on MVC architecture.  • Development of Servlets, JSP files and Security Options using WebLogic Server.  • Developed web application using JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Developed the front-end pages in HTML and done client-side validations in JavaScript.  • Used Java Fundamentals and OOPS concepts like inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction to develop the code.  • Used spring framework for the business layer using Spring Cove, DAO, Spring ORM, Spring Web MVC, Spring AOP modules.  • Designed/Developed the project using the JDBC framework to communicate with database.  • Implemented core java concepts like Multithreading, Exception Handling and Collection wherever necessary.  • Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Extensively used Log4J for logging, JUNIT as a test framework, ANT and Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP, and XML.  • Used SVN as version control tools to maintain the code repository.  • Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.  • The Application was deployed on Apache Tomcat Server locally.  • Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT.  • Worked on bug fixing and Production Support.  • Worked closely with Business and Development teams to identify critical areas of business and technical requirements for test case prioritization and Automation    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, Spring, JDBC, MVC Design pattern, PL/SQL, Log4J, Apache Tomcat server, My SQL, Eclipse IDE, ANT, Log4J, WebLogic. Full-Stack Java Developer CVS Health, Pittsburg, PA October 2016 to October 2018 Description: Indexing application deals with reports for all the functions like admissions, billing etc. This application mainly divided into two modules. The first module is Indexing. The user can get and scan/upload the bills or reports to the application. A user can do the split the document into multiple copies based on the original file that he sent to the application. Indexing is for splitting the document into multiple reports as the user can be uploading a single document with all his billing details to simplifying his day to day work. The second module is for Content Manager. It is nothing but storage which deals with the incoming reports to make it available to users. Loaded reports into the system will be available and some can be purged into drive.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of SDLC, Requirements Gathering, Design & Analysis, Development, testing, Deployment and bug fixing of an application.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs, HTML, and CSS.  ? Used Angular JS, HTML, CSS for web application development and making the UI design in an efficient way for users to understand easily.  ? Developed Frontend validations using the UI frameworks i.e. Angular, JavaScript  ? Used Spring framework for developing business logic of the web application  ? Worked with source version control tools i.e. GitHub to manage and feature branches creation. Creating pull requests for every change to keep a track of all changes.  ? Design and Development of modules involving Spring MVC, Web Services, JMS, JSTL.  ? Good Experience with Spring, a high - level Java framework. Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Java 8, Spring core and Linux.  ? Used RAD for writing code for JSP, Servlets, Spring and EJBs.  ? Used Hibernate ORM tool to make an Object Relation Model relationship with the application databases  ? Application deployment in IBM WebSphere application server  ? Rest API development and used All 4 Http operations in the resource class i.e. GET, PUT, POST and DELETE  ? Defined appropriate HTTP STATUS CODES in webservices development and also defined customized error messages to display on the UI.  ? Used SharePoint tool for tracking all the business requirement documents and design documents  ? Involved in writing SQL queries for backend to get the appropriate results when needed.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  ? Used Log4j software to create logs of the application's flow of control.  ? Used Putty software for accessing app Unix servers  ? Used TOAD for DB2 software for accessing DB servers  ? Used Maven build tool to create the build version of the code and deploying it in WebSphere application server.  ? Used WinSCP software for deploying the jar on server-side location.  ? WebSphere MQ explorer software for JMS services and ActiveSpecs are the message listener's in IBM MQ explorer  ? Coding of Restful web services used to consume third party services using Spring MVC, Java, and Hibernate.  ? Fixing all the bugs that may arise in production and deployment of the enhanced modules.  ? Work with the Business Analysts to prepare functional specification during the project requirements stage. Direct the offshore team for documentation of functional requirements for client submission and approvals.  ? Agile/Scrum Methodology has followed and Stand up meetings every day in the mornings and sprint planning, sprint review for every two weeks.    Environment: Java /J2EE, Spring, Spring MVC 3.1, JDBC, JavaScript, Java 8, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS, IBM MQ Explorer, IBM Web Services, Putty, Toad for DB2, WinSCP, Windows 7, ANT, RAD IDE. Java Developer Citibank, NY November 2015 to October 2016 Description: I was involved in the development of a web banking application which provides advanced Internet banking and transaction functionalities. Clients can review account balances for personal checking, savings, certificates of deposit, installment loans, home equities & mortgages. Clients can also use history function to review transaction history. The application is highly secured with SSL encryption & Session time-out implementations.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project which was modeled using Rational Unified Process (RUP).  ? Prepared the Proof of Concept for workflow and demonstrated the solution to the business users.  ? Configured web.xml, faces-config.xml for navigations and managed beans. Spring and Hibernate Frameworks.  ? Involved in development of JavaScript code for Client-Side Validations.  ? Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and involved in mapping, coding and fine-tuning of hibernate Queries.  ? Implemented Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files.  ? Created services for various modules like Account (CD/Checking/Savings) Creation and Maintenance using SPRING.  ? Worked on configuring Spring MVC with Angular JS using Request Mapping.  ? Established efficient exception handling and logging using Spring AOP.  ? Built and managed the Application by using WebLogic server  ? Involved in developing the JUnit test cases and testing the functionalities.  ? Used Maven build tool to build the jar/war file  ? Used Log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  ? Used JIRA for creating tasks, sub-tasks and also for defect tracking.  ? In the project we used PL/SQL commands to work on Oracle database.  ? Used Angular Js directives to specify custom and reusable HTML-like elements.  ? Used Eclipse IDE tool to develop the application and Used JIRA to create EPICs and User Stories for the Sprint cycle.  ? Involved in code versioning, Check-In, Check-outs and code merging using GitHub  ? Implemented RESTful web services for communicating using JAX-RS annotations.  ? Used Multithreading and Concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  ? Interacted with testing team to fix defects and Involved in the code review process.  ? Had code walkthrough with clients and incorporated the changes along with the team members.  ? Reviewed test execution results analyzed the defects and resolved the issues for quality deliverables.  ? Developed test scripts in JUnit and involved in testing.  ? Used Java Messaging Services for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules  ? Involved actively in Application Production Support.    Environment: JDK1.6, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), Struts, Spring, JMS, Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Log4J, Ant, UML, JUnit, Maven, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, GitHub, Eclipse, WebLogic, Junit Java Developer Canadian Railways, IL December 2014 to November 2015 Description: The project name is called PTC (Positive Train Control). PTC is basically a new scenario that was introduced which was very helpful for every railroad sector. PTC is mainly developed for railroad sector which was made mandatory all over for the world for every railroad sector. PTC was implemented by using CAD System. Adding up to the program they were also other application that was included in PTC that was called Air Brake. This will help to reduce the fuel efficiency.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in business requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, and testing of application modules.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project.  ? Used Spring Frameworks for developing the application.  ? Implemented agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles.  ? Responsible for setting up Angular for UI development. Developed front views with HTML, CSS3 and Angular JS.  ? Design and developed the various view and partial view using JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, Ajax.  ? Used Apache Tomcat server for deployment  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs, Garbage collections for dynamic memory allocation to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Used SVN as Source Version Control.  ? Used Maven as build tool.  ? Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for development and for local deployment & running  ? Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side within the forms.  ? Wrote JUnit Test cases for unit testing the application.  ? Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  ? Integrated with external API to store and retrieve documents in a common repository.  ? Hands on experience in writing Spring Restful Web services using JSON/XML.  ? Created the PL/SQL stored procedure, function, triggers for the Oracle 12c database.  ? Involved in code reviews, test case reviews and bug fixing using Jira tracking systems  ? Responsible for overseeing the Quality procedures related to the project.  ? Mentoring the team on understanding the requirements and development.  ? Supporting the system components during system testing, integration testing and during the promotion of these components to a production environment.    Environment: Java/J2ee, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (REST), Jenkins, Maven, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Angular.js1.5, XML, SVN, oracle 12c, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JMS, jQuery, JSP, SERVLET, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, SVN, JUNIT, JDBC, MYSQL, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, SQL