Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Department of Labor McLean, VA • Over 5 year of IT experience in design and development of Object-Oriented Software Application with expertise in Object Oriented Programming using Java8, J2EE related technologies.  • Followed Waterfall, Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, and Pair Programming.  • Specialized in the systems design and development of reliable and efficient enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies, which includes EJB, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, J2EE design patterns, XML and Web Services.  • Experience in Micro Services implementation.  • Experience in SOAP and REST based Web Services and SOA, AJAX Technology, RMI, JNDI, MVC Custom development.  • Proficient in designing and developing presentation layer components using JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Struts, Spring MVC in developing rich web applications using HTML and CSS.  • Expertise in developing business logic using EJB, spring and data access layers using JDBC and Hibernate.  • Experience with Linux, Ubuntu in bare-metal and Cloud-based infrastructure.  • Experience in using Application servers like Tomcat.  • Experience in evaluating and researching best suitable technologies and tools that are compatible with the current architecture and the business needs.  • Experienced in software development methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, SDLC and Rational Unified Process (RUP)  • Highly motivated team player, proactive, quick learner with excellent communication, organizational and analytical skills. Work Experience Java Developer Department of Labor - Washington, DC March 2019 to Present Project Name: QUAT  Description: This project is a web based application developed using HTML and ADF Oracle. Our agile methodology is a hybrid model combining best practices from scrum, lean and Extreme Programming. Giving its services worldwide in business, technology environment. It gives all support to well-trained employers.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed requirements & developed use cases.  • Work on ADF JDeveloper  • Work on entity Object, View Object and AM Object  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool for storing buyers and sellers' information in database.  • Involved in development of DAO classes using hibernate HQL.  • implemented Struts framework for developing the business logic.  • Participated in configuration of web.xml and struts-config.xml.  • Used Commons Validation framework for validating forms.  • Implemented business rules for enquiry and quotation, and code for validating input field and displaying error messages.  • Developed Action Classes and Action Forms beans.  • Used Eclipse IDE to develop Java code.  • Consumed Restful Web Services to establish communication between different applications.  • Implemented Business Services using the Core java and spring.    Environment: ADF and J Developer, EO, VO, AM, Hibernate, spring (AOP, Dependency Injection), XML, JSP, Spring MVC, J2EE, Multiprocessing and multithreading, Maven, Web Sphere, SOA, SOAP, Java Bean. Java Developer 22ND Century Technologies, Inc January 2018 to February 2019 Project Name: (Tscti)Time Sheet  Description: 22ND Century has extensive experience in delivering agile project. Our agile methodology is a hybrid model combining best practices from scrum, lean and Extreme Programming. Giving its services worldwide in business, technology environment. It gives all support to well-trained employers.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed requirements & developed use cases.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool for storing buyers and sellers' information in database.  • Involved in development of DAO classes using hibernate HQL.  • Configured Java beans in the Hibernate Mapping to represent ORM.  • Created user-friendly graphical user interfaces with HTML and Java Server Pages.  • Some time work on Java Swing as per given the task.  • Involved in development of the Application front end using JSP with extensive usage of Struts tag libraries, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries.  • Implemented Struts framework for developing the business logic.  • Participated in configuration of web.xml and struts-config.xml  • Used Commons Validation framework for validating forms.  • Implemented business rules for enquiry and quotation, and code for validating input field and displaying error messages.  • Developed Action Classes and Action Forms beans.  • Used Eclipse IDE to develop Java code.  • Deployed the application in JBoss Application Server in development and production environment.  • Integrated various modules and deployed them in JBoss Application Server.  • Implemented Business Services using the Core java and spring.  Environment: Java 8, Hibernate, spring (AOP, Dependency Injection), XML, JSP, Spring MVC, J2EE, Multiprocessing and multithreading, Maven, Web Sphere, PSOA, SOAP, My Sql workbench, Java Swing. Associate Software Engineer Spectrum InfoTech, Mohali September 2013 to November 2016 Description: This project is a web based application developed using HTML and JavaScript. This application is developed for a consulting and Designing IT service company that delivers system and the Application Integration-Business, e-commerce, database technologies and also web services specialized technology staffing and a spectrum of other IT services to enhance the client company flexibility, and improve their business and IT performance.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed requirements & developed use cases.  • Designed user interface layout using CSS, HTML.  • Work on Java Swing.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Created new database objects like Sequences, Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views in Development and Production environment using My SQL.  • Created JSP pages decorated using CSS.  • Involved in development of the Application front end using JSP with extensive usage of Struts tag libraries, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries.  • Implemented Struts framework for developing the business logic.  • Participated in configuration of web.xml and struts-config.xml.  • Used Commons Validation framework for validating forms.  • Implemented business rules for enquiry and quotation, and code for validating input field and displaying error messages.  • Developed Action Classes and Action Forms beans.  • Used Eclipse IDE to develop Java code.  • Consumed Restful Web Services to establish communication between different applications.  • Implemented Business Services using the Core java and spring.  Environment: Java8, J2EE (Servlets, JDBC), Spring 3(Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Multiprocessing and multithreading, Spring MVC, Spring Annotations), Java Swing, JMS, RESTful Web Services, HTML, Apache Tomcat, Maven. Education Master's in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Potomac Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JSP