Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer • 3+ years of experience in design, development, maintenance and support of Java/J2EE applications.  • Working knowledge in OOAD, OOP concepts and good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Experience in agile evironments using like scrum methodology and pair programming.  • Effectively convert the business requirements into technical designs and hence develop technical specifications  • Experience in reviewing high level requirements for assigned projects and works with product managers, BAs and Operations to produce final specifications.  • Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using UML Rational Rose and Visio.  • Excellent experience in designing single page applications using Angular JS including developing custom directives, filters, routing and navigation.  • Extensive experience in Java/J2EE programming - JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Business Delegate and Data Access Object(DAO) for building J2EE Applications.  • Experienced in web development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2 Bootstrap, and AJAX technologies.  • Experienced in developing MVC framework based websites using Struts and Spring.  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), IOC (Inversion Of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and familiarity with AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming).  • Good Knowledge of Object-relational mapping (ORM) using Hibernate.  • Strong experience in XML related technologies incluing XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XMLBeans.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like DTD,XSD, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Experience in installing, configuring, tuning IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, Rational Application Developer(RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Expertise in database modelling, administration and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  • Experience in using ANT, Maven and Gradle for build automation.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like CVS, SVN, perforce p4, GIT AND GitHub.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 98 / 2000 / NT / XP, AIX, Sun Solaris and HP-UX.  • Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Nationwide Insurance - Des Moines, IA June 2017 to January 2018 Nationwide Insurance is one of the leading insurance companies in USA. I worked on developing internal java web application from scratch. Application name is PDS Agency. The purpose of PDS agency is to retrieve all the details of insurance agents of nationwide insurance. PDS agency is used by top level executives of nationwide insurance for latest information of their agents.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in agile environment namely scrum methodology to perform day to day tasks.  • Did pair programming in the scrum environment to improve efficiency of application.  • Developed java based web application namely PDS agency from scratch.  • Used Spring MVC and Spring DAO for the development of PDS agency.  • Used MyBatis for database connectivity and to perform database operations.  • Developed junit test cases.  • Used HTML 5, CSS 3, and jQuery to develop UI (User Interface).  • Performed DOM manipulations, CSS manipulations on UI using jQuery.  • Written AJAX calls and html event methods using jQuery.  • Used bootstrap which is a front end framework for developing responsive websites.  • Developed Restful web services for AJAX calls which are performed on UI.  • Did both developing and consuming of Restful web service.  • Used tomcat webserver to application deployment and running.  • Used IntelliJ as IDE for software development.  • Used Jenkins for build purpose and continuous integration purpose.  • Used Github for version control.  • Used Apache Maven for project build.  • Wrote SQL queries to perform back-end database operations  • Created, edited and updated tables by writing SQL queries based on requirement (CRUD operations).    Environment: Java 1.7, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, Tomcat, IntelliJ, Git, GitHub, spring, MyBatis, RESTful web services, JDBC, JIRA, Hipchat, Oracle 10g, SQL Server. Full Stack Developer Thomson Reuters - Eagan, MN October 2016 to May 2017 FEEDIT Application  Thomson Reuters is one of the leading mass media and information Technology Company in the world. I worked here on fixing bugs of Feedit UI web application, which is a java/j2ee web application used to automate manual processing of feed batches.  Responsibilities:    • Worked in Scrum Environment for developing day to day tasks assigned to me  • Worked on Production Defects and resolved them by code editing or by identifying root cause of the issue  • Did pair programming in agile environment to improve efficiency of the project.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, build purpose and deploying project for QA team  • Wrote Junit test cases for unit test cases  • Worked on Spring MVC based Java web applications which uses jdbc template for database access  • Developed user interface using Angular JS, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Java Script.  • Created modal forms for creating new customer and edit existing customer pop ups using modal concepts of AngularJS.  • Created custom AngularJS directives to implement a template of code in more than one html page.  • Worked on creating grids to display customer details from database using grid modules of AngularJS.  • Worked on live Production Issues and Helpdesk ticket issues of Projects Feedit UI and One DIS.  • Used AngularJS routing for navigation within the module.  • Used AngularJS services to interact with the RESTful web services.  • Used AngularJS filters for filtering and displaying the grid data on the UI.  • Used JAX-RS (Jersey) framework for developing RESTful web services.  • Have a very good experience on Developing and Consuming Restful Webservices  • Used Jersey to develop Restful APIs  • Used Spring MVC and Spring DAO for developing J2EE based web application.  • Used Log4j for logging which is used while debugging the application and fixing the bugs.  • Used Tomcat as webserver to deploy web application  • Used GitHub for Version Control  • Used Atlassian JIRA tool for issue tracking and daily Scrum implementation of project  • Good experience working on Eclipse and IntelliJ IDE.  • Used Apache Maven as the Build tool for all the projects used and jdk 1.7 as Runtime Environment    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON, Ajax, Single Page Application, Tomcat, IntelliJ, Git, GitHub, Spring, RESTful web services, JDBC, JIRA, Hipchat, Oracle. Java Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA November 2015 to September 2016 Vanguard is one of the world's largest mutual fund companies. I was involved in the project that was aimed at rewriting a site that supplied information with opening and managing individual retirement account management.    Responsibilities:  • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for application development.  • Redesigned the employee enroll UI using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3 and Java Script.  • Created custom AngularJS directives.  • Used AngularJS routing for navigation within the module.  • Used AngularJS services to interact with the RESTful web services.  • Used AngularJS filters for filtering and displaying the grid data on the UI  • Worked on RMD(Required Minimum Distribution) application's Production issues and did Regression Testing  • Worked in Scrum Methodology environment for debugging and code fixing the issues  • Identified root causes of the issue and did bug fixes for assigned production defects  • Used STS (Spring Tool Suite) for debugging the code and doing bug fixes.  • Used Apache Maven as the Build tool for all the projects used and jdk 1.7 as Runtime Environment  • Developed java based Spring MVC web application and used jdbc template for database access  • Used SVN Repository for Version Control  • Used JAX-RS (Jersey) framework for designing RESTful web services.  • Bootstrap was used along with AngularJS in creating the Application    • Developed and Deployed the Application on Eclipse and Tomcat Web Server respectively.  • Responsible for code optimization and testing across other browsers    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON, Ajax, Tomcat, Eclipse, SVN, spring, Oracle, RESTful web services. Java Developer Infinity Insurance - Birmingham, AL January 2015 to October 2015 Infinity Insurance is a national level nonstandard car insurance provider. It is third largest company in nonstandard auto insurance sector in USA and its revenue stands at $1.46 billion. Its main business is to sell nonstandard auto insurance for customers through their 12500 independent agents all over United States of America.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Scrum Environment for developing day to day tasks assigned to me  • Worked on Production Issues and Helpdesk ticket issues of Projects Agency 2.0 and Onelink8  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, build purpose and deploying project for QA team  • Wrote Junit test cases for unit test cases  • Good experience working on Spring MVC and Struts with JSF based Java/J2EE applications  • Used mock objects while developing Junit test cases  • Used EMMA tool for code coverage purpose  • Used SOAP UI to test SOAP Web services  • Interfaced with the Oracle 10g back-end database using JDBC template  • Worked on Production Defect issues and resolved them by code editing or by identifying root cause of the issue  • Used Tortoise SVN for Version Control  • Used Atlassian JIRA tool for issue tracking and daily Scrum implementation of project  • Used Atlassian tools like Hip chat for group discussion and FishEye+Crucible for code reviewing task completed by teammates or peers    • Good experience working on Eclipse, my Eclipse Frameworks  • Used Apache Maven as the Build tool for all the projects used and jdk 1.7 as Runtime Environment  • Used Spring 3.1 facets for project set up    Environment: Java/J2EE, J2SE JDK 1.6, Struts, JSP , Spring MVC, SOAP, WSDL, DOM, SOAP UI, Rational Rose, Tortoise SVN, Log4J, Junit, Apache Maven, JIRA, Confluence, Oracle 10g, my Eclipse, Tomcat. Education B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering JNTU (Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University) - KAKINADA, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN M.S in Software Engineering Cleveland State University Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: C, C++, Java, PL/SQL, Unix Shell Scripts  Java/J2EE Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP 1.2/2.0, JSF  Web Development: HTML 5, CSS 3, Java Script, Angular JS, AJAX,  JQuery, DHTML, XHTML, Bootstrap.  Frameworks: Spring 2.5/3.0/3.5/4.x, Struts 1.x/2.x,  Hibernate 3.x.  XML/Web Services: XML, XSD, WSDL, SOAP, DOM, SAX, JAXP,  JAXB, XMLBean, Jersey, Restful Webservices  Application/Web Servers: Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x, IBM Web sphere  Application Server  Methodologies/ Design  Patterns: OOAD, OOP, UML , MVC, DAO,  Factory pattern and more  Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server,  IBM DB2  IDEs: Eclipse, IntelliJ, STS, RAD  Build Automation: Ant, Maven, Gradle and Bower  Testing and Logging  Frameworks: JUnit, Log4J  Tools: Microsoft Visio, SQL Developer    Operating Systems: Windows 10.1,8,7, Windows 98/2000/NT/XP,  Linux.