Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Deutsche Bank Cary, NC • Around 2 years of Experience in Design and development of Java/J2EE Applications.  • Good Working experience in Design, Development and implementation of J2EE framework using Spring  Framework(Spring Boot).  • Good experience with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  • Proficient in handling data in the form of JSON and XML.  • Experience on implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with SOAP and Restful Web services.  • Good experience in using testing frameworks like JUnit and JBehave.  • Learned and used Spring JMS to post and consume the messages.  • Experience in working in LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS based systems.  • Experience in working with various build tools like Maven and devops tools like JENKINS and  TEAMCITY  • Experience in various configuration management tool like GIT.  • Hands on experience in working with the POSTMAN tool used for testing RESTFUL API web services.  • Experience on using Agile Management tools like JIRA and RALLY.  • Good working knowledge of IDE like Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Good knowledge on source control tools such as GitHub and Bitbucket.  • Experience on working with various database tools like MySQL, Oracle and writing queries.    • Hands on experience in developing software application modules by following AGILE and SCRUM Methodology.    • Used log4j with Splunk Logging tool for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Expertise in implementation of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from initiation to disposition.    • Adept at developing effective practices, policies and procedures, project documentation and milestones, and technical/business specifications.    • Willingness to learn and get adapted to changes. Work Experience Java Developer Deutsche Bank - Cary, NC April 2019 to Present Project Description: Deutsche Bank is a German multinational investment bank and financial services. Our project was an internal project and its primary objective is to support data publishers providing clean data to data consumers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering.    • Followed SAFE Agile Methodologies to promote iterations, collaboration, and process adaptability and participated in SCRUM meetings.    • Worked on Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  • Developed the application with various Spring Framework modules like Spring MVC and Spring Boot.  • Involved on development of Restful web services in a Spring based project.  • Worked with Core Java concepts like Collections Framework, Multithreading and Memory management.  • Developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.    • Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities logging errors, messages and performance logs and Mockito framework JUnit for unit testing.    • Used GIT as version control and JIRA for bug tracking.  • Learned and implemented Jbehave testing framework as per the Clients requirement.  • Learned and used Spring JMS to post and consume the messages.    • Focusing on other activities such as SCRUM meeting, task assignment, work stack prioritization, backlog management, retrospection and ensuring continuous delivery of features.    Environment: Java8, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, XML, GIT, Restful, Micro Services, Log4J, Oracle 12G, Junit, Jbehave, Splunk, JMS. Java Developer T-Mobile - Seattle, WA August 2018 to February 2019 Description: The Social & Messaging Product Development Application or SMPD, is focused to provide T-Mobile customers the ability to do any and all service and commerce capabilities in their channel of their choice. This includes social (Facebook, Twitter, etc.) and messaging (synchronous and asynchronous). Customers should not have to call into Care, go to a website or download an app to complete basic or advanced account requests. Meeting customers where they are is one of T-Mobile's goals.    Responsibilities:  • Involve in the analysis, design, development and testing phases of SMPD (Social Messaging Platform Development) application.    • Use core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Generics, Exception Handling AND Serialization.    • The application is designed using J2EE technologies along with Spring Boot framework.    • Use Spring Framework for Dependency Injection (DI) and integrated and used DAO design pattern to retrieve the data from database.    • Integrate Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.    • Involved in development of REST Web Services using Spring Boot to extract client related data from databases and POSTMAN tool is used for testing RESTFUL API web services.    • Consume Spring REST services for interactive front-end widgets.  • Develop Restful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Extensively involve in developing Unit/ Integration & System testing using Junit.  • Involve in deployment and managing Jenkins build process.  • Used GIT for version control.  • JIRA/Rally was used for version controlling as an agile tool.  • Experience using Log4j for extensive logging in the applications.  • Setting up the build, configuration and auto deploying using Maven build tool.  • Work in an Agile environment with daily Scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.    • Focusing on activities such as SCRUM meeting, task assignment, work stack prioritization, backlog management, retrospection and ensuring continuous delivery of features.    Environment: Java, REST, JSON, Maven, Jenkins, GIT, IntelliJ IDE, Postman, XML, Spring boot, Rally, bitbucket, Splunk. Under Professor Dr. Noh-jin Park January 2018 to April 2018 Description: The purpose of the library Management System is to provide the friendly environment for maintenance of details of the books and also library members.    • This application was developed in NetBeans environment using HTML, Java servlets in the front end and Oracle database at the back end.    • Implemented various operations on student and librarian modules such as new student registration, new librarian registration, new books registration and viewing the registered librarian and issued books  • A database for the existing students was created in Oracle Application express using SQL.    • Team project of 3 members    Technologies: HTML, Java, Oracle Java Developer Wyndham hotel groups(Accenture) - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Kept manager informed of milestone updates and provided a detailed project report every week.    • Coordinated with QA testers for end-to-end unit testing and post-production testing. Involved in software development life cycle including analysis, design, development, Unit testing, refactoring and documentation of the application using Java.    • Participated in the analysis, design and the development of different modules for the Integration with the application.    • Used Agile scrum development process during the project process to gather up the requirements and issues.  • Involved in developing the back end services using Spring MVC with the restful web services integration.    • Worked with front end developer to gather requirements that are to be displayed in UI. Persisted the data into DB2 database using Hibernate framework.    • Written SQL queries for Hibernate framework, to persist the data into Database.  • GIT were used for project management and version management  • Fixed the defects and unit testing with test cases using JUnit.  • Developed Analysis, Design, Coding, and unit testing of the project.  • Implemented regression testing and integration testing.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Spring Rest, Restful Web services, Web logic server, log4J, Maven4.0, Eclipse 3.0, Jira, Linux, Test Driven Development, Oracle, Jenkins, JSON. Education Master of Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Oklahoma city University August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor of Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Narayanamma Institute of Technology and Science August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Database, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Git, Gradle, Orm, Jira, Junit, Rally, Model view controller, Soap, Tomcat, Web logic