J2EE Developer J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> J2EE Developer - Bath And Body Works Reynoldsburg, OH ? 3 years of experience in Java Development specialized in Design & Development of Enterprise Applications, Web Applications, and Web Services in Java/J2EE and related technologies.  ? Experienced working in both AGILE and Waterfall based software development environment.  ? Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring, and SpringBoot.  ? Expert in Spring framework including configuring Spring Application Context with Dependency Injection, Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Spring MVCs, Spring Boot, Spring JPA.  ? Good knowledge of Spring Core, Spring security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate.  ? Extensive working experience with in Design, Development, and Implementation in the field of Web Applications development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, Restful web services and Responsive web designing.  ? Expertise in Core Java concepts - Collection Framework, Exception Handling, IO, Serialization, Multi-threading, etc.  ? Experience in deploying, configuring and administering application servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBMWebSphere.  ? Experience of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans and IntelliJ for Java/J2EE application development.  ? Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages  ? Experience in writing Build Scripts in MAVEN and using CI (Continuation Integration) tools like Jenkins.  ? Extensive experience in working on projects with Waterfall and Agile methodologies such as Test Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM.  ? Possess strong communication and Interpersonal skills. Can quickly master and work on new concepts and applications with minimal supervision. Attention to detail, thoroughness, tenacity and an investigative drive to discover the underlying causes of technical problems. Work Experience J2EE Developer Bath And Body Works - Reynoldsburg, OH February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of the project development - requirements gathering, analysis, design and development, coding and testing.  ? Understanding business objectives and implementation of business logic.  ? Implemented major concepts of the application using Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, MVC, Spring Framework, Java Beans, XML.  ? Redesigned the application modules using Spring Boot Rest API/Services, Spring.  ? Maintained DEV, QA and SIT environments and closely worked with QA Team.  ? Developed application components using Spring, Spring Boot and MySQL.  ? Designed UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Star UML.  ? Implemented Microservice Architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through the REST.  ? Implemented REST APIs, to support external and internal applications.  ? Implemented AWS client API to interact with different services as Console configuration for AWS EC2.  ? Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs and Executer Service Framework to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Used Core Java Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization, I/O.  ? Used Spring extensively to achieve dependency injection to wire the object of business class.  ? Used Spring Data Repositories to perform CRUD operations.  ? Knowledge of OAuth tokenisation.  ? Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Microservices in Java J2EE using Spring Boot.  ? Implementation of authentication for Restful web services using Spring Boot Security Starter.  ? Developing the application for incident creation and retrieving the events using restful web services with spring Boot.  ? Worked extensively on spring boot for building REST API's.  ? Extensively used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  ? Extensively used Maven to build the application and deploy on Embedded Tomcat Server.  ? Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  ? Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  ? Used JIRA and supporting CI/CD tools, and JIRA for bug Tracking and Project Management..  ? Developed the persistence layer (DAO) and the presentation layer (controllers) and used J2EEdesign patterns like Model View Controller, Data Access Object etc.  ? Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  Environment: Java, Spring, Spring Boot, AWS, Microservices, Spring Security, Oracle, STS, Maven, GIT, PL/SQL Developer tool, , Java Script, Ajax, JSP, Log4j, Junit, Oracle 12c, Spring MVC, Maven, XML, XSL, JavaScript, AJAX, JIRA, Tomcat Server, Windows. Java/J2EE Developer Investors Bank - Short Hills, NJ July 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked on design, development and maintaining of Web Applications.  ? Responsible for creation of design artifacts using Enterprise Architect.  ? Reviewed business requirements and discuss with application architect about the design.  ? Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  ? Responsible for creation of design artifacts using Enterprise Architect.  ? Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  ? Used Singleton, Data Access Object, Factory design pattern.  ? Used Spring Transaction Management extensively.  ? Responsible for developing java components using Spring, Spring JDBC, Spring Transaction Management.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY and JavaScript.  ? Created and Implemented Microservices or REST APIS using spring boot, REST.  ? Used Spring JDBC in persistence layer that is capable of handling high volume transactions.  ? Implemented the service layer using Spring with transaction and logging interceptors.  ? Used Spring framework for middle tier and Spring-JDBC templates for data access.  ? Developed REST based Web Services using both REST API.  ? Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.  ? Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR.  ? Involved in the day to day sprint development activities and delivered per sprint timeline.  ? Coordinated with the onsite and offshore developer's ongoing issues and follow up.  Environment: Java, Agile (SCRUM), REST API, Spring DI/IOC, Spring Boot, AWS, HTML5, CSS3, STS, Spring JDBC, XML, SOAP (AXIS) Web Services, Enterprise Architect, Web Services (RESTful) Maven, Junit, Log4J, GIT, Oracle, UNIX. Java Developer SPEC India - Gujarat, IN June 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design & development and the project was developed using Agile Methodologies.  ? Successfully delivered multiple customer facing projects for telecom domain using Agile, enabling self-service for sales and billing.  ? Resolved critical defects in existing applications using JIRA and minimized down time.  ? Developed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  ? Implemented the design patterns like Factory, Singleton.  ? Data access layer is implemented using Hibernate.  ? Worked extensively in the backend MySQL database.  ? Used various design patterns to direct best solutions.  ? Helped to finish assignments using several frameworks such as: Spring MVC, Hibernate.  ? The several technologies were used to create and deploy web pages such as JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  ? Used Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the MySQL database.  Environment: Java, JavaScript, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JSP, Spring, Oracle, Windows, Apache Tomcat, MVC. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming language JAVA, J2EE.  Databases My SQL, Oracle, SQL server,  IDE Visual Studio 2010, 2013, 2015, 2017, Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA.  Cloud AWS  Web Services RESTful  Web Servers Tomcat, Websphere  Version controls Apache Subversion GitHub.  Frameworks  Apache Struts, Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, jQuery, JUnit, Log4j, Spring Boot, Maven, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Micro Services.    Design Patterns MVC, Singleton, Factory Pattern, Front Controller.  Operating System Windows, Linux