Teaching Assistant (TA) Teaching Assistant (TA) Open for computer Science related jobs Jersey City, NJ Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Teaching Assistant (TA) University of Minnesota - Duluth, MN August 2017 to May 2019 • Teaching Assistant for courses C++ and Computer Network Concepts.   • Assisted students in socket programming, Java Servlet Programming, Computer Networksconcepts such as TCP, UDP, HTTP, etc protocols.   • Debug Code (C, Java), organize lab sessions, conduct discussions, hold office hours and helpstudents through their projects, grade homework, laboratory assignments, and hold examinations.   • Wrote Shell Script and Python code traverse all the students’ directory run their code which saves my 90% grading time on some assignments and gives me 100% accuracy. Full Stack Developer SELF-EMPLOYED/UNEMPLOYED February 2019 to April 2019 • Developed a mobile shopping application for 200 customers.  • Designed UI for Android frontend with navigation drawer, recycler view, constrained layouts, animation with Java.  • Designed Restful Service backend with MySql database, used JPA, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Spring MVC as the framework.  • Optimized code of the front end in order to less coupling more cohesion. Optimized threads communication with UI thread. Java Backend Developer Beidahuang Corp - Shanghai January 2017 to July 2017 • Worked as Java backend developer.  • Experienced with Java Framework Spring, SpringMVC, MyBatis, and MySql database.  • Experienced with JUnit and integration test cases from the Service layer to the Data Access Object layer.  • Experienced with common business logic implementation.  • Assisted DevOps technology Jenkins for automatically project building tool saved around 20% time for deployment. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Minnesota-Duluth - Duluth, MN August 2017 to June 2019 B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Minnesota Duluth - Duluth, MN December 2016 B.S. in Computer Science in Software Engineering Shanxi University June 2016 Links https://github.com/BoBroccoli https://sites.google.com/d.umn.edu/bobroccoli/home Certifications/Licenses Neural Networks and Deep Learning May 2019 to Present Finished course in Coursera and related projects.