Java Full stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full stack Developer - MasterCard St. Louis, MO • Around 4 years of experience as full stack development in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of web based, enterprise business applications using the JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in working with TDD, Agile software methodologies.  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like Javascript, HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap to achieve design flow and developing dynamic web pages.  • Experienced in Angular JS for unique and customize front end app development and to achieve MVC design flow.  • Good knowledge on client-side JavaScript framework Angular 2.x/4.x with NGRX to achieve MVVM design flow using directives, observables, promises, dependency injection from component to services, pipes, shadow dom(to render DOM tree).  • Experience in developing Angular 4 advanced features such as interfaces, nested components, services, routing and modules.  • Experienced in optimizing the performance of application using Angular 4 Lazy Loading and ahead of time compilation.  • Hands on experience in using many Core Java 8 features like Concurrency, Streams and Filters API, Collections, Multi-Threading and Functional interface programming.  • Implemented micro service architecture using spring Boot and Spring REST to create REST end points and integrated Swagger Spring Boot to get dynamic documentation.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring Boot for REST API by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Experience in applications using SOA architecture with SOAP, Restful Services and used XML for message communication.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), implementing Restful web services based on (JAX-RS) using frameworks like Jersey, REST easy, Spring REST.  • Worked on WSDL and WADL implementing SOAP services using Axis-2 and Apache CXF (JAX-WS frameworks).  • Extensive experience in developing scalable, reliable, efficient web and enterprise applications using JSP, Servlets, Struts, JSF (Prime Faces).  • Hands on expertise in frameworks of spring such as Spring JDBC(connect to the database and execute SQL queries), Spring Batch(for processing large streams of data), Spring JTA, Spring Inversion of Control (Dependency injection),Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Spring transaction Management and Spring Security.  • • Developed multiple applications using Spring Community framework projects and used Spring containers to manage the bean life cycle.  • Extensive experience with using java based ORM frameworks like Hibernate, JPA and Spring.  • Experience with relational databases like MYSQL, PL/SQL, Oracle and MS SQL to build PL/SQL functions, store procedure, triggers, views and materialized views.  • Experienced with working with NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Apache Cassandra.  • Comprehensive knowledge of J2EE standard's and compatible application servers Tomcat, Jboss , WebSphere and Glassfish.  • Cloud based deployment exposure on Amazon EC2 and their other offerings like S3 and AWS.  • Good Knowledge on Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker Registry.  • Worked with build tools such as Gradle, MAVEN, ANT and Version Control tools like Git, SVN, and CVS.  • Used Jenkins to deploy the services to automate and build QA environments.  • Extensive experience in testing code using Selenium, JMeter, Junit, Mockito, Cucumber, TestNG and Soap UI.  • Used log4j, log-commons which is a reliable, fast and flexible logging framework (APIs) written in Java. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full stack Developer MasterCard - O'Fallon, MO May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Involved in the development using Java/J2EE Technologies, Web Services and Hibernate ORM Framework.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with Angular JS in creating the Application.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using, JSP and Java Script, Middleware layer using Servlet and Controllers, Business objects developed using Page Beans and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Used Node JS for doing non-blocking design operation for server side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Developed the responsive UI web pages using XHTML, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS 2, JavaScript, node JS and has worked with Angular JS filters in expressions and directives to filter data in the UI.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Used spring framework including spring core/IoC, Spring Web, Spring Security and implement the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes and implemented the Model View Controller using Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Microservices have been built using spring boot, Netflix OSS, spring cloud and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Application and developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented code according to create Angular JS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular JS modules.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development.  • Used Spring framework to provide loose coupling between different application modules.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of Mongo DB.  • Developed single page applications, components using Angular JS directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOA.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Used Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections.  • Developed unit tests with JUNIT and Mockito. Write automated regression tests using JMeter.  • Developed build tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins and maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins.  • Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify Angular JS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  • Worked on UI for Layered Security and S&L modules and hands on experience with Spark streaming to receive real time data using Kafka.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs with a quick turnaround time.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed Unit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Mostly Used Sybase for analyzing databases.  • Cloud Foundry is the leading multi-cloud application development and deployment platform and it supports continuous integration.  • Used Rational Application Developer (RAD), which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code.  • Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application.  • Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs and used Clear Case for project management and version management.  Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8, UDB, Spring framework, Sybase, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, AJAX, SOA, Web Services, Microservices, XML, Ext JS, Node JS, JQuery, JavaScript, IBM RAD 9.1, Websphere 8.5, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Clear Case, Apache Maven, Apache Cassandra, Mongo DB, JUnit, Html, Unit, XSLT, React Js, HTML/DHTML, JENKINS, Spark, Kafka. Java Graduate Assistant Sacred Heart University - Fairfield, CT September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java/JSP Front End Environment.  • Responsible for developing use cases, class and sequence diagram for the modules using UML  • Developed application using Spring, Servlets, JSP and EJB  • Implemented MVC (Model View Controller) architecture.  • Implemented spring framework Bean Factory & Application Context for bean initialization and configurations.  • Used web servers like Apache Tomcat  • Implemented Application prototype using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed the user interfaces with the Spring tag libraries.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Apache ANT to customize WAR, EAR and EJB jar files.  • Prepared field validation and on-scenario test cases using JUnit and testing of the module in 3 phases named unit testing and system using testing and regression testing.  • Code and Unit Test according to standards.  • Involved in communicating with University team to resolve the applications production issues and to deliver the best quality application enhancements to the client.  • Used Oracle Database for data storage, and coding stored procedures, functions and triggers. • Wrote DB queries using SQL for interacting with database  • Design and develop XML processing components for dynamic menus on the application.  • Created Components using Java, Spring and JNDI.  • Prepared Spring deployment descriptors using XML.  • Developed the entire application using Eclipse and deployed them on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Problem Management during QA, Implementation, and Post- Production Support.  • Developed a logging component using Apache Log4J to log messages and errors and wrote test cases to verify the code for different conditions using JUnit.  Environment: Java, HTML, Spring, JSP, Servlets, DBMS, Web Services, JNDI, JDBC, Eclipse, Web sphere, XML/XSL, Apache Tomcat, TOAD, Oracle, MySQL, JUNIT, Log4j, SQL, PL/SQL, CSS. Java developer Tech Mahindra ltd - Pune, Maharashtra February 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile software development lifecycle and used Scrum methodology in which involves Requirements gathering, designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Designed, developed a custom single page application using Angular JS, and created services, factories, models, controllers, views.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of spring framework and AngularJS for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Custom Validations on various input fields using Angular directives.  • Used HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSON, XML and JQUERY for developing the application to interact with APIs, Web Services.  • Used Python based GUI components for front end functionality.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing using Python.  • Created Business logic using python to create planning and tracking functions.  • Used spring Object relational mapping (ORM) and hibernate for persistence in Oracle.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information from the Oracle database.  • Implemented MicroServices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Developed the customizable landing pages and CQ5 custom components  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Used Oracle 10g as the back-end database to store the data.  • Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries on databases like DB2 and Oracle.  • Developed components utilizing spring framework modules (IOC, AOP, MVC etc).  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate and made as Spring bean using Hibernate Template.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Used Spring AOP to handle transactions session aspects and to implement security.  • Designed and created DAO using data modelling in the integration layer.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Using SOAP and Restful web services to retrieve provider's data and used SOAP UI to test the web services.  • Created RESTful Web service for updating customer data from sent from external systems.  • Designing the database schema, creating tables and views and writing stored procedures, functions and queries in SQL.  • Coordinated with the QA team in testing of the application in various environments.  • Developed Java utility programs to retrieve data from SQL Server.  • Maintained build related scripts developed in shell for Maven builds. Created and modified build configuration files.  • Created the branches in GIT to implement the parallel development process.  • Performed defect tracking and Management in JIRA, generated automated reports using JIRA API.  • Enhanced Spring Batch application for converting a fixed width file to delimited file with adding new fields, storing the copies of files in Mongo DB.  Environment: J2EE, Agile, Scrum, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSON, XML and JQUERY, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, REST, Spring Boot, HQL, SOAP, SQL, CQ5, Oracle, DB2, micro service, MongoDB, RDS Server, Maven, Jenkins, Patterns, Release, Git Confluence, JIRA, Tomcat, GIT, JIRA. Java developer Tech Mahindra ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlet, Struts under J2EE Environment.  • Developed web application for recovering missing customer orders using JSP, JPA, SQL, JQuery and Ajax.  • Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets and Spring.  • Built Web pages that are more client interactive utilizing jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, ReactJS, Node JS and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Responsible for writing Struts action classes, Hibernate POJO classes and integrating Struts and Hibernate with Spring for processing business needs.  • Wrote SQL statements to store and retrieve data from Oracle and developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JSP and used JDBC for database connectivity.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax and also developed SOAP based Web Services using JAXB.  • Added Maven support to existing projects.  • Developed J2EE applications (MQ Series) using WebSphere application server.  • Worked in an Agile Scrum Development environment  • Involved in AGILE Methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress  • Implemented MVC architecture using Servlets, JSP, and EJB's.  • Used REST web services.  • WebLogic 8.1 application server was used to host the Application.  • Used GIT for version control and Eclipse as IDE.  • Log4J was used to log Messages.  • Developed Java utility programs to retrieve data from Kafka.  • Involved configuration and deployment of application on Tomcat Apache.  • Involved in design, coding, unit and system testing, documentation, assisting in training and implementation of projects, applications, work flows, etc.  • Deployed the applications into LIVE and QA Environment  Environment: Java, J2EE, Web Services, JSP, JPA, Maven, REST, Hibernate, JDBC, MVC, Agile, Oracle, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, Ajax, Jira, SQL, Hibernate, micro service, Tomcat, QA, Struts, Spring, Agile, WebLogic, GIT, Log4J, SOAP. Education Master's in Computer Science Sacred Heart University - Fairfield, CT 2017 Bachelors in Electrical Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2014 Skills JAVA (3 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (3 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (3 years), MVC (3 years), WEB SERVICES (3 years), Angular, Javascript, Node Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, C#, Python J2EE/ JAVA Technologies J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, WMB, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, JSF, Web Services (DTD, XSD, RESTful, SOAP, REST, WSDL, JAX-WS)  Application/ Web Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss  Web Technologies HTML5, JavaScript, XSD, XML, JQuery, AJAX, DHTML, CSS3, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, XSLT  Methodologies & Frameworks Struts, Spring, JUnit, TestNg, Agile, Hibernate, JavaScript Design Patterns, UML, MVC, Angular JS, Angular 2.0, Backbone JS, Node JS, microservices, React JS  Databases MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra  Java IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD, My Eclipse, InteliJ Operating systems Windows (XP/Vista/7/8/10), Unix, Linux, Ubuntu, Mac iOS  Version Control CVS, SVN, GIT, VSS  Tools & Utilities Maven, Log4j, ANT, Jenkins, Junit, Putty, Selenium, Cucumber, Soap UI, HP Quality Center, Microsoft TFS, JMeter, Rational ClearQuest, Emma, Jasmine