Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Arizona City, AZ • Around 4 years of experience in IT as a Full stack Java/J2EE Developer and worked in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Production Support and Deployment of Web based applications.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JPA, JSF, JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading.  • Having knowledge on Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Parallel Streams.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.  • Experience and in-depth Knowledge of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including S3, EC2, (Virtual Private Cloud) VPC, (Relational Database Service) RDS, (Simple Queue Service) SQS, (Elastic Block Store) EBS, (Simple Notification Service) SNS, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Identity and access management, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, RedShift, AWS Lambda, Dynamo DB.  • Strong experience of using open source technologies including React, Node JS, Spring, Angular, jQuery, Apache Storm, Elastic Search, Redis, Mongo DB, Bootstrap, Junit etc.  • Good Knowledge on developing the UI pages from scratch using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), Bootstrap, AJAX, Angular.js, Backbone JS, Node JS and React.js.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.  • Good knowledge in Hadoop Architecture with various components such as HDFS, Flume, Pig and MapReduce.  • Hands on Experience with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, Kafka, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ.  • Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture and Redux frameworks.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Extensive experience in development of Web services such as SOAP using WSDL, JAXB, SOAP, JAX-WS and Apache CXF and Restful using JAX-RS, CXF, Rest easy, JERSY implementation.  • Strong experience in designing and developing data models and accessing from Java applications using SQL, PL/SQL, ORM tool Hibernate and has experience with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience in developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j.  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, GIT, GITHUB, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  • Have experience to Develop scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker.  • Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss application Servers.  • Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using Junit, Unit test, Selenium, Cucumber, Easy mock and Mockito.  • Strong experience on various development environments (IDE Tools) like Eclipse, IRAD, and My Eclipse.  • Experienced in performing automation using Selenium, Java and performing Behavioral driven testing using Cucumber and Jbehive.  • Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD), Waterfall model and agile methodologies like scrum.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows and UNIX/Linux. Work Experience Java Developer Early Warning - Arizona City, AZ October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in programming, testing, debugging, implementing and maintaining of Java EE client/server distributed application to meet the organization's needs.  • Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in Angular 6 which consume JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the Application.  • Involved in design and development of UI component, which includes layered POVs and Carousels using frameworks Angular 6, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Exposed Stateless session beans as RESTful web services using JAX-RS. Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Rest API for various requirements.  • Make pluggable UI Microservice for each platform which should solve the monolithic problem of seed generation and create Docker image and deploy them into Kubernetes using Angular 6.  • Mainly involved in development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular 6 and Node.js.  • Migrating some of the applications from AngularJS4 to AngularJS6 and componentize the code as per the Angular recommendations for better testability.  • Deployed the Docker image of services building Docker file and build a continuous delivery pipeline for containers using AWS Code and Amazon ECS.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  • Development of Python API's for monitoring of data acquisition and automation of data quality check process.  • Build Rest services using NodeJS and ExpressJS and used a full complement of Express, Angular6, NodeJS, and MongoDB to store and present assessments  • Developed different reports in JavaScript by implementing the Angular 6 SPA framework and common packages for the application using Generics.  • Designed and developed a project that reads messages from Kafka topic and applied conversation from JSON to pipe delimited String data format to be saved in Oracle DB and NoSQL DB.  • Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events. Implemented logic to listen and to subscribe events.  • Worked closely with Devops team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Maven and GIT.  • Deploying Rest API's Application in AWS Cloud and Cloud Foundry. Used ExpressJS to route different endpoints, made RESTful services to manipulate data in MySQL.  • Developed a feature in utility application and Verification Monitoring tool to verify the application statistics like poolers, consumers, loggers using Angular6, Node.js and Bootstrap.  • Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set.  • Created ant build files to create the EAR and WAR files and involved in development of CPRS system using the Spring MVC framework. Involved in development of Hibernate objects in order to persist data into the database.  • Involved in writing SQL scripts and creating backend database table for complex business operations. Participated in building web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and also facilitates for future applications.  • Secured the API's by implementing OAuth 2.0 token-based authentication/authorization scheme using Spring Security.  • Designed and developed third-party Payment services to Offer Users Convenient Payment Methods based on OAuth Protocol.  • Developed a production Node.js application with Express module and persisted user information in MongoDB using Mongoose ORM, Node JS to manage dependencies, and ExpressJS to quickly build a modular server code-base.  • Used Angular 6 Routing for navigation between nested HTML views in the application and created Angular 6 custom directives that were used along with HTML elements for DOM manipulation.  • Used Log4j API for logging in development, testing and production environments, configured to send email notifications.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components and implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  • Implemented version controlling using SVN and used Jenkins for continuous integration. Wrote build & deployment scripts using Ant, Maven on UNIX environment.  • Used GIT for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application, Used Rational Clear Quest for defect fixing. Involved in guiding, mentoring new contractors to understand the application  • Co-ordinated with QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects Java Developer Starbucks - Seattle, WA August 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  • Developed the view-controller components using JSPs, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript (jQuery).  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in Angular 4.  • Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like JAVA and JavaScript. Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and NodeJS.  • Developed the monolithic application and involved in migrating existing monolithic application in to Micro Service Architecture based RESTful Service and deployments were done on AWS using Spring Cloud for AWS.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot.  • Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS), Pivotal Cloud Foundry and deployed the application on it. Involved in the development of Microservices for all the models using combination of Spring Boot and Spring Security.  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux) and used Spring Cloud for AWS.  • Worked on AWS services to deploy static websites and dynamic Web Apps on EC2 using Elastic Beanstalk and Elastic Container Service-Docker.  • Involved in creating EC2 instances and installed required configurations and applications on it and created S3 buckets for storing object level data into it.  • Developed API's to read and publish data from Elastic Search cluster using native Java Transport client as well as REST client. Worked on Spring Integration with the Elastic Search.  • Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  • Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc.  • Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between Oracle database and Objects in Java.  • Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through Java Programs from Oracle Database.  • Worked with MongoDB to store non-relational data into collection and retrieve them whenever required.  • Used WebLogic server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebLogic and used JMS in e-mail notification.  • Worked on setting up Maven scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target WebLogic Application Servers and worked on continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Hands on Coding to build REST Micro Services using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON, Spring Config, and Jenkins.  • Worked on developing RESTful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with RESTful endpoints.  • Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Performed automation testing and authored test scripts using Selenium Web Driver, Selenium Grid and Junit.  • Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components. Java Developer IBM - India September 2016 to June 2017 India Sep 2016 to Jun 2017  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Design, Development and Testing. Interact with business managers to transform requirements into technical solutions.  • Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Value Object and Singleton.  • Configured spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a Spring context file. Developed presentation tier as HTML, JSPs using Struts Framework. Used AJAX for faster page rendering.  • Developed General Ledger module, which streamlines analysis, reporting and recording of accounting information. General Ledger automatically integrates with a powerful spreadsheet solution for budgeting, comparative analysis and tracking facility information for flexible reporting.  • Developed client-facing Struts web applications by creating and modifying Java classes, JSPs, Struts Delegates and DAOs, AJAX.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Struts framework. Developed various Action Classes that route requests to appropriate handlers, Coded Struts Action Servlets to process requests and forward to Struts Action classes.  • Developed JSP and Java Helper classes for In-patient and out-patient Information. Wrote Action classes, Request Processor, Business Delegate, Business Objects, Service Classes and JSP pages.  • Application integration with Spring Web Services to fetch data from external Benefits application using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications and marshalling and un-marshalling using JAXB  • Developed web pages using Servlets and XML for various modules and involved in environment set up with Ant, Eclipse, JBoss and SQL Server 2005.  • Used Oracle as the backend database and wrote PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, views and functions at the Oracle database.  • Designed generic database Connection Pooling with JDBC using Oracle and involved in the SQL query optimization. Developed the components for parsing XML documents using SAX and DOM parsers.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework and used Spring MVC to implement the Model View Controller pattern. Used Spring IoC to inject data into Java beans.  • Developed project in Eclipse IDE and created DB interactions using Hibernate. Provided management with technical documentation for Java applications using MS Visio and MS Word.  • Worked on JDBC for data persistence and prepared high- and low-level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates. Deployed the application in JBoss Application Server in development and production environment.  • Implemented CVS as Version control system and used Maven as a build and dependency management tool to manage various dependencies.  • Used ANT as build tool and Junit for writing Unit tests.  • Involved in the functional test of the application and tested Java applications using Functional Testing, JBoss and log statements. Code Walkthrough/ Test cases and Test Plans. Java Developer Accenture - India October 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Used Agile approaches, Including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Designed and developed UI using spring view component HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS and Vue.js. Built custom UI widgets, directives, filters and Application logic using AngularJS MVC Architecture.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.0.  • Used Spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers. Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB and used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution and technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  • Used Multithreading and Concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services. Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.  • Created RESTful web services using Spring RESTful API sending JSON data between Frontend, middle tier Controller.  • Used Continuous delivery/ Continuous Integration tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for version control of code for incremental development and JIRA as a defect tracking tool and Maven as a building tool.  • Used SonarQube for continuous inspection of code quality. Wrote JUnit test cases to test the application. Education Master's Skills Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, J2Ee, Java