Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Sprint • Around 3+ years of Software development experience in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement analysis, design, development, testing and implementation.  • Proficient in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object-Oriented Concepts like Inheritance, Encapsulation, Abstraction, Polymorphism, Multithreading, Exception Handling etc.  • Experience in JAVA / J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Executor Framework, Collections, Streams, Lambda Expressions.  • Experience in working with various MVC architecture development such as Spring MVC.  • Proficient in working with J2EE Technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, Java Beans, Spring, Hibernate, JAX-WS, JAX-RS.  • Hands on experience in using Spring Core Annotations. for DI, IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Rest, Spring MVC, Spring Security.  • Hands on experience on Spring boot, Spring Web Flow, Microservices.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like RESTful, SOAP with WSDL and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  • Experience in various RDBMS databases like Oracle, SQL server, MySQL And NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Proficient in unit testing the application using Log4j, JUnit.  • Experienced in using building tool ANT, Maven.  • Experienced in using source code version control tools GIT.  • Experience in JBoss, Tomcat.  • Worked with various IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans.  • Expertise in Java Development, skilled at progressing from problem statement to well documented designs.  • Extensively worked on front end technologies like JavaScript, HTML, JSP, CSS, Boot Strap, AJAX and jQuery.  • Hands on experience in Angular JS, Angular JS 2.0.  • I'm a certified Associate Developer with AWS. Work Experience Java Developer Sprint - Overland Park, KS April 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile methodology.  • Actively participated in Sprint Planning, Daily-stand-ups, sprint Review, Retrospectives organized by ScrumMaster.  • Used HTML, CSS, Spring MVC, JavaScript, Angular, Node.js, Bootstrap in the development and designing the UI.  • Used ALM to track bugs, prioritize and discuss the team's work in full context.  • Experienced in SOA and Web Services technologies, including Restful, Soap, XML, WSDL, and SAAS based design.  • Used java 8 streams, lambdas and other functional programming concepts in order to implement good coding standards.  • Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and GIT. Experiences with build tools include Maven, Gradle.  • Involved in test-cases using Junit, debugging Implementation and deployment activities. Successfully involved in test driven development model using Junit and supported SIT and IAT.  • Involved in Code Coverage using Junit Test Cases, Mockito's and Code Quality is done using Sonar Qube Analysis  • Used the ESB(MuleSoft) to communicate RMS and Third party services.  • Used REST API for performing operations such as read, get and post the data that was sent back and forth between the front-end and the back-end.  • Used SOAP messages for sending and extracting data from different applications using Web Services.  • Used GDM(Generic Data Modelling) tool to design the Fields like dropdowns, text fields can be integrated with angular applications as JSONformat.  • Integrated JSON based Web Services with UI to display the data.  • Implemented REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Used Kibana and Nitro used to pull the logs and go through the request and response of the Journeys.  • Used Robo mongo to connect with Mongo DB and to fetch the logs of the journeys.  • Logged exceptions on existing application using Log4J.  • Used Microsoft Lync for communication purpose across the teams. Jr. Java developer Techno Facts Solutions Pvt Ltd January 2014 to December 2015 Environment: JDK, J2EE, Core Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Maven, Spring, log4J, Jenkins, Git, ALM, STS IDE, Junit, Windows.  Techno Facts Solutions Pvt Ltd Jan 2014 -Dec 2015  Jr. Java developer  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Documented the design documents using class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the web application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript.  • Developed the application by implementing MVC Architecture using Spring MVC where servlets for Handling HTTP requests.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot.  • Implemented mapping (Object-relation) in the persistence layer using Hibernate framework with Spring functionality.  • Used Spring core framework to inject dependency, DAO and Bean objects, auto wiring Components.  • Responsible for modifying existing xml schema as per the requirements.  • Used JAXB for converting xml to java object and java object to xml.  • Used SVN as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.  • Used Ant as a build tool automating the building, testing, publishing in executable file and Ant will loading all the dependencies from their repository.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  Environment: Java, Servlet, JSP, JSF, Spring, REST, Apache tomcat, JPA, GIT, JavaScript, CSS, Log4j, Tomcat, Windows. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University Of Missouri Kansas City - Kansas City, MO January 2016 to December 2017 Bachelor's in Electrical and communication Engineering in Electrical and communication Engineering Vignan University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh May 2010 to May 2014 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Scripting Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages JAVA, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  Development Frameworks/Libraries Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JDBC  Web services Restful JAX-RS, SOAP JAX-WS, WSDL  Client & Server Scripting JavaScript, Angular 1.x, 2.  Application Servers JBoss 6.3, Apache Tomcat 4.1.x  Databases SQL Server MySQL 5.0, Mongo DB  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, CSS, HTTP, XML Data Processing, Web design  IDE's Eclipse, IntelliJ, STS  Software Development Methodology Agile, Waterfall  Version Control Systems GIT, SVN  Logging Tools Log4j  Build Tools Ant, Maven