Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - New York State OTDA • Java Developer with overall 5 years of experience in Information Technology.  • Experience in developing software applications using Core Java and Spring Frameworks.  • Proficient fields include Java, J2EE (JSP/Servlets), Multi-threading, Spring, Hibernate, SQL and Web-Services etc.  • Strong knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, etc.  • Experience in creating REST and SOAP Web Services.  • Experience in deployment and troubleshooting various application servers like JBoss, Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere and Oracle WebLogic  • Experience with Waterfall development model which favors small project development, and Agile development model which favors client interaction and code integration for large group projects.  • Strong understanding of Spring concepts like Inversion of Control, Dependency Injection, and Auto wiring.  • Experience with creating applications using Maven and Gradle.  • Worked on many applications using Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Rest, Hibernate, etc.  • Expertise in writing test cases using Junit.  • Expertise in writing queries using MS SQL, SQLite, and Oracle.  • Very proficient with concepts such as Data Structures, Design Patterns, Collections, Exceptions, and other concepts of Core JAVA.  • Worked on front-end applications using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular, and Bootstrap.  • Proficient in designing and maintaining complex SQL queries.  • Ability to work and contribute individually as well as in a team environment.  • Excellent analytical and time-management skills, and ability to meet strict deadlines.  • Excellent communication skills coupled with very positive user interaction and team spirit. Work Experience Java Developer New York State OTDA - Albany, NY March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Automated Statewide Support Enforcement & Tracking System (ASSETS)  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning and used JIRA as a tracking tool.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC and Spring Boot.  • Used SVN as source control tool.  • Developed Data Access layer using Hibernate ORM framework.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and developed spring based application with very less configuration.  • Responsible for creating Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Use Case diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on Spring MVC application with XML configurations and annotations.  • Maintained high quality of RESTful services and implemented REST web services using Spring MVC.  • Used Design Patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Session Façade, and Data Transfer Object.  • Used Oracle DB as the Backend for the application.  • Developed SQL Queries to fetch complex data from different tables in remote databases.  • Used JBoss as the web server to test and deploy application  • Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit, Unit Test Cases using Test Driven Development TDD technique.  • Designed and developed the UI using Angular, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Hibernate 4.3, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Web services, REST, SOAP, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JBoss, JUnit, SQL Server 2012, JavaScript, AngularJS, Apache Tomcat, Maven, Eclipse, Log4j, XML, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint, JIRA. Full Stack Java Developer Thomson Reuters, Inc - Dallas, TX June 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in working with Business Analyst and Product Owners for defining Project Requirements and Minimum Viable Product documents.  • Involved in design of UI wireframes for Single Page Web Applications.  • Used Spring framework for server-side development.  • Used Apache CXF for developing RESTful services.  • Developed multiple independent Microservices for the product using Spring Boot.  • Developed a multithreaded based Microservice for implementing file system based batch submission tasks.  • Used Spring Data JPA for database operations.  • Developed complex native queries for applications to perform database operations.  • Implemented unit testing for server-side logic using JUnit, Mockito, and Hamcrest.  • Used Gradle scripts for automating build process.  • Worked on POC to evaluate supporting PostgreSQL as the DB for application and listed the changes that needed be done to effectively support it.  • Developed UI using AngularJS 1.6, JavaScript, Bento UI, Wijmo, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Implemented unit testing for JavaScript using Karma and Jasmine.  • Used Git for source code management.    Environment: Java 1.8, Hibernate, Dependency Injection, JUnit, XML, Spring Data JPA, Spring Boot, REST, Apache CXF, SOAP, Postman, SOAP UI, WSDL, Gradle, Slf4j, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, AngularJS 1.6, MVC, Bento UI, Wijmo, Karma, Jasmine, HTML, CSS, SQL, Oracle, Git, Micro services. Java Developer HDFC Bank India March 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, functional specifications and over-all component design.  • Involved in Requirements gathering, design, development, testing and Maintenance phases of Application.  • Involved in backlog grooming, sprint planning and user stories estimations and dividing into tasks.  • Client pages are built using HTML, JSP, XML to interact with users,  • Developed angular controllers, services and used different modules for server communication.  • Developed single pages using AngularJS directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular UI components such as grid, buttons, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application Logic using AngularJS MVC Architecture.  • Used spring framework and J2EE components, Utilized Spring MVC, IOC, AOP and DAO modules. Developed controller classes, backend processes, complex services and database interaction.  • Created Hibernate mapping files, sessions, transactions, HQL Queries to fetch data from data base.  • Utilized asynchronous JavaScript for better and faster interactive front-end.  • Developed new REST based Web services and modifying existing web services to customize JSON response.  • Integrated Spring & Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  • Used Hibernate to create data layer to the services to do CRUD operations in to Database.  • Used core java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Involved in doing JUnit testing and ran the TEST SUITE.  • Used Maven tool to build and JBoss to set up data sources and deploying the application.  • Monitored, studied and analyzed application logs from production environment and analyzed data for performing detail analysis of issues related to production.    Environment: JAVA, HTML, Java Script, AJAX, JQUERY, Servlets, JSP, JSON, AngularJS, Oracle, JBoss, Application Server8.5, XML, XSD, XSLT, JAAS, JAXB, RESTful, LDAP, Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, Hibernate, JAX-RS, Bootstrap, RAD 9.0, JUNIT, Rational Team Concert (RTC), JNDI. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Engineering University at Buffalo, The State University of New York - Buffalo, NY Skills ANGULARJS (4 years), JAVA (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), JUNIT (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Java 8/11, JavaScript/ES6, C++.  Operating System: Linux, Windows, Android.  Database: Oracle, MYSQL, SQLite.  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, AngularJS, XML, JSON, JSP, JERSEY, Servlets, Restful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, SharePoint.  Version Control GITHub, ZenHub, JIRA.  Application Servers: Apache Tomcat 6/7/8, JBoss.  Frameworks and libraries: Spring (Spring ORM, Spring MVC, Spring BOOT Spring Core), Hibernate, Maven, Log4j.  Test Driven Development jUnit.  IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ, MySQLWorkbench, GitDesktop.