Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer Irving, TX • Over 3 years of IT experience that includes developing Web & Enterprise applications  using JAVA and J2EE Technologies.  • Diversified work experience in Healthcare and Insurance domain.  • Knowledge of Open source framework using Spring and Struts  • Experience working on web applications development and maintenance using Java, J2EE,  Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Struts, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Knowledge of application/web servers like Tomcat.  • Areas of expertise include Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of Projects with  excellent knowledge of Object-Oriented Analysis and Design  • Have strong knowledge of various Software Development Life Cycle Models like Agile  SCRUM and Waterfall  • In-depth knowledge of databases like Oracle and MySQL  • Working experience on Eclipse IDE and Spring Tool Suite.  • Strong communication skills to work within a group or with the end users.  • Excellent skills in decision-making and critical thinking. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Siva Complete Solutions Private Limited July 2012 to September 2015 Project: Client is leading private insurance organization and is among the largest underwriters of commercial and industrial insurance in USA. Project is a comprehensive Life Insurance,  Investment Software, which caters to the full functionalities of any life insurance, Disability  Insurance, Long Term Care.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on front end, business, and persistence tiers using  the struts framework.  • Developed application using struts framework that leverages MVC (Model View  Controller) architecture.  • Used jQuery, Node.js and JavaScript for custom implementations and client-side  validations.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS and XML.  • Implemented custom SOAP web services using Java.  • Developed stored procedures, and functions.  • Involved in developing Unit test framework using JUnit. Wrote JUnit test cases for every  java class.  • Followed Agile software development practice paired programming, test driven  development and scrum status meetings.    Environment: Java, Struts, JSP, JUnit, XML, HTML, jQuery, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, and Agile Education Master's Degree in Computer Application in Computer Application "Chinmaya Institute of Technology" Bachelor's Degree in Computer Application in Computer Application Chinmaya Arts and Science College Skills Core Java, Java J2Ee, Java, Spring, Rest, J2Ee, Javascript, JEE, Angular Assessments Problem Solving — Familiar May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ganxbfvjrmx3bsdu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.