Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Charter Communications Dallas, TX • 5+ years of experience in application design and development using Java, J2EE and Database technologies.  • Expertise in system study, requirement gathering, design, development, deployment and maintenance of web based applications. Well versed in technical documentation skills.  • Experienced in Core Java, Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception handling, File I/O, Design Patterns, OOPS Concept.  • Extensive experience in server side programming using spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Good working knowledge on web development using JSP's, JavaScript, Python and HTML  • Experience in building application using the Angular JS, and Node.js.  • Experience in database design and development. Well versed in MySQL, SQL Server & PL/SQL.  • Experience in configuring application servers WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Tomcat.  • Proficient in implementing Java/JEE design patterns like MVC, DAO & DTO.  • Experience in using JIRA to access the defects and worked in agile methodology.  • Exposure to UNIX and LINUX environments.  • Good working knowledge in Spring Boot and Implementation in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud and IT industry.  • Developed and deployed Micro Services based applications using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Hands on Experience in Amazon web services (AWS) in migrating java applications to the cloud using EC2, S3 and object storage container to store and retrieved secured files, from API.  • Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and GIT. Experience with build tools includes Maven, Gradle and Jenkins Version.  • Involved in developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated) and Test Procedures.  • Result oriented and committed to meet the goal.  • Very good communication / interpersonal skills & ability to work independently as well as in a team.  • Passionate to learn Technologies.    TECHNOLOGIES / TOOLS / METHODOLOGIES    Java & JEE Technologies: Java, JDBC, Servlets, and JSP.  Web Technologies: JavaScript, DHTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, Web Services, AngularJs, NodeJS  Open Source Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate 3, JUnit,  Tools: JUnit, ANT, Log4j, ANT, Maven, Toad, JIRA.  Java IDEs: Eclipse 3.5, My Eclipse.  Application Servers: JBoss 5.1.0, WebSphere 6.1, Web Logic.  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat Server, Apache Web Server.  Databases: DB2, MySQL, SQL Server 2012.  Database Tools: SQL Developer, SQL Navigator. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Charter Communications - Charlotte, NC June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and testing of application modules.  • Deployed applications on JBoss Application Server.  • Extensively worked on core Java concepts for backend coding which involves Collection API and multi threads.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Node JS.  • Implemented a Single Page Web Applications (SPA) based front end for displaying user requests, user records history and security settings various users using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • AJAX is used to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON/XML object.  • Used the Node JS with Flux Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Implemented a Node JS server to manage authentication.  • Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions.  • Architecture with JSP as View, Servlet as Controller and combination of EJBs and Java classes as Model. Used Struts2, JSTL, Struts-el, Tag Libraries.  • Utilized Model-View-Presenter (MVP) design pattern, decoupling view and presenter in front-end development.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting the bugs and resolved those issues.  • Used SVN as version control tools to maintain the code repository and Tortoise SVN client for execution.  • Experience working with defect tracking tool JIRA.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts for automating the process of building, testing and deploying the system.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Experience working on writing SQL Queries and SQL server.  • Experience on Unit and Functional testing and coding with Junit framework.    Environment: JDK 1.8, JSP, JBoss 7, Unit Testing, JDBC, XML, DOM, SAX, SVN, HTML DHTML, JNDI, Restful Web Services, Node JS, HTML5, CSS, Angular Js, JSON, Spring Boot, Soap UI, PII Data, Maven, JUNIT, SQL, DHTML, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Log4j, ANT, JIRA. Full Stack Java Developer Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL January 2018 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface layout using JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Database.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool for accessing database.  • Used Filters for Authentication and Authorization.  • Implemented AngularJS for the UI development. The display of the account profile was implemented using Bootstrap which included data-tables and command buttons.  • Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets and Spring..  • Created JSP pages using standard JSTL tags and custom tags. Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  • Configured and managed AWS Glacier, to move old data to archives based on retention policy of databases/ applications.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2instances.    Environment: Java, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AJAX, spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, WebSphere, Angular Application Server, Eclipse, GIT, NodeJS, AWS, Micro Services. Java Developer Navistar International - Lisle, IL April 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • As a developer, obtained comprehensive and clear business requirements by gathering all required information and analyzing the client requirements.  • Extensively involved in business requirements, mentoring, design, and implementation and testing phases.  • Created Functional design specification document based on business requirements.  • Developed the web tier using JSP, Spring MVC. Implemented event handling using JavaScript.  • Used Spring JDBC mapping with the database.  • Implemented Spring Transaction Management per business needs.  • Worked on Docker deployment tool to develop and ship the applications.  • Written Shell scripts in UNIX for triggering and monitoring above PL/SQL scripts.  • Participated in client scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS and JSP.  • Created a Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular which can bind data to specific views  • Involved in developing and migrating UI pages from Angular 1.5.8 to Angular 2 and calling the Rest API's from backend.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Used Angular built in directives for two way data binding, Route to avoid page redirection.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js.  • Implemented SOAP based web services to receive delta messages from various systems and also consumed SOAP web services to retrieve the static and dynamic data per business needs.  • Experienced in implementing Microservices, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/WSDL) using Top Down and Bottom Up approach.  • Created JUnit test suite to automate the testing of the business logic.    Environment: Spring MVC, Web Services (SOAP), JAVA, J2EE, JSP, CSS, Java script, AngularJs, Bootstrap, Node.JS, Spring Boot, XML, WebLogic, Spring STS, Maven, Subversion, Jenkins, GIT, JUnit. Java Developer Axis Bank - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Written SQL, PL/SQL queries. And used DB2 stored procedure, functions, triggers, cursors, objects  • Used JavaScript, for the client end data validations.  • Experience in working with Agile Methodologies.  • Used Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto Tomcat server.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS and AJAX.  • Extensively worked on Restful web services both exposing and consuming.  • Developed the project using Spring Framework and used Hibernate for Object-Relational Mapping.  • Worked on Node JS providing an event-driven architecture and a non-blocking I/O API that optimizes an application's throughput and scalability.  • Designed and Fixed original applications graphics and navigational elements using front-end technologies like Angular, HTML, CSS.  • Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.  • Configure Hibernate to map database tables to java objects.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Create design documents detailing the implementation of business requirements.  • Worked on JDBC Batch Processing for reading, writing the daily batch files into the database.  • Worked on various design patterns like DAO, DTO, MVC, Singleton, etc.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, spring, Hibernate, Web Services, XML, WSDL, SOAP, SVN, JAXB, Angular, AWS. Skills OOAD, HTTP, LINUX, UNIX, SSL Additional Information Methodologies: OOAD, TDD (Test Driven Development), Agile,  Operating Systems: MS Windows, UNIX and Linux.  Protocols: HTTP/HTTPS, SSL.