Java Developer / Production Support <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Production Support Java Developer/Analyst | Available for full-time W-2 Employment Mechanicsburg, PA • Experience creating responsive web applications using CSS media queries and Bootstrap CSS3.  • Experience testing JavaScript code - Jest.  • Proficient in consuming and producing RESTful web services using Jersey API.  • Development experience using databases like MySQL, Oracle database 11g and Postgres DB.  • Experience using open source code testing tools such as JUnit, Mockito Test Framework.  • Hands-on experience deploying applications using Jenkins.  • Well versed on working on Postgres DB.  • Experienced in building applications for the cloud using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Deploying on EC2 instances and connecting to the Databases on RDS. Configuring AWS Security Groups.  • Experienced in Shell Scripting.  • Experience with version control tools GIT.  • Used Springboot for Microservices.  • Robust technical knowledge in Java EE, Maven, Swagger, and Hibernate.  • Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM, Test driven development (TDD) methodologies.  • Strong experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, Integration, testing, implementation of Web based enterprise applications.  • Proficiency with Agile Development (Pair Programming and Test-Driven Development-TDD).    Area of Strength:    • Core Expertise: Core JAVA, JSP, Collections, Multithreading, ORM  • Frameworks: JUnit, JAX-RS, Hibernate, Spring, Springboot  • Database: Oracle 9i/10g, AWS Postgres DB  • Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Tc Server  • Design Skills: UML, J2EE design Patterns, MVC  • Operating System: Windows, Linux Work Experience Java Developer / Production Support 4 Consulting Inc - Mechanicsburg, PA April 2019 to Present Administered incident management, problem and change management, as well as analysis and resolutions, query of enterprise-level databases, ETL analysis support, and collaboration between technical teams. Conducted generation and distribution of time-sensitive execution reports to designated parties.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Managed the execution of critical system batches ensuring these are completed within the core window limit.  • Improved collaboration within the Technology department by facilitating communication between teams with radically different, but mutually reliant roles.  • Conducted troubleshooting of system performance issues and monitoring of application updates to ensure optimal efficiency.  • Executed SQL queries and shell scripts to ensure timely identification, communication, and escalation of all production-based issues.  • Administered QA/ UAT testing from Volume Testing (VT) to Production (PROD).    Environment: Java, Bourne Again Shell (BASH), ANACRON, Jira, MySQL, Microsoft Office, Notepad++ Java Developer Professional Vision Technologies Inc - St. Louis, MO January 2019 to April 2019 Implemented Spring-boot-based micro-service to handle business logic, such as requests made to API endpoints, cross-cutting concerns, such as logging and exception-handling, and API monitoring, such as retrieving API health data using Spring-boot Actuator.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Executed Spring-boot starter projects, such as Test and JPA, for quick start to developing components of API.  • Implemented business logic in controller using Spring MVC @RequestMapping and @PathVariable.  • Administered logging of defects in Microservice using Log-back for definitions and Kibana for visualization.  • Spring JPA interface with Hibernate implementation for mapping Java objects to tables in the database  • Integrated @Transactional annotation from Transaction Manager to control commits and rollbacks in Database thus improving data integrity.    Environment: Java, Linux, Amazon Web Services (AWS), REST, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Java Persistence API (JPA), MySQL, JUnit, Kibana Java Developer Gold Coast IT Solutions - St. Louis, MO December 2017 to November 2018 Developed Java-based Application to provide Front-End services, such as alerts, fixed navbar, and borrower authentication, to clients (Customers, Librarians, and Borrowers), while also performing Back-End operations, such as CRUD and objects loose coupling.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Created MySQL DB instance on MySQL Workbench with configured User Account and Network Address to EC2 instance to improve application security and remote accessibility.  • Developed Jenkins pipelines with Git hook and user data to automate both the build of GitHub projects and the version number on those projects thus improving efficiency.  • Integrated Spring MVC, with Java classes as the Model, JSP pages as View, and web servlets as the Controller. By mobilizing this pattern total decoupling of application logic from user interface was achieved.  • Administered methodic assessment of workflows and quantified product functionalities to product owner during the demo.  • Executed unit test cases using Junit for Java on server side.  • Implement Singleton pattern to class libraries for lazy instantiation of objects like the Data-source connection  • Conducted queries using SQL statements.  • As part of Agile development, discussing progress, impedance and resolution in daily scrums.  • Interact with business to resolve issues in a timely manner and making user experience simple.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Jenkins, Linux, Cloud Foundry, Amazon Web Services (AWS), EC2, S3, REST, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Java Persistence API (JPA), MySQL, JUnit, Kibana Web Developer Intern SuperInterns.com - Jersey City, NJ September 2017 to December 2017 Jersey City, NJ    Applied responsive design to team page to allow end users easy navigation of webpage content on desktop, tablet, and Smartphone.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Integrated HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap in the redesign of team web page as an independent project.  • Implemented DUDA to improve the speed of web pages on mobile devices substantially.  • Executed Divi3 theme to improve the performance of the company's website on WordPress.  • Improved Readability and SEO rating of blog posts by implementing keywords and phrases.  • Developed a web application for clients to organize and insert outage information in database  • Worked on complex queries in SQL to insert and join tables  • Had a continuous interaction with clients to understand their preferences and re-designed the UI accordingly  • Collaborated with the Business Analyst's team to understand clients' requirements in a better way  • Produced great results in the very beginning of the internship  • Showcased excellent Inter-personal, Communication and Leadership skills    Environment: WordPress, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Duda Production Support Analyst Bemidji State University - Bemidji, MN September 2015 to May 2017 Bemidji, MN    Integrated programming knowledge with IDLE to automate the process of allocating time slots to IT staff members.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Executed data analysis of business assets using Microsoft Excel to improve data organization.  • Implemented SQL commands to the database to improve the process of storing, updating, and retrieving data.  • Emphasized outstanding analytic and problem-solving skills by learning business practices and paradigms.  • Developed manuals on best practices for updating business database and applications to improve overall efficiency.    Environment: IDLE, MySQL, Microsoft Office Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Bemidji State University - Bemidji, MN January 2013 to May 2017 Skills Java, Visual studio, Amazon web services, Xcode, Web services, Rest Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/thankgod-ofurum http://@RequestMapping http://@RequestMapping Additional Information Skills:    • Programming Languages: Java  • Tools: Visual Studio, IntelliJ Ultimate, Xcode, Amazon web services  • Web Services: REST