Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Looking for Sr. Java Developer roles in Sunnyvale, CA and San Jose, CA (ONLY C2C) McLean, VA ? Around 6 years of extensive IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes development, design, analysis, testing and Integration of various web based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Expertise in Java Multi-Threading, Collection, Interfaces, Synchronization, and Exception Handling.   ? Expertise in developing application using Spring Framework that uses features of IOC, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and AOP features.  ? Good experience on Java 8 features like Lambda Expressions, Stream API for collections, Function Interface.  ? Experience in developing persistent layer with Hibernate, JPA interfaces and annotations with good performance optimization  ? Strong experience implementing various J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Objects (DAO) and Factory for executing multi-tier, highly scalable, component based, and services driven Enterprise Java applications.  ? Strong experience with MySQL, Oracle DB servers and Excellent skills in creating and accessing Database using SQL and PL/SQL Queries.  ? Experience in building Web Applications using micro services with Spring Boot and Restful Web Services.  ? Hands on experience in Test Driven Development (TDD) and expertise in Continuous Integration using Jenkins and task automation using Maven  ? Used JIRA for defect tracking system, GIT for version control and Jenkins for continuous integration.  ? Extensive experience in Unit Testing, System Integration Testing, Integration Testing and Performance Tuning. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Cardinal Bank - McLean, VA March 2018 to Present § Involved in various phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and code development using Agile/ Scrum methodology.  § Worked with core java concepts like Collections Framework, Multi-threading and Memory management.  § Used Spring framework to implement the MVC design pattern for implementing business logic of the application.  § Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security  § Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.   § Worked on Java 8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making anonymous inline function calls by using Functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise.  § Extensively used Hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.  § Involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Objects (DAO) and Factory.  § Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using RESTful.  § Created all the complex SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from the Oracle database   § Involved in all the test cases using the framework Junit and fixed any bugs or any issues identified during the testing period.  § Used GIT version controller to maintain the code and used Eclipse with Apache Tomcat application server for development and application deployment    Environment: Java 8, Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring AOP, JSON, Hibernate, RESTful, Oracle DB, Junit, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Git, Maven. Sr. Java Developer ChainDrugStore.net, Incorporated (CDSI) - Springfield, VA August 2016 to February 2018 § Involved in various phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and code development using Agile/ Scrum methodology.  § Designed and implemented customized exception handling to handle the exceptions in the application.  § Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  § Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) functionality.  § Developed Hibernate DAO classes and with the spring frame work manager classes retrieve and save the data from the database.  § Developed application framework using design principles of the J2EE using Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Domain object and DAO patterns and developed Stateless Session Bean to Achieve Session façade Design Pattern.  § Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  § Used Git as a code repository to manage project code and used JIRA as a defect tracking system for the application.  § Use Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  § Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Jenkins and used log4j API for logging application flow and debugging. Education Bachelor's in Bachelor of Engineering in Software Engineering Shan Dong University - Jinan Skills Angular, Hibernate, Java, J2Ee, Java J2Ee, Javascript, Spring, Rest