Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - American Express Work Experience Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ April 2019 to Present American Express, USA  • Involved in the complete Software Development method, which are AGILE including Requirement Analysis, design, implementation and testing.  • Actively involved in the development and maintenance of common frameworks and tools in java that can be leveraged by the entire application.  • Back end of application has been implemented with Spring MVC architecture with Junit test cases  • Involved in the application development using Spring Boot, Spring ORM, Spring Aspect modules and Java web-based technology Java Web Services (REST/SOAP).  • Involved writing code using java 8  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services  • Comfortable working with REST and SOAP Services, consuming and processing of JSON/XML data from micro-services using Java Spring Framework.  • Experience working with logging tools like Splunk for searching logs and finding useful insights from logs.  • Proficient in using Git and Maven commands to build, clean, pull, push latest code into the Bit Bucket repository.  • Experience in creating and configuring the Jenkin Jobs and configuring XL release pipelines for Continuous Integration and Delivery (CICD).  • Hands-on Knowledge of Deployment of applications into American Express cloud platform (ePass) built on Kubernetes and Docker in various environments (dev, test, prod).  • Worked with Apigee Gateway (MAC ID) for REST calls between internal Amex systems, and using Java Key Store (JKS) and Trust store for secure SSL connections.  • Debugging and unit testing with Junit and IntelliJ Java Web Developer SEARS - Chicago, IL April 2018 to March 2019 • Developed microservices using Spring Boot and published as Restful API'S.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Developed Web applications and Rest API's using Java Spring MVC framework and Hibernate as Server-Side framework.  • Improved the user experience by making web pages interactive using html, CSS, react JS and Bootstrap  • Developed Data Access Objects (DAO) in Spring which access the Relational Databases using Hibernate framework to perform operations on the data and expose it using Controller Classes as REST API's.  • Exposed Rest API's using Rest Controller annotation in Spring which exposes JSON Data to be consumed.  • Consumed Data from RESTful Web Service using Rest Template in a Java spring Applications and Angular Front-end applications.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database and used dependency injection (DI) using Spring framework and annotations  • Developed microservices using Spring Boot and published as Restful API'S.  • Used OAuth for Authentication  • Used Maven as a build tool and Jenkins for CI  • Hibernate Framework as Object relational Mapping for Performing CRUD operations on relational databases.  • Improved the team performance by acting as an anchor between international teams for requirement gathering and communication.  • Involved in code reviewing  • Debugging and Unit testing of Code using Junit, Power Mockito and eclipse IDE. Java Developer IP infusion Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2015 to December 2015 Involved in analysis, design and development of the project.  • Developed application by using Spring, Servlets and JSPs.  • Developed the application using J2EE architecture.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP.  • Used Entity Beans to persist the data into database.  • Used JMS to establish message communication.  • Responsible for the performance PL/ SQL procedures and SQL queries.  • Implemented the project using JSP and Servlets based tag libraries.  • Involved in developing JSP forms.  • Deployed applications on tomcat server.  • Developed Session Beans which encapsulates the workflow logic.  • Used Agile for the concurrent development in the team and git for code repository.  • Involved in regression testing, evaluating the response times, and resolving the connection pooling issues. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Wilmington - Wilmington, DE August 2016 to 2018 Bachelor of Computers Science and Engineering in Computers Science and Engineering JNTU Ananthapur - Ananthapur, TAMIL NADU, IN August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Json, Middleware, Python, Xml, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Mvc, Ajax, Css, Tomcat, Database, Jdbc, Mysql, Rest, Java J2Ee, Soap, J2Ee, Core Java