Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer ? 2+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, and Testing of Enterprise Applications in Client/Server environment using Java/ Java 2EE in Client/Server, Microservice applications.  ? Proficient in analysis, design, development, testing and highly competent in gathering user requirements.  ? Expertise in several J2EE technologies like Thymeleaf, JSP, Web Services(REST), Java Mail, Spring, Hibernate  ? Expertise in Web Scraping  ? Proficient in building responsive and adaptive web applications using HTML, CSS3, Java Script, and Bootstrap.js  ? Development of applications using J2EE Design Patterns eg. MVC Architecture, Data Access Object (DAO), Spring Security, JPA, CRUD Repository.  ? Experience in creating Conceptual Data Models, process/Data flow Diagrams, Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and State Diagrams.  ? Experience with Eclipse, STS, Maven.  ? Experienced in the functional usage and deployment of applications in Spring Boot, and Apache Tomcat Server.  ? Participation in phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding, and testing with J-Unit, good knowledge in integration using J2EE Architecture.  ? Experience with Databases like Oracle 10g/11g MySQL, JDBC.  ? Proficient in Quality Control - includes ensuring defect free releases, maintaining correct entries in design, Docs, UI specs, Test Cases.  ? Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, excellent leadership, communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work under strict deadlines. Work Experience Java Developer US Legal Pro - Dallas, TX April 2017 to August 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Developed login page, for both user and admin portal and implemented Spring Security with access restrictions based on user roles.  ? Implemented cross check database authentication with Hibernate using (DAO) as well as JPA Repository with MySQL.  ? Developed responsive frontend pages with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and used Thymeleaf extensively as template engine to create conditional statements, replacement statements, and other validations.  ? Followed agile software development with scrum methodology.  ? Followed annotation based development using Spring and Spring boot.  ? Created Entities and mapped them with OneToOne, OneToMany, ManyToOne, ManyToMany annotations and also specified Join Columns.  ? Implemented JMS to send custom emails for password setting/resetting by sending custom token links  ? Developed forms and stored information of user into the database.  ? Wrote code to prevent duplicate registration, and duplicate admin accounts.  ? Applied full MVC architecture to the application.  ? Created and managed user session  ? Developed http endpoints with Spring REST  ? Encrypted passwords with custom password encryption class.  ? Version control of the code and configuration files are maintained by GitHub  ? Scraping data from external websites for constant live feed of product information, and weather for cast information with JSoup.  ? Wrote CRUD functions throughout the entire application.  ? Used J-Unit to fully test applications.  ? Used chrome console and postman to validate endpoints and make sure all aspects of the program was working.    Environment  Java 1.8, J-Unit 4, Spring 5, MySql 8.0, Eclipse, Maven, JSoup, Chrome Console, postman, SQL, Unix, GitHub, Spring Boot, Microservices Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Tarrant County College Present High School Diploma Coppell High School Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jms, Jsp, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10, Api, Orm, Mvc, Security, Rest, Junit, Frameworks, Collections Additional Information Technical Skills    Web Technologies Thymeleaf, JMS, REST, Spring-WS, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, JAX-RS  Frameworks Spring, JUnit  ORM Hibernate  API Java Collections, JDBC  IDE Eclipse, Intellij, STS  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL