Java UI Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java UI Developer Seattle, WA * Around 5 years of experience on designing and developing Single Page application using Angular6, TypeScript, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  * Knowledge in developing single-page applications (SPAs) using J2EE Frameworks, MVC architecture, Hibernate, Struts, Hibernate, JPA, JSP, HTML, Web services and Spring frameworks.  * Strong Expertise in Angular features like Routing, Data Binding, Directives, Page Loading, Component Communication, Dependency Injection, Service, HTTP server, Forms, and Exception Handling.  * Good Experience in Angular Js for creating interactive UI using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, Angular Native concepts.  * Expertise in implementing easy to use Bootstrap plugins for building carousel, accordion, modal windows.  * Hands-on experience on Building WEB API also performing CRUD operations and consuming third party API'S.  * Developed the presentation layer using Model View Architecture implemented by Spring MVC, which was initially done in the legacy system using Struts.  * Experienced in develop enterprise level application using .NET technologies, such as C#, ASP.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ and SQL server  * Good knowledge in working with databases like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL and Mongo DB.  * Experience in Unit Testing frameworks like jasmine, Chai, Mocha, Junit, Fiddler, Postman and karma for performing unit and end to end testing.  * Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  * Experience in Version Control tools like GIT, SVN for Source Code version management.  * Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA were the tools used to keep things in check.  * Eager to learn new technologies with great commitment at work. Work Experience Java UI Developer Trupanion - Seattle, WA July 2018 to Present Project: Trupanion Portal  Description: The Trupanion has been taking care of pet owners for over a decade by offering simple, fair, and affordable pet insurance. Trupanion provides one simple pet insurance plan for dog or cat. The comprehensive policy covers surgeries, diagnostic tests, medications, treatments, and hospital stays. Cost is determined by the breed of pet, their age, their gender, whether they are spayed or neutered, and your local cost of veterinary care. www.trupanion.com  Responsibilities  * Proficient in developing front-end Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular 6, Typescript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Spring Framework.  * Created view templates including functions of searching, sorting, editing, deleting and adding with build-in pipe and custom pipes to format output and implement filtering functions.  * Developed POCs for Angular components integration strategy.  * Used Service, @Input, @Output, @View Child, Event Emitter for components communication and using Directives to manage behavior.  * Implemented Route Guards for Authentication, using HTTP Client in Service to connect with URLs from Web API.  * Used several Modules to implement workflow, Angular CLI to manage project, create components, and services with Dependency Injection.  * Skilled using Angular Material and Bootstrap 4 to do view design and template functions such as pagination and modals.  * Created a Layout and multiple Partial Views, then rendered them in same view by HTML helper and Razor view engine.  * Used Git to manage version control in the development cycle.  * Experience with software development methodology include Agile/SCRUM using Jira.  * Have broken down the application into multiple angular modules for simplicity purposes and have done unit tests using Jasmine.  Environment: Java, Eclipse, Angular6, VS Code, TypeScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Spring Framework, Oracle, GitHub, JIRA, Jasmine, Agile (Scrum). Seattle Credit Union - Seattle, WA October 2017 to June 2018 Project: Mortgage CRM  Description: Seattle Credit Union is a United States credit union headquartered in Seattle, Washington, chartered and regulated under the authority of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). It offers Savings, checking, consumer loans, mortgages, credit cards, C&I loan, investments, online banking. Mortgage CRM (Customer Relationship Management) is designed for mortgage brokers and bankers, featuring marketing automation capabilities. It offers features for each step of the mortgage process, from appropriately marketing to prospects, clients, and partners, to completing the loan application process. Within the lead management and marketing module, Mortgage CRM can capture leads from a variety of sources and integrates with mortgage-specific lead sources. All leads can be imported into the CRM quickly, so that sales teams may connect with potential leads within a timely manner, broadening the sales pipeline and maximizing outreach.  Responsibilities  * Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, AngularJS, and HTML.  * Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  * Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular JS.  * Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, and CSS3.  * Because of Angular JS weaknesses such as loading start time and optimization for search engines, migrated from Angular JS to Angular2/4.  * Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE, Spring MVC, AJAX and Hibernate.  * Created Single Page Application for Service module by using AngularJS UI-Router to configure routes for navigating between different HTML pages and integrating backend using JavaScript framework.  * Developed RESTful web services using Spring MVC for implementing CRUD operations.  * Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  * Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  * Managed source control and version control using GIT.  * Environment: Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Eclipse, Java/J2EE, JavaScript, Spring MVC, JDBC, Spring Boot, JIRA, Jasmine, GitHub, Hibernate. Transamerica - Cedar Rapids, IA November 2015 to October 2017 Project: Health Insurance Management System (HIMS)  Description: Transamerica is provider of health and life insurance. Health Insurance Management System (HIMS) is fully automated and integrated application for managing the Policy plans, Agent Commission, Incurred Which are not Paid and Settlements. This Insurance Management System gives information of the client, policy details, and premium rates and monitors the policies for delayed payments. It manages different claims per policies, claim settlements and allows coverage verifications.  Responsibilities  * Gathered Client requirements and convert them into the Technical Specifications and developed Web forms using C#.NET.  * Skilled in N-tier architecture framework, created Business Logic Layer & Data Access Layers to implement the MVC architecture and UI  * Designed master Page with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, implementation of client-side validations using ASP.NET MVC Validation.  * Implemented C# ASP .NET MVC with Onion Architecture, Repository and unit of work to design server part and data transformation infrastructure  * Developed ASP.Net pages using web forms, server, validation, and user controls for header and footer, standardize menus.  * Created general Class library, Partial Class, Generics Using C# .NET.  * Implemented lazy load model in the Entity Framework to accelerate the software runtime performance.  * Managing and creating the Database operations such as tables creation, queries for DML operations, stored procedures, joins and views.  * Utilized layout view and partial view rendering methods to ensure consistent design across the web application development.  * Involved in software development lifecycle management using TFS and JIRA tools.  * Debugged Web API with Postman, Response daily work with JIRA. Corresponding with Waterfall SDLC methodologies.  * Proficient in writing unit tests using NUnit Framework.  Environment: ASP.NET MVC5, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, NUnit, Visual Studio 2013, C#, Agile  (SCRUM), GIT, Visual Studio, SQL Server 2014. DuPont Pioneer - Johnston, IA January 2015 to November 2015 Project: Encirca  Description: DuPont's Encirca is an application is used by field people and Sales reps. The Trails and Performance Explorer modules used by Farm people and Agronomy managers where they can create planned experiments and can create local experiments. They can add number of strips for that location and products for that strip. The Performance Explorer is an integrated system which can be used to generate reports.  Responsibilities  * Developed Web Application using JAVA and Spring MVC's view controller.  * Worked with Core Java which includes Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  * Developed the introduction layer utilizing JSP, HTML, JSON, CSS and customer approvals utilizing JavaScript.  * Developed back end interfaces using SQL, PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, Functions, Procedures etc.  * Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  * Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions.  * Used Apache Maven for project management and building the app.  * JUnit Frameworks were used for performing unit & integration testing by writing test cases.  * Been a Part of Agile teams, including meetings, iterative development, estimations and design sessions.  * Used CVS for software configuration management and version control.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Eclipse, Spring MVC, JSP, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle, ANT, Maven, Tomcat, SVN, Hibernate, Junit, Servlets. Education Master's Skills C#, C++, Git, Javascript, Typescript, Jenkins, Json, Svn, Xml, Eclipse, Java, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Ajax, Tomcat, Angularjs, Html5, Mysql, Front End, UI, React, Front-End, Angular Links http://@Input http://@Input http://@Input Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages JAVA, C#,C, C++,  Web/XML Technologies HTML5, TypeScript, CSS3, JavaScript, ES6, AJAX, Servlets, JSP, DOM, JSON.  Frameworks Angular 6, AngularJS, jQuery, Spring.  Apache Projects Ant, Log 4j  Tools & Utilities Eclipse, WinSCP, Toad, Jenkins, Maven  Application/Web Servers Tomcat  RDBMS Oracle 12c, MySQL, MSSQL, MongoDB  Source Control SVN, GIT.  Operating Systems Windows 10/9x/2000/XP, Linux, UNIX.