Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - HCL Technologies Ltd ? SDLC: 2+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Web, Standalone applications Analysis, Design and Methodologies.  ? Good understanding of Object-Oriented Programming concepts (OOPs).  ? Worked extensively on Java Platform for designing and developing web applications on Java using Servlet, JSP and frameworks like Spring and Hibernate.  ? Involved in the full software development life cycle and methodologies including SDLC.  ? Strong Oracle knowledge.  ? Experience in Insurance Business process.  ? Having in-depth knowledge in eBaoTech Insurance Application tool.  ? Quite comfortable in working with Agile Methodology. Work Experience Software Engineer HCL Technologies Ltd December 2016 to Present Java Developer HCL Technologies Ltd December 2016 to Present SBI General offers a wide range of insurance products to suit the different individual needs and preferences of the customers.  SBI General Insurance Company Limited is a joint venture between the State Bank of India and Insurance Australia Group (IAG). SBI has a 74% stake in the company while the remaining 26% is held by IAG. Headquartered in Mumbai, the company is active in 56 cities across India and is a player in 350+ other locations through satellite resources.  SBI General Insurance System covers the entire lifecycle of general insurance operations like Quotation, Policy Issuance, Underwriting, Inwarding, Scanning, Receipting, Endorsement, Renewal, Claims, Sales and Marketing management, Customer management, Reinsurance Business and many supporting functions, e.g., reporting and document management.    Roles and responsibilities:  ? Requirement Analysis, Design, Coding, Unit Testing, Defect prevention, and various production issues fix.  ? Handling Insurance module bug fixing and finding the root cause of any defects around the entire application, and this would involve the core development using eBao, Core Java & J2EE technologies, Spring and Hibernate.  ? Key developer of Insurance products and successfully delivered various developments and bug fixes from product support team.  ? Developing and configuring various Products in eBaoTech.  ? Part of a Team of 8 members, supported them in all aspects.  ? Has done an effective communication with Client in terms of resolution and clarification and part of discussions in requirement closures.  ? Organize a Daily status, Weekly Status meetings with Client partners to discuss and clarify the queries raised by team.  ? Handle the escalation calls and work on critical project deliverables.  ? Interacting with the testing team to make them understanding the complete module both technically and functionally and resolve the issues. Education B.E in Engineering & Technology Acharya Nagarjuna University - Guntur, AP, IN Sri Chaitanya Jr College - Guntur, AP, IN SSC Sarada Niketan High School - Guntur, AP, IN Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java, SQL  Web Technologies JDBC, Servlets and JSP  Database Oracle, mySQL  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate  IDE and other tools Eclipse, SQL Developer, Log4j  Version Control SVN, WINSCP and Beyond compare  Design Patterns Singleton and MVC  App Servers Tomcat  Third party tools ebao Tech