Mule ESB Developer Mule ESB <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mule ESB Developer - HMS Irving, TX • 3 Years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing using various methodologies using MuleSoft ESB and Java/J2EE experience in integration.  • Mule ESB experience with implementing service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Server.  • Implemented Mule flows for different modules, which process files and emails from different systems. Developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.  • Experience working with GitHub, Bit bucket and VSTS.  • Developed application in Anypoint studio and used RAML 1.0, 0.8 for generating Raml files.  • Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third party solutions.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, AnypointMQ, JMS.  • Developed interfaces between Sales Force, REST and SOAP web-services.  • Experienced in Rest Web Service development for both Xml and Json datatypes.  • Possess fair knowledge on SOA and REST architectural style and design principles.Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  • Deployed web services are tested using SOAPUI tool and Extensively used data weave expressions for transformations in Data weave.  • Used Mule Data Mapper, Custom transformers for mapping flat file structures to Sales force interface structures.  • Used Database & Sales force Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Worked on XML technologies like XML, XSD and Web Services - RESTful and SOAP.  • Effective communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work in team/independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies.  • Experience in Object Oriented Programming in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Support of Web b ased applications. Experience in creating MUnit Tests. Work Experience Mule ESB Developer HMS July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed the guidelines of Agile methodologies of SDLC for project management. Involved in requirements gathering, analysis of existing Design Documents, planning, Development and Testing of the application.  • Involved in complete life cycle development using Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Participated in scrum meetings with various teams to coordinate project developments and issues.  • Created Mule flows using DB Connectors and SFDC, Using SFDC connectors to upsert data into SFDC.  • Experience with Mule API Gateway and Mule APM.  • Worked with Mule Any point API Platform on designing the RAML for implementing REST API's and used API Gateway as a proxy service.  • Implemented Security Mechanisms like Security Certificates, Key Exchange, Encryption, Description, encoding and decoding  • Exposed RESTful web services in Mule and invoked them using Postman.  • Consumed SOAP Web Services using WSDL Files and transformed them into appropriate format.  • Experience with Any Point Partner Manager (APM) to Configure Trading Partners & Monitor B2B Transactions.  • Created Mule ESB flows using Any point Studio, performed payload transformation & developed middleware frameworks for routing the messages to appropriate systems.  • Used Data Weave extensively to do data transformations along with custom Java Classes.  • Create batch processing for performing ETL operations from SFDC to downstream systems.  • Used ActiveMQ for messaging service in the applications.  • Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing MQ Series, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Used Data Base Connectors to connect with MS-Access using Mule ESB.  • Created flows to perform CRUD operations on MS-Access.  • Used MULE Batch Processing to process records from Database.  • Utilized various connectors such as FTP, HTTP, File, SMTP, SFTP, Servlet, Quartz, and Database in different workflows.  • Implemented choice, global, custom exception handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in Mule ESB.  • Extensively used Mule Debugger to debug the XML Flows and wrote Munit Test Cases using features like mocking, verify call, and assert conditions based different sets of data.  • Migrated Existing Java Code implemented using Spring Controllers into Mule Flows to be invoked by the UI.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Development.    Environment: Mule soft Any Point Studio, Cloud hub, Any Point Platform, RAML, Connectors, APIKIT Router, Data mapper, Data weave, Sales Force, Windows 2003, SQL and MSSQL. JAVA Developer Sunera Eseal Private Limited May 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with business analysts and architecture groups for gathering requirements and use cases.  • Designed and Developed User Interfaces using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring Tag Libraries, JSP and JSP Tag Libraries.  • Developed the application following the Scrum/Agile methodology.  • Responsible for mapping using ORM concepts on multiple configuration files and various deployment descriptor files like web.xml, applicationContext.xml, spring-config.xml, action-servlets.xml files.  • Implemented Spring Validator for validating the user inputs.  • Handled complex business logic by developing session Beans.  • Worked on asynchronous messaging using Java Messaging Services (JMS) and backend business logic with Spring Framework.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Cursors and Triggers, Updates in PL/ SQL Database and Views for data storage and retrieval.  • Designed and developed State diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams.  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring to access database with the support of Hibernate DAO.  • Responsible for developing dynamic and interactive pages with cross browser compatibility using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and Bootstrap.  • Worked with JAX-RS and Jersey for developing RESTful web services for frontend to backend transactions in JSON or XML formats.  • Responsible for building the environment for Java using Jenkins, Git and Maven, developing and deploying the .WAR files into QA environment.  • Deployed .WAR/ .JAR/. EAR files on WebLogic application server.  • Performed unit testing using Junit and developed Apache ANT build scripts for building the application.  • Deployed the application into AWS using Continuous Integration tools like Jenkins, Docker and SVN as the Source Control.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Apache Axis, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, Bootstrap, Oracle database, PL/ SQL, JAX-RS, Apache Tomcat, Git, Maven, Junit, Eclipse, WebLogic Application Server. Education Master's in Applied Computer Information Systems RIVIER University Bachelor's in Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in Technology Saveetha University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills Apache (1 year), Collections (Less than 1 year), CREDIT (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), Http (1 year), Java (2 years), JMS (1 year), MAC (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (1 year), Oracle (1 year), REST (1 year), SMTP (1 year), SOAP (1 year), SQL (2 years), Subversion (1 year), SVN (1 year), Tomcat (1 year), web services (2 years), XML (2 years), Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java, C, SQL, MS SQL  Core Java Concepts Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Serialization, Exception Handling.  Design and Modeling UML, Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio  Web Services SOAP, WSDL  Web Application Servers Apache Tomcat  Operating Systems Windows 2000/XP/7, MAC  Databases SQL Server 2012/2010/2008  Messaging Systems JMS, VM Queues  XML technologies XML, XSD  Protocols SOAP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, REST  SVN Tools GIT, Bit Bucket  Tools MUnit  ESB Mule ESB, Oracle ESB    KEY SKILLS  • Able to build a positive support with staff.  • Assigning tasks to the team and clearly explaining how those duties are to be done.  • Carrying out risk Assessments.  • Able to introduce new processes to the team and organization.  • Setting goals and objectives for individuals and teams.  • Thinking both creatively and logically to design and development problems.  • Willing to learn innovative things and accept constructive criticism.