"Jr. Java Software Developer" "Jr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Software <span class="hl">Developer</span>" "Jr. Java Software Developer" - Kaysys Technologies ? Overall 1 year of extensive experience in software development using JAVA and J2EE Technologies & Bootstrap. Experience in designing, development and maintenance.  ? Hand on experience in Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, HTML & CSS, JavaScript, JDBC and Ajax.  ? Hands on experience in Eclipse & NetBeans tools for the development of java projects.  ? Hands on experience web and windows based applications using Glass Fish and Tomcat web servers.  ? Database programming skills with Database like MYSQL, SQL and Oracle 10g server.  ? Experience in developing web and windows based GUIs using JSP, HTML & CSS and JavaScript.  ? Versatile team player and individual contributor with strong analytical and problem solving skills. Work Experience "Jr. Java Software Developer" Kaysys Technologies July 2016 to Present Completed 5 months internship at Cern System Technology from January 1st 2015 to May 5th 2015 Education MCA Pune University - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2015 BCA Pune University - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2013 HSC Maharashtra Board / Pune University - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2010 SSC Maharashtra Board / Pune University - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2008 Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Operating System: Windows.    ? Technical Skills: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, HTML & CSS, Java Script, JDBC, Ajax.  ? Framework: Spring Framework, Bootstrap.  ? Application Server: Apache Tomcat and GlassFish.  ? Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, Photoshop.  ? Database: MYSQL, SQL, Oracle 10g server.    Project Details  1 - ERP Software for Saree Shop (Barcode System).  ? Client: Bandhej, Pune.  ? Technologies Used: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Java script, CSS, Ajax and MySQL.  ? Role: Software Developer.  ? Duration: July 2016 to Dec 2016.  ? Team Size: 3.  ? Description:  This Web based application is used to handle transactions based on barcodes of Saree shop. This application allows to record, store, search and report information of all transactions in one system. Also generate and print Barcodes.  ? Responsibilities involved:  1. Responsible for understanding and analyzing the business requirements.  2. Development of all modules and design some modules.  3. Bug fixing and maintenance of the product.    2 -ERP System for Oil Business.  ? Client: Swarajya India, Pune  ? Technologies Used: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Java script, CSS, Ajax and MySQL.  ? Role: Software Developer.  ? Duration: Dec 2016 to March 2017.  ? Team Size: 3.  ? Description:  This web based application is used to handle inventory transactions, stock report at various branches. This application allows to record, store, search and report information of inventory transactions in one system.  ? Responsibilities involved:  1. Responsible for understanding and analyzing the business requirements.  2. Involved in design and architecture of the application.  3. Involved in development of all modules.  4. Testing and deployment of the developed application modules.    3 - ERP System for Restaurants.  ? Technologies Used:Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Java script, CSS, Ajax and MySQL.  ? Role: Software Developer & Designer.  ? Duration:March 2017 to July 2017.  ? Team Size: 1.  ? Description:  This web and windows based application is used to handle inventory transactions, stock report at various branches. This application allows to record, store, search and report information ofinventory transactions in one system also billing system.  ? Responsibilities involved:  1. Responsible for understanding and analyzing the business requirements.  2. Involved in design and architecture of the application.  3. Involved in development of all modules.  4. Testing and deployment of the developed application modules.