Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer San Jose, CA • Experience in object-oriented analysis, design, development and testing of Client/Server, Web based enterprise business applications enterprise.  • Proven software development experience using different methodologies like Agile and Waterfall.  • Experience in developing multi-tier distributed web applications using Java, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, JBDC, Hibernate, Spring and REST based Web services.  • Experience in Java8 features like Lambda expressions, Stream API, predicate functional interface, etc.  • Experience in implementing Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of multi-tier distributed enterprise applications.  • Worked on JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap.  • Experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud  • Experience in Persistence Framework like Hibernate ORM and Spring Data.  • Thorough knowledge in SQL and experience in RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL.  • Experience working with building Docker Images and running them on Docker container.  • Hands on experience with build tools like Maven, Gradle and logging tools like Log4J and Splunk.  • Experience in testing with JUnit Framework using Mockito and Easy Mock.  • Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like Git.  • Experience with build automation tools like Maven.  • Working experience with the operating systems like UNIX and Windows  • Ability to learn new concepts and to adapt to new environments.  • Excellent team player with good communication and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Apple - Sunnyvale, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and Development of internal and external facing dashboard applications used by Apple business to provide an insight into the sales and trends for the products sold at Apple.  • Involved in gather requirements, analyze, and implemented business logic using Agile Scrum Software Development methodology.  • Worked on Spring modules like DI/IOC, MVC.  • Designed and developed the Microservices to create and consume REST end points using Spring Boot.  • Good knowledge on Spring Cloud tools used to develop cloud based Microservice applications.  • Implemented persistent layer with Spring Data ORM to perform CRUD operations.  • Responsible for writing queries to retrieve the details of the customer from Oracle database.  • Performed unit testing using testing frameworks such as JUnit, Easy Mock, Mockito.  • Wrote Docker files to build Docker Images and run them on Docker container.  • Developed Python and Shell scripts to automate jobs  • Processed and published data fetched from upstream applications using Kafka.  • Performance and load testing conducted using JMeter  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Used Git for version control and Maven as build tool.  Environment: Java, Python, Shell, Spring Boot, Web services, Microservices, JUnit, EasyMock, Mockito, Spring Cloud, Kafka, JMeter, Maven, XML, Design Patterns, Splunk, Log4j, Agile Methodology, Jenkins, Docker, Git. Java Developer EGiants - West Des Moines, IA November 2017 to March 2018 Responsibility:  • Implement Agile (SCRUM) methodology that includes daily scrum with team, sprint planning and estimating the tasks for the user stories.  • Implemented fail safe and circuit breaker patterns in Spring Boot Microservice applications using Hystrix, configured Swagger-UI to registered Microservice with Eureka server and monitored service health check from Spring Boot admin console and Spring Ribbon for load balancing.  • Developed UI applications using Angular2 integrating with REST API's built on Spring Zuul Microservices.  • Working on Microservice Registration with Spring Cloud using Netflix Eureka.  • Implementing Spring Cloud - REST call using Netflix Feign Client.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservice architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Used Oracle database to storage details of the customers.  • Developed Hibernate configuration files and queries and Implemented DAO classes  • Used version control repository Git and Maven as build tool.  • Performed unit testing using Junit  • Used Log4j for logging.  Environment: Java, Spring Boot, Web services, Microservices, JUnit, Easy Mock, Mockito, Spring Cloud, Kafka, Maven, XML, Design Patterns, Splunk, Log4j, Agile Methodology, Git. Full Stack Developer Intern The Landlord Guru - Gainesville, VA May 2016 to August 2016 • Responsible for requirement gathering, design, implementation and testing of the application.  • Developed the server for the application using NodeJS and ExpressJS.  • Used Socket.io along with Node and Express to build the chat rooms.  • Responsible for choosing the best data structures and algorithms for time and memory complexity reduction  • Developed the UI of the application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Used MongoDB for in memory database to store the chats for an ongoing session.  • Used Pub/Sub feature available in Mongo to notify all users in the group.  • Used MySQL as the RDBMS for storing the chats.  • Performed unit testing using Mocha and Chai.  • Developed the mobile app using AngularJS in Ionic Studio.  • Used Git as Version Control System for the application.  • Performed testing and resolved all technical issues arising in the application.  Environment: NodeJS, ExpressJS, AngularJS, Socket.io, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MySQL, MongoDB, Mocha, Chai, Ionic Studio, Git. Software Development Intern Protocol Informatics Pvt. Ltd - IN January 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implement Agile (SCRUM) methodology that includes daily scrum with team, sprint planning and estimating the tasks for the user stories.  • The application was developed using Spring MVC Architecture with Hibernate as ORM framework.  • Developed UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used Oracle database to storage details of the customers.  • Developed Hibernate configuration files and queries and Implemented DAO classes  • Used version control repository Git and Maven as build tool.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Used Log4j for logging.  Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JUnit, Maven, Log4j, JIRA, Git. Education MS in Computer Science Wright State University September 2015 to August 2017 Skills Git, Gradle, Javascript, Orm, Python, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, Servlets, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Junit, Version control, Teradata, Html5, Mvc Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java 8, SQL, Python, JavaScript  Frameworks J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Servlets, JSP.  ORM Frameworks Hibernate, Spring Data.  Web Servers Tomcat 8/9, Jetty.  IDEs Eclipse, STS, IntelliJ, WebStorm, PyCharm.  Web technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 2/4, NodeJS.  Web Services REST.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall.  Testing technologies/tools Junit, Mockito, EasyMock.  Databases Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MySQL, Teradata.  Version Control Git.  Build Tools Maven, Gradle.  Spring Tools Spring MVC, IOC, IO, Spring Boot.  Platforms UNIX, Windows.