Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Skokie, IL A recent MBA graduate who has the required attitude, passion, drive and energy needed to make an immediate and positive difference to any company I work for. I have the knowledge and skills in fundamental business topics that can be applied in a practical and directly manner to all business operations. Apart from possessing invaluable research and analytical skills, as well as the ability to strategies, I also have the desire and ability to succeed in competitive environments. Although he has just graduated, I am very good idea of what it takes to be a leader operating effectively in a fully globalized environment. Right now I am looking for an entry level to Junior level position with a company that will not only offer me exposure to a broad range of managerial activities, but will also give me the opportunity to develop my existing skills within a dynamic organization.    Marketing Management Leadership and Organizational Behavior  Managerial Accounting Financial Management  Operation Management Strategic Management  Applied Research Leading Strategically  Leading Teams Human Resource Management System    Management Personal Dynamic Smart    Business Administration Assertive Efficient Resolving problems  Performance management Inspirational Visionary Inventive  Cost control Team player Highly energetic Research & analysis  Marketing Delegating Productive Good decision making  HR management Articulate Motivated Critical thinker  Project management Goal orientated Driven & ambitious Identifying solutions Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Consumer Behavior and Services Marketing - Camp Hill, PA October 2017 to May 2018 • Discharging all responsibilities with optimum economy.  • Making informed and influential decisions in fields such as Market Research, Consumer Behavior and Services Marketing.  • Extensive understanding of business matters & able to analyze and forecast business performance.  High Mark HMHS, BCBS, CampHill, PA Oct 2017 - May 2018  Java Developer  • Interact with the business teams to understand the requirements of the project.  • Involved in preparing detailed High Level and Low Level design documents.  • Followed design and coding standards to facilitate the development of a flexible and robust data models and to deliver a quality product to the business customers.  • Identify the impacts and changes required in the current batch and online flows.  • Design Batch process using Mainframe technologies to capture the updates from up-streams through nightly batch. Execute conversion using Mainframe technologies.  • Execute conversion using Mainframe technologies.  • Conceived unit, system, integration, functional, and performance test plans.  • Support for Deployment Implementation.  • Defect tracking and monitoring and on time delivery.  • Update Shell Script file with new clients like ND/WY  • Provided production support.  • Create excel sheet and ran report manually from mainframe side and as schedule.  • Update Java codes using Thread processing execution.  • IBM System z and z/OS Java Batch Solutions and update Shell Script file as per requirements  • Execute Java Batch using Mainframe JCL manual and schedule  • Use Putty to connect to server side using Linux environment  Environment: JAX-RPC Web services, IFW Framework, SOAP, Java1.8, EJB 2.0, GIT, JMS, SOAP, SQL, spring, MQ, JMS, DB2, XSD's, COBOL, REXX, JCL, EAZYTRIEVE, CICS, LINUX/UNIX Service Advisor Martin Nissan - Skokie, IL January 2017 to October 2017 Skokie, IL  Consistently support customer service functions involving the customer relationship  ? Efficiently coordinate weekly customer appointments with the availability of technicians  ? Direct three technicians through prioritization of daily schedules and conflicts as they arise  ? Thoroughly research necessary automotive parts in order to acquire the best transaction possible for the customer  ? Proficiently operate Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Word to execute efficiency  ? successfully build and maintain supplier and customer relationships  ? Assist with administering automotive repairs as needed  ? Prepare detailed sales data to report on gross dollars USDA - St. Louis, MO September 2015 to September 2017 Full Stack Develop  • Identified the Business requirements of the project.  • Experience with Spring 3 MVC and Spring MVC with REST integration and JSON.  • Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, DI (IOC), Auto Wiring, JDBC Templates, Spring Security, and AOP.  • Worked on Agile XP works towards a continuously improving, high quality product which can respond to changes in customer requirements.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Working knowledge of No SQL databases like DB2.  • Developed the middle tier using EJBs, Java Servlets.  • Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Written Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call.  • Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  Environment: Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, COBOL, Spring Security, OAuth2, JSP, DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Agile XP, Struts, Web Services, UML, RAD 7.5, REST, Web Sphere App. Server 7.x, SQL, Ant, TDD, Sun Solaris Unix OS Log4J and Oracle 10g, MongoDB, AWS EC2, RDS, S3, IAM, Route53. Abbott Laboratories - Abbott Park, IL January 2015 to April 2015 Workday Compensation  • Proficient in using Workday HCM and Sales Force development  • Create User interface JSP pages using spring MVC for desktop and Mobile  • Around 1 year experience with XML, XPATH and XSLT.  • Performed Front end advanvce coding Using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script. Jquery, Bootstrap & Angular Js.  • Understands the data housed in Workday Studio HCM that supports key HR programs, such as advanced compensation data which supports the annual merit, bonus and stock programs  • Ability to help clients resolve reporting issues requiring in depth expertise in the Workday Studio HCM solution  • Understand client legacy reporting requirements and match to Workday Studio HCM reporting capabilities  • Converted data from SAP HCM to Workday Studio HCM.  • Used Workday HCM and Sales Force admin and development side using Apex and triggers using to solve issues.  Environment: Java 8, JSP, iOS 8.0, iOS 9.0, (iPhone SDK), Andriod SDK(Lollipop) Servlets, JSTL, EJB, JDBC, IOC Spring 2.0 MVC, JBoss AS 4.2, Web services, HTML5, CSS3, XML, XLS, Java Script, Json. Ajax, JMS, Microsoft VSS, Eclipse 3.2, SQL Server 2005, DB2., Jira, Git, Stash, Angular Js, Node Js, IBM RAD, CVS, Maven, Ant. Bootstrap, Log4J, Agile/Scrum, REST & Soap, (GUI) Graphical User Interface development, Implementing, and Testing, Xcode 4.3, iOS 6.0, Objective-C, Cocoa, Cocoa Touch, Mac OS X, Cocoa framework, iPhone Simulator, JSON and core data, Android SDK, Android DDMS, PhoneGap Education Master of Business Administration in Human Resource Management System Aurora University - Aurora, IL 2011 to 2013