Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fairfield, IA Work Experience Java Developer CAREER NOTE - Turin, IT December 2017 to July 2018 Completed on-campus studies and currently taking distance education courses to complete a Master's Degree in Computer Science (Available for full-time, W-2 employment).    Thesis Intern at National Research Council of Italy, Turin, Italy • Dec 2017- July 2018  Worked on an experimental thesis and project named "Wireless Sensor Networks Management for Modern Industrial Applications and Plants" done with collaboration of COMAU robotics. The thesis investigates integration of intelligence and predictive maintenance into wireless sensor networks and building microservices for big-data endpoints, an emerging technology for industrial automation and robotics.  Technologies Used: Java, Python, MySQL, RESTful, Spring IoT, Spring Boot, Spring XD. Software Engineer INFORMATION NETWORK SECURITY AGENCY - Addis Ababa, ET 2011 to 2015 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia • 2011-2015  National cyber security agency protecting the Ethiopian government's digital information.    Software Engineer: Developed complete software systems for governmental entities, using the latest technologies and techniques to ensure solid data and system security. Key developer contributing to banking, public sector, and education business domain systems.    Tasks Performed:  • Refined functional requirements and translated into system design with UML diagram  • Built RESTful services and Microservices for Banking, Education and Government Offices projects.  • Implemented complex business logic and designed database schema.  • Delivered rich, interactive front-end user interfaces.  702-576-4488 • birhane.g.tamene@gmail.com    • Developed dashboard modules in Single Page Applications (SPAs) for administrative and reporting purposes.  • Performed unit and penetration testing, as well as user acceptance testing.  • Migrated legacy enterprise monolith software solutions to Microservice-based architecture.  • Reviewed and refactored code, ensuring high quality standards and programming principles such as single responsibility, loose coupling using dependency injection and DRY. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management (MUM) - Fairfield, IA April 2021 Master of Science in Communication & Computer Networks Engineering in Communication & Computer Networks Engineering Polytechnic University of Turin - Turin, IT 2018 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Aksum University 2010 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/birhane-tamene