Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Citi Bank • 3 Years of experience in design, development and implementation of software applications using Java,  J2EE technologies.  • Experience in creating user interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP tag Libraries.  • Experience in using Core JAVA Concepts like Multithreading, Collections, Generics, Exception Handling  and Java8 features.  • Good experience on Testing Rest services using Postman and Swagger API.  • Had experience in developing RESTful Services with data representation in different formats such as XML and JSON.  • Experience in development and implementation of ORM framework Hibernate with Spring JPA framework.  • Experience in developing the web applications using Spring Dependency Injection (DI, IOC), Aspect oriented programming (AOP) for modularity, Spring Security modules and Spring Boot with Microservices.  • Good hands on experience in building RESTful web services with Spring boot, Spring MVC frameworks.  • Experience in developing and deploying Microservices with Spring MVC Framework and Spring Boot.  • Hands on experience on databases like Oracle11g, MySQL.  • Hands on experinece on version control tools like GIT, Bit Bucket, Confluence, SharePoint.  • Experience in building and deploying applications using ANT, Maven, Jenkins and testing using Junit.  • Experience in using Web/App server like Apache Tomcat server.  • Quick learner, ability to work in challenging and versatile environments, self-motivated, excellent written/verbal communication. Work Experience Java Developer Citi Bank - Fort Mill, SC October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed SDLC-Agile/Scrum methodology in the application development.  • Involved in designing Micro Service Architecture with Spring Boot based RESTful service.  • Wrote DAO classes to retrieve the information from database using Hibernate.  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate using configurations and implemented DAO layer to save entities into data base.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular using HTTP Methods.  • Implemented Multi-Threading using Executor Framework for Scheduling the Jobs.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit testing of the developed functionality.  • Jenkin CI/CD tool configured for continuous integrating and deploying application on servers.  • Worked on writing complex queries and PL/SQL procedures, cursors to fetch the records from DB.  • Used Maven to add dependencies required for the project  • Build and deploy done using Maven and Git repository.  Computing: Spring, Spring boot, Spring JPA, Multi-Threading, MySQL, Maven, Apache Tomcat, GIT, and Jenkins. Java Developer Ameri Health, Philadhelphia January 2018 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed Scrum.  • Involved in designing REST based Micro Services using Spring Boot framework.  • Consumed Google's API to get the locations of the Practitioners by their addresses.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Implemented Multithreading for handling multiple requests and for high performance.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate to fetch data from database and avoid redundant database access statement.  • Wrote Unit test cases using Mockito.  • Involved in writing the databases SQL queries, views, functions triggers and procedures.  • Integration of automation batch run job with Jenkins. Worked with Jenkins Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Tested Rest APIs in Spring-Controller at backend for JSON data using Postman.  • Worked with Maven as build tool for Java development and used GIT as version control tool.  Computing: Spring Boot, Spring JPA, RESTful Web services, SQL, JSON, Jenkins, GIT, Apache tomcat, Maven. Java Developer IBM, NY February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on design and development of object-oriented application using java/J2EE, Web services and Oracle.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as string manipulation, multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection API's to implement various features and enhancements.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring MVC with Hibernate Framework.  • Wrote SQL Queries and Stored procedures for data manipulation and interacting with the database.  • Used Eclipse IDE tool to develop the application.  • Configured and built the application on Apache Tomcat as a server by deploying the code on it.  • Have been part in implementing the services on back end using SOAP/REST web services.  • Used and implemented the application using spring (IOC, MVC, Spring Annotations) using Hibernate.  • Worked on version control tool GIT to update work progress with other team members.  Computing: Java, spring, Hibernate, SOAP/REST, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Tomcat, Eclipse. Associate Software trainee/Jr. Java Developer Red Matter Technologies October 2014 to December 2015 India  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Involved in analysis, design and development of the java Application.  • Developed simple user interface pages using HTML, JavaScript and JSP.  • Implemented OOPS concepts.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP.  • Understanding SOA by developing java Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI.  • Used JDBC to provide database connectivity to database tables.  • Apart from the experience learned the new frameworks like spring and Hibernate ORM tool for mapping the java classes with the database tables.  Computing: HTML, Java, JDBC, Web Services, JSP, JavaScript. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University Of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO January 2016 to May 2017 Technology JNTU Hyderabad College of Engineering - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to May 2015 Skills Apache (2 years), database (3 years), Git (2 years), Java (3 years), Web services (3 years)