Software Engineer Intern Software Engineer Intern Actively Looking for Full-Time/ Part-Time/ Internship opportunities as Software Engineer Hayward, CA I am a hardworking computer science graduate from CSU East Bay. I have been coding for 2+ years in Java, C, C++, HTML, CSS, PHP, and Javascript programming languages. I have an academic level knowledge of Python and Ruby on Rails. In addition, my experience for over a year now as a Information Technology Consultant at Assistive Technology Services Office, Accessibility Services helped me to own couple skills, one is ability to learn new things and other is patience. I am good at finding solution to the given problem. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Intern Ipser Lab LLC - Mountain View, CA June 2019 to Present • Working on designing a site for Science lovers, developing the front end and managing back end of the site  • Modules worked on includes, categories, project, funds, dashboard for the website  • Hands on with tools and technologies such as HTML, CSS, Javascript, AJAX, JAVA, Servlet Information Technology Consultant Assistive Technology Services Office, Accessibility Services CSU East Bay - Hayward, CA January 2018 to Present • Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT)/ Section 508 compliance analyst & approver for CSU East Bay  • Design, develop and maintain the ATSO website using Cascade CMS  • Administrator for Service Now - CSUEB, manage and work on various technical service requests  • IT support for software, hardware installations around the campus with troubleshooting for staff and students Java Developer Intern Hospisoft Pvt. Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2016 to June 2017 INDIA  • Worked as a software developer for the product MedicoDb, an eHealthcare & Telemedicine platform  • Created a module, Pharmacy Supply Chain that maintains all the records such as sales, stocks, cash flows  • Programmed the module with automation mechanism to facilitate reordering of supplies by itself Education MS in Computer Engineering California State University East Bay - Hayward, CA May 2019 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Servlet Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/niyati-parikh/ Publications A Disquisition of Cyber-Crime http://ijste.org/Article.php?manuscript=IJSTEV3I10190 2017-05 The Internet is developing dangerously, as is the number of crimes committed against or utilizing computers. Hence, there arises the need for Cyber security. Cyber security is one of the most important parts in the field of information technology. As we think about Cyber security, first thing which comes to our minds is the increasing number of cyber-crimes. Governments around the world are taking steps to prevent these cyber-crimes. This paper focuses mainly on the problems and obstacles created by cyber-crimes. It also points out the ongoing trends about cyber security. Additional Information SKILLS  Languages: Java, C, C++, Python, PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Technologies: AJAX, Servlet, Hibernate, Spring 3.0, Maven, Node JS, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Thymeleaf  Databases: MySQL, Access DB, MongoDB  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux (Ubuntu 14.04), Mac  Application Software: Cascade CMS, Service Now, Jupyter Notebook, Eclipse, NetBeans, Spring Tool Suite 3