Associate Consultant Associate Consultant Associate Consultant - BRISTLECONE I am highly obliged for giving your precious time for allowing me to present my details before you.  DATE:    PLACE:    [Nikhil shah] Work Experience Associate Consultant BRISTLECONE October 2016 to Present Environment: Magic xpi, Magic xpa, Oracle 10G, elipse    Project Profile  Title: Mahindra USA and Mahindra India (SAP) System Support and Integration  Client: Mahindra & Mahindra.  Domain: Support and Integration of SAP with different IT clients of Mahindra USA.    Responsibilities:  1. Supporting integration projects developed in magic xpi and magic xpa.  2. Defect / bug fixing in integration projects.  3. Worked on enhancements in the existing integration projects.  4. Integration Server (Magic xpi) where installed and Directory structure.  5. Performing Database related activities such as Database Backup and restore  6. System health monitoring, Monitoring queries (SQL)  7. Participate in Many Phases of Integration Process  8. Integration Flow development and Reviews  9. Coordination with technical/functional teams involved in integration projects  10. Troubleshooting application integration issues if occurs  11. Coordinating with database/Server team for server/database maintenance activities  12. Involved in testing of integration projects  13. Client interaction  14. Process management    Description:  Mahindra USA is M&M initiative to sell Mahindra vehicles in USA. It has 3 IT clients Fusion ops, Dealer Connect portal, Accounmate. Through Project MUSA, Mahindra USA plans asynchronous support and integration to their SAP System.  Objective of Mahindra USA (MUSA) is to integrate USA client system using Magic xpi over the HTTPS.  MUSA integration done with following Magic Xpi projects  • Dealer Connect  • Funion Ops  • Accountmate USA and  • Accountmate India    Project Profile  Title: Mahindra Dealer Management System  Client: Mahindra & Mahindra.  Domain: Developed Mahindra Portal and Dashboard.    Responsibilities:  • Developed all the form and table using in project  • Database connectivity  • JavaScript validations  • Connectivity with SAP integration Java Developer E-SOLUTIONS July 2015 to October 2016 Environment: Eclipse, Apache Tomcat Server, Oracle 10G.    1. Project Title: Job Portal  Platform Used: JAVA  Brief Description: Job Portal application has been developed for the online registration of private employers, submission of vacancy information, searching and sponsoring of candidates, issuance of letters to candidates.    2. Project Title: Tourist Management System  Platform Used: JAVA  Brief Description: The technology in order to provide the best services to customers and various travelling agents in the field of tourisms activities such as bookings, accommodations, food services, tourism spot details and many more.    STRENGTH  • Hardworking, Adjustable with Environment, Sincere, Quick Learner, Self-Confident.  • Good problem solving and analytical skills    PERSONAL DETAIL  Date of Birth: May 02, 1991  Marital Status: Single  Nationality: Indian  Gender: Male Education BE in Information Technology RGPV University Bhopal - Bhopal, MP, IN 2014 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Data Base:  Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Oracle 10G    Language  C, HTML, Java, Hadoop.    Operating System  Windows XP/7/2003/2008 R2, Linux    Tools  Magic XPI, Eclipse, VMcloudera, BMC Remedy Ticketing Tool.