Mulesoft Consultant Mulesoft Consultant Mulesoft Consultant - Anypoint Studio, MuleSoft Denver, CO • Seven plus years of experience in designing, developing and testing applications using IBM, MuleSoft and Oracle products. 3+ years of experience in application integration using Mule ESB, CloudHub, Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Platform.  • Good experience in Mavenizing, MuleSoft project and creating builds using Maven build tools for deployment to CloudHub / Mule MMC.  • Respond to reported problems and inquiries from retailers, distributors, and business departments.  • Good experience developing SOAP and Rest based services.  • Good experience using mule connectors like DB, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FILE, SFTP, JMS, Salesforce, SAP etc as a part of integration usage.  • Good experience in using ActiveMQ, AWS suite for Asynchronous message queuing for guaranteed delivery pattern.  • Good experience in MuleSoft Expression Language (MEL) to access payload data, properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.  • Good experience in XML technologies like XSD, XSLT, XQuery, and Xpath for data transformations in MuleSoft.  • Strong experience with Problem determination, Route cause Analysis and Defect resolution.  • Good experience in Design and development of Mule ESB projects which are on-premises and hosted cloud using synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Good experience creating technical documentation including incoming and outgoing message structure, message flow diagram, provider service information and test cases.  • Good experience working in Agile based team environment.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills.    ACCREDITATION Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mulesoft Consultant Anypoint Studio, MuleSoft - Goodlettsville, TN December 2016 to Present Servlets,  JAXP,  JAXB,  WSDL,  Spring MVC,  SOAP,  Nexus,  Java,  XML.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  Client Responsibilities  Dollar General, Goodlettsville, TN    • Design and develop enterprise services API specification using RAML and REST schema.  • Create HTTP inbound & outbound flows and XSLT transformers and Security of Mule endpoint.  • Build Deploy and Test applications or flows using Mule ESB and build and deployed the services.  • Design and Develop Restful API's using API Designer and generated flows using RAML file.  • Participate in analysis, design, development and implementation life cycles of the project.  • Promote code from development to testing and production environments.  • Work with Business Analyst to understand the integration requirements.  • Participate in business meetings to gather requirements.  • Participate in different phases of Testing with end systems.  • Create Test plans, Test Suit and Test Cases.  • Create complex queries with joins, sub-queries, and nested queries in SQL queries.  • Support development, test and the production databases  • Create Flows, Sub Flows, and DataMapper transformations in Mule configuration.  • Implement data transformation using DataWeave and MEL.  • Deploy and scheduled mule project on cloud hub.  • Implement and consume both SOAP and Restful web services.  • Participate in trouble shooting and problem solving of the Integrations.  • Create High level, detailed design, topology and testing documents.  • Participate in 24X7 production support.  • Create Exception Handling for the ease of debugging and displaying the error messages in the application.    Role  Mulesoft Consultant  Period Java Developer Anypoint Studio July 2014 to November 2016 Servlets,  JSON,  JMS,  CloudHub,  GitHub,  XML,  XSD,  XSLT,  XPATH,  WSDL,  SOAP,  Spring MVC.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  Client Responsibilities  Best Buy, Bloomington MN    • Spring IOC for dependency injection and Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security, transaction management.  • Designed web portals using HTML & used Java script, AJAX.  • Used RAD for developing and debugging the application  • Implemented test cases with JUnit.  • Used XML for the data exchange and developed Web Services.  • Integrated Spring JDBC for the persistence layer  • Developed DAO Classes and written SQL for accessing Data from the database.  • Involved in Bug Fixing of the application.  • Coordinated with the QA team and participated in testing.  • Created SQL scripts to load the custom data into Used  • Utilized Rational Clear Case as a version control system and for code management.  • Implemented Ant and Maven build tools to build jar and war files and deployed war files to target servers.  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system. Captured requirements using Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams.  • Deployment of the application into JBOSS Application Server.    Role  Java Developer  Period  Jul 2012 - May 2014  Environment  AJAX,  JUnit,  Oracle 9i,  HTML,  J2EE,  ClearCase,  JBuilder,  DHTML,  XSL,  XSLT,  Servlets,  JavaScript,  JBOSS,  RAD,  log4J Education Master of Science in Economics University of Oslo Associate of Science in Computer Science Community College of Baltimore County