WAS Admin WAS Admin WAS Admin - PepsiCo • Around 4 years of experience in the IT industry.  • Proficient in designing and developing web page effectively using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and SQL.  • Having Good Experience in Java.  • Oracle Sun Certified Java Professional (SCJP 7).  • Good understanding and real-time industry working experience in Agile Projects  • Strong technical experience with HTML5, CSS3, Java Script.  • Knowledge on MVC Frameworks.  • A good strategic planner with the ability to plan a course of action so as to execute them in a time bound manner  • Have the ability to create an environment of trust and co-operation through an open exchange of ideas towards achieving team goals  • Ability to achieve quality results within the defined parameters  • Possess good communication skills and capable of influencing others towards the desired action Work Experience WAS Admin PepsiCo Present Duration: April 2018 to till Now.    Project Description:  PepsiCo is one of the world's leading food and beverage companies with products sold in more than 200 countries and territories around the world.    Environment Summary:  Application Servers: WebSphere Portal V8.5  Web Servers: Apache web servers V2.2.17.  Database: DB2 10.5.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Part of Admin team for WebSphere portal.  • Having experience in ITE and Production deployments.  • Had Interaction with Clients.  • Performed server restarts, involved in front-end and back-end related activities.  • Supported as L2 and Admin Related tasks.    Project 2: Java Developer Companhia de Telecomunicações de Macau November 2015 to March 2018 Project Description:  Provides telecommunications services in Macau. It offers personal services, including prepaid mobile, mobile, Internet, and fixed-line services; business services, such as mobile, Internet, fixed-line, managed, and leased line services, as well as business solutions; and personal and business eServices.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Part of development team for Internet, leased- line and fixed-line services end to end.  • Part of testing team for mobile services.  • Developed code with various complex scenarios for Internet, leased-line and fixed-line services.  • Made few enhancements for existing code for mobile services.  • Delivered automation for monitoring the servers.  • Involved into client calls along with BA's to get the requirement.  • Followed Agile and Waterfall approaches in the project life-cycle by dividing the total work.  • Designed and modeled web pages using HTML, CSS to make application GUI user interactive. Used JavaScript for validating forms.  • Solved the Trouble Reports(TRs) raised by end users by adding required functionality to existing code  • Presented user stories and status updates to clients and internal peers in meetings.  • Had Interaction with clients. Education B.Tech in CSE C.V.R. College of Engineering - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2015 Pragathi Junior College 2011 S.S.C Little Flower Girls High School 2009 Additional Information TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES:    • Languages: Java, Shell Scripting, HTML.  • Software Products/Tools: Putty, Eclipse IDE, Apache Tomcat 7.0, Comverse One Billing System.  • Solution Environment: Oracle 10g Database  • Web Technologies: Java Script, HTML, CSS.  • Databases: MySQL  • Operating System: Windows Environments.