Volunteer Volunteer Volunteer Rancho Cordova, CA A customer service -oriented and self-motivated individual with a special talent for providing superb customer service to the multicultural population. Well - spoken strong telephone skills. Demonstrated ability to excel in the fast-paced environment and thrive under pressure. Strong analytical and problem-solving skills. Enjoy exceeding customer expectations. Work Experience Volunteer Hindu Temple of Atlanta - Atlanta, GA 2018 to 2018 Set chairs in the auditorium  ? Greeted guests and provide information  ? Arranged and filled offering baskets  ? Distributed reading material during and before service  ? Worked with Computer to add any services changes Java Developer CVS Pharmacy - Woonsocket, RI August 2013 to December 2014 Java Developer Entergy - Little Rock, AR March 2013 to August 2013 Java Developer State of Connecticut - Camp Hill, PA September 2012 to March 2013 Java Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA March 2011 to September 2012 Customer Service Intern Southern Polytechnic State University - Marietta, GA June 2010 to 2011 Learned and understood the key concepts of customer care  ? Utilized CRM software to resolve the complaints of customers  ? Assisted customers to ensure a positive experience  ? Handled and solved customers' problems Adminstrative Intern Southern Polytechnic State University - Marietta, GA June 2010 to August 2010 Answered phones and greeted guests.  ? Handled filing and records management.  ? Greeted guests and provided information  ? Cleaned and maintained the reception area.  ? Scheduled appointments for the Business Development team. Education Master's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology Southern Polytechnic STATE UNIVERSITY - Marietta, GA 2011 Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    ? Proactive go-getter attitude  ? Great phone etiquette  ? Critical thinker  ? Exceptional attention to detail  ? Excellent presentation abilities  ? Computer: Word, Excel, Internet, and E-mail  ? Functional knowledge of POS and billing software    ADDITIONAL CAPABILITIES  ? Excellent knowledge of attracting potential customers for business purposes  ? Strong know-how of managing existing accounts regarding service and product knowledge  ? Well versed in responding to customer requests in a time efficient manner  ? Able to handle customer complaints according to company policies and protocols  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills  ? Computer: MS Office Applications  ? Exposure to and a high tolerance for diverse cultures