Engineer Engineer Engineer - DevOps • Over 3+ years of experience as a Dev-Ops engineer & Linux Admin.  • Hands on experience with version control system like GIT, SVN.  • Hands on experience on working with Git and SVN branching system.  • Excellent skills on working with Jenkins for continuous integration of workflow.  • Worked on freestyle jobs, pipeline jobs and multibranch pipeline jobs. Experience on groovy script, created and used groovy scripts in jenkins file to create pipline jobs for continous integration and deployment.  • Good Experience on using Build tools Ant and Maven.  • Used Ant, Maven scripts (build.xml, pom.xml) as build frameworks/scripts.  • Experienced on containerization using Docker, Good knowledge on using docker swarm, and creating images, containers.  • Good experience on using Web Server Tomcat, Nginx. Installed tomcat servers using shell scripts. Knowledge on using Tomcat Manager.  • Experience in using JIRA Ticketing tool, Good knowledge in creating tickets for for admin and code issues.  • Integrated JIRA with CI/CD Pipeline as defect tracking system and configured workflows to automate deployment and issue tracking  • Knowledge on using Configuration Management Tools for continuous deployment.  • Knowledge in writing Ansible scripts (YAML) for deploy and configuration purpose.  • Hands on experience in configuring SSH and FTP server to transfer files.  • Experience with Managed environments DEV, QA, UAT for various releases and designed scripts to deployment to different environments.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical and presentation skills. Work Experience Engineer DevOps March 2017 to Present Project 1:  Project Name: Health care Application. DevOps March 2017 to Present Environments: GIT, Jenkins, AWS, Maven, Ansible, Docker, Shell scripting,  Java  Technology: DEVOPS  Role: DevOps Engg    Responsibilities:  • Built and Deployed Java code to a web application server in an Agile continuous integration environment and also automated the whole process  • Administered and Engineered Jenkins for managing weekly Build, Test and Deploy chain, SVN/GIT with Branching Model for weekly releases.  • Set up CI (Continuous Integration) for major releases in Jenkins, using pipeline jobs and multibranch pipeline jobs.  • Creating and modifying Jenkins files using groovy script for code checkout, build, archiving, artifact backup, and email notification.  • Managed Jenkins plugins for Tests, Reports, Notification, User Authorization & Deployment.    • Created Jenkins file using groovy and shell scripts for deployment to QA, DEV and PROD servers.  • Deploying the new releases to several QA servers using the pipeline jobs in Jenkins.  • Configuring pipeline jobs for deployment to QA and PROD servers.  • Creating images for applications using Docker containerization for backup of application configurations and Creating docker instances for the testing purposes.  • Worked on Git, Created branches for GIT, branch merging, and code checkout. Used Git for Maintaining Jenkins files and shell scripts.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process used Jenkins for automating Builds and Automating Deployments.  • Used Nagios as IT infrastructure monitoring tool: monitoring host resources such as processor load, disk usage, system logs, monitoring applications, services and network protocols.  • Maintained the repository of configuration items for all projects.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Responsible to perform Build operations with Maven Scripts, while implementing the required modifications in the Maven Script (POM.xml) to perform build operations, in accordance with requirements.  • Monitored daily builds in all common UNIX distributions, sanity testing and packaging.  • Experience in deploying the code to application servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Partnering and communicating with the Development, QA, Install, Release management folks.  • Used Docker for shipping applications to test environments. Experience in docker swarm, docker compose.  • Installed and Configured the Nexus repository manager for sharing the artifacts within the company.  • Worked on day to day administration tasks and resolved tickets using JIRA. Software Developer Hydoodle Technologies Pvt Ltd September 2015 to February 2017 Experience Summary in JAVA  1.5 years of experience in JAVA. Possesing Technical capabilities in JAVA, Spring MVC. Java application desing. I worked for Hydoodle Technologies Pvt Ltd and i was the key role and lead for different projects Development and capabilities and i had the deep knowledge on Designer, Java application development    Project Profile #2  Project Name: Banking Security project Java Developer Hydoodle Technologies Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN September 2015 to February 2017 Java Developer Experience:  • System performance monitoring and tuning and system logs monitoring.  • Involved in the development of 2 modules hich involves external system communications using web services, HTTP Protocol, Message Queue.  • User account management, managing passwords setting up quotas and troubleshooting user logins using various remote login utilities.  • Involved in preparation of unit test cases for the modules  • Involved in preparation of Integration test cases for the modules  • Experience working in automated build and deployment process for java applications.  • Configured, and maintained Apache web server from open source with Java and Tomcat  • Involved in deployment of modules in various environments such as DEVELOPMENT, SYSTEM and PERFORMANCE of Integration test cases for the modules    I hereby declare that the information given is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.    Place: Hyderabad Srikanth Udarapu Education BSC in Computers Kakatiya University 2011 to 2014 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Platform: Linux (Red Hat), Ubuntu (Debian)  Scripting: Shell (Bash), Groovy  Source Code Management: GIT, GIT-HUB, SVN  Continuous Integration: Jenkins  Build Tools: Maven  Configuration Management: Ansible  Art factory Tool: Nexus  Cloud Environment: Amazon-AWS(EC2, S3, VPC, IAM )