Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer Mooresville, NC • Over 8+ years of IT experience in various roles ( Java/J2EE Developer, CMS Developer).  • Extensive exposure to different Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies including Agile.  • Experienced in developing CMS based applications using Adobe CQ/AEMApache Sling and OSGI.  • Experienced in Working with AEM6.1 and Sightly.  • Experienced in using CRXDE and Eclipse IDEs to develop CMS applications.  • Experienced in using html, css3, JavaScript and JavaScript libraries to implement user interface screens.  • Implemented Adobe CQ templates, components, workflow, style sheets,  Meta Tagging and performed CMS administration tasks.  • Strong experience with setting up AEM/CQ5 using Maven and standard Eclipse tools.  • Exposure to dispatcher configurations as part of AEM website architecture.  • Created custom sling bundles as part of new functionalities provided to CQ sites.  • Experience with multi lingual websites having i18n translations.  • Having good Knowledge working with Web Services especially based on Rest API.  • Experienced in Object oriented analysis, design and development using Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSPs, JNDI, Java Beans, EJB and JDBC).  • Experienced in developing enterprise applications using MVC frameworks such as Struts, Spring MVC.  • Experienced in using RDBMS like Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server and MySQL.  • Experienced in developing applications using CRXDE, Eclipse and Rational Application Developer (RAD) IDEs.  • Experienced in developing applications using application/Web servers such as JBoss, WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  • Experience developing UI for the applications using JSP, HTML5, XML, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Business Analyst with CQ5/AEM experience • Experience working with Adobe flex framework.  • Experience in using JQuery, ExtJS and Angular JsJavaScript libraries.  • Experience working with Bug tracking tools like QC, JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Hands on experience in conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with End-users, SMEs, Developers, QAs and other stakeholders for project meetings, walkthroughs and customer interviews.  • Worked on Agile PLM methodology.  • Involved in the effort estimation of the project.  • Participated in each phase of one full SFDC lifecycle implementation, provided end-user training and post go-live support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer Lowes - Mooresville, NC April 2017 to April 2017 Resposibilities: • Working as a senior software IT developer in an Agile project environment responsible for taking on medium to complex user stories and completing them within a 2-week iteration timeframe.  • I will be responsible for taking initiative to self-assign user stories and work with business partners to fully understand requirements then produce accurate estimates and deliver within his/her estimates.  • KM redesign is the internal knowledge Management using AEM 6.1 & CQ 5.6.1 for the support to customer and help customer reprehensive to business team. it also helps to marketing related offer selection and creation for management, which contains CMS as a CQ5, ecommerce, shop and various modules.  • Developed the customizable landing pages and CQ5 custom components.  • Responsible for programming, testing, implementation, documentation, maintenance and support of AEM software components, processes and industry best practices.  • Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  • Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows.  • I'm responsible for all aspects of their assigned user stories until they are deployed and working in production this includes tracking related changes with other developers and related database changes to ensure they work in all non-prod and prod environments.  • They also may be required to mentor more junior or new teammates as needed. The position will require production support activities including log/table analysis and rotating on-call responsibilities.  • Developed site search, search within modules using Adobe CQ search features. Responsible for developing Asset share/ Asset editor components for sharing the digital assets within the intranet and on internet with authorized vendors.  • Used Vaultclipse and CRXDE extensively to perform development.    Environment: Java, AEM 6.1, CQ5.6.1, CQ5 DAM, CQ Tagging, Apache Maven, JIRA, Apache HTTP Server, RESTful API, JDBC, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, AJAX, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat 6 CQ5/AEM Developer Verizon Wireless - Hilliard, OH October 2015 to April 2017 Resposibilities: • Understanding Business case • Design, implementation and gathering the software requirements, bug fixing, development and support.  • Primary responsibilities include development, testing and integration of a Java or an AEM component.  • Designing the new component/template/service/workflow/life cycle/jobs/email template from scratch or doing the customisation in the already built using the CQ5 APIs or the JAVA APIs along with jsp, servlet, html, jquery, ajax ,css.  • Writing the queries in SQL for fetching the data from the repository.  • Worked on Agile and scrum methodologies to provide the end to end solution.  • Also sometimes role involves to work on the change requests known as CRs.  • Developed various components and designed the templates for the adobe day cq projects. Developed the Abstractor classes written in java which fetches the front end application's values through a json object and applies the logic and sends back the object with the new values to populate the front end.  • Writing the logic for the workflow implementation in the adobe cq application.  • Creating and building the packages known as bundles and deploying them in the OSGI container • Designing the email templates creating the dialogs.  • Applying the CSS and styles using the CSS and client libraries in the applications.    Environment: Java, AEM Apache sling, Apache Felix, JCR, Web services, core java, JSP, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, JavaScript, Ext JS, jQuery, Maven, Linux, Apache, dispatcher, JIRA, Eclipse, File Vault. Adobe CQ5/AEM Developer Barclays November 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities: • Design and implement components for the Adobe CQ platform.  • Diagnose and solve technical problems related to content management implementation.  • Design, develop and support WCM components, integrations and applications.  • Developed custom widgets using ExtJS.  • Analyzed and implemented the Adobe CQ5 installation and its integration into the website using JCR.  • Collaborated with internal teams and vendors to resolve various installations issues.  • Using Spring based REST webservices for integration with backend services.  • Developed components that include fetching the content dynamically based on tags.  • Implemented templates to be used by various pages such as product, department and device pages.  • Implemented custom components using cq tags , jquery, JavaScript and jsp.  • Implemented server side service components using Apache Felix framework and apache sling.  • Implemented components to utilize services through sling service calls and Jsp tags.  • Implemented client libraries useful at page, global and component level using CSS and JavaScript files.  • Performed administration tasks to activate, replicate and package the changes to publish as well to be consumed by other environments • OSGI has been used to deploy dynamic libraries.  • Implemented Sling servlets to provide Ajax handling.  • Content authoring and maintenance for test environments • Used Vaultclipse and CRXDE extensively to perform development.    Environment: Java, AEM Apache sling, Apache Felix, JCR, Web services, core java, JSP, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, JavaScript, Ext JS, jQuery, Maven, Linux, Apache, dispatcher, JIRA, Eclipse, File Vault. Sr. Java & J2EE Developer Amgen 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities: • Involved in full life cycle of project including planning sessions with project managers and business analysts to analyze business requirements inJava.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, DHTML,CSS, JSP, JSTL, Ajax, JavaScript, Web services, Servlets.  • Develop MDB to retrieve the JMS message from queue and communicate with different services based on request.  • Used Design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object.  • Extensively used ApacheStruts Framework to implement MVC architecture • Responsible for developing the Struts-configuration file, Action classes for handling the Http requests from the front-end components.  • Perform transformation of design models into simple POJO classes.  • Involved in development using struts components - action mappings in struts-config.xml, tiles, Form Beans, Action classes for handling the Http requests from the front-end components, Backend, plug-ins in Struts architecture • Used J2EE Design Patterns (Singleton Pattern, Factory Pattern, and Business Delegate Pattern) for Middle Tier Development.  • Extensive experience in event handling and even-based programming.  • Used Hibernate as the object relational mapping tool for persisting java objects.  • Worked with automated scripts using ANT framework to deploy applications on WebSphere application/ server.  • Involved in writing shell script and crontab for database malignance.  • Used YUI Library to make AJAX calls.  • Use of SVN repository to maintain distributed work structure.  • Involved in writing the ANT scriptfor creating WAR and TAR files and SSH to stage box.  • Use of JUnit framework for Unit testing of applications.  • Work on test cases and resolving defects, using HP Quality Center.  • Experience working across different teams and build very healthy work environment.    Environment: J2EE, Core Java, Servlets, JSF, JSP, Hibernate, Struts, JSTL, CSS, DHTML, XML JavaScript, Swing, Spring, JPA, AJAX, POJO, Eclipse,Web Logic, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Toad, CVS, Putty, Apache Log4j, Unix (Solaris), ANT, Crystal Reports. Java /J2EE Support and Developer Canara Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities: • Performed analysis for the client requirements based on the developed detailed design documents.  • Developed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Data Models using Microsoft Visio.  • Developed Struts forms and actions for validation of user request data and application functionality.  • Developed JSP's with Struts custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  • Involved in developing business tier using stateless session bean.  • Used JavaScript for the web page validation and Struts Validator for server side validation.  • Designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, and Triggers and Views using IBM DB2.  • Design patterns of Delegates, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Used ClearCase for source code control and JUnit for unit testing.  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts 1.0, JSP, JDBC, Eclipse, EJB, ANT, XML, IBM Web Sphere, JUnit, DB2, CVS. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License