Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Airbnb San Francisco, CA • Over 3 years of IT experience in utilizing Java tools in Business, Web, and Client-Server environments  using latest Java/J2EE technologies for analysis, design, development, re-engineering, maintenance,  installation, implementation and testing on various platforms.  • Proficiency in developing Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using Spring  Frameworks.  • Proven expertise in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring  Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO).  • Experienced in Front-End Development using MVC frameworks such as Spring, JSF, Struts.  • Build Spring Boot Microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Experience in developing UI using JSP, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery.  • Experience in working with web/applications servers WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  • Familiar with the use of design patterns including MVC, Singleton and Data Access Object patterns.  • Experience in implementing SOA architectures with Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and REST.  • Experience in PL/SQL programming including complex SQL queries using stored procedures and  Triggers.  • Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS. And with the creation of  RESTful Web service  • Designed and implemented systems based on N-tier distributed architecture using JAVA/J2EE  technologies such as, Core Java, Multithreading, Collections Framework, Java I/O, JDBC, Hibernate,  Spring Framework, Spring Batch, Struts Framework, JSP, jQuery and XML including XSL, XSLT and  XML Beans.  • Build Spring Boot Microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  • Hands on experience in working on XML Suite of technologies (XML, XSLT, DTD, DOM).  • Proactive and well organized with effective time management skills.  • Strong interpersonal and communication skills and self-motivated individual showing ability to learn and  use new technologies and frameworks in considerably less time. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Airbnb - San Francisco, CA December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Used Gradle as a build tool automating the building, testing, publishing and deployment.  ? Used Git as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have  to communicate with a server.  ? Extensive experience with Agile Team Development and Test Driven Development using JIRA.  ? Effectively followed and implemented the scrum methodologies by attending day to day scrum meetings.  ? Fixing the bugs in the existing application through JIRA.  ? Extensively used Java collection framework and exception handling.  ? Developed Junit test cases for all the developed modules.    Environment: Java J2EE, Gradle, SOA, GIT, dropwizard, Intellij IDEA, Hibernate, Jira, MySql, JUnit,  Mockito, IOS. Java/J2EE Developer Highmark - Harrisburg, PA October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Involved in different phases of the Agile risk management application development like Requirements  gathering, Design, and Analysis, Code development Testing, Systems Integration, Installation, and Deployment.  ? Worked on UML application design diagrams and drawn class, use case diagrams.  ? Implemented Spring MVC; included writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form  submissions and performed validations using Commons validator.  ? Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating AngularJS with Bootstrap which is  further integrated with RESTful Web Services.  ? Worked high end on collections and multithreading.  ? Developed the front-end web pages using HTML, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, jQuery for presentation layer  and AJAX for the asynchronous communication to the server.  ? Created Maven builds to build and deploy Spring Boot microservices to internal enterprise Docker  registry.  ? Recommended and develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring  Security and Spring Boot.  ? Designed and exposed SOAP web services using JAX-WS.  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations & business classes wired-up  to frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Developed SQL queries to interact with SQL Server database and involved in writing PL/SQL code for procedures and functions.  ? Used Hibernate Framework for persistence onto Oracle database.  ? Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in WebLogic Application  Server environment.  ? Enhanced the Python scripts used for executing the Algorithms in Windows Environment.  ? Written Junit testing using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing.  ? Used Log4j for Logging and Used Jira for Bug tracking Tool.    Environment: Java J2EE, ANT, IBM, Node.js, multithreading, Spring Boot, Toad for Oracle,  MyEclipse, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, WebSphere, DB2, SQL, Oracle, JUnit,  Mockito, Windows. Java/J2EE Developer All State - Chicago, IL January 2017 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Agile methodology for the iterative development of the application.  • Developed and deployed UI layer logics of sites using JSP, XML, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML5,  AJAX and CSS3.  • Designed and developed Presentation Layer using MVC framework.  • Used Angular JS to bind data on HTML elements and integrated with REST based services returning  JSON data.  • Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing jQuery, Node.js  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Build microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise  • Designed, developed and tested Java/J2EE applications using Spring and Spring IOC.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  • Used spring framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management.  • Used Hibernate to connect from web service and perform CRUD operations in to DB.  • Implemented and consumed REST API with JAX-RS web services to handle both XML and JSON  interfaces.  • Configured Hibernate, Spring and My Faces JSF to map the business objects to Database using XML  configuration file.  • Converted the standalone MS-Access reports into Oracle Reports, web reports with business logic written  in PL/SQL and Java.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures modifications to existing database structure as required per  addition of new features.  • Used Eclipse as the IDE to building the application.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.  • Wrote test cases and done Unit testing and written executing JUnit tests.  • Wrote ANT Scripts for project build.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Node.js, JSF, Spring Boot, Servlets, XML, Angular JS,  JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Apache Tomcat, REST, Oracle, PL/SQL, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Log4j, ANT,  JUnit, Windows. Java/J2EE Developer KeyBank - Cleveland, OH July 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Clients to collect business requirements, to analyze and design the system and designed  various UML Diagrams like Class diagrams, Sequence Diagrams.  • Used Spring framework features including Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP and Spring  Templates.  • Created and managed AJAX calls in the application, integrated with the JSF controls.  • Integrated the application with Spring framework for implementing Dependency Injection and provide  abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer.  • Designed and developed front-end using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Used AngularJS for the interaction between the JavaScript validation and dynamic HTML pages.  • Worked on highly incorporated application development frameworks (spring) to build persistent and reliable application modules.  • Developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) which handles all database operations using Hibernate.  • Worked on Oracle as the backend database and integrated with Hibernate to retrieve Data Access Objects.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL  protocols.  • Helping team members to debug issues with the application and designed and prepared Unit test case  using JUnit and Log4j and removed the maximum bugs before passing on the application to the QA team.  • Wrote build and deployment scripts using ANT scripts.  • Developed the application on Eclipse and deployed the application on JBoss to integrate run time  components and the tools to develop applications.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, XML, AngularJS, JSP, JavaScript, HTML5,  CSS3, Apache Tomcat, SOAP, Oracle, PL/SQL, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Log4j, ANT, JUnit, GIT, JBoss,  Windows. Education Bachelor in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Jordan University of Science and Technology 2015 Skills AngularJS (3 years), database (3 years), HTML5 (3 years), Java (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), jQuery (2 years), JSP (3 years), Junit (3 years), Model View Controller (3 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (3 years), MVC (3 years), Oracle (3 years), PL/SQL (3 years), Servlets (3 years), SOAP (3 years), SQL (3 years), testing (2 years), UML (3 years), Web Services. (3 years), XML (3 years), J2Ee, Spring, Rest, Java J2Ee, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming  Core Java, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++.  Languages  Java Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC,  Frameworks MVC, Spring, Hibernate and JDBC.  Web Services (SOAP/REST), SOA, XSLT, DOM, Apache,  Distributed Technologies  WSDL.  Web/Application Servers JBoss, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic.  IDEs Eclipse, My Eclipse, JDeveloper, NetBeans.  Scripting Languages AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3.  Markup Languages HTML5, XML.  Testing/Logging Tools JUnit, Log4j.  Database Server Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, db2.  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, UML, Design Patterns, Agile.  Messaging Services JMS.  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN.