Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Teamitek LLC ? 3+ years of Industry experience in Design and development of web-based and Client-Server business applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies. Strong knowledge in implementing Agile (Sprint/Scrum) Methodology by analyzing requirement specifications.  ? Experience in using object-oriented design (OOD) principles various design patterns like Singleton, Façade, Factory, Abstract Factory.  ? Familiar with all layers of full stack development of web applications to include user interface and user experience, API and Action layers, business logic, data access logic, and data modeling.  ? Experience developing web applications with JavaScript, Java, RESTful Services, jQuery, JSON, and HTML5.  ? Experience in using Maven build tools to manage framework dependency jar files  ? Experience in writing and executing Unit test cases and J-Unit Testing Framework.  ? Hands on experience in using GITHUB as version control tool.  ? Proficiency in analyzing/querying needed information from the backend database.  ? Familiar to D3.JS and different data visualization algorithms.  ? Good knowledge on WCS (Web Sphere Commerce Suite) and its Custom features. Work Experience Java Developer Teamitek LLC - Dallas, TX January 2019 to Present • Designed and developed the web-based application different Java/J2EE frameworks.  • Implementing Hibernate ORM tool and integrating with Spring MVC for interacting with back end persistence system.  • Developing the GUI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Script components.  • Developing GUI module using JQuery, JSON.  • Used Bootstrap, and JavaScript for developing modules in front-end.  • Used flexible layouts, images and media queries to target multiple browsers and devices using bootstrap and customized style sheets.  • Working under Agile process for development process with iterative development and that includes daily Scrum with team.  • Implementing Web-Services to integrate between different application using RESTFul Services.  • Working on SQL Queries and did some Stored Procedure changes as per the given Requirement. DATA VISULIZATION January 2018 to December 2018 Project, Where I have studied, and developed different visualization algorithms, where I mainly focused on understanding and explaining different D3 techniques with the help of data collected from Twitter.  RESPONSIBLITIES:  ? Used D3.js functions to transform the data into SVG module. Developed web pages with HTML, enhanced styles with CSS and reusable JavaScript functions.  ? Used Tomcat web server rendering JSON, CSV formats data to feed DOM elements  ? Used twitter 4j streaming API ( JAVA) to get real time data from twitter, where we used OAuth authorization keys and tokens (Consumer token, Access token, Consumer key and Consumer Secret) which are provided by twitter for application development.  The data generated is directly fed into Java class which holds code for sentiment analysis, which we called sentiment analyzer. Sentiment analyzer is implemented using Stanford core NLP (Natural language processing) API written in java. SOFTWARE ENGINEER Shriram Transport Finance Company Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2015 to December 2017 Shriram Transport Finance Company Ltd is one of the fast-growing Financing providing company. Acted as a member of an agile team dedicated to the completion of the Network management system. Providing development, design, and testing services within the team.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Improved the Network management system. Designed and implemented additional functionalities for the management of customer requests and incident using Java/ JSP.  ? Responsible for the server administration (Apache Tomcat), version control using GIT.  ? Used Spring framework's Dependency Injection (Inversion of Control/IOC) to effectively manage various bean components across the application.  ? Implemented Hibernate (ORM Mapping tool) framework to interact with the database to update, retrieve, insert, and delete values effectively.  ? Developed code using various design patterns like Singleton, Façade.  ? Used Log4j for Logging various levels of information like error, info, debug into the log files.  ? Developing front end modules in the field of HTML5 for the UI level business logic  ? Used Core Java Collections, Exception Handling, and Design Patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information.  ? Used jQuery, JavaScript framework, HTML, CSS for designing the user interface (UI) of the application.  ? Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  ? Used Maven build tools to manage framework dependency jar files.  ? Used JIRA performed documenting defects, resolved them to track their status.  ? Updated database (MySQL) and executed normalization process. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Southern Arkansas University - Magnolia, AR 2019 Skills Apache (2 years), Css (3 years), database (2 years), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Git. (2 years), Html (3 years), Integration (Less than 1 year), Integrator (Less than 1 year), Java (3 years), Java script (3 years), Jsp. (2 years), Junit (2 years), Maven (2 years), Microsoft access. (Less than 1 year), Ms sql server (Less than 1 year), Python. (Less than 1 year), testing (2 years), Tomcat (3 years), version control (2 years), web server (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY  ? Programing Languages: Java, JavaScript, J2EE, Python.  ? Database: SQL Server, Microsoft Access.  ? Web Technologies: CSS, JavaScript, REST Web services, HTML 5, JSP, D3.JS.  ? Web Server: Apache Tomcat.  ? IDE: Eclipse, Adobe Web Premium CS5, Net beans.  ? Operating System: Windows.  ? Version Control Tools: Git.  ? Testing: Junit.  ? Integration Tools: Maven, Jenkins.