IT Analyst IT Analyst IT Analyst - Tata Consultancy Services ? A technology driven professional with experience of 4 years in IT Industry.  Including 3 months of SQL training, 0.9 year of Java development and support activity in rest web services, 3 years of Software Testing with a solid understanding of Test Planning, Test Design, Test execution and Defect Reporting & Tracking.  ? POC development to prove that concept can be converted in to an application.  ? Expertise in Understanding and analyzing Test Requirements, Tracking changes and maintenance of Test Requirements.  ? Well acquainted with all phases of SDLC and STLC.  ? Proficient in Test Automation using Selenium Tools.  ? Strong experience in Automating Web Application Testing using Selenium WebDriver with TestNG framework.  ? Strong Experience in core java Programming, Selenium WebDriver and TestNG in Agile methodology.  ? Involvement in Test estimations and Test strategy implementation.  ? Proficient in devising all the artifacts of testing such as Test Scenarios, Test Cases, Defect Reports and Test summary report.  ? Self-motivated, energetics and highly ethical in all work related assignments thus able to immediately contribute to corporate goals and objects.  ? Good written, communication, interpersonal skills, proven team player with an analytical mind bent to problem solving and delivering solutions.  ? A team player having no difficulty in learning a new technology and being part of a team.  ? Success at motivating staff through clear communication and outstanding organizational skills. Work Experience IT Analyst Tata Consultancy Services March 2015 to Present TCS] java developer Tata Consultancy Services - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN March 2015 to March 2019 Automation to sears.com (retail web application  ? Automation to Citi Bank application.    Achievements:  ? Got LOA (98%) in Automation testing during TCS Sears Project.  ? Received Bravo and Pat on Back award for best performance in client Project.    Training Program Attended:  ? I have attended multiple VodQA shots in Thoughtworks for Appium and security session at Bangalore.  ? One day real working experience in V model for learning purpose at thought works. Education Govt college Rourkela - Odisha, IN 2008 to 2010 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: C, Java/J2EE    Technologies: Selenium webdriver, TestNG, SVN Tortoise, Jenkins  Operating Systems: Windows 7, UNIX,  Automation Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Jenkins  Test management Tools: ALM / Quality Centre  Tools: Eclipse, SVN  Bug Tracking Tools: Jira  Tools and Utilities: Ms-Office, Outlook Express  Database: SQL server