Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - JNIT Technologies Inc • About 4 years of experience as a full stack developer in domains like Banking, finance and public transportation  services.  • Proficient in requirement gathering, analysis implementation of business logic and developing rich User Interface  using Web technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX  • Experience in Core Java, J2EE technologies like JDBC, JPA, JMS, Servlets, JSPs, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  • Expertise in backend development frameworks and modules like Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot,  Hibernate and SOA.  • Well versed in application and web servers like Apache Tomcat and WebSphere.  • Working knowledge on MySQL, Oracle and SQL server  • Experience in SDLC that includes requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, implementation, maintenance  with methodologies like Agile and its practices like Daily SCRUM, Sprint planning, Sprint retrospective.  • Very enthusiastic to learn cutting edge technologies and ability to learn them quickly.  • Strong technical and analytical background coupled with good presentation skills. Work Experience Software Developer JNIT Technologies Inc - Dallas, TX April 2018 to Present Project: Customer Web - As part of the Customer Web modernization initiative at BNSF railways, I'm involved in re  designing the existing Legacy web application that is being used by the external customers for reporting and forecasting of coal data.  Responsibilities:  • Analyze client requirements, procedures and problems to implement new features in the application and improve  existing features.  • Extensively using core JAVA concepts like Collections Frameworks, Multi-Threading, OOPS concepts, and exception handling for developing applications.  • Design and develop UI screens with HTML5, JSP, CSS, JQuery, Java Script.  • Develop and implement client side and server-side validations.  • Implement the business layer logic using Java, J2EE, EJB and JDBC.  • Developed Spring Boot project and its dependency for the project using Maven/Gradle and Java.  • Design data models and create tables, triggers, stored procedure, constraints and SQL queries using MySQL.  • Build and track requirements and user stories development through Version One.  • Performing continuous Integration and Deployments using Jenkins Java Developer Travelport - Denver, CO July 2017 to March 2018 Project: As one of the team members in NextGenAPI Book team, the responsibilities range from mapping the Directories to processing the travel information from a PNR that is generated and save the data. The application also requires  generating a PNR response for the given travel booking. As a full stack developer, there is need to implement the  commerce flow and generate reservations.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  • Used annotations and XML configuration to configure Spring MVC and dependency injection.  • Implemented the business logic using Core Java and Developed REST web services using JAX-RS API.  • Worked on Swagger API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls.  • Used Rest client - POSTMAN tools to test REST API services.  • Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements.  • Written Integration Tests that will be executed on Jenkins CI Server.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control in AGILE environment tracking DevOps Engineer PayPal - San Jose, CA March 2016 to June 2017 Project: As a part of the Managed Stage Team at Pay Pal that works on the developing and managing a platform that is  used in PayPal for the development of the application. As part of the project I had to maintain a LIVE like environment where all the services of PayPal could be deployed and tested before they can be passed on to the production  environment.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented a BOT application, that would help in automatically addressing the various queries specific to our  Environment using Rabbit MQ.  • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, Maven, Python  and Bash  • Installing, configuring and maintaining Continuous Integration, Automation and Configuration Management tools  • Completed load balancing and proxying of systems servers and components  • Worked on custom monitoring and integrated monitoring methods into deployment processes to develop self- healing solutions.  • Monitored developed applications along with enterprise support team and fixed bugs.  • Trained our customers on the best overall use of our programs and how to troubleshoot issues should they arise.  • Supported and helped to create Dynamic Views and Snapshot views for end users  • Used Rally issue tracking application for Agile management.  • Created detailed design documents using UML (Use case, Class, Sequence, and Component diagrams). Java developer Citi Group - Township of Warren, NJ August 2015 to February 2016 Project: CITI KYC Project-This project initiated by the Citi group that is responsible to standardize the process by capturing and reviewing all the customer information and data thoroughly, to enforce a common standard for a global  policy for all the customers throughout the world. As data sharing and privacy policies requirements are different from country to country.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as a team member for a new development process in KYC wherein I was responsible to develop and modify back end Java coding, designing the user interface using HTML and Java Scripts.  • Actively involved in running and reporting the builds using Cruise Control.  • Participated in software design meetings to write technical design documents and to propose design solutions.  • Develop codes based on user requirements documentation and detailed design documentation.  • Develop, test, implement and maintain application software working with established processes.  • Wrote Junit test cases and modify Java scripts to validate & modify the new functionalities.  • Worked on Oracle database and wrote SQL scripts to extract the customer's information as per requirement.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Functional and Integration Testing for different Modules in the application.  • Documenting all work in accordance with agreed standards. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering University of North Texas - Denton, TX August 2013 to May 2015 Technology Jawaharlal Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to May 2013 Skills Java (2 years), Junit (1 year), Maven (2 years), Python (1 year), Sql (1 year)