Junior Java Developer Junior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> York, NY I am a computer science and engineering student and I am currently in my junior year of college. My current cgpa is 3.96 on a scale of 4 which is the highest in my department.I have a passion for programming and I am adept in a variety of programming languages. I love to face challenges and come up with solutions to overcome those challenges using my critical thinking and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Java Developer Prime Asset Limited February 2016 to March 2019 I was a junior java developer whose main task was to develop,maintain and debug java based applications for this real estate company. Java Tutor North South University January 2016 to January 2017 Because of my good academic performance my university allowed me to teach Java to students who took the Java course and were having a hard time undestanding it. It was basically a paid part time job (3 days a week) intended to prepare Java students for their tests and quizzes. Library Assistant William Carey Academy August 2014 to February 2015 I worked as a library assistant in my high school library. My main tasks included organizing the books at the library according to the Dewey Decimal System, issuing books to students and looking after kids reading books in the kids section. Education High school or equivalent William Carey Academy June 2015 Skills Java (3 years), Teaching, Problem solving, Public Speaking, Typing (7 years), C, Javascript, MySQL, PHP, HTML 5, SQL (3 years), CSS, Microsoft Word (8 years), Microsoft Powerpoint (8 years), Microsoft Excel, Google Suite, MacOs, Windows 10, Adobe Creative Cloud Suite, C#.NET, Visual Studio, Debugging, Troubleshooting Awards The Academic Year Award 2012-06 This award was given to me for acquiring the highest cgpa in class 10. The Dalton Award 2011 This award was given to me in high school science fair for the best physics experiment. The Senior Honor Award 2015-06 This award was given to me for exceptional cgpa (3.93/4.0) in 4 years of high school.I also wore a gold chord during graduation as a symbol of receiving this award. The Diligence Award 2011-06 The award was presented to me for being diligent in class 9. The Daily Star Science Fair Award I received this crest for acquiring second position in a regional science fair of Chittagong organized by the renowned newspaper The Daily Star. The Dalton Award 2013 I received The Dalton Award again in class 11 for the best physics experiment in school science fair. Certifications/Licenses Learn to program in Java(Microsoft) Present Certificate earned after completing and receiving a passing grade in the course "Learn to program in Java" offered by Microsoft through edx. Object Oriented Programming in Java(Microsoft) Present Certificate earned after completing and receiving a passing grade in the course "Object Oriented Programming in Java" offered by Microsoft through edx. Data Structures and Algorithms(Microsoft) Present Certificate earned after completing and receiving a passing grade in the course "Data Structures and Algorithms" which is a course on data structures and algorithms offered by Microsoft through edx. Professional Certificate in Programming in Java(Microsoft) Present This certificate was earned after completing and receiving passing grades in three separate courses which constituted Microsoft's professional certificate program in Java. Introduction to Javascript(W3Cx) Present Certificate earned after completing and receiving a passing grade in the course "Introduction to Javascript" a course of study on Javascript offered by World Wide Web Consotium through edx. Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jvsoop-p69w4vicv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information I am currently pursuing Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering. I have completed 73 credits and my current cgpa is 3.96.