J2EE/Hadoop Developer J2EE/Hadoop <span class="hl">Developer</span> Plano, TX Work Experience J2EE/Hadoop Developer Zyno Medical - Herndon, VA July 2009 to March 2011 Home2Us is a satellite-based DTH service provider, came up with requirement to develop a new automated  billing system to support its executives and migrate its data to the two new data systems. Also, with increasing  popularity for Hadoop, Home2US has decided to analyze the log files to improve customer retention.  Responsibilities  * Involved in the design of core implementation logic.  * Extensively worked on application development using Spring MVC and Hibernate frameworks.  * Extensively used Spring JDBC Template to implement DAO methods.  * Used WebSphere as an application server and used Apache Maven to deploy and build the application in  WebSphere.  * Performed unit testing using JUnit.  * Developed JAX-WS client and JAX-WS web services to coordinate with outer systems.  * Involved in design of data migration strategy to migrate the data from legacy system to Kenan FX 2.0 billing  system.  * Involved in the design of staging database as part of migration strategy.  * Developed efficient PL/SQL packages for data migration and involved in bulk loads, testing and reports  generation.  * Installed and configured Apache Hadoop 0.20.1 and developed MapReduce programs to analyze sample  test files.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Hibernate 3.0, WebSphere 7, TOAD,  Oracle-9i, Kenan Fx-2.0, Chordiant CRM, PL/SQL, Apache Hadoop 0.20.1 Java/J2EE Developer ISO Health Insurance October 2007 to June 2009 ISO Health Insurance is a leading provider of health insurance schemes targeting visitors to America and  International Students.  Responsibilities  * Involved in almost all the phases of SDLC.  * Complete involvement in Requirement Analysis and documentation on Requirement Specification.  * Developed prototype based on the requirements using Struts2 framework as part of POC (Proof of Concept)  * Prepared use-case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams as part of requirement specification  documentation.  * Involved in design of the core implementation logic using MVC architecture.  * Used Apache Maven to build and configure the application.  * Configured struts.xml file with required action-mappings for all the required services.  * Developed implementation logic using struts2 framework.  * Developed JAX-WS web services to provide services to the other systems.  * Developed JAX-WS client to utilize few of the services provided by the other systems.  * Involved in developing EJB 3.0 Stateless Session beans for business tier to expose business to services  component as well as web tier.  * Implemented Hibernate at DAO layer by configuring hibernate configuration file for different databases.  * Developed business services to utilize hibernate service classes that connect to the database and perform the required action.  * Developed JSP pages using struts JSP-tags and inhouse tags to meet business requirements.  * Developed JavaScript validations to validate form fields.  * Performed unit testing for the developed code using JUnit.  * Developed design documents for the code developed.  * Used SVN repository for version control of the developed code.  * Mentored junior developers in their development activities.  Environment: Java, J2EE, MVC, Struts2, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat Server, XML. Java Developer Maxi Software Solutions June 2006 to September 2007 Project Description:  e-HIS is a real-time, on-line, integrated information/management system for healthcare establishments,  addressing all critical areas of health care activity. This system deals with the automation of various functions in a Hospital and includes modules like Inpatient Management, Outpatient Management, Pharmacy, Clinician  Access and Order Entry Result Reporting. With the e-HIS product we can perform lot of functionalities which will  be beneficial to the patient and the doctor. All the patient's history will be maintained in the database pertaining to that Hospital provided a Patient ID. A Doctor can know to how many patients he needs to do diagnosis for a period of time. A Patient can be diagnosed by the doctor perfectly provided his details (PatientID). Bills and  Pharmacy work can be done by placing the Orders by Doctors and giving reports to the Patients. This project  was developed using Java, JSP and Servlets with Apache Struts Framework.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in development, customization and enhancement of the product.  • Designed and developed all UI Screens (Forms) using Java Server Pages, Struts, CSS, JSTL, Html and  JavaScript.  • In this e-HIS Project, I worked as a J2EE developer in OR (Order Entry & Result Report) module. This module  is interlinked to most of the core modules. In this module we will provide facilities to the doctors to place orders and reporting the result (state). In this module we will give all the permissions to admin, so that to configure