Data Integration Specialist Data Integration Specialist Data Integration Specialist - Blue Cross Blue Shield Jacksonville, FL, FL Work Experience Data Integration Specialist Blue Cross Blue Shield January 2017 to Present Blue Cross Blue Shield(BCBS) provides Health Insurance.    As an Integration Specialist in BCBS, My Roles and Responsibilities are to provide best integration solutions by understanding current and new systems and applications. We have to identify and decide data communication channel (HTTP, FTP, SOAP), data formats (EDI, JSON, XML) and data audit & security based on requirement, integration design patterns and company integration standards.    EMB Integration: As part of the team, I am responsible to integrate external agent applications to BCBS applications and services using Boomi.  BCBS Gateway System (BCBS GS):BCBS is using BCBS GS for Security, Auditing, Tracking and Handover the information to downstream systems and application for inbound and outbound data.  Agent Healthcare Application:BCBS authorized agents will use this application to register their customer's information for U65& O65 individual Healthcare products.  Agent Application to BCBS Gateway to U65 & O65 Healthcare Applications: Agent Healthcare application is handover the consolidated customer data to BCBS Gateway in a nightly batch process to hand over the data to U65 & O65 Healthcare Applications. Gateway application applies HIPPA audits and keeping consolidated valid customer applications into SFTP location, Boomi process collecting the file from SFTP location, process and handover to downstream systems using ActiveMQ (Send and Listen).  Post Sales Process(PSP):Boomi processes are developed to perform required validations, required assignments and pass the applications to downstream systems.  AgentApplication to BCBS Gateway to PSP:PSP will be receiving applications for both under 65 and over 65 applications in different data formats like xml, flat file, EDI.  Before proceeding further on the applications, a service is called to take an image of the inbound applications and store them in pdf format for auditing.  Unique application id is assigned to each application, PSP is receiving applications in xml, flat file and EDI data format and all the applications are converted into EDI format.  Address validation, product validation, individuation is performed on the applications.  Unique Contract id is assigned for everyone.  Then the applications are converted into xml and then sent to downstream systems.  Roles and Responsibilities: Boomi Developer (Integration, API)    Please see below few Boomi Process which are created from all processes.  • Understand business requirement, Identify data communication channels and data formats.  • Participated in communicating with the business team & trading partners to onboard new trading partners.  • Understand and Follow the Boomi Guidelines and standards for the individual process.  • Created a common folder to keep all common connections in this folder.  • Created common process to provide Audit, Logging, Security and Re-Try Mechanism.  • Created and Setup Trading Partner for collecting "EDI-834 U65 Enrolment applications" from Gateway (SFTP) location. Setup ISA, Group, Transaction Set in a trading partner in a process based on gateway 834 companion guide.  • Developed the Database/Flat-File/XML profiles, Boomi Mappings, Processes using with different connector/shapes and logic shapes between the application profiles and different Trading partners using Dell Boomi.  • Created EDI-834 profile, XML profile for EDI to XML mapping to send the information to downstream systems.  • Created SOAP Webservice client to collect contract id information from Contract ID assignment application.  • Created REST web services (API) for sending customer application data to other applications.  • Wrote business rule using Boomi business rule component.  • Created SMTP connection and operation for send an email in process.  • Written Groovy scripts and Java Scripts for mappings and process.  • Created cross-reference table in Boomi.  • Used process route, condition, and route to divert documents into different paths.  • Created REST Based Webservice Client to send business exception information to CRM systems.  • Created JMS process to send and receive Active MQ messages.  • Created MQ and Listener to receive messages from internal and external clients.  • Created EDI, JSON, Database and XML profiles.  • Integrated Database with Boomi and written SQL Query and Stored procedures.  • Used Cache shape to add documents to a document cache to save an initial image of the document.  • Involved in Build Mapping components (EDI - XML, XML - JSON, Database - JSON).  • Created a common process for Auditing, Logging, and Re-try mechanism.  • Setup the document tracking fields and used in all process to filter in process logging.  • Created environment extensions, schedule process and created, document tracking variables.  • Involved in infrastructure setup for this total integration process.  • Download and install proper drivers in Boomi for Database and MQ.  • Involved in writing queries, procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Involved in integration testing to provide proper information to testing team to validate the process. Providing sample data using XML Spy and SOAP UI.  • Involved in production deployments and releases.    Environment:Boomi Atom - 17.11.0.0, MS SQL, SQL Server Management Studio, Java 1.8.0, XML Spy, SOAP UI, ActiveMQ J2EE Developer Westfield Insurance, OH 2016 to December 2016 Westfield Insurance provides insurance for Business, Farm, Agribusiness, Home, Auto and Health Insurance.    Find A Doctor: This application maintains a worldwide network of health care providers. Usage of the network is different depending on whether you are in the network or outside of network.    Responsibilities: (Service Developer, UI Developer, Deployer and Product Support)  Model:  * Involved in researching, analyzing, designing, proposing, and delivering solutions that are appropriate for the business and technology strategies.  * Designed and developed generic commands that can be injected using spring for enrollment application.  * Used Spring Transaction for controlling the transaction in the application.  * Designed and developed a persistence framework extending Hibernate to add custom persistence code for handling auditing and logging into database.  * Designing and Developed Message Driven Beans (MDB) for receiving asynchronous messages sent on IBM MQ.  View:  * Developed UI Screens using Spring MVC Tags, JSP, HTML, CSS and Java Script.  * Navigation: Designed a common controller in determining the appropriate resulting UI page based on the service outcome.  * Prepare common layer to convert Data Transfer Object to Domain Object.  Controller:  * Integrating web-tier and ejb-tier using Spring IOC.  * Designed a common controller in determining the appropriate resulting UI page based on the service outcome.  Validators:  * Designing and development of independent configurable validator commands (beans) to apply business rules and common UI rules.  Common Service:  * Provide Security service using IOP and Filters.  * Webservice Consuming: Automatically assigning Primary Care Physician (PCP) to HMO members using Open Provider Directory Webservices.  * Provide common Service to integrate the transmission of business related exceptions to workflow management system (Siebel).  * Created various spring boot and spring batch applications to connect them to various databases and created queries to retrieve data and modify the tables for the databases.  Infrastructure Specialist / Application Environment Support:  * Analyzing memory usage using IBM Heap analyzer.  * Analyzing threads usage using IBM Thread analyzer.  * Check the application's performance using HP Business Availability Center tool.  * Preparing documentation for set up environment (Data Source, Queues, Listener ports and etc.)    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring IOC, AOP, Spring Security, Hibernate, JMS, JSP, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful, XML, XSLT, Oracle, PL/SQL, Spring Boot, Maven, SVN, Log4j, WebSphere, JUnit, Windows. Java Developer Bank of America - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2015 to April 2015 Project Description: FRP is the strategic platform that manages the interchange of files between client facing applications, core banking systems, a large number of International clearing institutions, and other financial institutions. I have been involved in creating the automated interfaces between the Clearing House Payment processing system and financial institutions in Asia region like China Yangtze, Korea CMS and Taiwan OARS etc.  Responsibilities: UI, Bean Developer    Environment: Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JDBC Template, XML), Java Script, Apache Tomcat, HTML, Oracle, PL/SQL, Log4j, Clear case, My Eclipse, WebLogic, Log4j, JUnit, Windows. Java Developer CMS Computers - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to August 2014 Project Description: CMs Computers Ltd is a leading IT solutions provider in the country with large number of professionals' worldwide offering wide range of solutions and services across various verticals in strategic IT consulting, Networking, Training, Outsourcing, Platform delivery, Facility Management, Customizing & Implementing Solutions, Onsite service & support, and Application Management support.    Responsibilities: UI, Bean Developer  Environment: Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JDBC Template, XML), Java Script, Apache Tomcat, HTML, Oracle, PL/SQL, Log4j, Clear case, My Eclipse, WebLogic, Log4j, JUnit, Windows.