Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Canon USA Edison, NJ • Software Engineer with around 5 years of Software development experience in developing Web, Client-Server, 3-tier, N-tier application using Object Oriented Programming, Java /JEE/ J2EE technologies.  • Expert level skills in design, development and deployment of applications using JEE/J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, EJB, JSTL, JMS, Struts, Spring, JSF, JDBC, JNDI, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Solid background in Object Oriented Analysis and Design, SDLC, Software Development, Java Application Development, Distributed Application Development and Object Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Good working experience and sound knowledge in various open source frame works like STRUTS, SPRING and Spring Boot.  • Hands on working experience with Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs) that include Session Beans, Message Driven Beans.  • Expertise in using Modeling tools like Rational Rose for developing UML Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Class diagrams.  • Strong working knowledge and experience in the design and Implementation of Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI.  • Excellent knowledge of using XML related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPath, DTDs, XML Schemas, Namespaces as well as XML parsing APIs like DOM and SAX.  • Proficient in database development: Oracle, Java stored procedures, MS SQL Server, SQL query optimization, PL/SQL and JDBC.  • Extensive knowledge of Front End technologies like Angular JS 4 & 6, JQueries, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, Java Script.  • Experience in configuring application domains Weblogic Application Server and IBM Web Sphere.  • Knowledgeable in developing applications using Eclipse, building them using Maven/ANT and deploying them in application servers like Weblogic and WebSphere.  • Excellent communication, presentation and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Canon USA - Jamesburg, NJ June 2018 to Present Description: EMSD has many web application in which I worked on MyCSA which is a web application hosted in Canon internet and used by various clients. This application provides leasing printers and collects money from users. It provides users to view the account devices, create supply orders for the devices, create service requests for the devices, make payment for the invoices, view invoices, to view canceled/closed devices, User Registration, submit meter reads of Black & Color copies. S21 application is migration application from oracle 11i application canon custom based application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, analysis and Documentation.  • Responsible for Design and development of the applications and modules for S21 Service & Repair project which involved S21 Rest API call.  • Responsible for maintenance, enhancements, and support activities for the developed application and this involve working with software, and languages such as, but not limited to Java, J2EE, Unix scripting, Spring, Spring boot, HTML, CSS, Jquery, AngularJS, Oracle, XML, SOAP, WSDL, REST API, Multithreading and Websphere.  • Automated the build process and ensured quality using Jenkins, JUnit, and Maven.  • Developed classes for implementation of Business Rules, and for the proper functioning of the Application. The work involves considerable team effort to ensure that all Systems involved are synchronized and work in an efficient manner.  • Worked closely with QA team to fix production issues and QA bugs/  • Involved in developing from Scratch Ecommerce Application with Angular JS as front end framework and Spring, JDBC as Backend framework.  • Developed concurrent programs in Oracle apps and developed JAX-RS with Jersey RESTful WebServices that connects Customer Service system with Dealer service software.  • Worked in developing application to setup Batch Program to run in Autosys.  • Responsible for post-development activities including bug fixing, testing and validation of application code, and then moving the application to the staging environment    Environment: Spring Boot, Angular JS, Hibernate, Java, HTML, Websphere Application Server, Eclipse, Java Script, WebServices, XML, SOAP, WSDL, XSD, Maven, REST API, Oracle. Intern & Developer State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL January 2018 to May 2018 Description: State Farm is an insurance company in which Auto insurance have PVC and QEC which stands for Policy View Change and Quote Existing Customer. PVC is done when a person, with his personal insurance, logs into his account, he lands on a PVC page which shows him his policy type. QEC is when a person tries to change his policy, it will be transferred to QEC. The pages are designed as web-responsive pages as it automatically adjusts itself when you shrink it to mobile view or a tablet view.    Responsibilities:  • Used Maven tool for the project management and for the purpose of compile, run, deploy, and to add external dependencies.  • Packaged and deployed the application in Web sphere server in different environments.  • Proficient in developing applications using framework like spring, JSP, Custom Tag Libraries, EL and Tiles.  • Registered the services as the consumer and provider with the web sphere application server.  • Used spring source tool for the development.  • Used Top-down approach of the services implementations using Apache CXF(generated the java files from WSDL).  • Involved in development of DAO layer using hibernate.  • Used Hibernate annotations to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Implemented User Interface in Model-View-Controller Architecture, which accomplishes a tight and neat co-ordination of Struts MVC, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, XSLT, XML, AJAX, HTML and Custom Taglibs.  • Developed and Designed Aggregation sub module where users can add, delete and modify login information of the third party client based on web services.  • Implemented Singleton, Factory, Session Façade, MVC, Data Access Object, Invention of Control and other design patterns    Environment: JSP, HTML, JBoss, Hibernate, Eclipse, Apache, Weblogic, Subversion, Axis2, CSS, DOJO, LDAP, XPath, XSLT, JAX-RPC, Web Services, XML Schema, DOM parser, Rational Rose, Fiddler. Trainee & Java Developer Sonata Software Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to October 2016 India    Description: United Airlines Inc is the world's largest airline when measured by number of destinations served. Easy Check-in Online (ECO) is a web based application developed for United.com. It allows customers travelling on a United, United Express or Ted flight to check-in for flights from home.    Responsibilities:  • Supported bug-fixing, enhancements, troubleshooting various application errors/ exceptions/ roadblocks on different environments and implementation of new requirements.  • Developed Application Level Data base Programming-using Hibernate for new functionalities.  • Developed Struts based presentation layer, Hibernate based Dao layer and integrated them using Spring Dependency injection, ORM and Web modules.  • Developed Spring framework IOC and AOP features based components to handle cross-cutting concerns and to development of light weight components.  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject dependency into objects and AOP is used for Logging.  • Designed and developed persistence layer build on ORM framework and developed it using Hibernate.  • Developed Server side components with coordination of EJB, Hibernate and Spring using web established frame work designed under the guidelines of Business Delegate, session façade, Service locator, DO's, TO's, PO's.  • Configured Hibernate to make use of second level EHcaching to display the static lookup data from the database  • Configured TOAD to work with oracle and MySQL to work in the complicated queries required for the Dao layer development.  • Developed Test driven, Test first methodology based JUnit test cases for existing modules, new enhancements and new modules.  • Developed logging frame work in conjunction with SLF4J, LOG4j for logging, external configuration files to have fine-grained control the log levels for development team at diff phases of development.  • Implemented design patterns such as Singleton, Factory pattern and MVC.  • Configured development, QA and integration servers on UNIX boxes deployed and maintained application in these servers.  • Developed the middle tier using spring framework's dependency injection and remoting.    Environment: Java Script, J2SE/J2EE, CVS, Toad, Spring, Hibernate, Apache, Weblogic, Struts, Oracle, MYSQL, Eclipse and LOG4J Education MS in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Fairfield University May 2018 Skills Java J2Ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, J2Ee, Rest, Soap, Core Java, Angular, Javascript, JEE, MVC, AWS Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Java 6/7/8, J2ee, SQL.  Technologies: J2SE, J2EE, JDBC, JPA, JNDI, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS  Markup Languages: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XHTML, XML, DTD, XSD, AngularJS, NodeJs, BootStrap  WebServices Technologies: SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAXB, JAXP, DOM, SAX.  Application/Web servers: WebLogic, Web Sphere, JBoss, Apache Tomcat.  Applications Frameworks: Struts, Hibernate, Spring Boot  Databases: Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server.  IDEs: Eclipse, NetBeans, WebLogic Workshop.  Tools: ClearCase, CVS, Ant, Maven, JUnit, Log4J, Visio, StarUML