Java, PL/SQL Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>, PL/SQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java, PL/SQL Developer - Tata Consultancy Services Ltd Software developer with 3.5 years of IT experience in Java and Oracle application development with understanding  of telecom domain.  Ability to work in a demanding role and having aptitude for learning new subjects, technologies and mastering  them. Work Experience Java, PL/SQL Developer Tata Consultancy Services Ltd July 2016 to Present Technologies: Oracle Database 11g, 12c, Java, SQL, PL/SQL Scripting, SQL*PLUS, SQL*LOADER, UNIX, Unix Shell  Scripting.  Description:  Bharti Airtel Limited (commonly shortened to Airtel) is an Indian global telecommunications services company  based in New Delhi, India. It operates in 20 countries across South Asia and Africa. Airtel provides GSM, 3G, 4G LTE and VOLTE mobile services, fixed line broadband and voice services depending upon the country of operation.  Airtel kicked off the Butterfly Transformation Project in India in 2016, with the objective to transform its post-paid  business through the implementation of a new IT solution for the post-paid products - CRM, Billing, OM, EPC and  Inventory starting with mobility line of business. Migration of data between these products/systems is the purpose of Butterfly Transformation Project.    Responsibility:  Understanding the Data Migration Strategy document and the source system data structures in order to plan  how data will flow from legacy Oracle iCRM to target system Siebel CRM.  Understanding the business rules for validating and transforming data as per target system.  Used PL/SQL Tables, Cursors to process huge volumes of data and used bulk collect for mass update as performance improvement process.  Developed various back-end application programs, such as views, functions, Procedures, Packages using  SQL and PL/SQL languages.  Written data migration scripts for processes like Validation, Transformation and Source to Target  Reconciliation using PL/SQL for processing & manipulating source data.  Written Shell scripts in UNIX for triggering and monitoring above PL/SQL scripts and Java/Python code for handling data.  Data Spooling using sqlplus from a parent shell script and sending auto mail through server using UNIX  mailing utility.  Configuring Airtel postpaid plans and its components in configuration tables which are configured and present in Siebel system.  Performed unit level testing.    Technical Skills  SQL, PL/SQL Expert  Java J2SE Advanced  Oracle SQL Developer 4.1, SQL*Loader, Advanced  SQL*PLUS  UNIX Shell Scripting Intermediate  Java J2EE - Servlets and JSP Competent  C and C++ Beginner    Professional Functional Skillset  Sound programming skills with hands on experience in Java J2SE, Oracle Database 11g, PL/SQL, SQL, Unix  Shell Scripting, Oracle SQL loader, Oracle Performance Tuning.  Proficient in developing back-end applications in database for data storage, manipulation and implementing  business rules using Procedural language extension to Structured Query Language (PL/SQL) and Java JDBC.  A good understanding of UNIX and writing shell scripts.  Rich exposure to System Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  Ability to work in a team of developers and co-ordinate to ensure smooth delivery of the project.  Mentoring new members in the team and getting them productive quickly.  Problem solving capability and analytical. Strong communication skills. Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services Ltd July 2015 to Present Involved in Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Unit Testing application phases as an active member projects in telecom domain.    Project #1  Project Name: NBN Gemini Integration Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services Ltd October 2015 to July 2016 Technologies: Core Java, Apache Maven, Comptel SRI, Comptel BST    Description: NBN Co Limited (trading as nbn) is an Australian government-owned corporation tasked to design,  build and operate Australia's National Broadband Network as a monopoly wholesale broadband provider.Retail  service providers (RSPs), typically Internet service providers, contract with NBN to access the network and sell fixed  internet access to end users.    Responsibility:  Attended project training on Comptel SRI (Service and Resource Inventory) Tool and completed  successfully.  Understand the design document and other Comptel related manuals, gathering new requirements, and business rules.  Was involved in Comptel SRI Code development mainly using Core Java and Comptel specific API's.  Went through basic usage and some exercises on Comptel BST (Business Service Tool) as well.    Project #2  Project Name: Airtel Butterfly (CRM Implementation) Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University - New Delhi, DELHI, IN June 2015 D.L. DAV Model School - New Delhi, DELHI, IN May 2011