Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Application Developer Software Developer providing an integrated business solution designing and developing Web services, Web-based applications and Enterprise applications in various Web Servers and Application Servers. Has undergone full software development life cycle in Java/J2EE environment using frameworks like Spring and Struts. Worked on agile and waterfall methodologies. Expertise in REST and SOAP based Web Services using any ORM framework. Experienced in project domains like HealthCare, Insurance, E-commerce, product management, Banking and Leasing.    Key characteristics include strong team player, fast learner in adapting to system quickly, can work under little or no supervision. Excellent ability to communicate with multiple teams about project objectives, guide and help teams to understand project functionalities. Work Experience Senior Application Developer US Bank - Richfield, MN February 2017 to July 2018 CML (Commercial Leasing) Department incorporates three different teams, which includes EFE (Equipment Financing Expert), RDB (Reporting Database) and IL (InfoLease). All three system serves as a three-way process for day-to-day functioning of US Bank Commercial Leasing space.    Lease Applications/Transactions flows through EFE, a desktop client application written in C++ and TCApply, a web-based application written in Java.    IL allows the consumer to maintain the transactions during their lease period and is mainly used for lease information, billing and payments. RDB allows the consumer to view all transactions and payments made for a certain billing period.    Main responsibilities include but not limited to:  • Involved in all three teams under the Commercial Leasing Department.  • Worked under multiple domains involving variety of technologies in Java and Visual C++.  • Project lead for KYC (Know your customer) process that helps US Bank verify the identity of clients.  • Provided ANT build tool for building and developing the application using a Top-down approach and implemented the whole KYC project which involved staging, mapping and sending the data in Java and PL/SQL and help automate the webKYC system.  • Used Hibernate and myBatis as an Object Relation mapping tool for back end operations over DB2 and Oracle database.  • Implemented custom myBatis Connection Factory jar named "csr-connect.jar" that was distributed to other teams for myBatis integration.  • Reviewing Database Schemas across the different domain and extensively used TOAD for managing, monitoring the database.  • Integrated Spring injection for DAOs and developed a layer system standard: Service Layer for requests and response, DAO for database interactions and domain for business logic for all new applications.  • Involved in converting C++ process into SOAP based Java WebServices using a Bottom-up approach.  • Converting Unibasic processes into SOAP based WebServices.  • Converting WebFocus Reporting code to Java Application using DynamicReports tool.  • Implemented batch system that processes the RDB request every minute and saves the pdf or excel report to the NAS drive.  • Created and managed builds using RTC for CI.  • Monitoring and validating various applications. Debugging for incidents and defects. Creating smoke tests suite with assertion, Xpath match for each of the applications using SOAP UI.  • Maintained and enhanced shell scripts for various autosys job and nightly batch process that transferred data from EFE to IL and RDB databases.  • Implemented and enhanced numerous functions and Stored Procedures for faster database interactions in Oracle.  • Coordinated with Security and build team implementing SSL/TLS certification and importing certs and implement new applications in a windows server.  • Used versioning tools such as Rational Clear Case for C++ application and RTC for Java applications.  • Used Eclipse, RAD, VisualStudio to build, enhance and debug Java, C++ and C# applications.  • SOAP UI expert creating numerous smoke tests suite for performance testing and day-to-day validations.    Environment: J2SE 7, J2SE 8, J2EE, Spring, WebSphere 7.0, WebSphere 8.5, .NET 4.0, .NET 4.6, Apache Tomcat, Apache CXF, Eclipse Neon, RAD, VisualStudio 2010, VisualStudio 2015, SOAP, REST, XML, WSDL, Ant, Web Services, Hibernate, myBatis, SQL, TOAD, Squirrel, log4j, JUnit, Mockito, RTC, ClearCase, JDBC, ODBC, Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c, DB2, DB2 BLU, DynamicReports, JasperReports, webFocus. Java Developer (Hybris) 3M - Saint Paul, MN June 2016 to February 2017 GPIM" (Global Product Information Management), an umbrella term for GPIM-Product and GPIM-Media projects maintained the entire product related information and its attributes.    GPIM-Product functioned as a central Product Catalog Management system where all 3M global product inventories get stored. Product information was migrated from old legacy systems like GEDW, GSDB and Celum (Media Metadata) to Hybris GPIM database.    GPIM-Media operated as a central Digital Asset Management system where all external applications (both 3M and Non-3M communicated with Celum) to retrieve asset information through integration with YouTube and Brightcove.    Working on an agile environment, SCRUM development methodology, the main responsibilities include but not limited to:  • Translate business requirements into Hybris specific implementation using Hybris (HMC, HAC and Product Catalog)  • Translate functional requirements into robust, scalable, supportable solutions that work well within the overall system architecture.  • Used Spring Framework for maintaining dependencies and modeling the relationship between Attributes, Products, Base and Variant.  • Worked as a Server Admin in getting new server boxes up and running with the Hybris 6.  • Build and maintain complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  • Writing unit tests using JUnit and involved in peer-reviews for improvement and understanding.  • Deliver sprint tasks on time and on-point, communicating clearly with leads and managers.  • Enhancement to delta processor and various cronjobs for adding new attributes and Product Sync.  • Maintaining the 3M-user facing cockpit UI with fixes and enhancements.  • Upgrade functionalities to batch upload templates for creating, editing and removing Products in cockpit UI.    Environment: Hybris, J2SE 8, J2EE, Spring 3.2.5, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Ant, Web Services, Hibernate, Red Hat Linux, SQL, XML, log4j, JUnit, GIT, JDBC, Oracle 11g, Hudson, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Developer Prime Therapeutics - Eagan, MN August 2014 to June 2016 MyPrime" an enterprise class web application developed by Prime for its members to manage their prescriptions, drug benefits, look up a medicine and find a pharmacy in their network. It assists in viewing member's prescription history, view PrimeMail orders and refill prescriptions on MyPrime.com.  MyPrime is powered by Enterprise Integration Shared Services (EISS), Prime Therapeutics designed this project to develop enterprise level RESTful and SOAP services to be reused by various applications internally and external clients like various Blue Cross Blue Shield, Adaptive Rx etc.    The web services calls to mainframe applications like RxClaim and RxExpress made data accessible in a secured way to store, retrieve and organize claims, prescription, member information and medical history.    Also involved in various fast track projects relating to prior authorization, drug maintenance, explanation of benefits and campaign management.    Main responsibilities include but not limited to:  • Involved in various stages of the project life cycle, such as analysis, design, development, testing and enhancement of the application.  • Participated in all aspects of the software development lifecycle to develop new REST and SOAP based web services using JAXB and Apache CXF.  • Used Spring 3.2.5 Framework for Dependency Injection and Aspect Oriented programming.  • Followed the test driven development (TDD) approach throughout the development phase using JUnit and Mockito frameworks.  • Implemented Core Java and J2EE design patterns and used annotation based Spring configuration.  • Implemented Log4j to capture the log for runtime and custom exceptions.  • Coordinated with the middleware team in deployment activities, integration testing, and handling change requests.  • Participated in peer code reviews, code refactoring and pair programming using Crucible and maintain the coding standard.  • Supported the application by exception handling, debugging, and fixing the issues reported.  • Involved in various Database migrations to better organize the existing data.  • Build and maintain SQL indexes, Stored Procedure and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  • Involved in creating STTs using Confluence and tracked bugs and defects using Jira and HP Quality Center.  • Securing web services using Forum Sentry, Basic auth.    Environment: J2SE 7, J2EE, Spring MVC, WebSphere 7.0, Gradle, Apache CXF, Web Services, SOAP, REST, XML, WSDL, JSON, Spring 3.2.5, JPA 2.0, log4j, JUnit, Mockito, SVN, JDBC, DB2, SQL, JDBC, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, AntHill, AQT, JIRA, Crucible. Education Master of Information Technology in Information Technology Charles Sturt University - Sydney NSW May 2019 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University - Commerce, TX Associate of Computer Science North Lake College - Irving, TX Skills DATABASE (3 years), ECLIPSE (3 years), J2EE (3 years), JAVA (3 years), JUNIT (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jain-prajapati-bb751ab3 Additional Information SKILLS  Language - Java, C#, C, C++, Visual C++, JavaScript  Technologies - J2EE, Web Services (REST, SOAP), SOA, Servlets, IBM MQ  Database - Oracle, DB2, DB2 BLU, MySQL  Build Tools - Ant, Maven, Gradle  App/Web servers - Tomcat, IBM WebSphere 7.0, IBM WebSphere 8.5  Reporting - DynamicReports, JasperReports, webFocus  E-commerce Platform - Hybris 5.4, Hybris 6  IDEs - Eclipse, RAD, VisualStudio, IntelliJ, Xcode, NetBeans  Version Control - SVN, GIT, IBM RTC, CVS, IBM Rational ClearCase  Markup Languages - XML, XML Schema, HTML, HTML5  Security - SSL 3.0, TLS 1.0, TLS 1.1, TLS 1.2    Frameworks  MVC - Spring, Struts  ORM - Hibernate, iBATIS, myBATIS, JPA  Testing - JUnit, Mockito    hr@tbsx3.com  andrew@tbsx3.com