Sr Full Stack Developer Sr Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Full Stack Developer - HPE Fremont, CA • Around 6+ years of experience in analysis, Design, Development and Maintenance of Java, Client-server based Enterprise applications and web-based technologies like J2EE and java.  • Knowledge in object-oriented programming and Design, SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) Self-motivated and quick learner of new concepts and technologies.  • Very Good Experience in Angular JS (1.7) and java script libraries such as JQuery.  • Having working experience in Core java, JSP, Hibernate, Web services, JDBC, XML, HTML, Jenkins, CSS, GitHub and Java Script.  • Good Experience in Web services (soap web services and RESTFUL services) • Hands-on experience in relational databases like Oracle 11g, MySQL.  • Strong experience in using Design patterns such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, DAO, Factory Methods, and Service Locator.  • Extensive experienced in developing applications using MVC Framework.  • Experienced in Web/application servers such as WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in developing web applications with various open source frameworks: Spring Framework 1.2, 2.0, Spring (MVC) 2.x, 3.x, 4.x, Spring (AOP), Struts Framework 1.x, 2.x Struts Validation.  • Hands on experience with version control systems like CVS, GIT HUB and SVN.  • Experienced in build and testing frameworks such as ANT, Log4J, Junit and Maven.  • Proficient in integration of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) with existing applications and using services provided in distributed applications through Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS) • Having good understanding of Change Management Process.  • Good Experience using Waterfall Model and Agile methodology.  • Good knowledge of Object Oriented Programming and data base concepts.  • Excellent problem-solving and analytical skills with a strong technical background, debugging and good interpersonal skills. Work Experience Sr Full Stack Developer HPE - Santa Clara, CA June 2016 to Present Description: This application (MMIS) is used for the users to see their claims statuses and pay their bills. This is a State of MA (Health care Domain). This is a single page application, which is having so many sub panels like Claims, Managed care, Prior Authorization etc. We are collecting and maintaining 29millions of data.    Responsibilities: • Developed the application using Agile Scrum methodology.  • Involved in writing Spring MVC controllers and writing custom validations.  • Extensively used Java best practices and implemented several Core design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Object (DAO).  • Responsible for configuring and deploying the builds on WebLogic Server.  • Extensively used Core Java collections and Concurrency to improve the performance of the applications and to schedule tasks using multithreading.  • Used CSS3 to support animations in the application.  • Developed the code using HTML5 and used Bootstrap libraries in application.  • Developed REST web services and consumed them into our project based on Client requirement.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking.  • Used Ant for dependency management and for building the application.  • Developed middleware components using Spring Data and Hibernate.  • Used GIT for source control and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Worked on Java Beans and other business components for the application and implemented new functionalities for the application.  • Log4j framework was used to debug and trace the application and participating in code reusing.    Environment: Core java 1.7, Spring 4, Spring Data, Hibernate 3, AngularJS 1.7, Junit, JavaScript, multithreading, HTML, CSS, GIT. Java/UI Developer USPTO - Alexandria, VA January 2015 to May 2016 Description: This application is developed for employees of USA Government. They need to calculate the Activity status of Government programs and projects. If the project or program is now running, then it is in Active status. They totally have 4lakh programs in their records. Stored the data in database and populate the total data into UI.    Responsibilities: • Use of Core Java Design Patterns such as factory pattern and Singleton pattern • Developed web modules by using Springs MVC 3.2, Hibernate 4.2 and Servlets.  • Effective usage of XML throughout modules like getting the Process handlers, Service Handlers, Handlers, data based on the Payment Credentials.  • Designed and developed Hibernate components and mappings corresponding to the tables.  • Development of code using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery library.  • Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used AngularJS framework to associate HTML elements to models.  • Responded to • Extensive experience on using Angular directives, working on attribute level, element level and class level directives to perform DOM manipulations.  • Used Jenkins for the Continuous Integration.  • Used defect tracking tools Jira, Quality Center.  • Evaluate JSON from the server and making Ajax requests using XHR object and handling JSON objects.  • Extensively used Firebug/web kit inspector to debug UI code and handle different browser CSS issues.  • Created Interfaces between the systems by using REST web services. They are used to send the messages from client to service.  • Built scripts using MAVEN and deployed the application on the Tomcat server • Perform adequate unit testing by using JUNIT and provide automated unit test cases.  • Refactoring Java Code and code reviews.  • Debugging application using debugger in Eclipse.  • Involved in AGILE Methodology process which includes bi-weekly sprint and daily scrum to discuss the design and work progress.  • Responsible for building, deploying and version controlling the code by using SVN.  • Coordinated the development process with off shore team.    Environment: Spring MVC 3.2, servlets, hibernate 4.2, Messaging systems, HTML 5, CSS 3, Jenkins, JavaScript, JQuery, Web Services (REST, SOAP) AngularJS, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, XML, Log4j, TDD, Eclipse, Maven, SVN, Oracle 11g, UNIX. Java/UI Developer Comcast - Denver, CO August 2014 to December 2014 Description: This application is developed for Comcast (Both Internal and External). Developed a webpage by using UI grid, HTML, CSS. Created a Single Sign On page for the internal users (Comcast Employees). Collecting the ACM logs on daily basis (7Million logs in a week) and stored that logs by using Postgres Database. Used play framework as a middle tier in the project. Developed code for understanding the errors in the message and tell the users about that error. Created different pages (Login, Register etc) for the external users. Used Oracle and Postgres for this external page because of the security issues and data storing capability. Build the project by using Jenkins and cloned the project form GITHUB.    Responsibilities: • Constantly participated in Idealization meetings to share ideas with stakeholders.  • Used animations for the development of project.  • Development of code using JSP, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, JQuery.  • Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used AngularJS framework to associate HTML elements to models.  • Extensive experience on using Angular directives, working on attribute level, element level and class level directives to perform DOM manipulations.  • Developed a Single Sign on (SSO) utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API.  • Used play framework, to connect from database to UI.  • Involved in implementing all components of the application including database tables, server-side Java Programming and client-side web programming.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Restful Web APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery.  • Used play framework to get the real-time data and java to database connection.  • Used AngularJS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Involved in building the project with Jenkins from GITHUB.  • Involved in collecting the real-time data from the database.  • Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-base page layouts.    Environment: HTML4/5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, React JS, UI Grid, play framework, Postgres Database, SQL server, Jenkins, Apache 2.4 sever, web sockets, Bootstrap, GITHUB    Technical Skill Matrix  Languages/Packages Java, C, SQL  Platforms Windows (7, Vista, XP, 2000, 98, NT), Linux, Unix  Version Control Tortoise SVN, GitHub  Java Design Patterns MVC, DAO, DTO, Singleton, Front Controller Factory, Abstract Factory.  Core Java Memory Management, Thread Classes, Exception Handling and Collection APIs, Files.  Web Technologies HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, Ajax, SOAP, RESTful services, HTML5, CSS3  Application Server WebLogic, Tomcat  Spring MVC Frameworks Struts 1.1, 1.2, 1.3.8, Spring 3, JSF 1.2, 2  Middleware Technologies EJB 2.1, 3.0  White Box Testing JUnit 4.1, DB Unit, Load Test, Timed Test  Logging/ Monitoring Tools Log4j, Splunk Education Master's in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Wright State University Bachelors in ECE in ECE Acharya Nagarjuna University Skills Java, Angular, Javascript, React, Angularjs