MuleSoft Developer MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> MuleSoft Developer Columbus, GA ? Over 5+ years of experience in IT industry, extensive experience in MuleESB over Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Cloud-Hub, API Gateway and Management and 2+ Years of solid experience in Java/J2EE.  ? Possess knowledge on SOAP and REST architectural style and design principles. Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  ? Hugely experienced in using MuleSoft Studio that integrates APIs, databases and SaaS applications and deployed Mule Soft applications to Cloud Hub and on-premise servers.  ? Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, ActiveMQ, JMS and RabbitMQ. Data Transformations using Mule ESB.  ? Expertise in SOA (service-oriented architecture) frameworks and Web services integration via SOAP, REST, JSON, XML, XSLT, XPATH, XQuery, WSDL JAX RS, JAX WS, and Java.  ? Extensive experience in designing Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  ? Worked on Mule flow variables, record variables, MEL (Mule expression language), various connectors like (File, HTTP, Oracle database, Salesforce, CXF), flow references and exception strategies.  ? Customized the integration workflows using an ESB framework and with MuleSoft MMC and enterprise release.  ? Experience in MEL - Mule Expression Language to access and evaluate the data in the payload, properties and variables of a Mule message. Experience using GitHub and Jenkins technologies.  ? Utilized MuleSoft features like Dataweave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  ? RAML specifications, building APIs using API Kit in Mule applications, Managing APIs using the Any point API management console by creating proxies for Mule applications, applying standard policies and custom policies.  ? Expertise in developing applications using Core Java, Servlets, Spring Framework, XML, JSON, JNDI, JDBC, Java Beans.  ? Excellent knowledge on Java 8 concepts like Streams, Lambda Expressions, Method References.  ? Good knowledge of latest version of JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, Express JS.  ? Experience in Unit testing using Munit, Junit and Mockito. Good experience on version management tools GIT, SVN. Work Experience MuleSoft Developer Capital BlueCross - Harrisburg, PA August 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities: ? Interacting with client for analyzing the requirements and designing the application.  ? Created flows/sub-flows using scopes, transformers, routers such as splitter and aggregator in Any Point Studio.  ? Created MuleESB flows using Anypoint Studio, performed payload transformation & developed middleware frameworks for routing the messages to appropriate systems.  ? Worked on MEL to work with mule message payloads, properties and variables.  ? Worked on the development of Mule ESB to integrate and tie web services by orchestrating and transforming the request and response synchronously and managing the messages asynchronously in RabbitMQ.  ? implementing Mule Secure Token Service (STS) OAuth to mule Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Developed Exception handling techniques by using the Global, Reference, Choice, Rollback exception Strategies.  ? Designed and Developed API's for the conversion of JSON data into XML Files and used Scatter-Gather Component to load the XML files to the database by using the JDBC Connector.  ? Worked with MuleSoft Anypoint API Platform on designing the RAML for implementing REST API's and used API Gateway as a proxy service and WSDL from SOAP for defining and communicating with other web services.  ? Mule data mapping, connecting SOAP and REST web services to Mule and use of Mule connectors and plug-ins for web services, including Mule CXF as well as connectors for direct database access.  ? Expertise in Mule components that includes File, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  ? Hands on experience in using XML technologies like XPATH, XSLT, XSD and data weave for data transformations.  ? Used java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  ? Involved in creation & deployment of the application, done with unit testing by writing the MUnit test case and Provided production support by debugging system issues.  ? Extensive experience in Client Server, J2EE technologies and MVC frameworks.  ? Enhancing the user interface for Agent, Customer channel with desktop and mobile responsiveness using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Worked on XML, XSD and JSON data exchange formats.  ? Designing and developing various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.    Environment: Mule3.9, Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Exchange, API Designer, Java, J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, XML, WSDL, MAVEN, SOAP, REST, Swagger, Spring, JMS, STS, PostgreSQL, JUnit, SOAPUI, REST API, GIT. MuleSoft/ Java Developer Chain-sys - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities: ? Followed the guidelines of agile methodologies of SDLC for project management.  ? Worked on RAML and REST based Web services for Mule ESB flows, also on Mulesoft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  ? Created Mule ESB Flows, Developed RESTful/SOAP web services in mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  ? Creating and consuming of soap and REST services. Worked on REST and SOAP based Web services for Mule ESB flows based on SOA architecture.  ? Used various transformers in Mule ESB based on use case and had implemented the custom transformations.  ? Mapped data from CSV to XML and JSON and vice-versa using Dataweave and Datamapper and responsible for API designing using REST and SOAP services performed payload transformation.  ? Configuring Development Environment of Anypoint studio with Mule application server on cloud and premises.  ? Created HTTP inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of MULE ESB application using OAuth.  ? Implemented choice, global, custom exception handling mechanisms as per requirement in MULE ESB.  ? Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  ? Exposed the applications using RAML 0.8. Have written MUnit test cases to validate the Mule flows.  ? Exposed RESTful web services in MuleESB and invoked them using Postman.  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  ? Developed UI screens for attendance module using Angular-JS, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  ? Implemented AngularJS services to connect the UI to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data in the application.  ? Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC.  ? Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, factory patterns and Singleton.  ? Implemented Java 1.8 features for the existing application where ever required.  ? Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Hibernate.  ? Used Hibernate, object relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Developed REST - API's using java - Jersey JAX-RS 2.0 framework.  ? Used DTS to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  ? Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Environment: MuleSoft ESB 3.7, Anypoint Studio, Cloud Hub, JSON, HTTP/HTTPS, XML, RAML, SOAP, MySQL, Java 1.8, J2EE, spring MVC, Hibernate, AngularJS, Oracle 11g, HTML5, CSS3, Tomcat Server, JUNIT, Jax-RS 2.0, Maven, Eclipse. Jr. Java Developer Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities: ? Designed and implemented the web application layout forms using HTML, CSS3, jQuery and JSP.  ? Develop web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using JavaScript, jQuery and HTML, Java Servlet and SQL queries.  ? Developed Source code for customer modules.  ? Used JavaScript for client-side validations in the JSP and HTML pages.  ? Used JSTL tag libraries to create web interfaces using JSP technology. Developed the dynamic User Interface using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, used JSON to update UI fields.  ? Document the entire project, which contains detail description of all the functionalities.  ? Developed Hibernate in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP to implement business integration with different system components.  ? Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  ? Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the project.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, Struts, WSDL, JDBC, Eclipse 3.x, JSON, CSS, WSDL, SOAP, MAVEN, design patterns, Hibernate 3.0, JDBC, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Eclipse, JSTL. Education Master's Skills API (3 years), Eclipse. (3 years), GIT (3 years), HTML5 (3 years), java (4 years), JAX (2 years), jQuery. (2 years), JSON (4 years), JSP (2 years), JUnit (3 years), MySQL (2 years), REST (3 years), RESTful web services (3 years), SOAP (4 years), SQL (3 years), testing (3 years), UI. (3 years), user interface (4 years), web services (4 years), XML (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License