Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer - Caterpillar Inc Peoria, IL • Around 5 years of experience as a Java UI Developer in developing web applications using HTML 4.01/5, CSS2/3, Bootstrap, Java Script, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2/4/5/6/7, RX JS, Node js, Ajax, Json and Java framework Spring.  • Good working experience on Angular and React JS.  • Experience in using fundamental concepts of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Efficient in using Java Frameworks: Web Services (SOAP &REST), Spring Framework  • Familiar with CSS preprocessors like LESS and SASS to write the clean CSS.  • Extensively developed Rich Internet Applications and various UI widgets using jQuery.  • Hands on experience in writing the unit test cases Jasmine, and jUnit.  • Expertise in writing end to end test cases using frameworks like Protractor, Cucumber JS.  • Using version control technologies such as GIT, Source Tree, SVN and CVS for concurrent web development.  • Good exposure on working with Oracle, MySQL and NoSQL databases.  • Worked on creating stored procedures and good knowledge on SSRS and SSIS packages.  • Experience in building cross browser compatibility applications and developing responsive/adaptive web applications.  • Experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Expertise with browser debugging tools and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug, IE Tester, Chrome Inspector, Responsive Inspector etc  • Skills in optimizing websites for mobile phones, tablets (Portrait, Landscape) using CSS media queries.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to meet project deadlines.  • Experience on working with agile methodologies and daily Scrums. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Caterpillar Inc - Peoria, IL February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in full lifecycle development process including design, development, testing, deployment and production support.  • Using J2EE framework Spring MVC to implement REST api calls to get the data.  • Performing CRUD operations using Spring MVC.  • Created many tables, views and stored procedures to join multiple tables.  • Using Html5, css3, bootstrap 4, ng-bootstrap, typescript and RXJS to build front end pages.  • Creating reusable components and directives to develop the pages.  • Used template driven forms and reactive forms to implement forms.  • Hands on experience using RX JS operators like map(), swtichMap(), flatMap(), filter(), concat(). Used pipes to link operators together.  • Extensively using RX JS to call the REST API calls from the angular service.  • Applying the built-in bootstrap classes to styles the pages.  • Writing unit test cases to validate the functionalities are working as expected.  • Implemented end to end test cases using protractor.  Environment: Html5, css3, Bootstrap4, ngBootstrap, Angular 2/4/5/6/7, Rx JS, Java, Restful web services, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Oracle, VSTS, Visual Studio Code, STS, GIT. Java/Front End Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Indianapolis, IN September 2015 to January 2018 QBE (Quote Bind Endorse)  Description: QBE is a single page web application to produce polices. Agent can start the quote, rate the quote and bind the policy. This application is developed for auto, property (home, Condo and Renters) and Umbrella includes different transaction types.  Responsibilities:  • Developing the Single page Web Applications (SPA) using Angular JS.  • Working with PO, Business System Analyst to gather and analyze the business requirements.  • Used wireframes to create dynamic web pages and style sheets using html5 and css3.  • Created reusable components (custom directives) to be shared among the application in different places instead of rewriting code again. Ex: Accordion, Spinner and Filters etc.  • Proficient in injecting the dependency services required for controller and implementing client side validations using angular.  • Extensively worked on angular promises and deferred objects to make a service call to REST API.  • Extensively worked on implementing Restful web services using JAX-RS and used SoapUI web services to test the REST API and mock services.  • Implemented security user roles using JAX-RS 2.0 API to help enforce Authentication and global authorization rules result in a 403 if operation is prohibited for unauthorized uses  • Extensively worked on jasmine, jUnit and protractor tests and followed coding standards.  • Worked on Behavior Driven Development (BDD) framework cucumber js to automate tests using selenium.  • Used Jacoco and Sonar tools to generate code coverage reports.  • Used automation testing tools selenium and ALM (Application Life Cycle Management) for end to end testing.  • Debugging and troubleshooting issues and resolving the high priority defects that are blocking the flow.  • Working on GIT repository to check in code changes and monitoring CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) pipeline jobs in Jenkins after delivering changes.  • Expertise on angular bootstrap and css preprocessors (sass).  • Interacting with testing team to make sure all the functionalities are implemented properly.  • Followed agile methodologies like daily scrums, sprint grooming, planning and retro.  Environment: Angular JS, html5, css3, sass, bootstrap, gulp, Ajax, Java, JAX-RS 2.0, Json, Cucumber Js, Karma, PhantomJS, Sauce Labs, Eclipse, SVN, RTC, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Soap UI Pro 5.0, Splunk, Blueworks, Gradle, XML, npm, bower, DB Visualizer, Swagger, Clicktale, Oracle. Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - New York, NY December 2014 to September 2015 Project Description: Developed customer facing web application for chase banking. It includes online transfer and record of all transfers from same account or different account.  Responsibilities:  • Developing the Single page Web Applications (SPA) using angular js.  • Working with PO, Business System Analyst to gather and analyze the business requirements.  • Used wireframes to create dynamic web pages and style sheets using html5 and css3  • Created reusable components (custom directives) to be shared among the application in different places instead of rewriting code again. Ex: Accordion, Spinner and Filters etc.  • Proficient in injecting the dependency services required for controller and implementing client side validations using angular.  • Extensively worked on angular promises and deferred objects to make a service call to REST API.  • Extensively worked on implementing Restful web services using JAX-RS and used SoapUI web services to test the REST API and mock services.  • Implemented security user roles using JAX-RS 2.0 API to help enforce Authentication and global authorization rules result in a 403 if operation is prohibited for unauthorized uses  • Extensively worked on jasmine, jUnit and protractor tests and followed coding standards.  • Worked on Behavior Driven Development (BDD) framework cucumber js to automate tests using selenium.  • Used Jacoco and Sonar tools to generate code coverage reports.  • Used automation testing tools selenium and ALM (Application Life Cycle Management) for end to end testing.  • Debugging and troubleshooting issues and resolving the high priority defects that are blocking the flow.  • Working on GIT repository to check in code changes and monitoring CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) pipeline jobs in Jenkins after delivering changes.  • Interacting with testing team to make sure all the functionalities are implemented properly.  • Followed agile methodologies like daily scrums, sprint grooming, planning and retro.  Environment: Angular JS, html5, css3, sass, bootstrap, gulp, Ajax, Java, JAX-RS 2.0, Cucumber Js, Karma, Sauce Labs, Eclipse, SVN, RTC, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Soap UI Pro 5.0, Splunk, Blueworks, Gradle, XML, npm, bower, DB Visualizer, Swagger, Clicktale. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwest Missouri State University August 2013 to December 2014 Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University September 2009 to May 2013 Skills .net (1 year), Ajax (3 years), bootstrap (4 years), C (Less than 1 year), css (2 years), cucumber (3 years), Cvs (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (3 years), Git. (4 years), Java (4 years), Json (2 years), Oracle (3 years), Soap (3 years), Splunk (3 years), Subversion (3 years), Svn (3 years), Ui (3 years), User interface (3 years), Visual studio (1 year), Xml (3 years), Angular, Javascript, Node, React Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies  HTML4.0/5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular, Node JS, AJAX, JSON, XML, Breeze.js, Cucumber JS, RX JS, React Js    Languages: C, C++, JAVA, MySQL  Databases Oracle, DB2, MongoDB, Cloudant  Tools: GIT, CVS, SVN, Blueworks, Splunk, Microsoft Office, DBVisualizer, Soap UI Pro, Jenkins, Bamboo, Swagger, Confluence, Clicktale  IDE, Editors: Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, Eclipse IDE, Web Storm, Notepad++, Aptana, NetBeans IDE and Adobe Dreamweaver.  Browsers: Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Safari and Opera  Operating Systems: Windows XP, 2000 /7/8, Ubuntu, Mac OS X.