Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Supervalu Austin, TX Work Experience Software Developer Supervalu - Minneapolis, MN July 2018 to Present Supervalu is a Grocery industry leader. Mainly in supply and wholesale distribution, developed premium and discount retail formats. Working on "supervalu.com" application for Back-end. And Supporting Application.    Responsibilities: • Working on Supervalue.com online applications • L3 production support for Supervalue.Com • Responsibilities include Supporting multiple products, Taking care of escalated issues Ticket monitoring.  • Coordinating with different teams like (middleware team, Network team, Production control, Change management) • Knowing the root cause of the issue and working to resolve.  • Quick code fixing, deploying and testing • Validating all the applications after any deployment or change or upgrade activity.  • Worked on a variety of defects to stabilize application. Software Developer BonWorth - Hendersonville, NC October 2017 to June 2018 BonWorth is an American retail clothing chain based in Hendersonville, North Carolina. We have In-Store and online Stores working on POS application and Web application. We deal with various database, registers, POS and BonWorth online website. Online deals with collections (BonWorth Products), Cart, Managing orders, Payments, and shipments.    Responsibilities: • Worked in Agile methodology including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Participated in business meetings along with business analysts to record user requirements, and developed design documents and reviewed.  • Involved in all SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) Phases of the project.  • Implemented Spring IOC to resolve dependency injection.  • Worked on Factory design pattern to access domain objects.  • Followed Test Driven Development by using mockito and Junit framework • Published and consumed Rest Web Services for transferring data between different applications.  • Worked on cloud deployments, creating Assembly's, Design and Platform.  • Worked on Jenkins job configurations to build the application.  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, HTML, CSS • Implemented application using Spring Boot • Used Maven to tag, build, run and create WAR/EAR files. Java Developer (Trainee) Genpact - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to November 2015 Genpact (NYSE: G) is a global professional services firm that makes business transformation real. Worked on a company's product "Human Resources Management" -Worked on HR Management and payroll Management Developed databases and stored the data in Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio. Created and generated reports using SSRS. Tested the application based on client's requirements.    Responsibilities: • Worked in Agile methodology environment including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Participated in business meetings along with business analysts to record user requirements, and developed design documents and reviewed.  • Worked on Factory design pattern to access domain objects.  • Used ANT to build, run and create WAR files.  • Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Oracle Database • Used JMS messaging framework in the application to communicate with a variety of external systems that house member and provider data and to a medical term translation application called Auto coder.  • Implementation & design of bean orchestration using Apache Camel.  • Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing.  • Created dynamic HTML pages, used jQuery for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Involved in administering Project artifact deployed on a WebSphere Application Server. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU May 2014 Skills Ant (1 year), Apache (1 year), databases (1 year), Html (2 years), Junit (2 years)