Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer • Around 2+years of IT industry experience in Software Development & SDLC Process.  • Extensive experience in development of GUI using Core Java, Java Swing.  • Having the experience on Manual Unit Testing.  • Interaction with the client for requirement gathering.  • Experience in Distributed Application Development and Object-Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Extensive experience in design and development of J2EE applications using Core Java, Java Collections, Exception handling, Annotations, Data Structures, Multithreading, Transaction Management, JMS Custom Tag Libraries, JSTL, XML and other open source frameworks and APIs.  • Experience with tools like SQL Server management studio and SQL Server.  • Professional experience in relational database management MySQL, Oracle and DB2.  • Expertise in client scripting languages and server scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP.  • Experience in data access technologies like JDBC, JPA, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers besides writing transaction queries, DDL and DML.    • A quick learner with the ability to make solutions-oriented, creative & innovative contributions in highly demanding situations.  • Efficient analytical problem solving & decision making skills.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with clients.  • Can take the independent responsibility.  • Ability to work in a team environment, along with an ability to manage one's own task,  lead the team and deliver on goals. Work Experience Java Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance February 2018 to December 2018 Project-I    Java Developer Feb 2018- Dec 2018  Client: Liberty Mutual Insurance    Description: Liberty Mutual Insurance is one of the leading Auto, Home, Personal, and Fire Insurance Provider. Quote and Issue Application web portal application which is designed and developed especially for Liberty Mutual agents and users, where they can get the Auto, Home, Personal, Fire quotes and policies for the customers. The application is designed at various milestones starting from quote, new business and amendment.    Responsibilities  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle process using Agile Methodology.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and Design and developed template based User Interface using Bootstrap  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQuery.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Developed test cases for Unit Testing, Integration Testing with JUnit.  • Experience in writing complex PL/SQL queries using joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors, and indexes in Data Access Layer  • Established connection to Oracle database with Spring Integration, Hibernate and created POJOs for mapping with the database tables.  Environment: Frontend Developer Fluent Grid, India Ltd June 2014 to December 2015 Software Developer Fluent Grid, India Ltd June 2014 to December 2015 Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap JavaScript, spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, Web Services, Eclipse, JUnit, SQL Server JSON XML  Project-II  Software Developer Jun 2014 - Dec 2015  Fluent Grid, India Ltd.    Description:  Enterprise Holdings and its affiliates offer extensive car rentals, cardsharping, truck rental. By using different brands like (Enterprise, National and Alamo). We can access those car rentals through the web and mobile applications are fleet management, retails car sales and other transportation services.    Responsibilities  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Developed User Interface using HTML, CSS, Java Script  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using Struts, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Garbage collections for dynamic memory allocation to implement various features and enhancements.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Worked with Eclipse IDE and used Gradle build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Performed deployment of applications on Web Logic Server.  • Created tables, triggers, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, SQL queries, Joins, integrity constraints and views for IBM DB2.  • Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Worked on Hibernate for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database.  • Used Hibernate in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.  • Used SVN to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling.    Environment:  • Java, J2EE, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, PL/SQL, Unit Testing, Junit, Spring Security, IBM DB2. SQL, SVN, HQL, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX Skills Bootstrap (2 years), database (2 years), HTML5 (2 years), Java (2 years), JQuery (2 years)