SFDC Developer SFDC <span class="hl">Developer</span> SFDC Developer - Philips ? Over 4 years of overall professional IT experience including 3 years of extensive experience in Salesforce.com CRM and Force.com platform as both Administrator and Developer.  ? Experienced in all phases of Project life cycle and implementing them along with Salesforce customization.  ? Extensive experience in Salesforce.com configuration, customization, administration, data migration and integration.  ? Extensive experience in developing Apex Classes, Triggers, Visual force pages, writing Workflows, Validation and Assignment Rules, Force.com API, Custom Tabs, Custom Objects, Controllers, App Exchange Package & Custom Application, Analytic Snapshots and Dashboards.  ? Designed, Implemented and deployed the Service Cloud with various custom-built Page layouts, Custom tabs, Custom Apps to suit to the needs of the application also created various Profiles to enable the Service Cloud specific to them.  ? Experienced in Sales cloud, Collaboration Cloud for All partner portal, customer portal.  ? Experience with the Eclipse IDE with Force.com plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex programming language.  ? Experienced with integration of AppExchange applications (Docusign, Apttus, Marketo).  ? Experienced in querying Salesforce tables using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer.  ? Experience in creating SFDC Administrative tasks like roles, profiles, page layouts, record types, assignment rules, and workflow alerts, actions, reports, dashboards etc.  ? Extensive experienced in developing and designing Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, components.  ? Experienced in Workflow Approvals, Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Support Administration.  ? Experienced in Integrating the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  ? Experienced in Importing data from excel sheets in to Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader and Import Wizard.  ? Experience in web technologies like Java, Oracle, SQL Server, HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, Ajax.  ? Experienced in writing queries and stored procedures for oracle database.  ? Have end to end knowledge on Agile Methodology, worked with Scrum Masters, IM PMs on requirements.  ? In-depth experience with business CRM processes like Lead Management, Pipeline Management, Case Management, Account Management, Reports and Dashboards, Forecasting and Campaign Management.  ? Efficient in client management skills, presentation skills, operational metrics, time management, analytical, great communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience SFDC Developer Philips - Alpharetta, GA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Gathered user and functional system requirements via workshops, interviews and workflow storyboards and Working with stakeholders and project teams to prioritize collected requirements.  ? Developed Java Script methods for doing two actions on a single button click, to overcome the Salesforce limitations.  ? Developed various Visualforce Pages, Apex Triggers to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes and Controller to provide functionality to the visual pages.  ? Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  ? Worked on various AppExchange products according to the needs of the organization.  ? Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Case Management, Accounts, Contacts, Content, Reports and Workspaces.  ? Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the Mail Merge for different standard and custom objects.  ? Creating a sync of contacts, email alerts, events and tasks between Salesforce to Outlook and Outlook to Salesforce successfully.  ? Developed Client-side pagination process with all the details.  ? Created Labels to set the predefined values for the client-side pagination process.  ? Developed Custom Validations to override the Salesforce default validation rules.  ? Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  ? Complete bulk imports of data using Apex Data Loader.  ? Deployed the code developed in the Dev Sandbox to the Test Sandbox and the Production sandbox.  ? Involved in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.  ? Interacted with testing and the development teams for the development and testing of the code.  ? Resolve the Cases and support the team on urgent bases, implementation and working with real-time troubleshooting.  ? Communicating regularly with the SFDC designated super users to support them in their role and provide information and training on new features and functionality.  Environment: Eclipse IDE, Salesforce.com, Force.com Sandbox, Import Wizard, Apex, XML, JavaScript, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Visualforce Pages, Workflows, Email Updates, Web Services API, Data Loader, Marketo Tool. SFDC Developer Marriott - Bethesda, MD March 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  ? Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  ? Integrated with Informatica Power Center for data import/export from Salesforce.  ? Managed data and data synchronization form Informatica.  ? Data replication for reporting and compliance of Salesforce.  ? Data quality assessment in the lead, opportunity, contact and accounts in Salesforce.  ? Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  ? Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  ? Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and VisualForce Pages.  ? Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  ? Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  ? Created and deployed Several Reports using Salesforce.com platform.  ? Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  ? Developed and deployed workflows wherever necessary.  ? Integrated the web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home-grown applications by using the home-grown web services.  ? Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Analyst/ Developer and Administrator in the organization.  ? Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  ? Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Salesforce chatter, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Java, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Java Developer BSNL Telecom - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for design, build, distribute, and continually improve a wide-range of reports and analyses covering all aspects of company's Financial and HR operational performance  ? Help identify opportunities for Financial and operational performance improvements  ? Develop and maintain the systems and models needed to track, report, analyze, and forecast company performance  ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application, which included Requirement gathering, Design Analysis and Code development.  ? Implemented Struts framework based on the Model View Controller design paradigm.  ? Designed and developed business components using Session and Entity Beans in EJB.  ? Implemented EJB's Container Managed Persistent strategy.  ? Mapped classes to database tables in Deployment Descriptor files.  ? Worked on triggers and stored procedures on Oracle database.  ? Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  ? Worked on Eclipse IDE to write the code and integrate the application.  ? Application was deployed on Web Sphere Application Server.  ? Coordinated with testing team for timely release of product.  Environment: JDK 1.4, JavaScript, JSP 1.2, Servlets, Struts, MS, WSAD, Web Sphere Application Server, Oracle, EJB, Eclipse Education Master's Additional Information Technical Summary  Languages SQL, C, C++, Java, J Query, Ajax, JavaScript, SQL, CSS, Apex.    Operating Systems Microsoft Windows 95/98/2000/XP/7/8, Linux, Macintosh.  Salesforce Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform.  Force.com  Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex Custom Controllers, Apex triggers, Apex classes, Apex web services, Visual force Pages, Eclipse 3.4, Force.com IDE, Apex Data Loader, SOQL, SOSL, Analytical snapshots, Workflows and Approvals, Case management Automation, Sandbox testing.    Databases & Tools MS Access, Toad, Oracle 8i, Oracle 9i, 11g.  Web Services DHTML, CSS, JSP, SOAP, WSDL, XML