MuleSoft Developer MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> MuleSoft Consultant/ Developer - CYDCOR Chicago, IL 3 years of professional experience in development of web application Building and Integrating different API's using MuleSoft. Seeking an opportunity to enhance my skills and knowledge, To work for the growth of an organization.  Adept at meeting the challenges, putting in an extra effort to accomplish tasks within the scheduled timeframe. Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills and ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of a team as well as independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MuleSoft Developer Ultimate software group inc December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Mule ESB experience in implementing Service - Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using Mule Server 4.x. and anypont studio 7.  • Extensively worked on Any Point Studio and Mule Integration Platform and used it to interface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Hands on experience in Data weave Language (DWL) to access payload data, properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.  • Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third party solutions.  • Responsible for writing application code & development activities for large projects especially in a SOA environment and Reliability Patters with MuleSoft ESB.  • Technical experience in the areas of Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object Oriented Design (OOD) using UML and SDLC of distributed applications. Hugely experienced in using MuleSoft that integrates APIs, databases and SaaS applications and deployed MuleSoft applications to Cloud Hub and on premise servers.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Have an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  • Utilized MuleSoft features like Data weave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • Extensive experience on Agile methodology  • Worked on springboot framework  • Responsible to develop RESTful web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with connectors, transformations, Routing, RabbitMQ.  • Tremendous knowledge in working with databases like MS SQL and My SQL.  • Have written MUnit test cases to validate Mule Flows.  • Integrated different systems that includes File Upload, Data Base, Web services and spring services etc. using Mule ESB MuleSoft Consultant/ Developer CYDCOR - Los Angeles, CA July 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Mule ESB experience in implementing Service - Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x. and 4.x.  • Extensively worked on Any Point Studio and Mule Integration Platform and used it to interface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Hands on experience in MuleSoft Expression Language (MEL) to access payload data, properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.  • Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third party solutions.  • Responsible for writing application code & development activities for large projects especially in a SOA environment and Reliability Patters with MuleSoft ESB.  • Technical experience in the areas of Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object Oriented Design (OOD) using UML and SDLC of distributed applications. Hugely experienced in using MuleSoft that integrates APIs, databases and SaaS applications and deployed MuleSoft applications to Cloud Hub and on premise servers.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB. Have an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  • Utilized MuleSoft features like Data weave, API designer and various connectors to ensure robust and loosely coupled integration layer every time.  • Extensive experience on Agile methodology  • Responsible to develop RESTful and SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with connectors, transformations, Routing, Active MQ, JMS.  • Widely experienced with Mule ESB in designing and implementing core platform components for API/Services Gateway as well as other technological cross-cutting capabilities and also a contributor to Mule ESB open-source.  • Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  • Experience in ANT and Maven build tools for building and deploying the application in web/app servers and vast experience with java multithreaded programming.  • Extensively worked on XML technologies like XSD, XSLT, XQuery, Xpath for data transformations in Mulesoft.  • Tremendous knowledge in working with databases like MS SQL and My SQL.  • Field experience with Junit and Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Extensive experience in SOA and experience in developing Web services, WSDL, SOAP, and JAXB/JAXP.  • Had an experience in working with Anypoint studio of Mule ESB.  • Integrated different systems that includes File Upload, Data Base, SAP, Sales Force, Web services and spring services etc. using Mule ESB.  • Have written MUnit test cases to validate Mule Flows.    Environment: Mule soft Any Point Studio, Cloud hub, Any Point Platform, RAML, Connectors, APIKIT Router, Data mapper, Data weave, Sales Force, Windows 2003, SQL and MSSQL. JAVA Developer TECKLAN SOLUTIONS, IND May 2014 to December 2015 Developed a JAVA based solution that provides the buyers a seamless and effective system for a buyer to take the most optimal purchasing decision efficiently. It provides the buyer with single view of all required information price history, vendor history, price variance, quote history etc. to make effective purchasing decision.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented core java Multithreading, Collections, Exception Handling and OOP's concepts.  • Involved in the integration of Spring for implementing Dependency Injection.  • Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IOC framework.  • Involved in designing of the application using UML (Unified Modeling Language).  • Focused primarily on the MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver. Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and utilizing Hibernate Annotations.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data.    • Developed the application using Eclipse3.4 as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, accessor code generation  • Involved in development of REST Web Services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from databases  • Used an Agile model of development life cycle (SCRUM).  • Solid experience in design and development of front end in applications using HTML, JavaScript, CSS    Environment: java/j2ee, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Git, Bit bucket. Education Master's in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Kent State University - Kent, OH May 2017 Bachelor's in Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in Technology JNT University - Kakinada, AP, IN May 2014 None Skills HTML, Javascript, XML, jQuery Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Integration Tool: Mule ESB  Databases: MSSQL, MySQL  IDE's and Development Tool: Eclipse, Net beans, Mule Any Point Studio, Postman, Rational Rose, Maven, GitHUB, Putty, intellij, File Zilla, PCF, concourse pipeline  Programming Languages: Core Java, C. springboot framework  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat.  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JSON, XML, Rabbit MQ, JQuery, Java Script, REST, SOAP