C# .NET Backend Developer C# .NET Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Boston, MA Successful .NET Developer with outstanding track record, looking to further enhance skills and assist in the development of business applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience C# .NET Backend Developer Profitect Inc - Burlington, MA January 2018 to Present ·       Worked as the lead backend developer on mobile field application implementing Web API services to support and improve efficiency.  ·       Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers to optimize functionality and were coded using C#.  ·       Created new REST web service operations and improved the existing web service.  ·       Developed services using WCF (Windows Communication Foundation), ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web API and LINQ to improve and optimize various functionality.  ·       Implemented CRUD operations using RESTful service to call Web API.  ·       Used the Entity Framework to create entity models.  ·       Implemented a service layer to keep UI and Database elements loosely coupled.  ·       Written stored procedures, triggers using SQL in SQL Server 2012/2017.  ·       Worked in AGILE development and wrote Unit Tests. Java Application Developer Integra Technologies - Wilmington, DE April 2017 to December 2017 ·       Built and improved software solution using mature programming methodologies, languages, and platforms ( Java, Oracle, PL/SQL)  ·       Incorporated security requirements into software design; created channel for information data flow.  ·       Implemented and optimized common architecture used across products using design patterns and practices. Hadoop Development Research Assitant University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA May 2017 to August 2017 ·       Facilitated insightful daily analyses of 60 - 80GB of website data collected by external sources. Data Quality Assurance Analyst University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA February 2016 to December 2016 Worked as a data QA analyst for UMass Lowell providing fact checks on research and analytics data. Software Developer Intern PROFITECT INC - Waltham, MA May 2016 to September 2016 ·       Developed login and dashboard modules of the application with R&D team by utilizing ASP.NET/C#.   ·       Created RESTFUL API calls and worked in WCF framework in ASP.NET/C#.   ·       Collaborated with the R&D team as a Full Stack Developer with a focus on backend.   ·       Worked on Angular 2 for front end development with testing using selenium and BDD test.  Java Developer Treesha Infotech - Pune, Maharashtra January 2012 to December 2012 ·       Created and maintained a repository of UI components; conducted usability testing and research.   ·       Created and executed test cases based on design and product knowledge to greatly improve software performance and UI presentation.   ·       Researched/documented software bugs, formulated resolution solutions, and implemented bug fixes. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology in architecture University of Pune - Burlington, MA January 2018 to Present Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA January 2015 to December 2016 Skills C#, Html, Sql, Java, Asp Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/nikhil-swami Additional Information Proficiency:  Java, ASP.Net/C#, SQL, HTML, CSS3    Prior Experience:  JavaScript, C#, JAVA, SQL, Python (Familiar), AWS, Android,   Angular 2    Web Development:  ASP.NET Web Forms, ASP.NET MVC 4/5/6, WCF, Web Services, Web API, ADO.NET, Entity Framework 4/6, LINQ    Frameworks / Tools:   Hadoop, Django, Selenium, QTP, Spring MVC     Database:   Oracle, SQL Server, MS Access, MySQL    Other Technologies:   Git, GitHub, Bitbucket, XML, RESTful, JSON, Postman,   Visual Studio 2010, 2013, 2015    Other Skills:   Requirements engineering, UML, Design patterns, code reviews, Testing