Java/DevOps Engineer <span class="hl">Java</span>/DevOps Engineer Java/DevOps Engineer - J. P. Morgan Chase • Experience in the Java/J2EE based enterprise application development along with System Integration.  • Experience with writing SQL queries, Store Procedures for Oracle 10g/9i and MS SQL Server.  • Experience in application development using Java, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JavaBeans, JDBC, Junit 4.0, Log4J, XML, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX.  • Experience working with multiple IDE tools like RAD (Rational Application Developer), and Eclipse.  • Involved in code versioning, Check In, Check outs and code merging using various configuration tools like SVN (Sub Version), Git etc.  • Experience in implementing web-based projects using Web/Application Servers such as Web Logic, Apache Tomcat 9, and IBM Web Sphere 9.  • Exposure and Experience of Web Services using, WSDL, Restful. Strong knowledge in developing Web Services using SOAP and XML.  • Excellent experience in build and release processes, Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Quality Assurance Life Cycle (QALC).  • Experience in developing test cases and performs Unit, Integration testing.  • Created Test cases using JUnit4.4 to test functionalities of application.  • Extensive experience in Centos / RHEL/Unix system Administration, System Builds, Server Builds, Installations, Upgrades, Patches, Migration, Trouble shooting on RHEL 4.x/5.x, Centos, Troubleshooting Server issues.  • Ability to manage SCM processes which include compiling, packaging, deploying and application configurations.  • Good Experience in Build and Release Management, Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery and Configuration Management.  • Experience in Server infrastructure deployment on AWS Cloud, extensive usage of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, EC2, RDS, S3, Route53, SNS, SQS, Redshift, EBS and Cloud Trail.  • Experiences on Application Deployments & Environment configuration using Chef and Ansible.  • Extensively used ANT tool to do the builds, integrated ANT to Eclipse and did local builds.  • Integrated Maven with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration process.  • Build Java code on to different Jenkins, Packer servers as per the schedule.  • Experienced in using Build Automation tools like ANT, MAVEN and MS Build scripts for build and deployment.  • Strong knowledge on CI tools like Jenkins and Hudson.  • Extensive working Experience with configuration management tools like CHEF and ANSIBLE.  • Experience in using build and Automation tools like ANT and Maven for the building of deployable artifacts from source code.  • Experiences on Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  • Extensively worked on Artifactory and Nexus Repository Managers to deploy software built through Jenkins Build Jobs.  • Had the Hands-on experience creating the infrastructure and deploying the software applications onto the servers.  • Automated all the infrastructure by using the ansible and had integrated it with the Jenkins to automatically deploy the code. Work Experience Java/DevOps Engineer J. P. Morgan Chase - Dallas, TX February 2019 to Present Project:  CACS include recovery accounting capabilities so that when the accounts are charged off and are passing accounting data to the recovery accounting component of CACS, all accounting system functions (e.g., payment posting, accruals, general ledger interface etc..) can continue. The recovery mechanism of the CACS becomes the centralized repository for all charged - off accounts providing recovery accountability capability, if needed, and the potential elimination of redundant recovery processing components for each portfolio of accounts. The use of CACS recovery accounting allows for uninterrupted collections activity because the data is loaded to the recovery accounting component of CACS, and the collection activities continue without delay.    Responsibilities:  • Installed, maintained, upgraded, and troubleshooted the cloud-based solutions, including but not limited to enterprise-level AWS services such as EC2, S3, etc.  • Defined migration strategy to move workflows to cloud and Designed the overall Virtual Private Cloud VPC environment including server instances, storage instances, subnets, availability zones, etc.  • Designed the AWS network architecture including VPN connectivity between regions and subnets.  • Collaborate with other IT Infrastructure and application teams. Assist with determining standards for deploying to cloud infrastructure.  • Strong practical Linux and Windows-based systems administration skills in a Cloud or Virtualized environment.  • Experience building sophisticated and highly automated infrastructure and wrote code to automate the repeatable process. Strong hands on experience in Ansible scripting skills.  • Designed and contributed to solutions in areas like continuous integration, operations automation, full stack provisioning, containerization, configuration management, and orchestration systems.  • Created the infrastructure and deployed the applications on AWS by using Create AMI and Deploy AMI model.  • Track all development related defects using HP Quality Centre.    • Worked with end client users to gather requirement and roll out new enhancements.    • Co-ordinate with Business Team for Clarifications and integrated our code with other vendor    • Prepared Requirement analysis, Design and Test Case documents.    • Actively getting involved in Application Development of Micro Services and Batches in Agile methodology    • Developing efficient Cloud based RESTful Micro Services for Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) environment using spring boot in Test driven development methodology    • Deploying the RESTful micro services into Pivotal cloud foundry and deploying them using fully automated Jenkins pipeline scripts (with continuous integration and continuous delivery practice)    • Developing responsive frontend applications using React Js, Javascript, JQuery, HTML, CSS and various frontend technologies and deployed into Cloud Foundry environment Developing highly scalable batch application using, Spring Batch and Oracle SQL. Used Git for version management & Maven for building the application. Java/DevOps Engineer DFPS - Austin, TX February 2017 to January 2019 Project: The IMPACT system is Texas Department of Family and Protective Services primary case management system for Child Protective Services (CPS), Adult Productive Services (APS), and to a lesser extent Child Care Licensing (CCL) program area. The system underwent Phase I modernization in which Statewide Intake (SWI), ABCS, CASA and E-Reports were converted from the Legacy technology to Modern Technology Stack. Phase II builds on the technology and functions implemented in phase I and includes all remaining functionality in the legacy IMPACT application including, but not limited to, the automation support for the program areas such as CPS, APS and CCL.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed user/business requirements, design and implementation plans.  • Involved in infrastructure change and upgrade of java version ( Java 1.7) and Web Sphere Application Server 9 and Apache Tomcat 9.  • Designed and developed web pages for user and admin perspective modules using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed and implemented Spring framework, Dependency Injection features to assemble and configuring loosely coupled components.  • Good experience in JavaScript (jQuery) and AJAX calls to send request and get response through web pages faster in time.  • Experience in Agile development through SDLC process and attended daily stand-up call meetings and team meetings.  • Handled System tuning, log maintenance, disk space management.  • Sudo administration and Red Hat Centos /RHEL, Centos package administration using rpm and YUM.  • Extensive use of Veritas Volume Manager for Disk management, file system management on UNIX environment.  • Use of Korn shell and Bash for scripting.  • Expertise in Centos, Red Hat Centos / RHEL backup/restore with tar including disk partitioning and formatting.  • Involved in development, user acceptance, and performance testing, production disaster recovery server.  • Worked with other IT teams, customers (users), and other managers in helping build and implement systems and standards.  • Worked on continuous integration using Jenkins, log collection, and analysis, version control systems like GitHub or SVN.  • Created the Jenkins Build pipeline to build the code using MAVEN.  • Understanding of Docker or evolving container management platforms like Kubernetes.  • Knowledge of SSL certificates management and Experience in Agile and DevOps practices.  • Create the Jenkins builds to automate the deployment of the microservices.  • Created the Jenkins build to trigger by using URL and deploy the secrete files on to the servers.  • Experience in creating the directory structures on the servers to deploy the code and store the log files on to the log folders. Troubleshooting the issues that are caused in the deployment process.  • Worked extensively in writing SQL queries and procedures for retrieving the data from Oracle database.  • Used Hibernate to map the properties or objects to the tables of database in the backend.  • Developed J2EE Web applications on WebSphere Application Server using MVC patterns with Spring Framework.  • Experience in developing SOAP Web Services using JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC and WSDL. Have also designed and developed REST interfaces in Java.  • Experience in developing finance service application and proactively tested application using ALM tool and test using JUnit and Mockito framework test cases.  • Used SVN for version management & Maven for building the application.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file.  • Wrote the Ansible playbooks to automate the infrastructure and deploy the applications onto the linux servers.  • I have worked on the VM ware work stations to connect to the Enterprise servers and deployed the applications on to the enterprise servers.  • Performed the onboarding activities and solved all problems while on boarding teams to the corporate SDLC platform. Addressed all issues for the development team's applications within the tools.  • Experienced in working with multiple version control system includes GIT, Bit Bucket and JFrog Artifactory.  • Created and Configured the Jenkins Builds to create the CI/CD pipeline. Java Developer Lorhan Corporation - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to August 2015 Description:  Involved in product development for logistics workflow systems for several groups in National Network Systems. It is an ERP system involving logistics.    • Documented use cases, functional requirements based on the A&D using RUP and UML.  • Analyzed and modified existing code wherever required and Responsible for gathering, documenting and maintaining business and systems requirements, and developing designs document.  • Incorporated Design Patterns like MVC, DAO and OOP.  • Implemented Hibernate instead of traditional JDBC code.  • Designed the applications using Struts MVC for easy maintainability.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Actively involved in Preparing Scenarios, Preparing and executing Test Cases, Defect Tracking.  • Successfully coordinating large cross functional teams consisting of various partners and vendors through System Testing/UAT and Go Live readiness.  • Involved in the configuration management using CVS.  • Created several Exception classes to catch the error for a bug free environment and orderly logged the whole process using Log4j, which gives the ability to pinpoint the errors.  • Analyzed web applications, documented detail Test plans, Test cases and expected results based on the business functional requirements.  • Using it's advanced and cross browser functionality has used JQuery library for creation of powerful dynamic Web Pages and web applications.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework. Used Hibernate as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, Servlets and Java for both Business Logic and GUI development.  • Implemented Spring architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Designed and developed Caching and Logging service using Singleton pattern, Log4j.  • Developed & deployed the application in Web Sphere Application Server.  • Developed JavaScript code for browser compatibility (specific to IE) and Firebug for debugging Client s ide JavaScript. Education Master's University of Bridgeport December 2016 Bachelor's Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University May 2015 Additional Information Technical Skillset:  Operating Systems RHEL, Ubuntu and Amazon Linux.  Source control tools GIT, SVN  Build Tools ANT, MAVEN  CI/CD Tools Hudson, Jenkins, Ansible.  Databases & Application Servers Oracle, MYSQL, IBM Web Sphere, BEA Web Logic, Tomcat.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript/JQuery, AJAX.  Cloud Technologies AWS.  Monitoring Nagios, Splunk.  Programming Languages  Java/J2EE, Spring (Spring Core, Spring JDBC, Spring Data JPA, Spring Rest, Spring MVC, DAO and AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Data), Hibernate, JMS, Servlets, JSP, JNDI.    Web Services Restful and SOAP web services.