Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer - Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation DTTC - Jersey City, NJ January 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis & application design of Extreme Programming using agile methodology with iterative and incremental software development.  ? Worked on AngularJS controllers and created functions to interact with the RESTful Web Services using AJAX.  ? Developed Payments and Payments Return Screens using AngularJS.  ? Worked on Analysis of the Payments and Payments Return screens.  ? Developed Payment Research Tool using spring MVC architecture and its felt over using angular JS.  ? Developed Microservices and APIs using Spring Boot.  ? Consumed various SOAP and REST Webservices.  ? Worked with Datastax's Cassandra Java API to interact with the Cassandra Cluster.  ? Used Kafka as Java Messaging Service for producing and consuming data between applications.  ? Worked on creating Spring Data Repositories for SQL/NoSQL databases.  ? Wrote ATDD Tests using Cucumber and Gherkin.  ? Developed Unit Tests using Junit, Mockito and PowerMock and Involved in functional, integration and Performance testing.  ? Worked on converting JSON files to the parquet file format using Google GSon API.  ? Worked for Continuous Integration deployment, automating build, and tests using Jenkins.  ? Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  ? Troubleshoot AWS EC2 Status checks including System Status checks and Instance Status check alerts.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based Micro Services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  ? Implemented build stage-to build the Micro Service and push the Docker Container image to the private Docker registry.  ? Developed RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Services Architecture.  ? Designing & configuring secure Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through private and public networks in AWS and create various subnets, routing table, internet gateways for servers.  ? Deployed and developed the artifacts using AWS EC2, S3, cloud watch, Lambda, Amazon messaging services (SQS and SNS) and Amazon Kinesis services.  ? Worked on AMI Rehydration's.  ? Developed Micro-Services based architecture to enable the application to be deployed on AWS.  ? Implemented Micro Services Architecture to divide the application into various sub modules.  ? Implemented Restful Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Service Architecture.  ? Worked on cloud formation templates (CFT) creation for EC2 instance and as well as for RDS instance.  ? Used Docker to containerize the Services and APIs to run on EC2 instances.  ? Worked on deployment and Migration of legacy Java applications to the AWS cloud.  ? Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  ? Used JIRA as Work management scrum Agile Tool.  ? Involved in Test Driven Development (TDD), JUNIT, Performance and Functional Testing.  ? Used GIT as a version control tool.  ? Interacted with the client, provide feedback on the features, implemented optimal solutions and tailored application to customer needs.    Environment: Java 1.8/1.7/1.6, Spring 4.0, Spring Boot, Web Services (REST & SOAP), Spring MVC, JSON, Log4j, STS, Kafka, Mockito, Angular JS 2.0, Apache Tomcat, Maven 3.0, Jenkins, Docker, GitHub, JIRA, EC2, S3, VPC, IAM, Cloud watch, Cloud Formation, AWS Lambda, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Micro Services, Postman, JMeter, JIRA, Chef, Jenkins, Junit, Cucumber, SQL, Cassandra Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer Voya Financial - Windsor, CT January 2016 to December 2017 Voya Financial February 2016 to September 2017 Restructure and redesigning legacy Virtual Service Center application to align it more closely with current business needs and improve user's experience by utilizing spring MVC for more flexible and integrated architecture.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Expertise in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  ? Involved in creation of dynamic web pages with the use of JSP and HTML. Form validation using JavaScript and design changes using CSS3.  ? Developed the business logic using spring and persistence logic using Hibernate.  ? Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application.  ? Used Spring Dependency Injection to get the Hibernate Sessions and Spring DAO Classes.  ? Developed Client applications to consume the web services based on both SOAP and REST protocol using JAX-RSAPI.  ? Used JAX-WS (SOAP) for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF and Apache CXF framework.  ? Used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal the xml to java object, java objects to xml.  ? Used XPATH to navigate through Attributes and Elements in an XML Document.  ? Skillful hands on UNIX commands used to see the log files on the production server.  ? Participated in all aspects of agile SCRUM methodology for development.  ? Utilized spring MVC architecture for modernization.  ? Used Hibernate frameworks for storage architecture.  ? Used JSTL for webpage binding with service.  ? Used JMS ( Java Mailing Service) API for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is completed and for mailing administrator of any system related problems.  ? Developed Micro Service to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture using Spring Boot.  ? Used Angular JS framework for single page application in a very clean and maintainable way.  ? Developed responsive web application pages. Used Angular.JS services, controllers and directives for front end UI and consumed RESTful web service API.  ? Used Node.js to create server-side applications for Java script codes to build real-time web API's.  ? Used IBM RSA for development.  ? Use of Collection framework for handling aggregate data.  ? Used Sonar Lint for bugs and quality issues detection.  ? Used GRADLE as build tool.  ? Custom jsp and jsp tags for web page development.  ? Used Active MQ for document archiving.  ? Operated IBM Web Sphere as Application Server  ? Used Ajax and jquery for front end validation and request processing.  ? Worked as team lead for development.  ? Participated in code review and productionizing the Application.  ? Involved in troubleshooting issues and fault analysis.    Environment: JDK1.6,1.8, MSSQL 5.6 , JUnit4, Eclipse, Hibernate4.0, JMS, EJB3.0, Apache Commons, , ANT, Maven, SVN, Linux, Windows, JIRA, AngularJs, Autosys, GRADLE. Java, JSP, Spring (MVC and Core), JSON, Servlets, WebServices(RESTful), Micro Services, Tomcat Application server, Spring JDBC Template, Tomcat Server 7.0, TOAD, SQL Developer. JAVA Developer/J2EE developer Reliance, India - IN April 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Expertise on using Agile methodology in developing the application, which includes iterative application development, 2 week-sprints, daily stand up meetings, Sprint Retrospective, Sprint Planning, Story Estimates and customer reporting backlogs(bugs).  ? Collaborated with the business and technical teams and took the responsibility to document the functional and technical specifications in the business requirements analysis phase.  ? Developed a Java /J2EE based Web Application with complete Spring suite, implementing Spring MVC and other Spring modules.  ? Developed front end pages using JSP, JSTL, CSS and XHTML. Used JavaScript for toggling, disabling the elements of dojo and creating JSON trees.  ? Developed single page applications using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  ? Extensively worked on AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  ? Extensively used core Java concepts like Multithreading, Collections, File I/O and concurrency.  ? Developed session beans as part of Spring to handle business logic and deployed them on Tomcat application server.  ? Worked on CORE JAVA (Collections of type Generics, ArrayLists) and used the core packages.  ? Developed Business components and integrated those using Spring features such as Dependency Injection, auto wiring various components such as DAO layers and Service Proxy layers.  ? Implemented Hibernate as ORM and integrated to Spring using Spring ORM.  ? Responsible for implementing an API that allowed fetching enrolled person and device information from an iOS device.  ? Developed servlets and utilized to create a fast and efficient chat server.  ? Created a service for moving data from one database to the other database based on some specifications which uses Spring 3.0.  ? Implemented all the components following test-driven development (TDD) methodology using JUnit.  ? Used JDBC API and HQL (Hibernate Query Language) to query the Database System and used JDBC Thin Driver to connect to the database.  ? Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events.  ? Extensively worked with the retrieval and manipulation of data from database by writing queries using SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Created stored procedures, packages, sequences and PL/SQL statements to different operations on the database.  ? Developed the RESTful web services using JAX-RS.  ? Designed Test cases, Test scenarios & Test scripts for Unit testing and Black box perform testing.  ? Developed Log4j logs to record the application events to provide the debugging, monitoring and auditing capabilities to the application.  ? Created UNIX shell scripting for periodic generation of reports. Wrote rules for Skip Logic using drools which we call in JavaScript functions.  ? Used Git as a version control. Used Git bash, Source tree and Tortoise Git tools for version control. Creating branches on the source code, adding, staging and committing code as a part of development.  ? Used Jira which is integrated with Issues, Code, Builds and Documents related to the project as a part of agile methodology (Atlassian JIRA and JIRA Plugins).  ? Used JBoss as the application servers.  ? Conducted and participated code reviews and design reviews meetings.  ? Troubleshoot and fix the issues as part of Performance, Pre-Prod and Prod deployments whenever the release is committed.    Environment: JDK 1.7, Multithreading, Spring 4.x, JSP 2.0, Servlets 3.0, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XHTML, JDBC, JSTL, XML, XSLT, AJAX, RestFul, Hibernate 4.1, Jenkins, JBOSS 4.0.3SP1, JUnit 3x, JSF, Maven3.0, Log4J, SQL Developer4.1, Linux. Education Master's