Guidewire Developer Guidewire <span class="hl">Developer</span> Guidewire Developer - Mercury Insurance Work Experience Guidewire Developer Mercury Insurance - Brea, CA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed code for different reconciliations for Policy Center.  • Worked on improvement of mass charging application utilizing record begin capable modules and altered Puffs as indicated by the business necessities.  • Flux device to make work processes to download records from seller SFTP and FTP to inside document area.  • Guidewire Policy Center User Interface (UI) customization, Addition/Modification of information display substances, type list, GOSU coding.  • Implemented quickening agents for different executions for case focus (Thunderhead, CCC ISO)  • Created GX models for sending the required fields for record age and gave test information.  • Created web administrations for Xactimate to expend to give property gauges.  • Worked with occasion terminated principles for reconciliations that included sending messages and getting answers.  • Worked with warnings, production of exercises, and sent messages for applications created according to necessities.  • Worked on dealing with false cases and fizzled installments.  • Create Users and Groups Admin information for the Policy Center Application as per business needs  • Developed bunch forms for taking care of fizzled installments because of system blunders.  • Worked on advancement of case gateway utilizing Edge API to give update to clients with respect to refreshes on the client's case  • Wrote Gunit experiments for client stories created and tried web administrations utilizing SOAP UI.  • Worked with Business SME's and BA to comprehend utilitarian prerequisites and give specialized necessities to advancement.  • Participated in Daily Scrum, Design Approaches and Testing Handoffs.  Environment: Policy Center 8.0, Contact Manager8.0, Billing Center8.0, Java, Gosu, Intellij IDEA, thunderhead one, flux, Jenkins, Windows 7, SVN Guidewire Developer Campbell Enterprises Insurance - San Jose, CA April 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed EFT payments for Auto Repair Express, Salvage, and Rental providers within a brief period of time following Agile Methodology.  • Designed and developed online payments report, daily and weekly paper payments report for all providers using batch process and web service.  • Initiated and developed a tool that run in a running server and fix any type of bug.  • Initiated and developed a process to retry all failures caused by a network outage.  • Fixed critical issues for inbound and outbound integration of Claim Center with downstream systems.  • Implemented new tools helping production support retrying failed payments  • Collaborated with the data model team in adding new fields to the existing entities, creating new entities, adding and modifying type lists as per the project requirements.  • Designed and developed inbound integration of Claim Center to accept glass invoice and create EFT payments and bulk payments.  • Assisted in Data Migration of billing information from legacy Systems into Billing Center.  • Performed PCFL enhancements and wrote validation rules for billing center to meet business needs. As java developer, assisted in designing, building and maintaining Business Contracts Module which is used to load, update and save updated contracts in database utilizing Servlets, Apache Struts, Java Server Pages, Javascripts and JDBC.  • Investigated and solved issues and bugs in customized bulk payments and AD Check Writer functionalities.  • Designed and Implemented outbound integration to send emails to external vendors based on claim center generated events.  • Involved in configuration of Business Rules like Validation, Pre- Update, Audit, Segmentation and Assignment.  • Involved in configuration of various jobs like Submission, policy change, cancellation, reinstatement, rewrite and Audit.  • Involved in configuration of Rating Engine classes for various line of business.  • Integrated External rating engine for policy center.  • Worked with Portal development for customers to view and track policy and claims information.  • Involved in integration between Policy Center, Claim Center  • Worked on Validation Framework, Validation levels.  • Worked on WSI - Web services publishing and consuming as part of integration areas.  • Worked on Query APIs, Bundle Transactions as part of retrieving and update data to database.  • Worked on Custom Batch Process as part of generating the reports on daily, weekly and monthly basis.  • Worked on underwriting issues in triggering manually and automatic and approvals related to.  • Worked on Pre-Defined Plugins which are internal to guidewire and some of them are used in integration.  • Worked on Messaging configuring Transport, Request ad Response plugins.  • Participated in various code review sessions and assistance to other developers in implementing Claim Center configuration best practices.  • Provided analysis quickly not just verbally but also in writing    Environment:ClaimCenter, ContactManager, Policy Center, Java1.6, GOSU, Tortoise SVN, Hudson Java Developer Alphabet tech solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designing, Development, JUnit testing and Integration of the project.  • Design involved the use of several J2EE design patterns.  • Worked with the Business Analyst for requirement gathering and organized regular Demos during the course of development while following Agile methodology.  • Used J2EE 1.4 guidelines with JSPs, Servlets and different Java design patterns.  • Ant build file creation and usage of Maven Ivy tool set, along with dynamic JUnit report generation in PDF format.  • Developed and provided support to many components of this application from end-to-end, i.e. Front-end (View) to • Spring Controllers & configurations to Model and Hibernate mappings.  • Used Anzen security tool for configuring and authorizing user information & web security.  • Wrote jQuery'sfor easier Ajax implementation.  • Prepared Load testing scripts using eLoad/etester tool and ran the tests with hundred users and monitored the performance for our application.  • Provided solutions for bug fixes in this application.  • Conducted code review for team members, involved in Unit testing    Environment: J2SE, J2EE (Servlets 2.4, JavaBeans 1.0, JSP 2.0), Web logic server 9.1, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, loader, Clear case, AJAX, Oracle 10g, Windows 2000, IDE: Eclipse Juno Education Bachelor's in computer science engineering North Western University Skills JAVA (4 years), JSP (2 years), SERVLETS (2 years), SOAP (1 year), WINDOWS 7 (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  App Servers, Web Servers IBM Web Sphere Apache-Tomcat, JBoss, Java, SQL, Gosu.    Operating Systems: Windows 7/XP/2000/NT/98, Unix, Linux  Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10g, DB2, MS SQL server, H2  Frameworks: Design Patterns, Hibernate, Structs, Spring  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Web Services  IDEs (development Tools) Eclipse, IBM Web Sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD), Rational Application Developer (RAD), Intellij IDEA  Web Technologies JDBC, JUnit, XSD, SOAP, HTML, XML, XSL  Design Methodologies Waterfall and Agile