Sr. Java FullStack Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span> FullStack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack Java Developer Raritan, NJ Java Developer    • Java Full stack developer with 7+ years of experience in full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using JAVA, JEE, JDBC, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS and Webservices.  • Hands on experience in the implementation of Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collection API.  • Expertise in developing Micro services using Spring Boot and Node JS to build more physically separated modular applications which will improve scalability, Availability, Agility of application.  • Proficient in implementation of spring frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring REST, Spring AOP, Spring transaction Management, Spring Data, Spring DAO, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Experience in using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Node Js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Knockout, Angular.js, React.js, JQuery UI and Google Web Toolkit.  • Strong experience using frameworks like JSP, EJB, Java Persistence API, JNDI, JMS, Struts, JSF in developing scalable, reliable, efficient web and enterprise applications.  • Good experience in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Microservices architecture using J2EE Web Services based on Restful (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS), JAX-RPC and JAXR ( Java API for XML Registries) using frameworks like Apache CXF, Jersey, Axis and Spring framework, NodeJS (Express JS &Hapi JS)  • Hands on Experience in working with Databases MYSQL, Oracle 10g/11g, SQL-Server, DB2 and NoSQL (MongoDB, Cassandra) Dynamo DB, Couch DB.  • Expertise in ORM tools Hibernate 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, iBATIS, with JPA specifications, HQL, Caching, ACID transaction, Locking and implemented ODM framework like Mongoose for mapping MongoDB.  • Expertise in creating Databases, Tables, Stored Procedure, DDL/DMLTriggers, Views, User defined data types (UDT), Cursors, Functions, data dictionaries, and maintaining data integrity and Indexes using SQL.  • Good knowledge in writing stored procedures, Packages and functions using SQL & PL/SQL and good at advance PL/SQL topics like Triggers, Collections.  • Experienced in developing front end applications using HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS2/3 (using SASS and LESS), Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2, 4.X and developing dynamic web pages.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions. Design and implement a Web based content management utilizing XML, JAXB, DOM, XSLT, XPath, and JavaScript for data generation and presentation with JSF.  • Expertise in latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular JS, Ember JS, Backbone JS, React JS, Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Having good Experience in MVVM design pattern such as Angular 2.X and Angular4.X.  • Developed multiple Angular 4.0 components which are compatible with latest versions of typescript, Angular CLI.  • Developed front-end using React JS, JQuery, HTML and High Charts based on MVC architecture.  • Strong experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA), using MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular and Node) stack. Work Experience Sr. Java FullStack Developer Johnson & Johnson Present ·  Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life Cycle) of the application from requirement analysis for testing.  ·  Developing with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Node JS.  ·  Worked on Java 8 in developing the applications.  ·   Followed Agile Methodology in analyzing, defining and documenting the functional and business requirements. We have a daily scrum meeting where we discuss all the tasks we must finish for that days and discuss any blockers or issues. We have used JIRA as our SCRUM tool  ·  Used front end web development tools HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2/4 to design UI.  ·  Replaced existed Angular JS code with Angular 2/4 code, which decreased number of lines of code for a web application.  ·  Implemented Common Backend Application Flow for all the Screens using EJB 3.0 and Business Logic was implemented using core java Collections based on the requirements of individual screen.  ·  Implemented coding a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery, Angular2) and Bootstrap, connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain.  ·  Developed DAO Layer using various Java based cargo objects to communicate with the Oracle Database using JPA.  ·  Reviewed high-level design specification, ETL coding and mapping standards.  ·  Designed new database tables to meet business information needs. Designed Mapping document, which is a guideline to ETL Coding.  ·  Knowledge of J2EE Design Patterns such as Creational, Structural and Behavioral design patterns Singleton, Factory, Facade, Builder, Observer, DAO, Value/Data Transfer and Well versed in Object-Oriented programming using Java, J2EE.  ·  Designed and developed hibernate Configurations.  ·  Worked on hibernate changes, upgraded hibernate 3 version to hibernate 5.  ·  Designing and developing Micro Services using spring boot application architecture to interact with different services.  ·  Designed and implemented using MVC, integrating hibernate and spring boot framework.  ·  Used Web Services (SOAP and REST) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  ·  Developed JAX-WS SOAP web services using XML, WSDL, XSD through Apache CXF Implementation.  ·  Created jobs in Jenkins and deployed the applications in different environments (DEV/QA/UAT/PROD).  ·  Worked in all areas of Jenkins setting up CI/CD for new branches, build automation, Plugin management and securing Jenkins and setting up master/develop configurations.  ·  Worked on security issues for the User Management service.  ·  Maven for the application builds and Jenkins for the continuous integration.  ·  Build and configure a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Fullstack Java Developer Ally Financial - Dallas, TX January 2016 to December 2017 • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Used AGILE methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • AWS EC2 instances were configured in developing and QA environments with NodeJS  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy and also used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider this feature was implemented using REST Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for files stored  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  • Built MAVEN scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server 6.0.1 and Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  • Spring Controllers were used with Angular JS to route the control to desired Java services.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC. Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  • Developed core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Designed and developed Restful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API. Involved in building Restful Web services using JAX-RSAPI.  • Worked on Cloud implementation by installing, building and deploying applications using Cloud Foundry and using AWS.  • Developed Rest APIs in Spring boot.  • Used Angular 2.0 HTTP Module to make API calls and worked with the observables.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Synchronize data with server using SASS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and Angular.js.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and using them with continuous integration tools like Jenkins to create and publish application artifacts  • Application development experience using Multithreading, Collection framework and Core Java, Spring, Hibernate, Sql server.  • Developed Single page applications and Custom Directives using Angular 2.0.  • Used ReactJS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual components etc.  • Created custom Plugins, templates, and functions for Angular JS application.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Analyzed and fixed issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Used Maven as the build tool and Tortoise SVN as the Source version controller.    • Used Subversion (SVN) as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Used ReactJS and AngularJS for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Developed different modules using Java, Apache Camel, Spring and Hibernate.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology and used TDD for writing test cases.  • Involved in developing stored procedures and Triggers on Oracle11g • Used NPM to manager server side packages.  • Automated build scripts using Ant, Maven for Java and J2EE Applications, make for C, C++    Environment: Java 8, Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, AJAX, Oracle 11g, Web Services, AWS, Agile, REST, XML, SOA, WebSphere, JavaScript, Angular JS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JBOSS, JUnit, Grunt, GITHub, SQL, Angular2.0, MongoDB, ReactJS, JMS, HTML5, JSP, Apache Camel, CVS, CSS, MVC, Maven and SVN. J2ee Java Developer Ford Motors February 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as Servlets, Java Beans and JSP.  • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, J-Query, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • Using Technologies like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI based Web Services.  • Developed Hibernate 3.0 in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used SAML for SSO login to access the web service provided and OAuth for authorizing the user to the application.  • Configured beans in spring configuration file with Spring IOC, Spring Core, Spring AOP and MVC for enhanced modules.  • Implemented RESTFUL web services API using HTTP and REST principles • Used bootstrap and angular.js in effective web design.  • Used Angular-JS HTTP to retrieve data through Web API from entity frame work • Designed the workflow, system architecture, drawing sequence diagrams, activity diagrams, class diagrams, HTML pages, database schema and tables.  • Writing JSP's for user interfaces, JSP's uses Java Beans objects to produce responses.  • Involved in Tomcat server configuration for deployment.  • Wrote JAVA Servlets that generates dynamic VXML.  • Migrated the current Linux environment to AWS Linux environment and used auto scaling feature and Involved in Remediation and patching of Unix/Linux Servers.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Used log4j 1.2 to log different types of messages to write on to the proprietary log model.  • Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and also in complete development, testing and maintenance process of the application • Store persistent JMS messages or temporarily store messages sent using the store-and-forward feature.  • Involved in testing the XML files and checked whether data is parsed and loaded to staging tables.  • Store persistent JMS messages or temporarily store messages sent using the store-and-forward feature.  • Used Hibernate to persist and retrieve data from database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlet, XML Schema, SOAP, Javascript, PL/SQL, DHTML, XHTML, Ant 1.6, Log4j, JUnit, Weblogic10.0, Oracle 11g, Wsdl, IBM Rational rose, Maven, Eclipse, XSD. Software Developer Vir Stock - IN July 2011 to January 2012 • Involved in the requirements gathering. Design, Development, Unit testing and Bug fixing.  • Developed a Restful web application using Spring Framework, Spring, Hibernate.  • Used Multithreading to enable multiple operations to be performed simultaneously.  • Developed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams to express the detail design.  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring framework developed Controllers, Form beans and configured the spring configuration file.  • Used validation framework in the application.  • Worked with EJBs (Session and Entity) to implement the business logic to handle various interactions with the database.  • Worked on Messenger service in various modules to communicate with JMS for asynchronous communication within Loan Application System.  • Wrote stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Developed critical elements of the server framework like user authentication, access control.  • Implemented messaging interfaces for asynchronous communication.  • Deployed business components into WebSphere Application Server.  • Wrote SAX and DOM XML parsers and used SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming and displaying reports. Developed Schemas for XML.  • Involved in design and developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, UDDI, DOM, XML Schemas, JAXP, and XSL. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Pune University Skills DATABASE (4 years), JMS (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (4 years), MVC (4 years), java, javascript, agile, angular, spring, J2EE Additional Information SKILLS:    PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES Java5/1.6, 1.7, 1.8, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, Scala, C, C++, XML, JavaScript, CSS, Lua  TECHNOLOGIES/TOOLS  J2EE, J2SE, Servlets, JSP, JMS, JTA, EJB, JDBC, Swing, JDBC, XML, SOA, WSDL, SOAP, WOA, RESTful, Axis2, Splunk Analytics, Jenkins, Puppet, Ansible, Maven, Ant, GIT, DevOps, Big Data, Hadoop, Spark, Apache Lucene    FRAMEWORKS  Struts 2.x, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate ORM, JUnit Testing, JAX WS, JAX RS, Angular 2, NodeJS.  APPLICATION AND WEB SERVERS IBM WebSphere 6.x, WebLogic 7.1/10.x, JBoss and Apache Tomcat 5, Apache HTTP server, Jetty, Nginx  SOFTWARE PACKAGES- IDEs Eclipse IDE 3.6.0, IBM RAD IDE, Netbeans- IDE, MS Office, Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio, Idea IntelliJ, JDeveloper, STS.  DATABASES Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, IBM DB2, Cassandra, Couchbase    OPERATING SYSTEMS  MS-DOS, Windows NT/2000/XP/Vista/7, UNIX, RHEL5.0, Mac OS, Linux    • Hands on experience in developing server-side JavaScript frameworks using Node JS (Hapi JS, Express JS) to build event driven, non-blocking i/o model web application • Experience in integration tools like Spring Integration, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel to integrate the enterprise application technologies with existing JVM environment.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2 for virtual servers, S3 and Glacier for storing objects, Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic Cache and Dynamo DB for Elastic load balancing, storing data.  • Implemented Docker container service, build pipe line like Jenkins, Bamboo andGoCD for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment that can run on the cloud or on-premises • Used Kubernetes Linux container for deploying and scaling containerized applications.  • Strong knowledge on JavaScript Unit testing with Jasmin, Karma, Protractor for Angular JS, Mocha and Chai React JS and Backbone JS • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle and logging tools like Log4J.  • Expertise in unit-testing with tools like JUnit, Mockito, Spock, TestNgandIntegration testing tools like Selenium Web Driver, Cucumber (Behavior Driven Development testing)    Johnson & Johnson - Raritan, NJ  Sr. Java FullStack Developer:  Jan 2018-Present    • Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life Cycle) of the application from requirement analysis for testing.  • Developing with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Node JS.  • Worked on Java 8 in developing the applications.  • Followed Agile Methodology in analyzing, defining and documenting the functional and business requirements. We have a daily scrum meeting where we discuss all the tasks we must finish for that days and discuss any blockers or issues. We have used JIRA as our SCRUM tool  • Used front end web development tools HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2/4 to design UI.  • Replaced existed Angular JS code with Angular 2/4 code, which decreased number of lines of code for a web application.  • Implemented Common Backend Application Flow for all the Screens using EJB 3.0 and Business Logic was implemented using core java Collections based on the requirements of individual screen.  • Implemented coding a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery, Angular2) and Bootstrap, connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain.  • Developed DAO Layer using various Java based cargo objects to communicate with the Oracle Database using JPA.  • Reviewed high-level design specification, ETL coding and mapping standards.  • Designed new database tables to meet business information needs. Designed Mapping document, which is a guideline to ETL Coding.  • Knowledge of J2EE Design Patterns such as Creational, Structural and Behavioral design patterns Singleton, Factory, Facade, Builder, Observer, DAO, Value/Data Transfer and Well versed in Object-Oriented programming using Java, J2EE.  • Designed and developed hibernate Configurations.  • Worked on hibernate changes, upgraded hibernate 3 version to hibernate 5.  • Designing and developing Micro Services using spring boot application architecture to interact with different services.  • Designed and implemented using MVC, integrating hibernate and spring boot framework.  • Used Web Services (SOAP and REST) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Developed JAX-WS SOAP web services using XML, WSDL, XSD through Apache CXF Implementation.  • Created jobs in Jenkins and deployed the applications in different environments (DEV/QA/UAT/PROD)  • Worked in all areas of Jenkins setting up CI/CD for new branches, build automation, Plugin management and securing Jenkins and setting up master/develop configurations.  • Worked on security issues for the User Management service.  • Maven for the application builds and Jenkins for the continuous integration.  • Build and configure a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data