Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - T-Mobile Bothell, WA Overall around6years of experience in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) core such as Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and DeploymentofWeb-Based, Java/J2EE technologies & developing applications.  - Experience in developing applications using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Action Script,jQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, XSL, XSLT,XML,React JS, Node JS.  - Expertise in development usingServlets, JDBC, JNDI, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.x, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL, REST(JAX-RS)and Micro Services.  - Experiencewith IDEs like Eclipse,NetBeans, MicrosoftVisual Studio, WebStormandIntellij.  - Good experienced in architectural issues and their solutions using various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator Factory and Abstract Factory.  - Strong knowledge in Database programming design using Oracle, DB2, MS Access Server and MySQL.  - Expertise in Web Components technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, AJAX And designing enterprise applications using technologies like EJB and JMS.  - Worked with application servers like IBM WebSphere, Glassfish, JBoss, WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.  - Experience in writing PL/SQLStoredprocedures, Functions, Triggers and Complex SQL's.  - Deployed Docker Engines in Virtualized Platforms for containerization of multiple apps.  - Understanding on big data technologies like Apache Hive, Kafka, Hadoop and Apache Spark.  - Hands on Experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data-Cassandra.  - Good Experience in process Improvement and Continuous Integration by using Jenkins.  - Hands on experience in writing light weight NodeJS, Express server, and using technologies like Ajax.  - Knowledge of Multithreading/synchronization, NoSQL Database: MongoDB.  - JavaScript/ jQuery, JSON to make connections between server and database like MongoDB and MYSQL.  - Experience in Building REST API layer to facilitate the sharing of data between the front end and Data objects.  - Expertise in developing model components usingHibernate (ORM) like Caching, Hibernate Template, DAO, to write Database independent persistence logic and to keep up convenient portable relationships between the databases.  - Experience in implementing end to end testing using Jasmine and Karma, Unit Testing using Junit, TestNG.  - Experience in creating Asynchronous Messaging configuration in Tomcat, WebLogic and web sphere Servers.  - Having knowledge on (JMS) MQ's like Rabbit MQ, IBM MQ and Active MQ.  - Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  - Experienced in working with DEVOPS for continues integration of the project.  - Good Working knowledge of ANT, MAVEN,MS Build and Log4J.  - Hands on experience on Amazon Web Services (AWS) provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB, RDS, VPC, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS etc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer T-Mobile - Bothell, WA March 2018 to Present Description: T-Mobile is a leading Telecom Domain company based in USA. T-Mobile Equipment Instalment Program (EIP) team works with clients to help their customer's finance their Mobile devices from various available instalment plans introduce new plans and calculate down payment and monthly Instalment using Credit Information of an end user. Also, helps them Return or Exchange their Mobile. Device and upgrade to a new mobile device using jump Upgrade Option.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented project in Agile methodology and participated actively in daily scrum calls  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application.  • Developed applications using Angular2, Java8 and new features of java (lambda expressions).  • Design and developed the application using framework Angular 2 with HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript.  • Developed UI components using Angular 2 dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  • Implemented Angular 2 Router to enable navigation from one view to another.  • Used Protractor to perform End to end testing for single page application developed using Angular 2.  • Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from Restful web service from consumer side using Angular 2.  • Involved in developing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access and distributed transaction management.  • Created and injected spring services, controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection.  • Heavily used Spring Inheritance, Auto-wiring, Core Container, Security, AOP for scheduling tasks to generate reports and emails to clients.  • Developed Persistence layer using Spring Data to interact with the Database.  • Knowledge on Spring Restful/Microservices.  • Implemented Authentication & Authorization with Site Minder and Spring security.  • Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider and consumed using HTTP services from angular 2 modules.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, cloud watch and Elastic Bean Stalk for code deployment.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database and reporting.  • Worked with the Node package manager along with Karma, Jasmine, Grunt and Bower for test and build.  • Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process and Git was used for project management and version management.  Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Node.js, Spring Data, Protractor, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g, IntelliJ IDEA, Junit 4.4, Mockito, Git, Selenium, Scala, Spark, Drools, AWS, Docker, Spring Cloud, RESTful web services, Apache Tomcat, Apache Kafka, Camel, Maven, Jenkins, Karma,Jasmine. Java/J2EE Developer First Federal Bank - Defiance, OH May 2017 to February 2018 Description: First Federal Bank Corporation is one of the 20 largest independent bank holding companies in USA with more than 750 branches, free account access at more than 1800 Federal Bank places. It maintains variety of products including lines of credit, demand noted, term notes, letters of credit. It also deals with Collateral information such as vehicles, mortgages and trust accounts.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, coded, implemented, optimization and tested new features and modules for the derivatives system as part of an Agile team and improved automation test suites.  • Utilized Modernizer extensively to build HTML5/CSS3 based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible.  • Implemented client-side Interface using ReactJS. Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React JS.  • Implemented application testability and diagnostics and fixing bugs with the help of REDUX (Reducers) architecture.  • Utilized create-react-app to launch product to stay update with current Webpack and Babel build configurations.  • Handled HttpRequests using Axios which supports Promise API functionality native to JS ES6.  • Gained Knowledge on Electrode Platform NodeJS/Web platform built on top of the ReactJS and HapiJS frameworks.  • Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Developed Spring Boot to fasten the application for removing boiler plate configurations.  • Used loosely coupled architecture Spring Boot. Developed Micro Services in the application by using Spring Boot.  • Developed Micro Services for service oriented architecture to build flexible and independently deployable software.  • Developed RESTWeb Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other Enterprise Wide Web Services.  • Worked with Spring AOP module to perform logging operations.  • Developed independent Microservices using Spring Boot Rest Controller model and are deployed on UNIX boxes.  • Employed Spring Boot for initialize and bootstrapping the build configuration for the boot based web applications.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tools to deploy the Spring Boot Microservices to PivotalCloudFoundry (PCF) using build pack. Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy and update the applications.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence on to the database.  • Developed different join strategies with Hibernate to improve performance while retrieving collection items.  • Used Spring MVC, AOP, IOC and Hibernate to establish the Connection with Database for Stored Procedures.  • Involved in implementing Queries to the backend MongoDB database using Http service to fetch JSON contract.  • Unstructured data was handled using Mongo DB and used Mongoose Connector for connecting to database.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts and queries to fetch and test data from NoSQL databases.  • Responsible for installation & configuration of Jenkinsto support various Java builds and Jenkins plugins to automate continuous builds and publishing Docker images to the Nexus repository.  • Used CI/CD tools Jenkins, Git/Gitlabs and Docker registry for configuration and automation using Ansible.  • Used Drools as rule engine to categorize salient level rule to every business rules base on the business needs.  • Experienced in working with Babel and Webpack in application build and deployment processes.  • Created plugins to extract data from multiple sources like Apache Kafka, Database and Messaging Queues.  • Ran Log aggregations, website Activity tracking and commit log for distributed system using Apache Kafka.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services specifically on AWS EC2.  • Performed UI and front-end testing using Selenium. Developed test case and performed unit testing with Mocha.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Babel, Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Hibernate, Redux, Axios, Node JS, Hapi JS, Webpack, JSON, Ansible, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Jenkins, GIT, Docker, Drools, Nexus, Mongoose, MongoDB, Chai, Webpack, Mocha, Selenium, Apache kafka, EC2, AWS. Int Java Developer Des Moines, IA August 2016 to August 2016 Description: The Principal Financial Group (Principal) offers businesses individuals and institutional clients a wide range of financial products and services including retirement, asset management and insurance, through its diverse family offinancial services companies.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Responsible for Building applications using React.js which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  • Implemented React.js code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF. Used Babel plugin tool for conversion of ECMA versions to support all type of browsers.  • Developed the flux pattern by using Redux framework as a core dependency.  • Integrated Redux data store allowing React components to have access to data resulting in highly maintainable code.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, factory patterns.  • Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate and Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Developed micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry.  • Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring DI for middle layer development.  • Used Spring MVC Transaction Management and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Modified the Spring Controllers and Services classes to support the introduction of spring framework.  • Creating Docker containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch and developing Docker images to support Development, Testing Teams and their pipelines, distributed Jenkins, Selenium and JMeter images, and Elasticsearch, Kibana and Log stash.  • Installed Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) on EC2 to manage the containers created by PCF.  • Used Docker to provide virtualize deployment containers and push the code to EC2 cloud using PCF.  • Experience in working with big data platform with a combination of Hive MQ, Cassandra and Spark.  • Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQL stored procedures and packages using TOAD.  • Experience in data structure design, Data Modeling in Cassandra.  • Developed JUnit, Chai, Mocha and Gulp test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests.  • Ran Log aggregations, website Activity tracking and commit log for distributed system using Apache Kafka.  • Used Log4j to print logging, debugging, warning and info on server console. Debugged the MAVEN scripts for building entire web application.  • Implemented Cucumber for behavioral testing of application.  • Developed reusable UI components using ES6, Handlebars and Webpack.    Environment: React.js, Node.js, Babel, Redux, Bootstrap, Docker, Jenkins, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), Docker, Cassandra, JUnit, Chai, Mocha, Gulp, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Apache Kafka, Log4j, MAVEN, Cucumber, Webpack, Babel. Software Developer Itech Solutions - IN August 2013 to November 2015 Description: This project involves developing a J2EE based framework to support dynamic report creation from various distributed databases. The framework supports dynamic PDF report generation using iText, an open source PDF generation library. The framework facilitates new report formats and databases by using XML configuration files.    Responsibilities:  Worked as a Java Developer and involved in analysis, design, development, deployment and testing.  • Implemented MVC-Model 2 architecture using Struts and other J2EE design patterns for the application development.  • Used Struts Framework along with JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages.  • Designed DTDs, XML Schema for data transmission and XSL style-sheets.  • Adopted J2EE design patterns like Singleton and used DTO's transfer the data.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using the ORM frame work called Hibernate.  • Involved in the development of SQL queries to get data from MySQL.  • Used ANT for building and deploying NBT application to servers.  • Extensively worked on Object Oriented Programming aspect of Java using JDK1.5 for collections along with comparator, Multithreading, thread synchronization.  • Used Hibernate to persist the Data into the Database.  • Using Eclipse IDE for bluestone application development of Java related classes and components.  • Involved in Agile development process.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat 6/5.5 and used shell scripting for maintaining servers.  • Production supported after release.  • Worked with offshore and ensuring on time delivery of deliverables.  • Deployed the NBT application in WebLogic, Tomcat servers on Solaris and Windows environments.  • Developed Unit Tests and Test Suites using JUnit.  Environment: java1.6, Struts2.0, Spring2.5, JSP 2.0, Ajax, XML, HTML, ANT, CSS, JavaScript, JBuilder, custom JSP tags, JSTL, Mercurial, FTP, UNIX (AIX), Hibernate3, MySQL, WebLogic, Continuum, Tomcat6.0/ 5.5, Windows XP. Education Master's degree in NEC New England College May 2018 Skills Java (4 years), Javascript (3 years), Junit (3 years), testing (4 years), Tomcat (4 years)