Sr. Software Developer Sr. Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - MGM Resorts International Las Vegas, NV • Outstanding Java Developer with Exceptional Software Engineering Experience and a successful track record of 5+ years in multifaceted software development lifecycle from Design and Development to Deployment and testing of Web Based Applications using various technologies like Java and J2EE.  • Expertise in developing business applications for domains such as Banking, Financial and Health Care.  • Experience in IT Development, SDLC, Relational Database and having experience working with operations and support teams.  • Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and Agile methodologies like SCRUM.  • Good knowledge and hands on experience in MVC like, Struts, Spring, ORM Hibernate frameworks and AWS.  • Good Knowledge in java and EJB design patterns.  • Experience with unit testing using junit and knowledge of ANT and log4j tools.  • Core development experience for Groovy Grails restful we services.  • Strong hands on experience on Spring IO, Spring Boot with Thymeleaf.  • Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  • Experience using struts, Spring along with persistent frameworks using Hibernate, ibatis in building persistent layer for applications.  • Experience in SOA EIP using Apache Camel Spring Integration ServiceMix Mule ESB.  • Implemented distributed parallel trade workflow execution for separate data event streams with hazelcast data grid.  • Experience in working with messaging Framework using MQ Series, MDB and TIBCO.  • Experience in designing and developing POCs in Spark using Scala to compare the performance of Spark with Hive and SQL/Oracle.  • Experience in Data Structure, Algorithms and IBM ODM.  • Hands on experience with spark to handle the streaming data.  • Extensive experience in using various UML, Rational Rose, design patterns and industry best practices such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Facade, Factory and DAO, DTO, singleton.  • Strong experience in UNIX and Shell scripting.  • Good documentation skills on both functional and business requirements.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies - Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate Framework.  • Extensively experienced in Middle Tier Development using Servlets, JSPs, and EJB.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJs, BackboneJs, ReactJs and Bootstrap.  • Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XMLBean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  • Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere ESB(Enterprise Service Bus), Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer).  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN, CVS, Git.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  • Hands on experience using Messaging Services like JMS, MQ Series, Hazelcast.  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts and experience in working with Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2 and MY SQL PL/SQL, SQL* Plus, Database triggers, Procedures, Functions.  • Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments like DEV/QA/SIT/UAT/Prod.  • Hands-on experience in Integrated Development Environments like Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, intellij.  • Experience to lead/manage a team and motivate them both at onshore and offshore/offsite.  • Have excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills, with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of a team as well as independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Developer MGM Resorts International - Las Vegas, NV November 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed java modules implementing business rules and workflows using Spring MVC, IoC, Web Framework.  • Had experience in performance tuning J2EE apps, performance testing, analysis, and tuning.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Improved the maintainability of the project by implementing and improving Exception Handling and Collection APIs • Involves in Sprint planning for the estimation of efforts for user stories and bugs.  • Performed code reviews and provided guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability.  • Implemented UNIX utilities using shell script for data validation, manual job submission, restarting failed jobs, etc.  • Used Spring Boot , which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Actively involved in deployment Application war files in Weblogic Application server.  • Migration of current search process from Database to Solr search engine.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS (EC2/EBS).  • Refactored the code for JVM Optimization and performance of application.  • Involved in Maven based build process and continuous integration of the project using Bamboo and Jenkins.  • Experienced in full-text search engine techniques like Lucene, Solr with Jetty Server.  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML to integrate other legacy systems.  • Unit testing of developed product features using Junit and Mockito frameworks as part of development cycle.  • Wrote build and deployed scripts using Shell and ANT scripts and involved in performance analysis of the application and fixed problems/suggest solutions.  • Used SOAP based Web services and RESTful Web services for transferring data between applications.  • Knowledge of open source frameworks including Spring, Play and Lucene.  • Designed and developed various Oracle database Simple and Complex Queries, PL/SQL procedures, Stored Procedures, Trigger and Functions.  • Responsible to finish Jira Tickets assigned on time and update their status on regular basis.  • Used SVN for source code control.  • Develop detailed program design for application changes and/or major bugs.  • Involved in writing program documentation and technical specification documents.  Environment: Springs, Java 1.7, Hibernate, Camel, Web Services, SOA, AngularJS, AWS, Node JS AJAX, XML, XML Parsers [SAX/ JAXB], Junit, JSP, J2SE Sp, Spring Boot, JavaScript, Sencha, & Java/J2ee design patterns, Hadoop, Map Reduce, Hive, Pig, Apache Spark, Groovy Grails, EJB, MDB, SQOOP, H-Base, Eclipse, Web logic, Go Lang, Toad, ITEXT, Oracle, SOAP UI, SVN, Windows XP & Linux. Sr. Java Developer ITC / Optum - Salt Lake City, UT December 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities: • Worked on complete Agile Development with two-week sprints, story grooming, estimations, retrospectives and spring planning.  • Every Day Tasks include Test Driven Development (TDD), Junit, Mockito, Gradle, JIRA, issue navigator, GIT, Stash.  • Designed and coded controller classes using J2SE that world talk to real hardware controller to access their states and gave the user control over the hardware through the multithreaded UI.  • Developed application on Spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring JDBC, Spring Web flow using Spring MVC.  • Worked on Spring MVC application with XML configurations and annotations. Used Dispatcher servlet to route incoming requests, controllers to handle requests and Model to send values to user interface.  • Created Core Java Interfaces and Abstract classes for different functionalities.  • Integrated Spring with ORM frameworks Hibernate and Spring JDBC to do database operations with ORACLE.  • Implemented JSF in Presentation layer programming using JSTL, AJAX, GWT Development.  • Web application development using Groovy Grails JQuery AJAX and D3.js.  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces (JSF), JSF 2X, HTML 5, CSS3, jQuery and XML in a responsive grid layout.  • Implemented Generic DAO using Spring JDBC to handle database operations on Similarly Constructed Tables.  • Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth authentication protocol respectively. Used Spring Security with Google OAuth 2.0 to secure the REST web services we produce.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO/ Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and hibernate ORM. Implemented java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring.  • EJB servlets are used to handle the data collected from the JSP's.  • Implemented POC for using APACHE IMPALA for data processing on top HIVE.  • Designed and Developed REST web services based on REST architecture, and provided data to the front-end AngularJS in JSON format.  • Extensively used SQL queries to check storage and accuracy of data in database table.  • Developed message driven bean MDB components for gateways.  • Developed Front End Single Page Application with data from REST services in JSON Format.  • Used JaxB for Unmarshalling XML and parse data into auto generated java objects.  • Used Jenkins Continuous Integration for automatic builds and Automated Release Management (ARM) jobs to push code into QA.  • Supported Change Management Tasks to deploy code in QA Cert Testing and then into Production.    Environment: Springs, Java 1.7, Hibernate, Camel, Web Services, SOA, AngularJS, AWS, Node JS AJAX, XML, XML Parsers [SAX/ JAXB], Junit, JSP, J2SE Sp, Spring Boot, JavaScript, Sencha, & Java/J2ee design patterns, Hadoop, Map Reduce, Hive, Pig, Apache Spark, Groovy Grails, EJB, MDB, SQOOP, H-Base, Eclipse, Web logic, Go Lang, Toad, ITEXT, Oracle, SOAP UI, SVN, Windows XP & Linux. Mid-Level Java Developer American Family Insurance, WI July 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities: • Analysis and Design of various modules using J2EE Architecture.  • Written Hibernate annotation based mapping java classes with Oracle Database tables.  • Used Session façade. Implemented JMS API for messaging.  • Developed web services SOAP, WSDL and web services clients using JAXB and XML, implemented SOA architecture.  • Involved in High Level Design and prepared Logical view of the Application.  • Involved in designing and developing of Object Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams.  • Implemented Multithread concepts in java classes to avoid deadlocking.  • Created Core Java Interfaces and Abstract classes for different functionalities.  • Written Spring Core and Spring MVC files to associate DAO with Business Layer.  • Used PL/SQL procedures.  • Created Data Source and deployed web application in the IBM Websphere application Server.  • Implemented JSF in Presentation layer programming using JSTL, AJAX, GWT Development.  • Worked with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JASON in UI pages.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  • Writing JavaScript functions for various validation purposes. Writing Java Beans to contain data objects. Implemented session beans, entity beans and message driven beans.  • Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used Version Control Tool to perform Checking-out and Checking-in of codes from the repository.  • Used EJB Query Language to retrieve data from Hypersonic SQL.  • Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP.  • Developed and maintained Ant Scripts for the build purposes on testing and production environments.    Environment: EJB2.0, Struts, Hibernate, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSL, JavaScript, Ant, JBoss, HSQL, Net Beans, Oracle 9i, SQL, PL/SQL, Windows 2000/ XP, Enterprise Architect. Jr. Java Developer IN June 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities: • Understanding and analyzing business requirements.  • Designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase using Rational Rose.  • Developed the credit check module using Servlets and JSP & Core Java components in Web logic Application Server.  • Developed the custom tag to display various campaigns on Credit care Sign on and Welcome page.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using spring core module.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IoC).  • Formulated Use Cases for each business requirement and normalized the use cases to suit the requirements.  • Created and maintained mapping files, persisting classes and transaction control in Hibernate to access the database.  • Developed DAO objects and implemented data access layer using JPA-Hibernate to perform CRUD operations • Implemented servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration and bug tracking • CSS is used to style Web pages, XML markup.  • Extensively worked with XML schema(XSD), XSL/XSLT, XML to navigate in XML documents, and SAX to process and parse xml files • Used JMS-MQ Bridge to send messages securely, reliably and asynchronously to Web Sphere MQ, which connects to the legacy systems.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Extensively worked on Java server side programming using Servlets, and JSP.  • Developed web services SOAP, WSDL and web services clients using JAXB and XML, implemented SOA architecture.  • Developed mail alert mechanism for alerting the users when their selection criteria are met.  • Created and implemented PL/SQL queries, views stored procedures and triggers.  • Used Log4J logging framework to write Log messages with various levels.  • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in Web Logic Application Server.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Servlets, JSP 2.5, EJB 2.0, Hibernate 2.1, Spring 2.5, Log4J, JavaScript, JUnit 4.1, CVS, Rational Rose (UML), Oracle10g, Web Logic Server 10.0, Eclipse IDE, Ant, XML/XSD, Jax-ws(SOAP) web services, SAX. Education Marshall University 2017 Jawaharlal Nehru technological university 2015 Skills PHP, MySQL, ASP, Javascript