Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer Piscataway, NJ • Experience as a Full-Stack Java Developer  • Excellent understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Water Fall and Agile Methodology.  • Expertise in core java programming concepts like Exception handling, Multithreading, Collection Framework, Algorithms and Data Structures.  • Strong experience in various frameworks such as Spring 4.2.1, Hibernate 4.3.0.  • Experienced in Spring modules and developing applications using Spring Frameworks 4.x, Inversion of Control and Dependency Injection, Spring MVC 4.x, Spring ORM, Spring Boot 2.0 and used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency injection.  • Proficient in Object Relational Mapping (ORM) using Hibernate 4.x/3.x) for database mapping and data retrieval facilities.  • Experience in building Microservices Architecture and integrating with the help of Spring Boot 2.x  • Used tools such as POSTMAN and SOAPUI for testing SOAP and RESTFUL web services.  • Expertise in databases such as RDBMS related like Oracle 10g, MySQL 5.5.  • Expertise in Front End web technologies like HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS3, Java Script 1.8.5, AngularJS, Angular 2.0.  • Experience in AWS Solutions using S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer and Auto Scaling Groups.  • Utilized Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Experienced in container-based deployments using Docker, Docker Hub.  • Experience in using various Configuration Management tools like GIT.  • Strong experience in different IDEs like Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA and web servers Apache Tomcat and Node JS.  • Proficient in using Build tools like Maven 3.x.  • Worked with Junit in unit test within Test Driven Development (TDD) and Integration testing  • Quick learner with excellent communication skills. Proficient in writing project documents and giving technical presentations & experience of working in a deadline oriented, fast-paced environment. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Texas A&M University - Kingsville, TX January 2018 to October 2018 Project Description:  The Project is an end to end Ecommerce web Application using Spring boot with multiple modules. The primary goal of an e-commerce website is to sell goods online. It provides the user with a catalog of different product available for purchase in the store.  The project also contains a shopping cart function for the user to complete the purchase. The system is implemented using 3-tier approach which includes a backend database layer, a middle design pattern with business logic layer and a web browser as the front-end layer.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC.  • Used Spring boot 2.x for design pattern and implementing business logic of the application.  • Primarily focused on the Spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Implemented data access using Hibernate 4.0 (ORM Tool) persistence framework.  • Used Rest API for data flow purposes, before integrating it to the Front end.  • Developed UI modules using Angular-JS, JSP, JavaScript, CSS3 and Ajax.  • Used Spring Java Mail API for sending notifications regarding build success/failures.  • Implemented integration using AWS-Amazon Web Services. Worked with cross browser compatibility issues and fixed bugs for supported platforms and browsers.  • Worked with source version control tools like GIT to manage code repository.  • Used MAVEN for project management and build automation and Continuous Integration is done using Jenkins.  • Performed Unit Testing Using JUNIT, MOCKITO within test-driven design (TDD) approach.  • Implemented Log4J to trace logs and to track information.    Environment:  JDK 1.8, Spring boot 2.x, Hibernate 5.x, REST, JSON, Log4J 2, GIT, JUnit, Maven 3.x, Tomcat 7, Eclipse, AWS S3, Jenkins, JSP, HTML, CSS3, AJAX, Angular 4, JavaScript ES6, MySQL 5.6, Spring Java Mail API, Design Patterns, TDD Technical Executive ( Java Developer ) Hindustan Machine Tools Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2015 to January 2017 Bangalore, India    Project Description:  The Employee Payroll Management System automates the working of a company or work center that manage and maintain records of the employees.  The objective of Employee payroll management system project in java is designing a scheduling system for a work center. Scheduling is such a tool with which the process of intimating activities and notifications will be easy and even online in the organization where it is installed.    Responsibilities:  • Working in a team of 10 members and involved in architecture, requirements gathering, analysis, detailed design, preparing class diagram, flow diagram etc.  • Developed application using Spring MVC and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s.  • Improved performance for interactive components through use of AJAX (benefitting the employees to view their salary with ease).  • Used Oracle as database and involved in the development of PL/SQL backend implementation.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation, and support of the System.    Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, Spring framework 4.x, Spring MVC 4.0, JSP, CSS3, JavaScript 7, AJAX, Hibernate 4.x, MYSQL 5.7, JSON, Restful Web Services, JIRA, Maven 3.x, PL/SQL, Git hub, Eclipse, Junit, Mockito, log4j. Technical Executive (Application Developer) IBM - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to January 2015 Project Name: Lotus Notes Application Development  Bangalore, India    Project Description:  Mail Application Development on both Domino servers and IBM WebSphere Portal servers. Lotus Notes comes with templates you can use to create your own Notes applications. Notes applications also have Access Control Lists (ACLs) that control the actions people, groups, and servers can perform in the application.    Responsibilities:  • Used spring-core, spring-beans, spring-context and spring-expression modules.  • Involved Inversion of Control (IoC) and dependency Injection.  • Bean object is queried and processed using spring-expression module.  • Involvement of spring-web module provides the basic web specific integration features.  • The MVC framework of WebSphere uses Spring dispatcher Servlet.  • Database design and development using IBM DB2.    Environment:  Java 8, J2EE, Spring, IBM DB2, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Web Sphere. Java Developer (Internship) Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2013 to March 2014 India    Project Description:  The project focused on maintaining the insurance related activities pertaining to the employee. The employee can login and view the insurance details, coverage details, bills. The employee can select a different insurance plan by requesting the admin.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and documented REST APIs including JSON data formats.  • Designed and developed UI using JSP, HTML 4, CSS2, AJAX and Angular JS.  • Worked on implementing Web-Site Hosting which is featured In AWS S3.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT within Test Driven Development approach.  • Assisted in creating and maintaining database in MySQL 5.x.  • Used Eclipse IDE and used its standard features for Debugging, Running and Testing.    Environment:  JDK 7, Struts 3, REST, JSON, Log4J 2, GIT, JUnit, Maven 3.x, Tomcat 7, Eclipse, AWS S3, Jenkins, JSP, HTML 4, CSS2, AJAX, AngularJS, JavaScript ES6, MySQL 5.6, Spring Java Mail API, Design Patterns, TDD. Education Master's Skills Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Less than 1 year), database (3 years), EC2 (Less than 1 year), GIT (2 years), HTML5 (Less than 1 year), integration (3 years), INTEGRATOR (3 years), JavaScript (2 years), JDBC (Less than 1 year), MAVEN (2 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (1 year), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (1 year), MVC (1 year), MySQL (2 years), Oracle (1 year), Oracle 10g (Less than 1 year), Rest (2 years), Servlets (Less than 1 year), SOAP (Less than 1 year), version control (Less than 1 year), Java, Angular Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Database:  MySQL 5.7, Oracle 10g/11g    WebServices:  SOAP, REST    Version Control & Continuous Integration:  Git, Maven 3.x, Jenkins    Server Technologies:  Servlets 3.0, JDBC, Spring 3.x/4.x (IOC, MVC), Spring boot 2.x, Hibernate 4.x/5.x, Struts 2.0    Client Technologies:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript 1.8.5, Angular 2.0    Cloud Technologies:  EC2, S3, SNS