Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Capital One * Around 4 years of experience in Design, Development and Implementation of various applications including Web and Client/Server Application development using  ? JAVA, JSP, SERVLET, JSF, SPRING, EXT JS framework.  * Experience in implementing Java Messaging Services (JMS) in application.  * Strong experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and Methodologies  * Extensive Experience in developing applications using  ? JAVA, JSP, SERVLET, JSF, SPRING HTML, XML, AJAX technologies.  * Experience in java multithreading.  * Experience in test driven environment  * Ability to work all phases of software Development Life cycle (SDLC).  * Expertise experience in XML/XSL/XSLT, SOAP, Web Services.  * Experience in implementing Message Driven Beans (MDB) for point to point Messaging.  * Working experience with EHCACHE for configuring the cache in the application.  * Good knowledge of Relational Database Management system (RDBMS), Normalization/De-Normalization, Linked servers and Data warehouse concepts, OLTP & OLAP.  * Excellent experience in developing complex Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Triggers, Indexes and T-SQL queries (DDL and DML).  * Proficiency in configuring, managing and maintaining the J2EE application server, TOMCAT, tcServer.  * Excellent working experience on REST and SOAP based Web Services.  * Experience in marshalling and un-marshalling XML using JAXB API.  * Excellent working experience with JAX-WS 2.0 Web Services.  * Used build tools Maven, Ant and version control systems Git  * Extensive experience in web application development using Spring MVC framework.  * Good working experience in writing SQL Query and Procedures.  * Strong experience of Web development using JavaScript framework JQuery and EXT JS.  * Proficiency in working with build automation tool like MAVEN.  * Hands on experience in project software configuration management tools like CVS.  * Creating new development branches, merging branches, baseline code, label and tags.  * Experience in building the application using Continuous Integration Tools like Continuum, Jenkins, Hudson.  * Finalization of the technology stacks and mentored the team for the same.  * Good customer connects throughout in software development phase.  * Outstanding problem solving, strategic thinking and data analysis skills, strong focus on teamwork and achieving team goals, result oriented, fast learner and excellent communication skills. Work Experience Software Engineer Capital One - McLean, VA October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed applications using Agile Methodology.  • Responsible for requirements gathering, analysing and developing design documents and reviewing with business.  • Designed and implemented the User interface using JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, XML, css3  AngularJs.  • Created images, logos and icons that are used across the webpages.  • Used google analytics reports, optimised the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Produced content pages with css3 layout and style mark-up presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Coding pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Leveraged MVC design pattern to organize AngularJs controllers, custom directives, views.  • Used protractor-jasmine for unit testing.  • Worked extensively in using version control systems (Jira, SVN).  • Used AngularJs as framework to create single page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Saas, Bootstrap, JavaScript.  • Created pages for login using single sign on, main page containing favourites and page for continuous integration configuration.  • Worked with business analysts to understand their business models and goals.  • Used JavaScript for developing UI components like editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Performed client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Handled all aspects of web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying.  • Worked on clearing ADA violations on all web site pages to improve SEO.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Restful Web Services, Microservices, Jenkins, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Design patterns, protractor-Jasmine, JSON, GIT, Media queries, Invision tool. Java Developer Inovalon, Baltimore January 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed applications using Agile Methodology.  • Responsible for requirements gathering, analysing and developing design documents and reviewing with business  • Created Spring configuration files and used Spring annotations to autowire Java Components using Spring dependency injection.  • Created action classes, from beans and model objects for the application using Model View Controller (MVC) approach.  • Documented how Spring Batch is useful for the current project.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC  • Maintained code and configuration files in Git and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Used RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Implement new features using HTML5, CSS  • Wrote various queries using SQL and created a database using MySQL for the manipulation of data from the database.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Developed a bunch of restful web services using Jersey framework, consuming XML and JSON payloads and producing the same.  • Used Jenkins as the Continues Integration Tool to build the project to Development, Test  • and production environments.  • Responsible for the deployment of the application in the development environment using Apache Tomcat 7.0 application server.  • Ability to work both independently and efficiently in teams.  • Resolved technical issues reported by Client.  • Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern.  • Deployed micro-services as restful Webservices.  • Developed and build all the tables using Oracle 10g.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE  • Involved in requirement gathering, requirement clarification, design, development, testing and maintenance phases of project.  • Proficient in various DB technologies including MS SQL server  • Worked on OOPS concepts, Collections Framework using Core Java.  • Resolved technical issues reported by Client.  • Developed stored procedures using PL/SQL for data retrieval from different tables.  • Involved in creating build script using Maven and deployed on Tomcat application server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Restful Web Services, Microservices, Jenkins, SOAP Web services, Hibernate, Spring Core, Spring Data, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Eclipse IDE, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, WAS, Web Sphere, XML, XSD, Linux, UML, Oracle, Maven, Design patterns, JUNIT, WSDL, JSON, GIT Java/J2EE Application Developer Madhapur - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Written HTTP client to access the HTTP service written by other teams.  • Written several Jenkins job to run build on several projects (maven, ant)  • Followed Scrum Incremental process of Agile Software Development methodology  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring MVC, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  • Major contribution in analysis, design, coding and Testing of Entire Application, flow, Java application, web modules, database objects and data replication  • Developed Utility Classes in java for accessing database using Stored Procedures.  • Developed test cases for Unit Testing using JUnit.  • Involved in developing different pages and controls using HTML, JSP and JSP Custom Tag Libraries.  • Implemented queries using Oracle 10g, PL/SQL and SQL Server 2008  • Written SQL Queries and stored procedures to interact with Oracle DB.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins  • Written multiple multi-threading java programs to process number of records parallelly  • Worked on Database queries using SQL instance.  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolve defects.  • Support the Application whenever encountered Production issues.  • Used Maven script to build application.  • Involved in Data modelling, worked on ER diagrams, Data flow models.  • Finalized the technical approach and technologies to meet the customer requirement.  • Involved in the architecture team for design and implementation of system.  • Acted as Production support to handle any critical user issues  • Worked on designing specific programs efficiently through knowledge of Multithreading using the API with the goal of increasing performance on a wide variety of applications.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Spring, JMS, Maven, Eclipse, TOMCAT Application Server, Oracle DB, JAX-RS, Multithreading, REST Web Services Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to June 2016 Java/J2EE    Responsibilities:  • Understand the existing application in IBM websphere.  • Understand the basic functionality of Application.  • Migrate the IBM dependencies to corresponding JDK or tcServer dependencies.  • Migrate the spring bootstraps from WAS to tcServer.  • Upgrade the jdk version from 1.5 to 1.6.  • Remove IBM web service implementation.  • Proficient in various DB technologies including MS SQL server  • Proficient in creating automation test suites and performing automation testing for java webservices  • Developed a framework to handle the exceptions in a unified way to support localization and interpolation  • Altered the database for accepting the new product using Toad for Oracle  • Consumed Siebel data using SOAP webservices and also involved in writing a RESTful Webservices.  • Performed coding and unit testing for four modules using Java, Web sphere, PL/SQL, DB, XML, J2EE, HTML, Java Script.  • Ensured that test case and requirement review workflow process is being followed strictly.  • Provided production support, timely fixing production problems encountered, performing data fixes, executing Month/Quarter/Year End batch processes & troubleshooting issues for business users and business analysts.  • Evaluated existing portal application and estimated time to fix defects to increase customer satisfaction  • Involved in source code configuration management using SVN.  • Involved in setting up Source code configuration, creating new tags and new branches to manage the code version.  • Active participation in regular project status meetings, client calls and always acted as the sole point of contact for all the functionalities developed by me.    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Agile, Spring, Maven, STS, REST Web Services, Oracle DB, Eclipse, Tomcat Application Server Skills application server. (3 years), J2ee (4 years), Java (4 years), Web services (4 years), Xml (4 years)