Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst Sunnyvale, CA • Over 5 years of broad involvement in developing User Interface (UI) applications utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, Ajax, JSON, XML, Angular 2, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, Balsamiq Mockup and Adobe Photoshop.  • Experience working in Agile Utilizing Scrum as well as Waterfall SDLC Methodologies.  • Worked on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering through client interaction, Design, Documentation, Development, Integration testing, Configuration and Production Support.  • Experience with Responsive and Adaptive Design using Media Queries, Twitter Bootstrap.  • Excellent knowledge on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers and different types of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome etc.  • Styled content and website layout for the user experience using CSS3 and HTML5.  • Worked with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming, solid understanding of operating systems.  • Familiar with the design tools like Photoshop, Sketch and Adobe's photoshop creative cloud.  • Experience in using SAAS with CSS3 for designing purpose.  • Excellent experience in developing Web Pages Complying with web content accessibility guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Hands on experience in creating services as classes in typescript and importing into Components in Angular 2.0.  • Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  • Experience in Web Services like SOAP, RESTful, WSDL and good Knowledge in SOA.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, SVN, TFS etc.  • Experience with unit testing using JUnit and writing build scripts using Maven, Ant and Adobe Target for search engine marketing.  • Have working experience on testing tools like Jasmine and Karma. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer Analyst University of Southern Mississippi - Hattiesburg, MS August 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Front end pages were developed using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS.  • Developed the application using Bootstrap to make it responsive.  • Developed and maintained University research module using Drupal 8.  • Developed and implemented user interfaces as per latest W3C standards.  • Implemented client-side validation code using JavaScript.  • Used UI-router in AngularJS to develop a single page application(SPA).  • Created custom-directives and custom-filters for data manipulations and to display data.  • Built factories to utilize AngularJS services such as $http and $resource to consume the RESTful APIs for data parsing from the Java based backend server and for dependency injections.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Objects) and SQL queries to support system functionality.  • Used SVN as version control system.  • Performed unit testing using Karma and Jasmine.  • Involved with the offshore team to get the required data format, plotting charts according to the business requirements.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Drupal 8, XML, AngularJS, JavaScript, JSON, SQL, Jasmine, Karma. Java UI Developer The Vanguard Group August 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed the applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular 2 and AngularJS.  • Developed the GUI using XML, CSS and JavaScript for client-side scripting.  • Worked in a team and involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML).  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive design and less dependency.  • Involved in creating various Components for the application using Angular 2.  • Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Interacted with Restful services using angular 2 Http modules.  • Written code on Typescript and ES6 to implement Angular 2 Components.  • Created build scripts using Maven and Grunt.  • Written application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using Ajax, JSON and jQuery  • Used GIT for source code version control system.  • Used Hibernate named queries concept to retrieve data from the database and integrate with Spring to interact with back end persistence system.  • Worked with distributed data driven technologies like NoSQL.  • Worked extensively with push notifications and Network protocols.  • Developed application using Struts, JSP, JSTL (Tag Libraries), EL (Expression Language) on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developing and debugging the code using eclipse and using GIT for version control.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Developed local server using Node JS to run the application in lower environment.  • Worked with Jasmine and Karma to test the applications.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, SAAS, Spring, Hibernate, Angular2, AngularJS, Node.js, NoSQL, Typescript, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, GIT, XML, Linux, Jasmine, Grunt. Java UI Developer Bank Yahav - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Design development of presentation layers using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Developed Mock-up designs as per the requirements of Business.  • Expanded the complete HTML, CSS and JavaScript of the pages with emphasis on performance, accessibility (AA) and SEO standards.  • Developed Java code for supporting front end.  • Used SOAP UI for testing web services and verifying the request and response XML.  • Implemented Performance Tuning to make the pages load fast and in an effective way.  • Accomplished Ajax to speed up web application.  • Used jQuery extensively for event handling, DOM manipulation and cross-browser compatibility.  • Integrating with Mongo DB to fetch data and update code.  • Performed extensive unit testing (end-to-end) and prepared detailed test scripts as part of it.  • Executed Client-side validations using JavaScript. Implemented the complete workflow logic for the various modules.  • Worked with Messaging queuing protocol like Rabbit MQ.  • Played a key role in the project requirements analysis.  • Engaged in requirement specification process for new software functionality.  • Designed consistency with client's development standards and guidelines.  Environment: JavaScript, GIT, CSS, HTML, SOAP, MongoDB, jQuery, Servlets, Rabbit MQ, XML, JSP, MVC, Windows. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Southern Mississippi - Hattiesburg, MS 2017 Bachelor's in Bioinformatics in Bioinformatics Sastra University 2013 Skills AngularJS. (2 years), Java (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), UI (3 years), user interface. (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  UI Web Technologies HTML4/5, JavaScript, Ajax, CSS2/3, MV* Frameworks like AngularJS, Angular 2, Node.JS, D3.js, Bootstrap, React JS  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat 7.0, HTTP Web Server, Experience with Servlets, Restful Services, SOAP, Spring boot.  Languages SQL, Core Java, JavaScript, Visual Basic, Rails.  IDE & Web Designing Tools Eclipse, MS Visual Studio, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text 3, WebStorm, Eclipse.  Debugging Tools Firebug, Firebug Lite, Web Debugger, IE Developer  Version Control SVN, GIT  Message Queuing Protocol Rabbit MQ  Distributed Database NoSQL