Full Stack Java developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Full Stack Java developer - New Mexico Environment Department Albuquerque, NM • 4+ years of professional experience of developing enterprise applications using Object oriented methodologies, enterprise technologies, frameworks and design patterns.  • Experienced in Agile SCRUM, RUP (Rational Unified Process) and TDD (Test Driven Development) software development methodologies.  • Good experience and knowledge in various development methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), Extreme Programming (XP), Scrum, Agile, UML.  • Extensive experience in developing web page effectively using JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Hands on experience in the areas of Web applications using J2EE technologies like Java, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, Restful Web Services  • Experience in server-side programming like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI and JMS.  • Extensive experiences in web based multi-tier enterprise applications & Client / Server Applications using Java/J2EE technologies & have good exposure in Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using Spring Framework 3.2.2 and Spring Framework 4.0 and Struts Framework 2.3.12 with expertise in presentation, business and database layers.  • Experience in writing applications using Java/J2EE & related technologies such as Hibernate3, EJB3, Struts Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Java Beans, XML, XSL, CSS, HTML, jQuery, SQL, PL/SQL middleware technologies such as Web Services.  • Hands on experience in developing web application using Spring Framework web module, Spring Boot and integration with Struts MVC framework  • Experienced in developing Restful web services using JAX-RS  • Experience in using Spring ORM module and integration with Hibernate ORM framework  • Used Apache Velocity with Spring Java Mail to send Emails in the users from the Application.  • Experience in developing applications using waterfall, RAD and Test-Driven methodologies  • Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans, RAD and JDeveloper.  • Experience in writing JUnit and DB Unit test cases in test driven environment.  • Practicing Agile and development frameworks and standards, Test Driven Design & Development.  • Hands-on experience with Web/Application servers (Tomcat, JBoss).  • Written SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers using relational databases like Oracle 9i/10g, and SQL Server.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, MyEclipse, Net Beans, RAD for Java/J2EE application development.  • Quick Learner, highly motivated team player with excellent organizational and analytical skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full Stack Java developer New Mexico Environment Department - Santa Fe, NM April 2016 to Present Air Quality Permit Application (AQPA), is an application used by the Air Quality Bureau department. The application is filled by the industries to record the emissions caused by different equipment's, for the AQB to approve or reject the submissions based on the standard percentages of the emissions, if that particular industry is approved for the emissions it can then be registered with the AQPA.  Responsibilities:    • Converted the Ant version of the project to Maven version.  • Developed application using Eclipse IDE tool.  • Used Spring framework, Spring MVC, Spring-JDBC modules as the middle tier component.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and used PL/SQL on Oracle database.  • Used Tortoise SVN version control to check-in and check-out code.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application  • Designed and developed front end of the application using HTML5, JSP, AJAX, JSTL, Angular JS, JQuery, and CSS.  • Configured Tomcat Server for deploying the application.  • Implemented Microservices Architecture Framework for the existing project by decoupling the front end and the back-end modules.  • Maintenance on projects built on Angular JS version 5.0 and 6.0  • Involved in Daily SCRUM meetings and weekly SPRINT Meetings. Develop integrate test and deploy to various environments like DEV, TEST, UAT and PROD.  • Migrated application from Spring 2 to Spring 4.  • Used Mantis as the bug tracking tool.  • Worked with the quality assurance team to identify the bugs in the system and also worked in Production support and troubleshooting of the production issues.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, JSTL, jQuery, Angular JS, Ext-JS.HTML, CSS, Ajax, Oracle, Junit, Eclipse, Tomcat, Maven, Log4j, DAO, PL/SQL. Full Stack Java developer CYFD July 2015 to April 2016 The CYFD Child Care Services provides families in New Mexico with assistance with for the cost of child care. The CYFD Child Care Services Bureau also works jointly with the Office of Child Development and Family Nutrition Bureau to ensure quality child care through licensure and registration of child care providers. Provide a single point of entry for CYFD services, Increase safety, security and accountability of CYFD employees. Increase agency responsiveness to federal and state legislation changes.    Responsibilities:  • Design and Coding of various JAVA, J2EE modules.  • Involved in Agile methodology to get updated with team.  • Involved in Daily SCRUM meetings and weekly SPRINT Meetings.  • Designed and developed User Interface, application modules using JSF, Hibernate, JPA, EJB, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Rich Faces, and Jasper Reports.  • Used Hibernate as an ORM in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Design and develop the entity structure and generate the ER diagram by performing reverse engineering.  • Used spring framework 3.0 as middle tier component and integrated with Hibernate 3.4 for back-end development.  • Developed application using Angular JS 5 and Developed JSF Components using MyFaces library.  • Developed end-to-end composite RESTFUL Web Services by using SOA with CXF framework  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application by using Arquillian, Maven to build the application and deployed on JBOSS server.  • Used RedMine as the Subversion for maintaining the component and for release and version management, and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Used GIT repo to pull and push the code.  • Using Maven build tool to build and deploy the application.  • Develop integrate test and deploy to various environments like DEV, QA, UAT, STAGING and PROD.  • Study high level design documents/ flow charts with Business Analyst and functional managers to clarify issues related to the business requirements.  • Developed complex SQL queries to insert, update and used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures  • Mentored team members in latest technologies, EPICS architecture and delivering application within the timelines and priorities.  • Provide technical assistance in identifying, evaluating, and developing systems that are cost effective and meet business requirements.  • Coordinating with the business users in understanding requirements and developing enhancements to the existing application.  • Participate in System integration testing and collaborate with Business users to drive user acceptance Test.  • Enhance, Troubleshoot and solve any issues in the current EPICS Production application.  Environment: Java 1.5/1.6, CSS, JSF, Richfaces, JavaScript, Angular JS, Ajax, RESTful, Spring, Hibernate, XML, Criteria Queries, JPA, Maven, Redmine, JBOSS server, Web services, Arquilliun JUNIT, Eclipse, Git, My SQL workbench. Education Masters in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering The University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills ECLIPSE (4 years), EJB (2 years), JAVA (5 years), HIBERNATE (2 years), SPRING (4 years), JBOSS (2 years), JMS (2 years), JNDI (3 years), jQuery (4 years), JSF (2 years), JSP (4 years), SERVLETS (4 years), STRUTS (2 years), JDBC (4 years), SQL SERVER (2 years), MYSQL (2 years), ORACLE (4 years), PL/SQL (2 years), SQL (4 years), STORED PROCEDURES (3 years)