Full stack Java Developer Full stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack Java Developer - Capital one Richmond, VA • Over 8+ Years of experience in analysis, design and development of Java Applications in a highly dynamic and challenging environment.  • 2 years of experience in using AWS EC2,S3,Route 53,Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic search , Cloud Watch, AWS Mobile Hub, Amazon messaging services(SQS and SNS), Lambda and Amazon Kinesis Services  • 8 years of experience in full stack application software development.  • Good experience in developing dynamic websites using the MEAN stack  • Experience on working with CSS background, CSS layouts, CSS positioning and CSS behaviors  • Expertise in GUI Design using HTML, XML, J Query, Java Script, Polymers, AngularJS, Node JS, DHTML, and JSP.  • Strong Experience in using XML Suite technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DOM and XML Beans).  • Experienced on Agile Methodology  • Good experience in developing web service development.  • Good knowledge in Concepts of Object oriented JavaScript.  • Good knowledge in developing single page applications (SPA s) using the JavaScript libraries like Angular js and Meteor js.  • Good understanding on using Aurelia, the next generation JavaScript MVC framework and writing ECMASRIPT 6 ands ECMASCRIPT 7  • 1 years of experience in using Mongo DB..  • 2 years of experience in using Apache SOLR search platform.  • Hands on experience in using Apache SolrCloud  • Hands on experience in using Amazon Dynamo db.  • Hands on experience in working with both angular 1 and angular 2versions.  • Hands on experience in working with Denodo platform on AWS for data virtualization  • Good knowledge in using other successful data virtualization tools like Citrix.  • Good understanding on basic switching and routing.  • Hands on experience on using SDN and SDMN technology.  • 1 year experience using the Yang Data modelling language  • 1 year experience in using Jasmine open source testing framework  • Hands on experience in CLI scripting  • Participated in all phases of SDLC like Requirements Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Expertise in J2EE Technology's (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JSTL, JSON, POJO, JMS, JSF My Faces, Prime Faces, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX_RS).  • Excellent understanding of Object Oriented design methodology and Core Java concepts such as multi- threading, exception handling, generics, annotations, Collections and I/O.  • Expertise in open source frameworks Spring, Hibernate and Struts.  • Actively involved in Service Oriented Architecture using web services.  • Expertise in using SOAP and RESTFUL for implementing web services.  • Experience in Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  • Good experience in databases such as SQL Server [ ] Oracle, DB2, NoSQL and MySQL.  • Strong experience with rule engines like Drools, ILOG.  • Experienced in developing middleware applications using Spring IOC, Spring Integration, Spring WS, and Spring WS Security.  • Actively involved in using business process management tools like JBPM, Activiti BPM.    • Proven experience in Integrated Development Environment (IDE) such as Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD.  • Experience in design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC-2) architecture, IOC, AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), DAO (Data Access Object) using Spring Framework and good knowledge of Struts Framework.  • Good Experience in understanding and usage of JVM.  • Customized E Commerce framework to integrate with SALTA web services for getting live product availability for various zip codes based on the florists in that particular location.  • Extensive experience in Software Configuration Management using Version Control Software such as SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Experience in build tools like Ant & Maven, logging with Log4j, Test Driven Development using Junit.  • Good knowledge in implementing various Design Patterns Singleton, Factory pattern, Abstract Factory pattern and DAO pattern.  • Experience in creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and Class Diagrams, Deployment Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Worked in both Unix/Linux and Windows based development environments.  • Good programming and debugging skills in Unix Shell Scripting.  • Quick learner with strong problem solving skills, interpersonal skills and a good team player.  • Writing JUNIT test cases for Service methods  • Self-starter, fast learner and a team player with strong personal and group communication skills.  • Has good ability to develop scalable, monitor able and maintainable solutions for using complex use cases on their own end-to-end at rapid pace.  • Excellent analytical capabilities and good communication skills.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Rational Application Developer(RAD) for Java/ J2EE application development.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  • Experience in using ANT for build automation.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, CVS and Subversion.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 7/ 98 / 2000 / NT / XP, UNIX.  • Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills.  • Experience in Configuring and deploying applications on BEA Web Logic 8.x/7.x, Apache Tomcat 4.x and Web Sphere Application Server. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full stack Java Developer Capital one - Richmond, VA August 2015 to Present Description:  Capital one is the eighth-largest commercial bank in the united states. Capital one financial corporation is a bank holding company specializing in bank credit cards, home loans, auto loans and savings products headquartered in Virginia.  Responsibilities:  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Built REST full web service using spring.  • Deployed and developed my project using AWS EC2, S3, Data pipeline, Elastic Beanstalk, cloud watch, Elastic search, AWS server migration service, Lambda, Amazon messaging services (SQS and SNS) and Amazon Kinesis services.  • Used the AWS mobile hub service for creating and configuring powerful mobile app backend features required for ou company's new mobile app  • Did the testing and monitoring and visualized how our mobile app built is being used.  • Used the AWS mobile hub for quick storing and retrieval of app data in AWS Dynamo DB  • Used the AWS mobile SDK which helps to build high quality mobile apps quickly.  • Used AWS data pipeline service for moving data between AWS compute and storage services and created complex data processing fault tolerant and repeatable workloads.  • Used AWS Elastic Beanstalk service for deploying various infrastructures which orchestrates various AWS services.  • Used Amazon Elastic search service for application monitoring and full text search.  • Used Amazon SQS queuing service for reliable communication among distributed software components and micro services and used Amazon SNS push notification service for sending individual messages to mobile device users, email recipients and to distributed users.  • Used GWT and Amazon AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS (EC2/EBS).  • Used JBOSS application server for run time integration of j2ee applications.  • Used the Apache SOLR web application for Index Replication and fast indexed search, hit highlighting, caching, replication and filtering.  • Developed search handlers by using Apache Solr which includes custom search handlers and custom functions.  • Developed the core search module using the Apache Solr and customized the Apache Solr for handling fallback searching and to provide custom functions.  • Used SolrCloud for providing high scale, fault tolerant distributed indexing and search capabilities for our websites  • Used Apache CXF for building and developing services and used frontend programming API s like JAX WS and JAX-RS  • Used Apache CXF for supporting variety of webservice standards like SOAP and WSDL  • Used NoSQL databases like Mongo DB and AWS Dynamo DB handle to large volumes of data flow.  • Because of the need to manage big data flow our company started to use Denodo platform for AWS for accelerating the adoption of data virtualization  • Worked on Denodo Express 6.0 version for fast deployment on AWS cloud.  • Used the Mongo DB cloud manager for managing and monitoring the Mongo DB infrastructure and used cloud manager backup for data backup and data restoration  • Used the Mongo DB atlas a cloud hosted database service for managed backups in point in time recovery and one click automated scaling and built in security  • Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate  • Used JavaScript for Client Side validations.  • Has created PL/SQL procedures, functions and complex SQL queries for admin services.  • Using Java Messaging Service JMS for messaging, configured queues and topics on the WebLogic 10.3 Application Server and used them for messaging.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  • Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns, Developed and implemented spring, JSF My Faces and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server cluster on Solaris 10 environment  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate.  • Adopt Agile Methodology to plan using JIRA.  • Development of UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AngularJS and CSS.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 version for mobile app development.  • Used ECMAScript6 (ES6) for writing complex applications and modules.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  • Consumed Restful Web services where the transmission of data is in JSON format, DATA MAPPING, Addressing and Secure to Routing.  • Worked on AWS ROUTE 53, a scalable cloud DNS web service for effective routing, configuring DNS health checks.  • Setup and worked on private VPC and used SDN technology  • Used NETCONF configuration protocol for selective data retrieval, configuration change transactions and transaction management  • Used the data modelling language YANG model and wrote data structures representing in xml format  • Wrote XPATH expressions for defining constraints on the elements of the YANG data model.  • Worked on the Visual Yang designer 6.2 version for loading existing YANG and YIN models.  • Developed JSP custom tag libraries, and associated support in the Action Servlet, that assists in creating interactive form-based applications, which is the one of the primary area of functionality using Struts Framework.  • Used J Query to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Analyzed changes in online transactional processing, business processes, and modifications, to improve quality of applications and meet additional requirements through MongoDB.  • Built a highly scalable, low-latency Node-JS API Gateway to interact with MongoDB database with JSON.  • Worked on the Node v6.0.0 version of Node JS.  • Used the web application framework Express for designing web applications and API s  • Used Ajax calls extensively - using J Query, inside the WebApps and create a seamless flow of Quotes.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Spring Framework.  • Developed and implemented the business logic component in middle tier using JDBC and EJB framework including stateless session classes and Entity bean classes  • Developed PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module.  • Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Written JUNIT (TDD) test cases for testing Spring Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations.  • Used Jasmine testing framework for JavaScript. Run the Jasmine tests by using Karma, a simple JavaScript test runner tool.  • Used Apache Hadoop framework for distributed storage and the processing of big data sets.  • Used Amazon Elastic search service for full text search and application monitoring  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (spring framework) and Macromedia/ Adobe Flex.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes that created Pom.xml files.  • Make files and the like. Worked with Clear case source management.  • Enhanced and created new Jasper Reports according to the requirements.  • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  • Worked extensively in Struts, EJB 3.0 and JPA in other maintenance projects.  • Involved in agile planning and Estimation Sessions of user stories and also participating in Scrum Meetings to update the status daily.  • Utilized Web 2.0 social media strategy tactics to increase company visibility by 110%  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Customized E Commerce framework to integrate with SALTA web services for getting live product availability for various zip codes based on the florists in that particular location  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Web Logic, Rest, J Query, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, WebSphere, Drools, JSTL, Servlets, AWS, SDN, Oracle, Denodo Express 6.0, Mongo DB, Apache SOLRCRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, EJB, UML, Eclipse, JUnit, JSF, Maven, JBOSS, Apache Hadoop , Apache CXF, Mongo dB, Amazon Elastic search, Express, GWT, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, Angular 2.0, ECMAScript6, Node.js v6.0.0, CSS, Clear case, Jasmine, Jasper Report, ILOG, Agile, Web 2.0, Adobe Flex, SOAP. Full Stack Java Developer USAC - Washington, DC May 2014 to July 2015 Description:  The Universal Service Administration Company, is dedicated to achieving universal service. This important principle suggests that everyone in the united states deserves accessible and high-speed connectivity, especially schools and libraries, rural health Care, lifeline, Health Cost.  Responsibilities:  • Was responsible for designing and developing Manage Purchase Order Web Service and presentation layer with Spring MVC.  • Responsible for Requirement gathering, coding, testing and documentation.  • Architected and deployed Java based web product matching framework that matches products across multiple retailers.  • Responsible for developing and maintaining all the entity and session beans.  • Extensively worked on Drools Rules Engine and Expectation Engine for writing Business rules Validation.  • Designed and developed the messaging framework for communication between workflow manager and other Enterprise Applications over Java class and MQ-Series using JMS.  • Designed and integrated the full scale Spring/Hibernate persistence solution with the application architectures.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, WSDL, UDDI, and SOAP.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Worked on Angular JS 1.2.0 version for client side JavaScript MVC framework for the development of dynamic web applications.  • Worked on Node.js v0.11.10 version of Node JS framework for server side JavaScript framework  • Downloaded data from the Amazon Cloud Database for detailed display by the app.  • Worked with the development team to create appropriate cloud solutions for client needs.  • Implemented database layer using EJB 3.0 and Java Persistence API(JPA) in maintenance projects  • Responsible for developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  • Involved in Preparation of the technical design documents and involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Singleton and DAO etc.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, JSTL, HTML, JSON, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, indexes, sharing, replication, schema design.  • Using Apache Camel frame work provided concrete implementations of all the widely used Enterprise Integration Patterns (EIPs) and connectivity to a great variety of transports and APIs.  • Contemporary applications rely on relational databases, NoSQL databases and messaging infrastructure for achieving the internet scale. Cloud Foundry exposes MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, RabbitMQ and Redis as services that offer the database and messaging capabilities  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Developed the application using My Eclipse 8.5 and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, and formatting and build automation.  • Handling user requests such as code enhancements, bug fixes.  • Designed reports per the need of the user  • Created stored procedures, triggers and functions using SQL Plus to meet user requirements.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance l.  • Integrated with MDM for managing user data, login and registration information are retrieved from MDM and synced with E commerce database  Environment: Java, J2ee, Java beans, Servlets, JMS, JSP, Drools, Angular 1.2.0 , Node.js v0.11.10, Servlets, GWT, Hibernate, EJB, JPA, Spring, Java Script, JDBC, UNIX, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JSON, SOAP, WSDL,  Eclipse, Web Services, MySQL, SQL Plus, LDAP, Log4j.    Full Stack Java Developer Education Bachelor's in research Vanderbilt University - Nashville, TN October 2013 to May 2014 Skills CSS (3 years), DATABASE (3 years), JAVA (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), JSP (3 years), Spring, Hibernate, Web Logic, Rest, J Query, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, WebSphere, Drools, JSTL, Servlets, AWS, SDN, Oracle, Denodo Express 6.0, Mongo DB, Apache SOLRCRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, EJB, UML, Eclipse, JUnit, JSF, Maven, JBOSS, Apache Hadoop , Apache CXF, Mongo dB, Amazon Elastic search, Express, GWT, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, Angular 2.0, ECMAScript6, Node.js v6.0.0, CSS, Clear case, Jasmine, Jasper Report, ILOG, Agile, Web 2.0, Adobe Flex, SOAP., Node, React, PHP, Angular, Python, Angularjs, C#, NET, Nodejs, AWS Additional Information SKILLS    CSS (8 years), DATABASE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), JSP (8 years)