Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Tata Consultancy Services Limited Work Experience Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services Limited May 2019 to Present Duration: - yrs.    Description: Nikken Corporation is equipment Rental Company in the civil and construction field in Japan. Project is focused on redevelopment of  Order received and shipment module and feature enhancement.    Responsibilities: • Research and study about existing system and business of order received and shipment module  • Development of the core logic of application.  • Unit testing.  Java, Spring MVC, MyBatis, JUnit, JavaScript  Environment: System Engineer Tata Consultancy Services Limited - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN January 2017 to Present Duration: 2.4yrs    Project/POC Details: Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services Limited May 2018 to April 2019 Duration: 1.0 yrs.    Description: Metal One is steel trading company in Japan and child company of  Mitsubishi Corporation. The project was focused on SAP JCO version up from version 1 to version 3. "Excellent"(an option for SAP-BW)  was used to extract data from SAP database through interface  called "freeway"    Responsibilities: • Validating business scenarios  • Use "Excellent" to extract data from SAP database and create  PV and ALV.  • SAP JCO version up from 1 to 3.  • Unit testing.  • Review code and deliverables for defect free deliveries.  • Write Excel VBA macros to print receipt and update database.  JAVA, Excellent(an option for SAP-BW), Excel VBA  Environment: Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services Limited April 2018 to April 2018 To: Apr 2018 Duration: 0.1 Yrs.    Description: HACHIYOH is a Japanese company that provides full support for installation, management and maintenance of vending machines.  Core system for HACHIYOH is developed by our team.    Responsibilities: • Understand the business and working of system  • POC on Creation of the basic design document and detail  design documents.  MS Excel  Environment: Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services Limited March 2017 to March 2018 Duration: 1 year    Description: Nikken Corporation is equipment Rental Company in the civil and construction field in Japan. Our team has developed a core system for Nikken Corporation to provide them end to end business need.    Responsibilities: • Validating the business scenarios and implementing technical  design.  • Development of scheduler batch and APIs.  • Creation of SQL queries for DB operations and functional  validation  • Unit testing using JUnit.  • Work with TCS-Japan associates for better understanding of customer and Japanese standards.  Java, Spring MVC, MyBatis, JUnit, JavaScript  Environment: Education Bachelor of engineering in Computer Engineering JSPM's Rajarshi Shahu College of Engineering - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2016 Diploma in Computer Engineering Government Polytechnic Khamgaon - Pune, Maharashtra, IN 2013 Additional Information Technologies Java, SQL  Frame Work Spring, MyBatis  Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML and Web Services  Web server Tomcat  Build, Code Quality tools Maven  IDE Tools Eclipse, Ebuilder, Oracle SQL Developer  Version Control SVN  Project Management Tool Redmine & MS Excel  Operating system Windows