Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Capital BlueCross Avenel, NJ ? Overall 5 years of experience in all the technical phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing in both Web based and Enterprise applications with emphasis on Object Oriented, Java/J2EE and Client Server technologies.  ? Proficient in developing J2EE enterprise applications in Service Oriented Architecture and Micro Service Architecture. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Capital BlueCross - Harrisburg, PA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities: ? Worked on High level and low level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  ? Developed Single page application using React & Redux Technologies.  ? Design and develop template based User Interface using Reactstrap and Ant UI.  ? Worked on Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making anonymous inline function calls by using Functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise.  ? Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services using Jenkins CI server.  ? Developed the application with various Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch.  ? Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping customer log data and transactions details etc.  ? Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  ? Designed and integrated the full-scale Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  ? Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the service.  ? Developed a RESTful based service for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.  ? Involved on development of RESTFul web services using JAX-RS in a Spring based project.  ? Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  ? Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application on devices.  ? Websphere is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  ? Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN.  ? Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications ? Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Axios. Reactstrap, React, Redux, Webpack, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, spring security, OAuth , XML, GIT, JUnit, Maven, IBM WebSphere, , JAX-WS, Restful, Micro Services, Mongo DB, JIRA and Jenkins. Software Engineer Fedex Corp - Memphis, TN April 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities: ? Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  ? Developed User Interface using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery.  ? Involved in component development using J2EE principles and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application.  ? Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  ? To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  ? Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ? Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  ? Worked on Hibernate for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Involved in day to day handling of JIRA issues (production issues at time) that involved data inconsistencies that required to be solved in very less time.  ? Worked with Eclipse IDE and used Gradle build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  ? Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process and used Git as Version Control tool.  ? Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  ? Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases. Java Developer Synopsys, Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to November 2015 Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Hibernate, XML, Web Services, Restful, SOAP, Log4j, JUnit, Jenkins, Gradle, GIT, Eclipse, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Windows, Linux.  Client: Synopsys, Inc. Jan, 2014 - Nov, 2015  Location: Hyderabad, India.  Role: Java Developer    Responsibilities: ? Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in Agile methodology.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using Struts, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC.  ? Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate classes.  ? Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  ? Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs, Garbage collections for dynamic memory allocation to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC for Oracle.  ? Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  ? Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing.  ? Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories and bug fixing.  ? Used SVN to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, XML, Struts, JDBC, Web Services, SOAP UI, Restful, HQL, SQL, JBOSS, Oracle, ANT, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, Tortoise SVN. Education Master's Skills Javascript, Angular, Node, React, Java, AWS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Java Versions Java 1.6, 1.7 & 1.8  Tools and Framework  Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Swagger, Jira, Crucible, Jest, JUnit & JReport.    J2SE/J2EE Technologies  RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, JSF, Jakarta Struts, EJB, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI and RESTFUL), Groovy/Grails.    Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Sass, React, Redux, AJAX, AXIOS, webpack, JSON & REST API  XML Technologies XML, XSL, DOM, SAX, DTD, XQuery, XSD and XSLT.  Databases Oracle, MySQL & MongoDB.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Glassfish, JBOSS.  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle, and Jenkins  IDE / Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), VSCode  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Mockito, Log4j and Jest  Version Control Tortoise SVN and GIT  Platforms Windows, Mac & Linux.  Methodologies Agile & Test Driven Development