FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER FULL STACK <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER - EQUIFAX Atlanta, GA • 4+ years of experience in the software industry working in all phases of software development lifecycle using Agile methodology, and waterfall model.  • Well versed with Object Oriented programming and core java concepts like Collections, Generics, Multi-threading, Exception Handling.  • Has good experience working with RDBMS - Oracle, JDBC, MySQL, and MySQL Server.  • Strong exposure to different design patterns like MVC design pattern, Singleton, Factory, Strategy and Facade design pattern.  • Proficient in working with frameworks like Spring core, Spring boot, Spring MVC.  • Bended the API response in UI using Angular to display the data coming from API.  • Good knowledge on Spring boot micro services that helps in creating independent services which can be deployed easily.  • Good experience working with front end tools like HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript and modern MEAN - MongoDB, Express, Angular JS, Node.  • Experience in creating multiple Docker images from the scratch using Kubernetes.  • Extensive experience working with RDBMS -PL/SQL programming on Oracle like writing Stored Procedures and SQL Queries.  • Good knowledge of spring's IOC, AOP, Spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate technologies.  • Experience in GUI development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSP, JSP and XML.  • Worked on NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Apache Cassandra. Proficient in Web Services implementation with SOAP, REST API's.  • Designed, developed, and implemented CSS data archival process.  • Hands on knowledge on java Script MVC framework such as Backbone JS, Angular JS, Ext JS and D3. JS.  • Experience in working with Rest based web services using Jersey implementation and integrated with Angular JS.  • Excellent oral and written communication skills and analytical and programming skills.  • Highly motivated and dynamic team player with passion for learning and has the capability to meet deadlines in a fast-paced environment. Work Experience FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER EQUIFAX - Atlanta, GA June 2018 to Present • Designed, documented (Swagger) and developed Micro Services (Admin Service, Reports Service, Audit Service, Loan Processing Service) using Java, Spring Boot, Spring, Hibernate, JSON, JWT and MongoDB.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using HTML 5, CSS, Bootstrap and Angular 6.  • Docker zed Micro Services and Angular applications and implemented container orchestration using AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS).  • Configured the CI/CD pipeline for Micro Services and Angular using Git, Jenkins, Groovy, Docker, AWS ECR, AWS ECS.  • Used MySQL relational database for the backend operations, containerized microservices using Docker and Docker Hub.  • Implemented a software functionality to gather customers data with a focus on code optimization and organization. Recommended improvements to existing software programs.  • Involved in the entire SDLC, from interpreting and facilitating requirements to developing software to supporting production deployments.  • As a Full Stack Developer in Java, involved in understanding SDLC using agile methodology and worked on front- end and back- end tools and frameworks.  • Designed and developed Agent microservice using Java, Spring, Hibernate and SQL server.  • Documented the REST API using Swagger Framework.  • Automated the manual process of reading data from multiple tables in the database by deploying complex SQL procedures.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Used JDBC to manipulate the data on the System database Server.  • Created logical and physical data models putting to practice the concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  • Delivered detailed design of web application that includes UML case, class, sequence diagrams.  • Performed Unit, functional, integration testing and was part of 24x7 on-call and on-site support.  • Designed and developed Microservices platform to support a multitude of enterprise level applications.  • Deployed micro-services as restful java web services on Amazon Elastic Beanstalk. Used AmazonS3 for configuration files.  • Proficiency in various Core Java concepts such as Threads, Exception Handling, Collections to implement various features and enhancements. Controller (MVC) and multi MCKESSON - San Francisco, CA October 2017 to May 2018 SAN FRANCISCO, US  FULL STACK JAVA DVELOPER  October 2017 to May 2018    • Extensive experience in building rich user friendly, high performance web applications using HTML5/4, CSS3/2, SASS, and JQuery and implementing cross-browser style-sheets.  • Installed and configured the Web Server and Database Server in Linux Platform.  • Extensively worked to build Model-View-Controller (MVC) and multi-tier client/server architecture using design patterns like DAO, DTO (Data Transfer object), Singleton and Session Façade.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) Components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3.  • Created and supported numerous Java Swing and Servlet based applications using Eclipse.  • Worked on deploying the latest builds in standalone as well as set up the JBoss cluster nodes to deploy builds using JBOSS Deployment Manager.  • Application development experience using Serialization, Externalization, Collection, Generics, Core JAVA, Applets and Swing.  • Developed REST API test automation, utilizing REST Assured for Java and the TestNG Framework.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework with Angular.js.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2 instances.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on WebLogic Server.  • Implemented the back-end services using Spring Boot.  • Used JAVA 8 features like Lambda Expressions, Parallel Streams and functional interfaces.  • Developed spring and Hibernate based multi-tier Web Application.  • Developed application on Spring/Spring Boot framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security and Spring MVC.  • Built Single page web application using JavaScript Frameworks like Angular2/4, ReactJS, and JS.  • Created RESTful APIs endpoints using spring.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 11g Database.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular and AJAX.  • Wrote complex SQLs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting data in Oracle database.  • Used Maven for building the web application and Jenkins for automated deployment in various environments. JAVA DEVELOPER BARCLAYS - New York, NY October 2014 to November 2016 • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology and followed Scrum.  • Experience in developing object-oriented applications using one or more of the following  technologies Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JPA, EJB, JMS, Web Services, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Spring, Hibernate.  • Worked along with a team working in four different time zones and two continents.  • Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP, and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects and JDBC.  • Designed and Implemented XML based services conforming to OPEN API standard.  • Implemented various SOAP based service clients to interact with 3rd party soap services.  • Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, IDM DB2, SQL Server and MySQL, MongoDB.  • Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures for Oracle database.  • Worked on continuous integration pipeline using Jenkins to support various projects and delivery.  • Built Activiti based BPM engine to engineer and configure business process and management rules.  • Developed REST services using Node-JS, Express-JS, Body-Parse, Underscore-JS and other node modules to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Designed SOA implementations by Using Web Services-WSDL, UDDI and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party vendors.  • Involved in build process, modifying the Maven files, compiling the code building, packaging the WAR file and deploying onto various Tomcat servers in UNIX environments.  • Implemented Transaction and Logging using Spring AOP, developed Hibernate HQL queries and Hibernate DAO implementation for database connectivity.  • Implemented spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC pattern and also configured Hibernate 2.0 for the application.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database and used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to query the database for complex data.  • Worked with java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage service, Simple queue service and Dynamo.  • Experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, views with the major databases like Oracle 9i to 11g, SQL, PL/SQL and MS Access.  • Application development experience using Serialization, Externalization, Collection, Generics, Core JAVA, Applets and Swing.  • Used Spring Ribbon API to check whether the servers are up & detect those servers that are down. Education Master's in computer science in computer science state university of New York Skills HTML (3 years), J2EE (2 years), JAVA (3 years), MySQL (3 years), Oracle (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Java, Hibernate, Spring, J2EE, Spring Boot, Microservices, MySQL, jQuery, Git, HTML 5, Java script, Docker, Oracle, AngularJS, ReactJS, CSS3.