Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - South West Gas Corporation Las Vegas, NV • Java Full Stack Developer with 4 Years of experience in full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using JAVA, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS and Webservices.  • Extensive experience in developing Web interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular-JS.  • Very good understanding of Object-Oriented Design (OOD), Design Patterns, J2EE Design Patterns, MVC, Struts multi-tier architectures and distributed architectures.  • Experience in implementing SOA architectures with web services using WSDL, SOAP and XML.  • Good experience in defining the XML schemas and in working with XML parsers to read and validate the data held in XML documents.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and using them with continuous integration tools like Jenkins to create and publish application artifacts.  • Designed and developed asynchronous RESTful Micro services using Spring boot, RX Java that are consumed by other microservices with an average response time of 30 milliseconds.  • Developed Micro services with spring boot and Spring Batch along with the test cases and used the spring test's framework to create integration test.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures to interact with Oracle and MS SQL Server databases  • Created POC's using Node-JS, Mongo-db and Body-Parser to create REST services.  • Experienced in developing applications using Angular-JS, Bootstrap-JS like grids, tool bars, panels, combo-box and buttons etc. and experienced in performing Responsive web design using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media queries.  • Participated in all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Production troubleshooting, Software testing using Standard Test Tool.  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE SCRUM methodology.  • Excellent conceptual base in Implementation Methodologies, Design Patterns, and Web based Architecture using web technologies like JSP, Servlets and Struts.  • Developed many distributed, transactional, portable applications using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) architecture for Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) platform.  • Good experience with version controls such as GIT, CVS, SVN, IBMClearcase.  • Experience with automation using GIT Docker Jenkins, Ansible, and Chef  • Worked on different OS like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux, and Windows.  • Good team player with ability to solve problems, organize and prioritize multiple tasks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer South West Gas Corporation June 2018 to Present Project Description: Southwest Gas is engaged in the business of purchasing, transporting and distributing the environmental fuel of choice - natural gas. They serve more than two million customers in Arizona, California, and Nevada. As the largest distributor of natural gas in Nevada and Arizona, it serve the Las Vegas, Phoenix, and Tucson metropolitan areas. In addition, we transport and distribute natural gas in portions of California, including areas in Lake Tahoe and San Bernardino County.  Responsibilities:    * Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS3 (SASS) and AJAX.  * Worked with Angular JS (1.x) Controllers, Directives, Services and filters for application functionality.  * Used many Angular JS-1.x directives which allow developing many custom and reusable HTML for data binding and behavior of components.  * Used Angular JS -1.x to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Applications.  * Used Backbone JS to utilize its rendering functions and create controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  * Utilized Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading and Exception handling to develop business components Developed the front end user interfaces using JSP, JSTL, jQuery, Java script, AJAX, JSON, HTML, Angular JS and CSS  * Use Java, J2EE technologies to develop UI and server side components. Use Struts and Spring framework to implement MVC design patter.  * Worked with advanced MVC framework such as Spring-IOC, AOP, MVC and Batch which is used for implementing backend functionality.  * Participated in coding Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception handling and Transactional Model to handle many requests.  * Support & Enhancement to the existing implementation of correspondence components which are developed using EJBs, JPA and Web Services / JMS Technologies.  * Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.  * Wrote Hibernate Criteria queries for data retrievals and have performed the ORM mappings to map java entities to database tables.  * We kept up bean life cycle by utilizing Spring IOC which keeps up session information of beans.  * Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that uses the POJOs.  * Configured multiple data source using Hibernate Session Manger.  * Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria.  * Developed SOAP web services using JAX-WS and persistence using Hibernate and JPA framework.  * Developed SOAP Web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  * Developed SOAP Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS) with data representation in different formats such as XML.  * Developed Spring Batch processes for financial reporting applications.  * Message broker services are achieved in the application using Active MQ with JMS framework.  * Implemented Spring Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging.  * Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing. Worked on Java Message Service (JMS) API for developing message oriented middleware (MOM) layer for handling various asynchronous requests.  * Implemented Quartzscheduler to execute batch programming using Spring Batch.  * Build a CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins automation and GitHub repositories using web hooks plugin.  * Performed Angular JS end to end testing using Protractor framework and Integration testing methods and Behavioral driven are implemented using Selenium and Cucumber respectively.  * JIRA tool for project management used in the application to tack bugs, issues and project management functions.  Environment: Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JMS, JSP, JSF, SOAP services, JAX-WS, JPA Framework, Spring Rest, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, Spring Transactions, Spring Batch, Quartz scheduler, Spring IOC, Mule ESB, Jenkins, Git. Full Stack Java Developer McKesson Corporation May 2017 to June 2018 Description: McKesson is global healthcare services and medical supply company dedicated to delivering better care. It supports the entire healthcare system, including pharmacies, hospitals, health systems, biotech and life sciences companies, specialty care and oncology practices, physician offices, surgery centers, and long-term care and home health facilities.They deliver pharmaceutical products, medical supplies and business services to each of these groups to create a world of better health.    Responsibilities:  * Responsible for requirement gathering, analysis, design & development of Applications.  * Designed User Interface (UI) web applications using web technologies like HTML5, HTML DOM, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT and CSS3 based on W3C standards.  * wrote custom JavaScript utilizing jQuery to enhance theme, setup server to handle more number of page requests.  * Build data-driven applications for the enterprise using the PrimeFaces Java server Faces UI framework.  * Created views using components of JSF PrimeFaces in XHTML files and configured JSF framework.  * Extensively used Java server Faces (JSF) Navigation rules and JSF tags for enhanced user-Interface.  * Implemented data access logic by using Hibernate Persistence framework to enable the persistence mapping between java objects and RDBMS.  * Used JaxWS framework to create SOAP web services.  * Wrote Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  * Used Spring Batch to build the POJO-based development approach of the Spring Framework.  * Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Multithreading and Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  * Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer.  * Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs such as JDO ( Java Data Objects) and Hibernate.  * Worked on Hibernate persistence tier. This involves developing mapping files and Hibernate (POJOs/ DAOs).  * Developed UNIX Shell Scripts for batch jobs to transfer the data on different servers.  * Implemented Spring AOP for providing proxies.  * Used Spring Security to develop Login and Logout features of the application.  * Implemented Spring Security for posing security constraints on JSF UI pageviews.  * Used Maven as a build tool and Jenkins for monitoring the build status of the project.  * Developed Unit Test Case for UI Screens using Jasmine and Karma.  * Configured Glassfish application server and deployed the instances on it.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Java Server Faces(JSF), Jasmine & karma, Gulp, JSP, Spring AOP, Spring Bean, Spring Annotation, Spring Security, Hibernate, RDBMS, SOAP, JAX-WS, RDBMS, Drools, Junit, Log4j, Glassfish. Controller (MVC) architecture Benision Technologies January 2015 to January 2017 India Jan 15 - jan 17    Responsibilities:  * The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture.  * Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile methodology is used for development of the application.  * Used J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, Session Façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  * Created Stored Procedures & Functions. Used JDBC to process database calls for Db2 Server database.  * Involved in writing PL/SQLStored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views for SQL database.  * Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, functions, procedures, anonymous PL/SQL programs, Cursor management, Exception Handling in PL/SQL programs.  * Implemented various features of Spring such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring Integration with Struts.  * Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages the classical Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  * Implemented persistence layer with iBATISORM.  * Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  * Developed JSTL custom tags to support custom user interfaces.  * Used Eclipse for developing JSPs, Servlets, Struts and with IBM WEB SPHERE server in the development phase.  * Used Spring Security framework to setup authentication and authorization for the application using firm wide single sign on.  * Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and web services using SOAP with JAX-WS.  * Used SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  * Involved in the development of underwriting process, which involves communications without side systems using IBM MQ & JMS.  * Wrote Unit test cases using JUnit& Mockito framework.  * Used ANT for automated build and deployment on IBM WebSphere.  * Handled Java Multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  Environment: Db2, PL/SQL, Spring IOC, Struts, iBatis, JSP, JSTL, Spring Security, SOA, SOAP, JAX-WS, IBM MQ, JMS, JUnit, Mockito, ANT, IBM WebSphere, J2EE. Education Master of Science in Computer and Information Science in Computer and Information Science Sacred Heart University - Fairfield, CT January 2017 to May 2018 Skills J2EE (2 years), Java (4 years), Junit (3 years), SOAP (4 years), Web Services (4 years)