Guidewire Consultant Guidewire Consultant Guidewire Consultant - Amica Insurance Atlanta, GA ? 5+ years of experience in design, architecture, development and support of web-based Java/J2EE enterprise applications.  ? Around 2+ years of experience in Guidewire technologies, applications Configuration and Implementation, and Integration.  ? 2+ years of experience in the Guidewire Billing Center, Policy Center, Claim Center, Contact Manager Configuration and Integration.  ? Responsible to Track, Document, Capture, Manage and Communicate the Requirements using Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) and TFS which helped in controlling numerous artifacts.  ? Worked on Policy center Integration and Configuration using Guide wire studio and developed custom entities, enhancements and custom events.  ? Created and edited individual rules, PCF pages, workflows, entity names and display keys  ? Worked on PC alerts, policy summary - reinstate, assign/exit delinquency, underwriting issues etc. Configured Payments, Risk Analysis, Policy Info, Coverage Screens, Delinquency etc.  ? Involved in debugging, Code Review, testing and Integration of the System. Worked on different discount functionalities on product model change.  ? Configured Policy Center with tight document/imaging support, new screens, revised assignment logic and other standard rules/screen/UI changes.  ? Worked with Business & Technical resources to address both business & application needs. Involved in developing and maintaining Gosau for configuring PC/BC/CC applications.  ? Involved in creating UI components like List views, detail views, type lists, filters by using toolbox and involved in creating new PCFS.  ? Experienced in Auto-General Liability claims and property coverage life, property and casualty insurance lines of business.  ? Created the Widgets and configured the widget's attributes like widget value, dropdown contents. Configured various new custom Policies & as many as new custom coverages.  ? Involved in Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution, Issue Resolution and Report & generation for SIT and UAT to assure that all aspects of a Project in Compliance with the Business Requirements.  ? Successfully translated business requirements and user expectations into detailed specifications employing Unified Modeling Language (UML) using Rational Rose and MS Visio.  ? Strong Analytical and Documentation skills, functional knowledge in Financial markets, Insurance, excellent communication and interpersonal skills, team player and self-starter with also well-versed in writing documenting Business Plan, Requirements document, Functional Specification document, and test cases  ? Worked on exception handling, display and valid warnings and error messages. Identified the tasks and providing estimations during initial sprint planning.  ? Experienced in implementing complex customized business functionality using GScript/GOSU in appropriate rulesets, including defining guidelines for GScript coding standards in the project.  ? Hands-on participation in writing specifications, software development, debugging and testing  ? Involved in business requirement gathering to customize/Developing the code, configuration in the Guidewire implementation. Analyzed integration code and suggested improvements for GW integration practices. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Guidewire Consultant Amica Insurance - Lincoln, RI March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Hands on experience the Guidewire Policy Center 10.0, Billing Center 9.0, Claims Center 10.x. Experience in Guidewire suite (Policy Center, Claim Center, Billing Center and Contact Center) integrations.  • Supporting Testing efforts (onsite & offshore) in delivering end-to-end Guidewire IT solutions across various integrations, monitoring test progress, metrics collection, status updates/Reporting, Release / Production support.  • Responsible for elaborating Billing Center configuration user story such as Invoicing rules, Delinquencies, Policy Cancellation, Automated disbursements, Policy Rewrites, Policy Reinstatements, Billing Parameters, Fees, and Payment distribution rules, etc.  • Validated policy and claim data to assure every detail are populated correctly from the legacy system WINS to Guidewire Claim Center.  • Provided process improvement initiatives to promote efficiency within loan processing, underwriting, closing and meeting Service Level agreements.  • Worked with the business users and product owners to modify/add requirements to address multiple enhancements that are needed to fix any issues with previously implemented functionality in Billing Center. Interact with the Guidewire team to modify the Out of the Box logic based on business needs.  • Worked with Guidewire Claim Centre's rich functional depth to end-to-end claims lifecycle management improvements and gathered requirements around Underwriting, Billing, Insurance Claims Processing and Policy Administration System.  • Established an effective communication plan with the project team and the customer & suggested Sales Force Lightning Component development wherever it's possible.  • Involved in testing for implementation & up gradation of existing legacy system with Guidewire Policy Center & Guidewire Billing Center.  • Configured screen layouts, business logic, business rules, and operation parameters such as roles, permissions, user attributes, and regions as well as created new screens in Guidewire Studio 8.23.0 as needed.  • Worked with the SME's (Financial Analysts, Risk Managers, and Project Managers) to define business critical needs and analyze the possible technical solutions and as a User/Customer advocate and negotiated with user as well as the technical team and management staff to resolve any outstanding requirement conflict during the whole SDLC process. Guidewire Consultant Mercury Insurance March 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of Guidewire Policy Center and Claims Center User Stories & conducted functional and technical requirement gathering sessions with Stakeholders, Underwriting Managers and Operations Analysts for the Policy and Claims related modules. Discussion with the business stakeholders to identify scope of the project. Conducting requirement gathering sessions through JAD (AS IS-TO BE).  • Strong experience with Guidewire and Insurance/Finance tools in Life Sciences, Property and Casualty domains. Develop methods to minimize errors in billings/claims.  • Worked on configuring GUI screen changes, changes to data model and implemented custom business Rules in Evaluation, Renewal, Assignment, Pre-Update, Validation, and Event Fired rule sets.  • Implemented Cancellation user story with four different Refund Methods based on cancellation reason, with specific formulas for each method for determining the return premium amount to send back to the client.  • Understand current legacy systems and Production state of application and determine the impact on new implementation on existing business processes / rules by interviewing and collaborating with Subject Matter Experts and Product Owners  • Gathered business requirements through interviews, JAD sessions and observations and created the Business Requirements documentation for Auto, Homeowners, Renters, Condominium Unit Owners, and Manufactured Homeowners through Guidewire Policy Centre.  • Reviewed existing systems, business requirements and facilitating the implementation of new systems/ processes, in line with the overall business goal and objectives.  • Written user stories, Preparing Release, Sprint Planning& Attending Demo's, Retrospective by working closely with Scrum Master.  • Customized page layouts for Salesforce.com standard and custom objects & interacted with Sales Force support team for unsolved BR's with customization.  • Imported data by using Data loader from legacy systems to sandbox system & created various summary reports & dashboards.  • Worked on documentation of the following Screens in Billing Center, Testing the following in Billing Center: Payments entry screens.  • Worked on Guidewire's in Policy Center and Billing Center Screens for Personal lines business Defined the page layouts, reports templates and dashboard layouts for reservation monitoring and for gathering usage statistics.  • Performed data integration and data mapping and data extraction management along with data cleansing while migrating data from legacy system to Guidewire Policy Center with Guidewire Data Hub.  • Conducted controlled brainstorming sessions with project focus groups and documented business requirements with wireframes and mockups to explain in detail the business implications and impacts.  • Collaborated with the business team in the creation and completion of project charters and project scope for Guidewire Policy Center and Claim Center.  • Prepared knowledge sharing documentation on, mentored team members on Policy browser and Guidewire Claim Center. Java Developer Terabyte's InfoTech - Mumbai, Maharashtra October 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with JSP, Servlets, JSTL/EL.  • Worked with JDBC and Hibernate.  • Configured and Maintained Subversion version control.  • Implemented Data Access Object, MVC design patterns.  • Experience of working in Agile Methodology.  • Worked with Complex SQL queries, Functions and Stored Procedures.  • Developed Test Scripts using JUnit and JMockit.  • Use of core java, which includes Generics and Annotations.  • Involved in refactoring the existing code.  • Implemented Struts, J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Spring Rest API, DAO, Singleton and DTO Design patterns.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP.  • Developed Spring Configuration file to define data source, beans and Hibernate properties.  • Used PL/SQL for queries and stored procedures in ORACLE as the backend RDBMS.  • Used SVN as a version control.  • Worked with Struts Validation Framework to implement Client Side and Server-Side validations.  • Worked with log4j utility to implement run time log events.  • Worked with ANT and Maven to develop build scripts.  • Worked with Hibernate, JDBC to handle data needs.  • Configured Development Environment using Tomcat and Apache Web Server.  Environment: Struts, Spring J2SE, J2EE Design Patterns, HTML JavaScript, XML, Servlets 2.5, WSDL, JUnit, CSS, AJAX, Apache Tomcat Oracle 9i/10g. Java Developer E Transition Softech Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed enterprise level applications on XML schema, SOAP and WSDL technologies.  • Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client-side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling.  • Black box calculation of this financial reporting and thoroughly understood and developed in GWT, spring and Hibernate technology.  • Legacy data from Sybase database was made available to the uses to view through newly developed framework using GWT and XML implementation.  • Worked on Java Script libraries like jQuery and JSON.  • Developed application on spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC.  • Used spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into spring beans.  • Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing.  • Worked on Java Message Service (JMS) API for developing message oriented middleware (MOM) layer for handling various asynchronous requests.  • Worked with topic for creating publish/subscribe-messaging model using Apache MQ and Tibco MQ.  • Developed persistence layer based on JPA framework for providing POJO persistence model for object-relational mapping.  • Used Hibernate as an implementation engine for JPA API.  • Created Oracle store procedures for handling and processing complex data based logics.  • Wrote complex SQLs for creating, retrieving, updating and deleting data in oracle database.  • Developed store procedures and complex queries using tool called PL/SQL developer.  • Developed, Tested and Deployed application in IBM Web Sphere 7.0 server.  • Wrote scheduled batch jobs on UNIX environment for handling various huge databases update logics without manual interventions.  • Used Concurrent Version System (CVS) as source control tool.  • Developed unit test cases and suits on JUnit framework for unit testing  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, EJB, JDBC, Java Servlets, JSP, tag libraries, CSS, Spring Framework, Log4j, XML, HTML, SOAP, DAO, JMS, web services, JavaScript, Weblogic application Server, Oracle12, PL/SQL, UI design, JUnit, Rational Rose, Jasper Reports, SSL Education Master in Information Technology in Information Technology Rutgers University 2016 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Gauhati University 2013 Skills Epic, Teamcenter, Peoplesoft, Powerchart, Cerner