Sr Full Stack Java Developer Sr Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Full Stack Java Developer - Big Spaceship • Having 5 years of professional IT experience in design, development and implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, technologies.  • Expertise in creating the pages using HTML5, CSS3 webpages layouts and vast knowledge in usability and accessibility concepts.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages and Web Application Development using JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS, Swing.  • Good knowledge in Microservices development using Spring boot and Spring cloud.  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top Down Approach and Bottom up Approach.  • Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experienced with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, ActiveMQ and Mule ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) in SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture.  • Hands-on experience in using CI/CD pipeline and Jenkins for deploying the code.  • Hands-on-experience on python web application development using Django and Flask framework.  • Extensive experience in design and implementing low latency trading application using java multi-threading and concurrency API in Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Expertise in designing and implementing a cloud based micro-services system written in Scala using Play framework and Akka.  • Experience by designing new web features using Framework like Angular4, Bootstrap accommodate these advanced and fast technologies.  • Knowledge on installation, configuration, supporting and managing Hadoop Clusters using Apache, Cloudera, Hortonworks and on Amazon web services (AWS)  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shell scripting.  • Expertise in implementing the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data.  • Experience in configuring and deploying J2EE applications on WebSphere, WebLogic and JBOSS Application servers.  • Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with Spring Boot for running applications.  • In-depth knowledge in creating classes, interfaces, methods, components and modules in Angular applications using Typescript.  • Experience in development of RESTful API and SOAP based web services and clients.  • Experienced in developing similar business process in more concrete way using Microservices architecture.  • Proficient understanding of server-side CSS pre-processors including SASS and LESS.  • Experienced in Data Mining, Predictive Modelling, Machine Learning.  • Experience in Agile methodologies such as Extreme Programming, Waterfall Model and Test-Driven Development and Pivotal Tracker and JIRA tools for tracking stories in a Project.  • Strong experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL and NoSQL like MongoDB.  • Experience using Web/Application Servers like Apache Tomcat and Oracle Application Server.  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration build-automation tools such as Jenkins, Maven and Apache Ant.  • Experience in preparing project related documents using Microsoft Office Suite like MS-Office, MS-Excel, MS-PowerPoint and MS-Visio. Work Experience Sr Full Stack Java Developer Big Spaceship - New York, NY January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed web-based application using J2EE framework and version control tool Git (Bitbucket)  • Worked with Project Manager to efficiently manage the time allocated in the Sprint cycle to the project.  • Worked with the Team Lead, Solution Architects and Core Project Team members to create Solutions Approach, Solutions Design and Solutions Requirements to provide the solutions deliverables for each requirement.  • Developed the modules assigned during the sprint cycle and perform unit testing for each feature developed.  • Configured the build using the Jenkins script and Generate the application war after running through the sonar test cases.  • Interacted with the release management team to deploy the generated war file into QA and Dev environments.  • Created tickets to deploy to the QA and dev environment for the beta testing.  • Interacted with Quality analyst to notify the successful push of the code to QA environment for functional and integration testing.  • Created and update project repositories to manage documents specific to the project and reference materials necessary for the success of the project.  • Created project tasks and maintain project issues on Jira in the analyzing, development and validation phase of the project.  • Updated the Jira tool with respective comments to maintain the proper flow of the feature created from development to production phase.  • Worked on logical design diagrams, workflows and sequence diagrams using MS Visio.  • Updated the required project and reference materials in the wiki page necessary for the success of the project.  • Maintained technical task status records, resource allocation, task details and participate in the daily review with the team.  • Attended sprint update meetings on daily basis to discuss every day progress and future task planned.  • Performed project tracking throughout the lifecycle of the project by using Planview.  • Updated the team lead of any issues related to the project by making a note of the logs in production and by updating the fix for the same.  • Developed Business Requirements, Solution Requirements, Problem/ Opportunity Statement and other project related documentation.  • Worked with business Subject Matter Experts, Business Managers, Product Owners and Project team to create Problem/ Opportunity Statement.  • Lay out the scope of projects and develop Business Requirements through discussions and Joint Application Development sessions.  • Worked on iterations of the Business Requirements to freeze the requirements with regards to functionalities of the website.  • Utilized Jira ticketing system to create & track business tasks and requirements.  • Worked closely and perform the same duties with internal RM teams to deliver the required information/data or other project deliverables to the end users.  • Created and maintain the release notes for the release management team to deploy the generated war into Linux boxes.  • Involved in the production deployment of the feature developed at the end of every sprint cycle.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and fixing the post deployment issues being faced on the production environment.  • Developed and Generate an immediate RC in case of emergency issues being faced in the production environment.  • Worked closely with Quality Assurance team to make sure the feature introduced is analyzed end to end.  • Explained the new features introduced in the web application and in the auxiliary applications supporting the main web application.  • Specified the modules to be going through testing and the components of testing to be performed.  • Involved in configuring the script for Integration and Performance testing of the newly built web application features. Java Developer Verizon Wireless - New York, NY March 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in implementation of RESTful web service APIs using AJAX calls and JSON as data exchanging tool.  • Deployed JAVA /J2EE applications through Tomcat Application servers.  • Involved in the design and development of an entire Module - Guided Set Up. Developed user interface through JSP and Servlets.  • Developed Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Developed Action classes and Action Forms using the struts framework.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot.  • Worked on the development of new GUI features using HTML, CSS, JavaScript as per the customer requirements.  • Managed Docker cluster and applications through a single interface.  • Developed Customs tags to display dynamic contents and to avoid large amounts of java code in JSP pages.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using RESTFUL and microservices.  • Developed service infrastructure components in Angular4/Typescript for a unified web UI initiative.  • Utilized Jenkins, Git for deployment on test servers and to move towards CI/CD.  • Worked with single thread and light weight scripting for fastest data transfer within the Node.js.  • Used No SQL for JBoss Caching and implemented various complex PL/SQL queries.  • Wrote the Ansible playbooks to automate the infrastructure and deploy the applications onto the Linux servers.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used SQL server to store the items in the database.  • Worked on the website from starting to finishing to give it a new look using HTML/CSS/JavaScript.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Helped in automate the Kubernetes container orchestration by developing multiple CI/CD scripts.  • Configured the CI/CD pipeline for Micro Services and Angular using Git, Jenkins, Groovy, Docker, AWS ECS.  • Creating reusable presentational layer components using React and Node JS.  • Extensively used Eclipse while writing code as IDE. Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Developed test cases and used JUnit for Unit Testing. Software Engineer PB Systems - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in coding front end using Struts framework concepts like Action Classes, validation.xml, Action Form Beans, struts-config.xml, Action Mapping, form Action Form, request HTTP Servlet Request, response HTTP Servlet Response.  • Involved in development of data abstraction layer using Hibernate ORM framework with spring support.  • Developed Deployment descriptor using XML files.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on JBoss Application Server.  • Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server.  • Developed UI pages using HTML, Java script, JSP& Tag libraries.  • Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Transfer of Service using Session EJBs.  • Created Restful API services for responsive framework pages.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB in JBoss environment.  • Developed PL/SQL queries, Triggers and Stored Procedures to check the integrity of the data and actively involved in tuning SQL queries.  • Designed and developed JMS messaging services using J2EE by developing queues/topic, sessions and endpoints in ESB.  • Used AJAX for dynamically updating the content.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Designed & developed the web-tier using HTML, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders components.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Interactively worked with testing teams in providing test cases and test scripts. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2014