Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - ProgressSoft Corporation US A mathematician and software engineer with a unique span of different expertise in the fields of Mathematics and Computer Science. Extensive hands-on experience in software development, especially in back-end development. Demonstrated knowledge of the software development life-cycle and software development methodologies. Proficient at many programming languages, frameworks, and technologies. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. A keen interest in applying Mathematics to software related problems. A passion for learning, research, and problem-solving. Independently studied Computer Science courses. Started programming from 6th grade. Work Experience Java Developer ProgressSoft Corporation - Amman, JO May 2019 to Present Back-End Engineer Blue Kangaroo - Amman, JO April 2018 to April 2019 Accomplishments:  • Worked with many teams on a white-label personal shopping assistant project which is a Big Data solution  with many AI features.  • Effectively fixed production issues, maintained server-side code, and introduced new functionality with efficient high-quality code.  • Analyzed and implemented new technologies and algorithms.  • Done code reviews and participated in learning sessions. Associate Java Developer ProgressSoft Corporation - Amman, JO September 2016 to March 2018 Accomplishments:  • Worked in a collaborative environment on large-scale electronic financial systems including payment systems, and cheque-clearing solutions.  • Successfully upgraded and maintained legacy software.  • Contributed to the collective knowledge with innovative ideas and research.  • Done code reviews and participated in learning sessions.  • Applied Agile, Extreme Programming, and DevOps practices to the software development process.  • Effectively trained interns and assisted new employees to cope with their responsibilities.  • Took charge of an automated cheque-clearing project when the team leader took a long vacation. It had a complicated business logic which I understood and mastered and helped others understand too. Also, with the help of my colleagues, I designed the architecture and the primary features of the system.    Additional Notes: Took a four months Java development training program where it covered most of the Java programming language and its related technologies. Education Master of Science in Mathematics in Thesis Title The University of Jordan - Amman, JO September 2017 to August 2019 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics in Mathematics The University of Jordan - Amman, JO September 2013 to August 2016 Skills Mathematics (10+ years), Java (3 years), C++ (3 years), C (3 years), Ruby (1 year), JavaScript (1 year), Node.js (1 year), Rails (1 year), Spring Framework (3 years), Spring Boot (1 year), VertX (2 years), Hibernate ORM (3 years), Git, MySQL Certifications/Licenses TOEFL iBT March 2016 to March 2018 Total Score: 97 Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  • Self-directed learner and independent researcher.  • Logical, critical, and creative thinker.  • Keen interest in deeply understanding ideas and problem-solving.  • The ability to apply theoretical knowledge to practical problems.  • The ability to pick up any concept, framework, or technology quickly.  • Comprehensive knowledge and deep understanding of many areas of Mathematics.  • Independently studied Computer Science courses and books:  Algorithms Design and Analysis Theory of Computation Operating Systems  Computer Systems Organization Digital Image Processing Cryptography  Principles of Programming Languages Computational Linguistics Natural Language Processing  Foundations of Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Programming Languages: Java (version 8), Kotlin, Scala, Groovy, C, C++ (version 11), Assembly Language (x86-  64 Architecture), Python, Ruby, JavaScript, TypeScript, Bash  Concepts & Practices: Object-Oriented Programming, Functional Programming, Software Architecture, Design  Patterns, Refactoring Techniques, Working with Legacy Code, Algorithms and Data Structures, Concurrency and  Parallelism, Distributed Systems, Microservices, Application Integration, Web Development, Task Automation,  Reverse Engineering, Performance Analysis and Benchmarking, Application Security, DevOps, Agile Methodology  Frameworks & Technologies: Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Hibernate ORM, VertX, JUnit, Rails, Sinatra,  Sidekiq, RSpec, Apache Spark, Apache Hadoop, Apache Kafka, Apache ActiveMQ, Node.js, Express.js  Libraries: RxJava, RxJS, Boost C++, Resque, NumPy, OpenCV, Theano, TensorFlow, Keras, scikit-learn  Operating Systems: Fedora, Ubuntu, CentOS, Microsoft Windows  Databases: SQLite, MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Redis, Elasticsearch  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, Jetty  DevOps: Apache Maven, Gradle, Git, GitHub, Gitlab, Bitbucket, Vagrant, Docker, Kubernetes, Helm, JFrog  Artifactory, JIRA, Bamboo, Redmine, Selenium