Java Software Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Software Developer - Onstar Vehicle Communication Service Team Mountain View, CA Software Developer with 2+ years experience working on Java backend services and database system for General Motors Connect Ecosystem team, seeking software development opportunities in CA Bay area.    Programming:  - C/C++, Java, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, SQL  Software and Framework:  - Eclipse, Linux, Oracle Weblogic server, Database, Jenkins, Spring MVC, Maven, SoapUI, SVN, Git, JUnit Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Software Developer General Motors - Detroit, MI July 2016 to Present • Develop Java-based vehicle communication services between clients and vehicles. (Connected Vehicle / Internet of Vehicle).  • Conduct development for system with Spring MVC, Database, and SOAP/Restful services.  • Apply Test-Driven-Design with JUnit and Mockito to deliver quality results.  • Perform SQL data manipulation in Oracle database.  • Build and deploy ANT scripts on Jenkins and Oracle Weblogic server instances.  • Create and maintain design documents on Team Foundation Server (TFS) and use Subversion (SVN) for software version control.  • Involve in global releases and perform onsite technical support for release launches. Student Programmer Intern/co-op Ohio Supercomputer Center - Columbus, OH July 2015 to May 2016 · Cooperated in design, develop and test 3D CT medical image spatial registration and segmentation process.  · Conducted paper research to process data based on atlas segmentation algorithm and recognized temporal bone structures to process CT images with ImageJ, VolSuite, and MIPAV.  · Improved the workflow by analyzing images and applied transformation matrix for image scaling, rotation and translation for better registration performance.  Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH August 2014 to May 2016 Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering National Chiao Tung University August 2008 to May 2012 Skills Java, Java J2Ee, Spring, JUnit, C++, MySQL, Oracle, CSS, Javascript, Git