Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer ? Software Professional with 3+ years of experience in designing, developing and delivering enterprise level  web applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Through knowledge in core java concepts like OOPS, JAVA SWING, JDBC, JMS, Multi-Threading and  advanced java concepts like JSP, Servlets.  ? Proficiency in programming with Integrated Development Environments like Eclipse, NetBeans.  ? Extensive familiarity designing both front end and backend applications using Java, JSON, Spring (MVC,  Boot), REST Webservices, Servlets, JSP, Java script, UNIX Shell Scripting.  ? Knowledge on using Database technologies PLSQL, NoSQL, MongoDB, Microsoft SQL Server, and MySQL.  ? Experience in developing web applications using Rich UI technologies like AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX,  CSS2, XML, DOM, JavaScript, Node.JS.  ? Designing and creating Automation frameworks using Java, JIRA, Maven, Jenkins, GIT.  ? Extensive experience in working on projects with Waterfall and agile methodologies.  ? Experience in developing API using technologies like canvas API and APIgee. Work Experience Software Developer State University - Northwest, Missouri, US January 2019 to May 2019 Designed and developed a web application for faculty to manage student's progress using Java  technology. Fixed the crucial bugs in other modules.  ? Developed a web API which collects the data of student card swipes and stores in the database.  ? Developed a windows service to sync the student's attendance data with canvas grade using canvas API.  ? Part of the design team for various applications and responsible for coding, testing, and documentation. Teaching Assistant State University - Northwest, Missouri, US May 2018 to December 2018 Assisted Professor in preparing assignments, lab, Quizzes and developing material for the class.  ? Developing and maintaining website and SQL database which consists of 1000 student's information.  ? Monitoring student's academic, cooperative & behavioral performance, then reporting the progress  ? Develop overall technical strategy and documentation for projects from technical requirements  ? Taking students feedback in the form of informal assessments administered several times in a semester. Java Developer Siree Infratech Pvt. Ltd June 2017 to February 2018 Involved in all phases of SDLC and Agile methodology to develop the web application.  ? Implemented Coding Using Spring, Java, and J2EE Design Patterns.  ? Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Angular, JavaScript and AJAX.  ? Developed test cases by using J Unit and spring integration test framework. Software Intern Sindh Technologies December 2016 to May 2017 Developed the application using Spring Features like Spring MVC, Spring boot and Spring REST.  ? Used Spring Framework to inject services, entity services, transaction management.  ? Testing the Web Services using Rest client and Http client (Postman).  ? Involved in Junit testing, Integrated testing, and system testing.  ? Managed the project using Git sub modules and resolved conflicts when needed. Java Trainee Econ Solutions June 2016 to November 2016 Implant training in developing responsive web application using Angular, JavaScript, Html, CSS.  ? Enhanced user experience by designing web features by MVC Framework like Backbone.js and Node.js.  ? To communicate with the back-end worked with Http module. Education Master's Degree in Applied Computer Science Northwest Missouri State University - Northwest, Missouri, US January 2018 to May 2019 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Engineering Anna University July 2013 to May 2017 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, SPRING, JAX Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kvemula http://www.github.com/karthikv21 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: JAVA 1.7/1.8, SQL, Python, C++, Objective C, Swift.  Java & J2EE: JDBC, JSP, servlets, Spring, Generics, Serialization & Exception Handling.  Tools: Maven, Ant, Docker, Eclipse, Git, NetBeans, Jupyter, Visual Studio Code, Xcode.  Web Technologies: AngularJS, JavaScript, ReactJS, PHP, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Node.js.  Databases: MongoDB, Elastic Search, PostgreSQL, Firebase, Backendless.  Web Services: COBOL, RESTful Services, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS.  Others: JUnit testing, Agile Methodologies, SCRUM, MySQL, Backendless, Firebase.  Platforms: Windows, Mac OS, Unix, Linux.