Entry Level Java/J2EE Developer Entry Level <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Entry Level Java/J2EE Developer Dallas, TX Work Experience Entry Level Java/J2EE Developer FedEx - Houston, TX September 2016 to November 2018 • Involved in analysis and design of various parts of the team's domain based on the requirements.  • Worked parallel over releases to clean up code and make performance improvements to the application.  • Application was designed and developed using the Spring framework.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection to inject required services.  • Wrote and converted HQLs for services and testing.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to connect with Oracle database.  • Application used Web Services to communicate with external applications and vendors.  • Parsed XML response received in Java code through Web Services.  • Used XMLs in various ways such as to store named queries as well as queries accessed via custom query  • configurator and store other information or configurations.  • Extensively used hibernate entities with HQLs as well as more focused SQLs to retrieve data from database for services and application use.  • Wrote and tested multiple SQLs for the application to assist services to extract data from the tables using SQL Developer  • Used Junit for test cases and Log4j as a logging Tool  • Worked with QA team to understand, recreate and fix the bugs.  • Provided integration support to ensure stability of code and application.  • Used Maven for project builds.  Environment: Java, JDK, Eclipse, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, SQL Developer, Maven, , , JBoss, WebSphere Education Bachelor's in software Developer/Programming in software Developer/Programming Bellevue University December 2018 Skills Java J2Ee, Java, Spring, Hibernate, MVC, Rest, Core Java, JEE, J2Ee, Javascript, Soap, JSP Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Java, HTML 5, JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL, XML  J2EE Technologies: JDBC, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, JNDI  Web Technologies: CSS, SaaS, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX  Web Services: REST, Restful, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, Microservices  Frameworks: Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate,  Databases: My SQL, Oracle, SQL Server    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux  Web /Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBOSS    Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, Intellij  Other tools: Maven, Junit, Log4j, SQL Developer, GIT, GITHUB    Work Experience in Different Role/Positions: