Java Full stack developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full stack <span class="hl">developer</span> Java Full stack developer - American Express, NY • 4 years of experience in complete SDLC life cycle includes Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment.  • Working knowledge on Full-Stack/Front-End development experience building, deploying, and maintaining web apps with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React.JS/Redux, Bootstrap, Node.JS, AJAX and JSON.  • Experience in designing User Interactive (UI) Webpages and visually appealing User Interfaces with the help front-end Technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript ES6, jQuery, AJAX, JSON.  • Solid grounds in developing Html pages based on DIV layout, W3C Compliance, Section 508 standards, Web 2.0, Web Accessibility, WCAG 1.0, Web Usability Ajax, JSON and Cross browser proficiency (Windows, Mac, Linux).  • Strong experience in developing Multi-Tier Web Applications, Enterprise Applications, and Client-server distributed architecture applications using Core- Java, JDK1.8, J2EE technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, and XML), Hibernate and SPRING technologies.  • Expert in Core- Java with strong understanding of OOPS Concepts, API Contents, Collections/Generics, Event/Exception handling. Multithreading/Concurrency, I/O System, JDBC, MVC architecture.  • Expertise in Java and J2EE - Servlets 2.4/2.5, JSP 1.2/2.0, Spring 3.0/3.1, Hibernate 3.5 and JPA 2.0.  • Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with the EJB, Annotations, Java, Spring Boot, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Groovy, JNDI, AJAX, JMS, ORM, JNDI, Web services, JDBC, JAXP, RMI, XML, JavaScript (Angular and Bootstrap), jQuery, CSS, Web Services, SOAP, REST.  • Experienced in a fast-paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.Involved in hands on programming on the core application development using multithreading, Groovy and Grails that combines Hibernate and spring.  • Experience in handling, configuration, and administration of databases like MySQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Perform core administrative duties such as version upgrades, managing permissions and monitoring the platform to ensure it continually meets performance and availability requirements.  • Proficient in Java /JEE Design Patterns including Singleton, Factory, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), and Business Delegate. Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  • Very Strong in developing JEE applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, DOM Manipulation, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and AngularJS, Node.js, Grunt, Gulp, Bower.  • Installed and Configured Jenkins Plugins to support the project specific tasks and Automated deployment of builds to different environments using Jenkins.  • Experience working in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Façade design pattern-based projects. • Application development experience using Multithreading, Serialization, Externalization, Collection framework, Core Java components.  • Experience in developing and deploying Microservice oriented applications using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Experience with process modeling using UML, Flow charts, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams and Use cases by using tools like MS Visio and Rational Rose.  • Good Understanding of DOM scripting, progressive enhancement and graceful degradation.  • Experience in implementing client side functionality using Java script and java script libraries using JQuery.  • Experience implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX and handle response with callback functions JQuery and Rest web services.  • Experience in creating Wireframes (Dynamic Wireframes, HTML Wireframes) Dynamic Screenshots, Sitemaps, Prototype, Design flow to describe the intended User Experience and developing interactive web applications. Good understanding of workflows.  • Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's.  • Experience in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flex development for building rich user interfaces.  • Work with application team to make sure that the components are in compliance with UI/UX guidelines and Standards.  • Using high and low fidelity design tools, deliver the appropriate interface designs including prototypes, mock-ups, wireframes, user stories, user journeys, optimized for a wide range of devices and interfaces.  • Experience in implementing Rest based web services using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey implementations and handle JSON responses using Jackson libraries.  • Good Knowledge on building the application using Java like building services.  • Used JDBC API to talk MySQL Database for Read and Write operations.  • Good understanding of DAO layer implementations using MySQL, JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate.  • Good knowledge in deploying applications using Maven and CI Servers like Jenkins.  • Experienced in debugging, testing UI screens and components using Firebug, IE Tester, and Chrome Developer Tools.  • Creative in preparing professional presentations for demos/meetings.  • Possess good verbal and communication skills and highly motivated with the ability to work independently or as an integral part of a team, and committed to highest level of professional and personal excellence. Work Experience Java Full stack developer American Express, NY August 2017 to Present • Built rich user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React.JS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, and Bootstrap.  • Built rich user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React.JS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, and Bootstrap.  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application, developed using AGILE/Scrum methodology  • Designed User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, React.JS as frontend building Environment  • Developed Microservice based application using Spring Boot as back-end and Mongo DB.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  • Developed java modules implementing business rules and workflows using Spring Boot. • Used Spring Rest template to consume other micro services.  • Developed Rest APIs in Spring boot utilizing Swagger.  • Secured the application by implementing authentication for the REST.  • Used Hibernate framework in the persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database.  • Used React-Router to turn application into single page application.  • Used ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Worked on Hibernate as a persistent layer by mapping to the tables.  • Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data from MySQL.  • Written DAO classes to interface with the database using hibernate.  • Used Hibernate in Data Access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Developed and maintained functions, procedures, triggers, indexes using MYSQL database programming.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, sharding, replication and schema design  • Involved in Design and Development of RESTful API.  • Created services, deployed and configured application on Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Implemented Kafka for messaging system. Designed and configured Topics in Kafka Cluster.  • Secured Kafka Cluster using Kerberos.  • Maintained, structured, and surveyed documents within the NoSQL MongoDB database, ensuring data integrity, correcting anomalies, and increasing the overall maintainability of the database.  • Implemented Kafka security features using SSL and without Kerberos.  • Developed MicroServices with Spring to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each MicroServices in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Made use of SonarQube and adopted Splunk for Log Management.  • Implemented Spring boot Actuator  • Used JIRA as a project Management tool.  • Performed Unit test cases using Junit, Cucumber for Spring.  • Adopted error handling and strictly typed coding practice.  • Used Maven build tool for building and defining the dependencies of the project.  • Involved in creating automated pipeline for CI/CD using git as version control.  • Used Mockito as part of Unit testing.  Environment: Java 1.8, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, ReactJS, Spring Boot, Bootstrap v4.0, Junit4, MongoDB, Maven, Microservices, Cucumber, Git, SOAP/RESTful, ES6, JavaScript, Kafka. Mallet and LDA August 2017 to December 2017 Analysis Techniques: Mallet and LDA based topic modelling tools.  Tools: WEKA  Description: The motive of this research is to find out why questions are unresolved for a long  time On StackOverflow. And to identify what attributes contribute the most to resolve this issue on Stack overflow. Java full stack developer Open Box Solutions (P) LTD June 2014 to November 2015 • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as MVC framework, Servlets, JSP and JDBC for database connectivity.  • Worked on Agile Methodology to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Implemented the presentation layer using Struts MVC framework.  • Creating HTML Web pages utilizing JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in High Level Design and prepared Logical view of the Application.  • Involved in designing and developing of Object-Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and in complete development, testing & maintenance process of application.  • Worked with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in UI pages.  • Implemented MVC pattern using the Struts framework.  • Designed user-interface and checking validations using JavaScript.  • Involved in developing JSP pages and Actions and using Taglibs for the web tier and validating the client data using the Java Script.  • Involved in development of Web Services using Axis Framework  • Created Data Source and deployed web application in the WebLogic application Server.  • Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used Version Control Tool SVN to perform Checking-out and Checking-in of codes from the repository.  • Used ANT scripts to build, test and deploy application.  • Used Eclipse IDE for the development.  • Responsible for the development of database SQL queries.  Environment: JDK, Java, Struts, Hibernate, Web Services, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, Angular, Core Java, ANT, MAVEN, AJAX, CSS, Oracle, WebLogic, UNIX, MySQL , JUnit, Agile, Eclipse IDE  Academic Project    Project: Calculating the similarity between two strings using Jaccard Distance for a web application.  January 2017-May 2017  Technology: Java, HTML, JavaScript  Description: A string similarity measure quantifies the similarity between two text strings for approximate string matching or comparison. Most existing work that computes the similarity of two strings only consider syntactic similarities, e.g., number of common words or q-grams. While this is indeed an indicator of similarity, there are many important cases where syntactically different strings can represent the same real-world object. The purpose of this project is to evaluate string similarity measures efficiently and perform joins, thereby boosting the quality of string matching. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Engineering and Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Marshall University Skills Bootstrap. (1 year), database. (3 years), git (1 year), Html5 (1 year), Illustration (Less than 1 year), Java (3 years), Javascript (3 years), jquery (1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Mac os (Less than 1 year), Maven (3 years), Mongo db. (1 year), Mysql. (3 years), Tomcat (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Programming Languages HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap,  JQuery, React.JS, Node.JS, Java, Springboot.  • Web Development Tools Adobe Illustration, Adobe XD.  • Operating Systems Mac OS, Windows  • Servers Wildfly, Tomcat  • Database MySQL,MongoDB  • Development Tools Maven, Jenkins, GIT