IT(PLM) Consultant IT(PLM) Consultant Software developer Las Vegas, NV Software engineer with formal education, work experience and passion for software development. I have worked in teams and individually to develop, deploy, and maintain different software systems for customers such as Saab Group and Customs Service of The  Republic of Armenia.    Technical skills and tools   ? Java, OOP, debugging, IntelliJ IDEA, Eclips, Android SDK, Spring ? JavaScript, node.js, React, jQuery, AJAX ? HTML, CSS, XML ? Databases, SQL, mySQL, MongoDB, Oracle  Github repository - github.com/caboose008/stepstory Work Experience IT(PLM) Consultant PTC Sweden, www.ptc.com October 2011 to November 2012 As a PLM consultant, I was responsible for collaborating with clients, gathering and documenting their requirements, deploying and configuring Windchill PLM system, developing necessary tools for data migration.  ? Created a precise data migration plan, which was later used by other consultants as a guideline.  ? Deployed and configured Windchill PLM system for R&D department of SAAB  Group, Sweden.  ? Successfully executed data migration from legacy system to Windchill PLM system which helped the R&D department of SAAB Group to perform their daily tasks with much higher productivity. Java developer/ Researcher SAAB Automobile January 2011 to June 2011 As a part of my thesis paper, I worked for SAAB Automobile as a researcher and Java developer. The job required improving the software code size estimation method that they were using based on COSMIC function point and developing a tool to automate the process.  ? Improved the code sized measurement methodology and later wrote a paper with my supervisors which was published in a conference in Japan.  ? Designed and developed a Java tool that potentially could cut-down the cost of car production for SAAB Automobile. Java developer webbfontaine.com August 2007 to September 2009 Hired as a junior java developer after graduating from the university, I was immediately included in the team that was working on development of TWM e-document management system for Custom Service of Armenia. Later I was given more responsibilities of deploying updates on the production servers. During these two years I worked with Java, code debuggers, Oracle, XML, JSP, servlets, both in Windows and Linux Redhat environments.  ? Developed a module for creating new customs brokers for TWM system.  ? Developed a reporting module that was providing the clients with over 100 different statistical reports helping them to have better insights about their transactions.  ? Trained the clients to use the TWM system in order to help them to perform their daily tasks.  ? Helped management with demonstrations of TWM system in order to acquire new clients. Education English language English USA Language School May 2014 to August 2018 Certificate PTC Service Academy Consultant program October 2011 to February 2012 Master in Applied IT University of Gothenburg January 2009 to June 2011 Bachelor in Mathematics Yerevan State University January 2002 to June 2006 Skills HTML, testing, Javascript, Android, jQuery, MySQL, Git, Java (3 years), SQL (3 years), Ajax Links http://linkedin.com/in/htigran Assessments Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lmeom1csgkzkv96 Attention to Detail — Proficient February 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nvlaz1tjmaql7llb Critical Thinking Skills — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use logical approaches when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rzsgx28oo95jzauo Data Analysis — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fpkvnvo4sehhagae Problem Solving — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1xkbrhowjx9ibrqu Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ouvo-hnmxir5yxyb Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qmdpkfo2k-jh-6ag Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Publications CompSize: Automated Size Estimation of Embedded Software Components https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6113048 2011-12 Accurate estimation of Software Code Size is important for developing cost-efficient embedded systems. The Code Size affects the amount of system resources needed, like ROM and RAM memory, and processing capacity. In our previous work, we have estimated the Code Size based on CFP (COSMIC Function Points) within 15% accuracy, with the purpose of deciding how much ROM memory to fit into products with high cost pressure. Central in that work is the mapping between CFP and the information available early in the development process. We have previously defined a UML Profile capturing the information needed for CFP measurement and estimation of Code Size. The key idea was to extend UML components to contain all the necessary information. In this paper, we show how we developed a tool for automated estimation of Code Size based on our UML Profile. The tool is designed to permit Code Size estimation based on other UML diagrams than components. A case study evaluates the UML Profile and the tool in a realistic case.