Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Cincinnati, OH I am a motivated Computer Science graduate student and active learner. Enthusiastic about current patterns in innovation, and equipped for accomplishing the objectives of outlining, overseeing, supporting and demonstrating the energy to serve your organization and help grow myself in this process.  Have 4 years of experience in developing web application based on Java and from the front end using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and collating then with restful web services.  Experience in application development using SQL and Object Oriented Programming.  Been part of Planning, Coordinating, and Reported the technical & functional perspective of business rules from clients. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer J.B. Hunt - Bentonville, AR February 2018 to October 2018 • Has done end to end development of the one the application with ENS(Employment Notification Service), fixed some bugs in REST controller and service layer.  • Analyzed all the Safety domain applications as a part of the migration of legacy applications.  • Lead the team of three in migration process. And moved all the applications under SAFETY domain from JBOSS AMQ 6.1/ 6.2 global brokers to APACHE Camel ActiveMQ domain brokers.  • Used TFS and VSTS for tracking bugs and the task assigning.  • Used GIT and Tortoise SVN repository managers to checkout and merge the code into the cloud.  • Spring MVC design patterns and written and consumed RESTFUL web services using IntelliJ IDE.Used PostMan for testing the REST URIs.  • Used IBM work scheduler IWS for scheduled jobs and running the Spring batch applications timely.  • Maven build tool with Java 1.7 and Java 1.8 applications have been incorporated.  • Apache Tomcat server to run the applications and deploy the code.  • Ran Jenkins CI jobs for continuous deployment.  • Spring Boot, Hibernate , DTO layers have been used in developing the code.  • Database Microsoft SQL server management tool for SQL , IBM DB2. Java Developer One Blood - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2017 to February 2017 * Has been a part of gathering the requirements from the clients, design stage and allocations.  * Experience on complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  * The project's name was 'Study Management System' which involves designing and developing large-scale, multi-tiered, embedded or distributed software application.  * Subversion SVN was used as the version control and the project management.  * IntelliJ idea was the IDE.  * As far as the front end is concerned, a new technology was adapted named Angular 2 and was upgraded later to Angular 4 with typescript. HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, minor reference from Java script was made.  * Frameworks like Hibernate, Spring Boot and Spring MVC were used to make the database transactions.  * Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application into WAR.  * Produced and consumed RESTFUL web services via JSON tested using the JUnit Testing and experienced in debugging  * Used Spring MVC framework and an Object relational Mapping (ORM) tool Hibernate to make transactions between domain and relational database (RDBMS) in Oracle server using PL/SQL.  * Worked on Java 7.0, Java 8.0  * Node JS, node package manager (npm) was used to regulate and maintain the project up to date. Programmer Analyst Strategic It - St. Louis, MO September 2016 to January 2017 * Developed application to display notifications and alerts for the user using the application.  * Coding and Development of Project using Java/J2EE Technologies.  * Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Bootstrap for the development of the UI pages.  * Developed the project using Spring MVC and used hibernate to persist data in database.  * Followed Agile methodology and participated in scrum meetings. Graduate Research Study (GRS), UIS February 2016 to July 2016 School Project  * The main criteria was to create a website which could show various football matches scores and create a chart of their performance  * A online web template has been taken as a reference and then possible business logic and had to insert pictures on the website's view the differences in the team's performance chart.  * Technologies mainly used were HTML, CSS, and Core Java. Intern BHAG Focus February 2015 to August 2015 * Worked mainly on the front end of the website and used technologies like HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap.  * Agile, Test Driven Development environment was adapted.  * Was assisting other developers and trying to code in guidance of the senior developers.  * Participated in team meeting where business logic was discussed.  * Acted as a barrier to the other developers and the client in arranging meetings assigning the issues. Chairperson /Non Profit Organization Hyderabad Youth Assembly, Street Cause, HYD October 2012 to May 2015 * Decided the Project Agenda, objectives and its impact, recruited organizing committee    * Managed the organization structure for functioning and manpower planning, recruitment process for the members.    * Verify achievement of milestones, completeness and quality of project deliverables.  * Worked with Chairman on execution, planning, strategy, marketing, sale of application forms, crisis management, targets, deadlines and fund allocation for executing tasks, raised Rs. 5 Lakhs/ $10,000  * Recruited new volunteers into the organization through a process of scrutinizing and a series of interviews testing the candidate's ability to handle that position with great power. Java Full Stack Developer Fifth Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH • Java 1.6, Spring MVC application . DB2 queries in AQT  • Version one for bug and user stories tracking. GIT for application repository.  • Front end development was using React JS, CSS, HTML and Typescript in the UI with AJAX /flux calls to send the request and receive the response asynchronously for rendering a single page application.   • NPM ( Node Package Manager ).   • Designed web pages by using front-end technologies such as HTML, JSP, JQuery and CSS.  • Used Jenkins for deploying the application on the Apache and WebLogic server (WAS 8/9). Education Master of Science in Computer science University of Illinois Springfield - Springfield, IL July 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Electrical and Electronic Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 Skills CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), Java (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (1 year), Spring (2 years), J2Ee, Hibernate (1 year), Rest (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    * Programming Languages: Java 7.0, Java 8.0, SQL, PL/SQL, Object Oriented Design, OOP Concept.  * Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 2, Angular 4.  * Architecture/Framework: Spring Core, ORM, JDBC, AOP, MVC Architecture, Hibernate  * Web services: RESTful Api, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JSON.  * OS: Windows 7/10.  * Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.  * Reporting: MS office, MS Excel, Power Point, MS Outlook.  * IDE: Intellij Idea, Eclipse.  * Databases Familiarity: Oracle 11G.  * Version Control/Build tool /server: Subversion - SVN/Maven/ Apache Tomcat.  * Issue Tracker / Application Software: Atlassian JIRA