Java Backend Engineer/ Developer/Worked in InformationSecurity <span class="hl">Java</span> Backend Engineer/<span class="hl">Developer</span>/Worked in InformationSecurity Java Backend Engineer/ Developer/Worked in InformationSecurity - AmericanExpress ? 4 years of IT experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented  Applications and Web Services and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Expertise in designing Java, J2EE applications using Spring,SpringBoot,Spring Data Hibernate(JPA), CXF SOAP &  CXF REST Web Services  ? Knowledge in implementing a REST API/Microservice using Spring Boot.  ? Extensive knowledge in using Spring-Data, Spring JDBC.  ? Experience in working on various Spring modules (Spring MVC , DAO and AOP) along with Hibernate as the back-end  ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  ? Expertise in writing Soap based web services using AXIS/Rest API.  ? Good knowledge in CI/CD tools like Jenkins.  Having good knowledge with microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a REST  endpoints.  ? Having good understanding in XML, XSD, and Parsing of XML & JSON  ? Developed and deployed applications using Eclipse with servers like Tomcat, JBOSS(WildFly) &GlassFish  ? Having good knowledge in Java 1.8 version (Functional Interface, Lambda Expressions and Stream API)  ? Designed and developed web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like JDBC, Servlets and JSPs  ? Good knowledge in creating user interfaces using Java Script, AJAX, CSS and HTML.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis, Design / Development Methodologies, Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams  using UML.  ? Expertise in using UML design tools like Rational Rose, Star UML, Enterprise Architect for creation of Use-Case  diagrams, Class diagrams, Interaction diagrams (Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams).  ? Experience in GitHub, SVN and CVS for version control and comprehensive knowledge of Log4j for logging and  MAVEN & ANT for project build.  ? Experience with test-driven development using a various unit testing framework such as Junit &EasyMock  ? Developed applications in environments of Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  ? Effective team player and excellent communication skills with insight to determine priorities, schedule work and meet  critical deadlines.  ? Strong analytical, problem solving, programming skills, logical implementation, trouble-shooting, Installation and  Configuration Skills.  ? Have experience in doing individual contribution and work as a team member as well. Work Experience Java Backend Engineer/ Developer/Worked in InformationSecurity AmericanExpress - Phoenix, AZ August 2018 to Present Worked on remediation of vulnerabilities across the applications  ? Generate the UNIT test coverage reports using the Jacoco plugin  ? Worked on the enhancements on the RestFul Web Services  ? Worked on creating to new endpoint in the existing Rest API.  ? Developed specs for the APIs  ? Supported partner teams to integrate with our application Java Backend Developer Word & Brown Insurance - Orange, CA February 2016 to February 2017 This project is an insurance marketing application for Insurance agents. This is an web based application consisting of three main  modules: ? Query ? , ? Policy ? and ? Rate Quote ?. The ? Query ? module is the interface with the insurance agent to query the data  base and generate customizable reports. The ? Policy ? module concerns the various insurance sectors including Auto, Life and Fire insurance. The ? Rate Quote ? module provides rates and payment terms, funding and protection options and coverage  details for the insurance policy.    ? Involved in System Analysis, Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business  requirements.  ? Responsible for creation of design artifacts using Enterprise Architect.  ? Reviewed business requirements and discuss with application architect about the design.  ? Used Value/Transfer Object and Singleton, Data Access Object, Factory design pattern.  ? Developed Batch process framework using executive service framework to cascade multiple changes on multiple records  in only one transaction.  ? Used Spring Transaction Management extensively.  ? Responsible for developing java components using Spring, Spring JDBC, Spring Transaction Management.  ? Created and Implemented Microservices or REST APIS using spring boot, REST, JSON.  ? Used Spring JDBC in persistence layer that is capable of handling high volume transactions.  ? Implemented the service layer using Spring with transaction and logging interceptors.  ? Used Spring framework for middle tier and Spring-JDBC templates for data access.  ? Developed SOAP/REST based Web Services using both SOAP/WSDL and REST.  ? Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.  ? Designed and developed SOAP Web Services Client program to consume existing SOAP web service using Axis  framework.  ? Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI and REST services using POSTMAN.  ? Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes.  ? Developed DAO Layer by calling existing stored procedures.  ? Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR.  ? Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.    3/13/2019 AXP Internal 3  ? Used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  ? Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  ? Involved in the day to day sprint development activities and delivered per sprint timeline.  ? Written unit test cases using JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkin jobs.  ? Coordinated with the onsite and offshore developer ? s w.r.t ongoing issues and follow up.  Environment: Java, Agile (SCRUM), REST API, Spring DI/IOC, Spring Boot, STS, Spring JDBC, XML, SOAP (AXIS) Web Services,  Enterprise Architect, Web Services (SOAP and REST), SOAP UI, POSTMAN, Maven, Junit, Maven, Log4J, GIT, Oracle, UNIX. Java Developer Sanoits Software Solutions Pvt Ltd January 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design and development.  ? Creation of low and high level design documents and functional specifications for the entire system.  ? Involved in coding for Points Only Contest.  ? Developed Java applications using Spring MVC Framework. and worked extensively in the Spring IOC/Dependency  Injection.  ? Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate ORM.  ? Developed JSP pages for the presentation layer.  ? Developed Java Helper classes which used for transferring data between the layers.  ? Responsible for writing the SQL scripts to access/manipulate the data available in the Database.  ? Involved in developing and executing the Unit test cases.  ? Involved in preparing the detailed design document for the new/existing system changes.  ? Involved in Implementing the Design changes in the System.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, XML, MySQL, Java Script, Apache Tomcat server& Junit.    3/13/2019 AXP Internal 4 Skills Apache (2 years), Java (3 years), Junit (3 years), Rest (3 years), Xml (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Language Java 8  Technologies Servlets, JSP, SOAP, REST, Spring, SpringBoot, Spring Data, Hibernate, Struts, JDBC,  Webservice, XML, JAXB, JSON, JavaScript, HTML, SQL and Junit  Software tools and Utilities Eclipse, STS, SQL Developer, Soap UI, Git , CVS, SVN, JIRA, Jenkins  Web Servers/App. Servers Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, WildFly  Database Technologies Oracle, MySQL    3/13/2019 AXP Internal 1  Operating Systems Windows & UNIX  Methodologies Agile & Waterfall