Software Dev-Object Oriented/Production Support Analyst Software Dev-Object Oriented/Production Support Analyst Software Dev-Object Oriented/Production Support Analyst • Six+ years of experience in developing enterprise web applications with Java/J2EE technologies in a variety of industries.  • Knowledge of software engineering processes and approaches notably SDLC, OOAD, RUP and UML.  • Adapting & applying to emerging project methodologies include SAFe agile.  • Good knowledge in Presentation Tier and Integration Tier Design Patterns.  • Extensive experience in working with Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, Collections, Multi-threading, Core Java, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, CSS, XML, DTD, XSD, SAX, DOM.  • Expertise in building Spring powered enterprise applications using the various component modules especially AOP and MVC.  • Proficient in integrating and configuring the Object-relational mapping tool, Spring in J2EE applications.  • Good understanding of SOAP/Web Services concepts.  • Experience in configuring and deploying applications on Tomcat, JBoss, Weblogic, and WebSphere.  • Proficient in configuring and developing the Salesforce (APEX)funcationality.  • Good experience in using IDE including Eclipse, Netbeans.  • Experience in relational database management systems including Oracle, and MySQL. Good understanding of database concepts especially Normal Forms, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers, joins, Locking, Isolation levels, etc.  • Database development experience in Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle Also worked in SQL Server.  • Dedicated, hardworking, self-motivated, collaborative team player with good verbal and written communication skills Work Experience Software Dev-Object Oriented/Production Support Analyst StateFarm - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to July 2016 Agency/Marketing is committed to maximizing the State Farm brand by focusing on the customer through differentiated solutions that cultivate strong relationships.  By focusing on customer needs, Agency/Marketing offers personalized solutions to customers at priority trigger points. Agency/Marketing works to improve retention across all customer segments by targeting household sections with specific multi-lining product offerings.  Responsibilities:  • Utilizing secure coding best practices with the CAAM developer community.  • Adapting developer accountability for producing code that meets or exceeds established quality thresholds.  • Adapting & applying established code quality practices to new & emerging project methodologies include SAFe agile.  • Leading & directing the work of a team of external associates to ensure effective project engagements & adequate levels of service.  • Consult/partner w/projects, IT archs & Software Engineer to research/identify processes, tooling/reporting that enable pace & ensuring quality. Lead/conduct proofs of concept related to potential tooling & reporting.  • Applying tech guides remain current & applicable.  • Drive out process improvements supporting developer self-sufficiency.  • Identifying current & relevant technical topics to be presented in monthly area developer forums.  • Developing code reviews &/or applying developer perspective peer review techniques.  • Languages - Java/J2EE, UI (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, etc.), SQL  Apex/SOQL is a plus  • Spring Frameworks, Spring MVC, RESTful & SOAP web services, OO design, General troubleshooting/debugging, Design Patterns  Tools-Eclipse IDE, Subversion, Git, Jenkins, Web Sphere Application Server, Apache Tomcat  Code quality tools- JaCoCo, Checkstyle, PIT, PMD, Findbugs  • Supporting Prodcution defect and incident based on priority.  • Handling performance tools and other service team task like service monitoring, CCC support. Java/J2EE Developer Deloitte - Atlanta, GA February 2015 to June 2016 The GAIES provides real-time eligibility determinations, and creates a common portal for clients and users to process and manage eligibility for multiple Health and Human Services(HHS) programs .GAIES helps HHS workers to record the case, reconcile the benefits issued to the clients .It also helps case workers to prioritize and manage their tasks .The system interfaces with external and existing systems to send and receive information helping towards HHS's efforts to improve fraud detection.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirements gathering, analysis and technical design and code implementation of Web Application using  • custom framework and EJB 3.0 on WebSphere Application Server 8.5.  • Involved in development of Batches (Chunk Oriented processing and Batchlets) using Spring JSR 352 and Bean IO library.  • Prepared the proof of concept by configuring features of Spring JSR 352 and Bean IO for various modules.  • Utilized Spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  • Designed the front end using JSP, HTML 5 and CSS 3.  • Developed Dynamic tables generated on front end screens using Jqgrid & JSON for information display.  • Incorporated client side validations using Java Scripts.  • Unit testing and Integration testing of the module.  • Coordinate with the quality team for testing and bug fixing.  • UAT issues investigation and supporting business users  • Coordinated with DBAs in promoting DDL and DML changes to the database..  • Followed coding guidelines, ran PMD & Find bugs and also make sure the 100% code coverage to maintain the quality of code.  • Used Rational Team Concert RTC 5.0 for planning, change management, defect tracking and source control.    Environment: Java 1.7, Eclipse Kepler, WebSphere Application Server 8.5, RTC 5.0, Putty, WinSCP, Find Bug, PMD, Oracle 10g    2014 -2015 Professional break. Learning frameworks like Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, ORM framework like Hibernate. Java/J2ee Developer BritishAirways - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2012 to December 2013 Description:TSP is an enterprise enablement platform. It comprises in-built airline-specific components, and other solution accelerators like frameworks, operating models, templates, and KPIs to realize the enterprise architecture principles. This project manages the communications between the ground staff and the pilots. Also manages dynamic generation of boarding cards corresponding to an airline.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis of business and user needs documentation of requirements, and translation into proper system requirement specifications.  • Designed and developed the software module using J2EE, Hibernate and DB2.  • Used JSFframework developing UI components, Validator, Events and Listeners  • Responsible for writing Serverside validation using JSF  • Generated hibernate objects and used it for database persistence.  • Developing Web Services using - SOAP, WSDL  • Developing DTDs, XSD schemas for XML parsing, processing, and design.  • Experience in working with IBM Websphere Portal/Application Server, BEA Web Logic, and Apache Tomcat5x application servers.  • Used SVN for version control and repository.  • Supported the applications through debugging, fixing and maintenance releases.  • Implemented UTP Test cases.and performed internal testing.  • Analysed and solved business and code level issues.  • Wrote logging package to enhance log4j, producing multi-level hierarchical logging of all user actions and internal operations with automatic begin/end matching, durations, indented layout for visual scan by a person, as well as timestamps, memory size, thread id, IP address, username, browser name, etc. for use by log analysis tools.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF Framework, Hibernate, JDBC, JSP, Log4J, Eclipse, Tomcat, Windows 7 Java/J2EE Developer Extreme Web soft (P) Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2011 to May 2012 Description:Extreme Web soft (P) Ltd. is Web Designing and Hosting Company. It is a web development, software development and consulting firm based in Nepal, US, Australia & UK, providing customized web development, software development and data processing solutions to businesses and to act as an offshore development center for overseas development firms.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered, understood and analyzed the requirements with the design team.  • Coding of Java, Servlets, JSP, etc.  • Developed the application using Java, JSP, Servlets, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed the application using design patterns.  • Designed and created class diagrams by using UML.  • Involved in developing and coding the interfaces and classes required for the application and created appropriate relationships between the system classes and the interfaces provided.  • Used JDBC for connectivity to database.  • Deployed Servlets and JSP pages using Apache Tomcat server.  • Tested and deployed the Application on the Web Logic web server  • Responsible for building projects in deployable files (WAR and JAR files)    Environment: J2EE/Core Java, Eclipse, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JDBC, CSS, Web Logic, Oracle, Windows XP, Microsoft Project. Education Master of Science in Computer in Computer Georgia Southwestern State University application and Information Technology Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University