Senior Mulesoft Developer Senior Mulesoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Mulesoft Developer - Koch Supply & Trade Wichita, KS ? 8Years of IT Java/J2EE experience and around 4 years of experience on Mule ESB Enterprise edition.  ? Expertise in developing the integration workflows using an ESB framework. Developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronousmule flows.  ? Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULEESB. Had an experience working MULE API manager and RAML.  ? Participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration usingMule ESB in integrating various third party solutions.  ? In-depth experience in CRM business processes like Account Management, Case Management.  ? Have been using GOF java designed patterns and J2EE design patterns including MVC, VO, DAO, Business delegates, Service locator, and DTO.  ? Experienced in developingMule ESB flows and integrations by using service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Runtime.  ? Strong application integration experience usingMule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, ActiveMQ, JMS and RabbitMQ. Data Transformations usingMule ESB.  ? Worked on Mule flow variables, record variables, MEL (Mule expression language), various connectors like (File, HTTP, Oracle database, Salesforce, CXF), flow references and exception strategies. Hands on experience with Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Class, Visualforce Pages, Visualforce.  ? Extensive experience in designing Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  ? Experience in J2EE (JDBC, Servlets, Hibernate, Struts, springs, Webservices, EJB).  ? Experience in OOPS, OOAD, UML concepts (Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Deployment Diagrams etc)  ? Expertise with HTML, XML, JavaScript and JSP.  ? Experience in developing J2EE applications using Java Development tools such as Eclipse, NetBeans.  ? Worked in deploying Oracle SOA Suite 11g composite using EM Console and set of command line tools using scripts.  ? Experience in administering and maintaining Linux servers in production environments  ? Extensively experienced in using IDE's such as Eclipse, WSAD, and Eclipse  ? Briefly worked on Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts, database designing, Normalization, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers and with SQL Server, Oracle, and MySQL.  ? Formulated build and deployment Mule projects to cloud hub using Maven and using Jenkins to deploy the artifacts to cloud hub. Configured and maintained user security permissions in compliance with organizational needs  ? Experience in databases such as SQL Server, Oracle and MySQL.  ? Strong knowledge & experience working in teams implementing Agile Methodologies.  ? Experienced in different IDEs like Eclipse, RAD, and NetBeans, Any-Point Studio and Maven for Development. Work Experience Senior Mulesoft Developer Koch Supply & Trade - Wichita, KS October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology was to emphasize on face-to-face communication over written documents and make sure that iteration is passing through a full software development cycle.  • Used the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Experienced on REST API's using RAML and developed flows using APIKIT Router.  • Experience on strong integration application using Mule ESB with connectors, transformations, Routing, ActiveMQ, JMS.  • CreatedMule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from RabbitMQ topics and queues, some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Deployed MuleESB applications into Mule Management Console.  • DevelopedMule ESB artifact and configured the Mule configurations files and deployed.  • Experience inRestful and SOAPWebServices in MuleESB based on SOA Architecture.  • Implemented Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Hand-on experience with Azure DevOps for the version control.  • Used custom logging framework for Mule ESB application.  • Created Integrations between External API's, In-House system API's and Worked on various connectors in Mule such as HTTP, FILE, MongoDB, Database etc  • Used application security with HTTPS, OAUTH 2.0, Secure Property Placeholder.  • Hands on experience in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Developed three-layer architecture and extensively worked on system and process layers of different API's including the creation of respective RAML's from scratch and deploying the individual API's to cloud.  • Created synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Experienced withclustering and throttling concepts for Mule based solutions.  • Used GitHub as source repository for versioning.  • Good experience in Data Weave functions.  • Implemented the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Experience onpostman for testing the application services.  • ImplementedMunit test cases for Mule flows to attain optimal code coverage.  • Created pipe lines in AzureDevOps for application deployments to dev and stage environments.  Environment:Mulesoft Runtime, Any Point Studio, RabbitMQ,Mongo Db, SQL Db, Jenkins, Apache-Maven, Restful Web services,GitHub, Azure devops,RAML, Cloud Hub, OAUTH 2.0,Postman, JIRA. Senior Mulesoft Developer Bayada Home Health Care - Philadelphia, PA 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in development and testing of the applications.  • Followed Agile including design, development, implementation, verification and validation, with a two-week sprint process and Implemented SOAP, REST web Services based on SOA.  • Created Integrations between External API's, In-House system API's and Worked on various connectors in Mule such as HTTP, FILE, AWS, Database and Sales Force etc  • Achieved application security with HTTPS, OAUTH 2.0, Secure Property Placeholder.  • Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE configuration files and deployed.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Build Microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise  • Implemented custom Java classes to implement complex functionality, otherwise not possible with Mule soft alone.  • Used Poll along with watermarking for triggering data from SFDC and start the application process.  • Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows and orchestration using XPath using MULE ESB.  • Implemented three-layer architecture and extensively worked on system and process layers of different API's including the creation of respective RAML's from scratch and deploying the individual API's to cloud.  • Used Mule to configure Inbound and Outbound messages for message transformation between transports.  • Created Request transformer, Response transformers, Custom Components and configured in MULE ESB.  • Created Mule flows using End Point, Connector & Components using Mule ESB to integrate client/server systems.  • Created integrations between system and process layer API's for data exchange.  • Developed MULESOFT ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Experience in Mule Soft Any point API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Implemented clustering and throttling concepts for Mule based solutions.  • Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB  • Used GitHub as source repository for versioning.  • Experience with Mule soft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities  • Had an experience in working with Anypoint studio of Mule ESB.  • Extensively worked on Any Point Studio and Mule Integration Platform and used it to interface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Configured the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Used postman for testing the application services.  • Created Munit test cases for Mule flows to attain optimal code coverage.  • Created pipe lines in Jenkins for application deployments to dev and stage environments.  • Involved in creation & deployment of the application, done with unit testing by writing the MUnit test case.  • Involved in Tomcat server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, Rabbit MQ set up for messaging and deploying the apps on different servers in different environments like QA/IST/Production.  • Installed and configured consul for service discovery tool for Docker containers.  • Implemented Log4j for logging purposes.  Environment: Java/J2EE ,Mulesoft Runtime , Any Point Studio, RabbitMQ, Salesforce Workbench, Nexus, Jenkins, Apache-Maven, SOAP Webservices, GitHub, RAML, FileZilla, Cloud Hub, OAUTH 2.0,Postman, JIRA, Docker. Senior MuleESBIntegration Developer September 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Experience in Working with Agile methodology to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning, development.  • Implemented the API Led Connectivity Approach by Creating Experience Layer/ Process Layer/ System Layer in the application development to achieve better microservices approach.  • Using AnyPoint Studio Created Mule ESB flows and performed payload transformation and developed middleware frameworks for routing the messages to appropriate systems.  • Worked on SOAP and Restful based Web services for Mule ESB flows based on SOA architecture.  • Developed flows/Orchestrations for integrating the components like connectors, transformers written on top of different internal platforms using Mule ESB for XML to JSON conversion.  • Worked with MuleSoft Anypoint Platform for designing the API's using RAML for implementing REST API's and used API Gateway as a proxy service.  • Implemented API Kit Router to route various input calls and to perform validations against RAML and to handle exceptions.  • Designed and developed enterprise services using RAML and REST based APIs.  • Created HTTP inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of MULE ESB application using OAuth.  • Worked with integrations using different Connectors such as Database, HTTP, FTP , File and API's like Salesforce, SAP etc.  • Experience with Mule Soft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Implemented Integration flows using Mule AnyPoint Studio to connect to REST and SOAP Services, Oracle Database, and ActiveMQ broker.  • Implemented Security Mechanisms like Security Certificates, Key Exchange, Encryption, Description and OAuth Authentication & Authorization using Access Token and SM Session Cookie.  • Used JMS Server to Publish the messages into the Queues and Topics and Subscribe the messages.  • Used Data weave extensively to do data Transformations along with Custom Java Classes.  • Deployed MUnit to validate Mule flows where Mule ESB applications were implemented into MMC (Mule Management Console).  • Consumed SOAP Web Services using Webservice Consumer Connector and generated WSDL Files and transformed them into appropriate format.  • Have integrated web services including SOAP as well as REST using Mule ESB and Used various transformers for transforming between different data formats.  • Creating Main Flows, Sub Flows, Exception Strategies, Data Weave transformation in Mule configuration.  • Used Oracle 11g database to perform CRUD Operations by writing PL/SQL queries.  • Used Mule Batch Processing to process records from Database.  • Involved in writing batch jobs to run at specific schedule times  • Build and Deployed Mule projects to cloud hub using Maven and used Jenkins to deploy the artifacts to Cloud hub.  • Implemented Different exception handling mechanisms based on the requirements in Mule ESB.  • Used Mule Visual Debugger to debug the Mule Application Flows and wrote MUnit Test Cases using Mocking Service, assert conditions, verify calls based on different sets of data.  • Used Git as a version and source controlling tool  • Used Maven for Deployment , Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Development.  Environment:Mule Server, Anypoint Studio, SoapUI/REST, MS SQL Server 2008, Cloud-hub, RAML, Maven, X12, Windows 7, Data Weave , Restful Web-services/API's, Jenkins, XML,JMS, Log4j. MuleESB Developer UPS - Wayne, NJ January 2017 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the analysis, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of Mulesoft project using AGILE process.  • Creating Flows, Sub Flows, Exception strategy, Data Mapper and Data Weave transformation in Mule configuration.  • Created Mule Flow using End Point, Connector, transformers and Component been using Mule ESB to communicate client/server systems.  • Worked in Mule Expression Language(MEL)  • Creating cluster environment using Mule ESB with Mule Anypoint Studio and Creating ActiveMQ with different topologies in Enterprise Integration.  • Had an experience in development and deploying Mule project on Cloud hub.  • Involved in designing and documenting REST APIs using RAML.  • Developed enterprise services using RAML and REST based APIs using Basic authentications.  • Used various transformers in Mule ESB based on use caseand had implemented custom transformations.  • Carried out creation and consumption of SOAP and REST services using CXF for SOA architecture.  • Experience in Mulesoft Anypoint API platform on designing and implementing Mule API's.  • Had experience in using the enterprise security, notifications features provide by Mule.  • Using MULE ESB to route various service calls, to do validation of service input and to handle exceptions.  • Worked with integrations using different Connectors such as Database, HTTP, FTP , File and API's like Salesforce, SAP etc.  • Developed Mule flows and used JMS in order to integrate Data by Subscribing from ActiveMQ topics and queues into Database and some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Design and Implemented RESTFUL Web Services using various data format (JSON, XML) to provide an interface to the various third-party applications.  • Used MUnit for mocking and unit testing Mule flows.  • Implemented build package tool using Maven and build the code in Jenkins. Build and Deployment of services in Mule ESB server.  • Code walk-throughs, Mule Debugging and Error fixing.  • Analyzed Mule administration, configuration and tuning and integrated the work flow rule engine for performing the validation process with Mule ESB.  • Used Data Weave extensively to do data transformations and created fixed width files to transfer to multiple servers using SFTP.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third party system and the customer side system.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Formulated build and deployment Mule projects to cloud hub using Maven and using Jenkins to deploy the artifacts to cloud hub.  Environment:MULE ESB, Any point Studio, Mule Server, Apache, Active MQ, RAMLA, Java/J2EE, MS SQL Server 2008, Cloud hub, Jenkins. Java/Mule ESB Developer Wolters Kluwer - Philadelphia, PA January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing. Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.  • Worked closely with functional leads/PMs to understand the partner integration requirements. Integrated different enterprise applications based on the designed architecture.  • Used putty for ssh keys and passwords information to access the folders. Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Used Data Mapper as well as Data Weave for data transformations and data validations within flows & sub flows.  • Developed the integration workflows using MulesoftESB 3.x runtime.  • Done with integrations using connectors such as Salesforce, SAP Ariba, Database, HTTP, FTP and File Connectors.  • Involved in writing batch jobs to run at specific schedule times and transformations using Data Weave.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of MuleESB endpoint through Oath.  • Developed a RAML based RESTAPI's using MuleESB.  • Implemented RAML API's with OAUTH 2.0 based bearer authentication.  • Used Data Base Connectors to connect with respective systems using MuleESB.  • Used MuleESB for routing, filtering and aggregate message between application based on content and rules.  • Have integrated web services including SOAP as well as REST using MuleESB and Used various transformers for transforming between different data formats.  • Developed the flows/orchestrations for integrating the components written on top of different internal platforms using MuleESB and ActiveMQ.  • Worked on various Mule connectors / adapters, developing APIs on CloudHub.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier MuleESB for processing and put the data on the CloudHub.  • Formulated build and deployment using Maven to deploy the artifacts to CloudHub.  • Used Java Embedding activity for executing Java classes for complex business logic.  • Implemented build package tool using Maven and build the code in Jenkins.  • Had experience in using the enterprise security, notifications features provided by Mule.  • Involved in creating http inbound, outbound flows, custom java and XSLT transformers and Security of Mule endpoint.  • And also done with Unit testing using Test Utility MUnit for mocking and unit testing of Mule flows.  • Used GitHub for version and source control.  Environment:Mule Anypoint Studio, Eclipse, Java, XML, Active MQ, MULE ESB Server, Salesforce, AWS, SFDC, SOAP, Maven, Jenkins, Log4J. Java/J2EEDeveloper Cybage Software Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements analysis, design, and development and testing.  • Designed UI using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, CSS and JSP.  • Used Java script for client side validations.  • Developed SQL queries to store and retrieve data from database & used PL/SQL.  • Used Struts frame work to maintain MVC and created action forms, action mappings, DAOs, applicationproperties for Internationalization etc.  • Used Struts Validation frame work to do business validation from server side.  • Involved in developing business components using EJB Session Beans and persistence using EJB Entitybeans.  • Used JMS for Asynchronous messaging and developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Involved in fixing defects & tracked them using QC & Provided support and maintenance and customization  • Developing customized reports and Unit Testing using JUnit.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on the server.  • Involved in fixing defects & tracked them using QC & Provided support and maintenance and customization  • Developing customized reports and Unit Testing using JUNIT.  • Supported the application in IST, QA and Production environments.  • Involved in building the code & deploying on the Weblogic application server.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Weblogic, Oracle, Eclipse, EJB-Session Beans, Entity Beans, JMS, XML,HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, SVN, Struts, XML, QC. Java Developer 3i Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC process.  • Analysed the data and system requirements, conducted meeting with QA team for writing testconditions and test scripts.  • Involved in creating software requirement specification document  • Developing interfaces that integrates billing using EJB stateless session beans.  • Used EJB Entity Beans to maps entity objects such as customer, account and product torelational database table i.e. Oracle  • Deploying wars on Web logic application server and granting access to users.  • Implemented Struts framework (Action & Controller classes) for dispatching request toappropriate classes.  • Used simple Struts Validation for user validations as per business logic & initial data loading.  • Co-ordinate Application testing with the help of testing team.  • Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes  • Writing JUNIT test cases for various implementations.  • Used JSP, Servlets and JavaScript to mock data interchange between systems.  • Created stored procedures and SQL queries to get/update billing data & send it back to system.  • Developing SOAP web services to be shared with system to interact with Prime Biller.  • Creating the DEV build and resolving different build issues.  • Involved in validating billing data that included data exchange from the system.  • Ran check styles, PMD Defects &find bugs and fixed them if there are any.  • Used XML and XSL extensively as the script logic was completely separated from the UI.  • Configured EMMA tool and ran test suite and made sure that 100% test coverage.  • Implemented Maven as build and configuration tool.  • Co-coordinating with QA team during the QA phase of implementation.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, EJBs, JavaScript, CRM, AJAX, SOAP, WSDL, XFIRE, Struts, Weblogic, Oracle-SQL, P/LSQL, TOAD, Eclipse, HTML, JUNIT, ANT, Cruise Control, QC, UNIX, Harvest. Education Bachelor's Skills Db2, Jdbc, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql