Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Fannie Mae Dallas, TX * 3+ years of professional experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementing web-based, Client/Server enterprise Application.  * Strong experience in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Design, Implementation, and Testing during the development of software application.  * Experience in development of web and enterprise applications using J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, Struts, Springs, Hibernate, EJB, and JDBC.  * Graduated with a master's degree in Computer Information System (CIS) with excellent academic standing.  * Worked on various web application development using web technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2.0 DOM Scripting, JQuery, BOOTSTRAP, React JS, Node JS, Require JS, XML, AJAX, and JSON which meets W3C Web Standards.  * Expertise in Spring Framework, extensively used Spring AOP, Spring JDBC templates and Spring MVC.  * Expertise knowledge on Databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL server and MongoDB.  * Having hands-on experience in deploying web and J2EE applications on WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat, and JBoss Server.  * Experience in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Web Services technologies like SOAP, WSDL, Schema, REST and RESTful web services.  * Extensive knowledge of Design patterns, UML and Web Service, Data Structures and Algorithms.  * Extensive experience in designing RDBMS applications including excellent SQL skills.  * Quick learner and highly proficient in understanding new technologies accomplishing project goals successfully.  * Possessing good interpersonal skills which were applied in coordinating with development team QA team and support team as required.  * Have the motivation to take independent responsibility as well as the ability to contribute and be a productive team member. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Fannie Mae - Plano, TX April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in business meetings for requirement gathering and understanding the system needs.  • Used AGILE methodologies and worked on KANBAN and SCRUM boards by using JIRA project management tool and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Developed web application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, and Bootstrap in frontend.  • Worked on Coveo Search Engine, used Coveo Cloud V2 Platform which is an enterprise-class native cloud SaaS/PaaS solution that provides a unifies and secure way to search for contextually relevant content.  • Utilized Coveo JS framework to integrate Coveo Search Interface into Fannie Mae main website and business portal website.  • Responsible in production support activities for deployment, bug fixing and troubleshooting for highly critical applications.  • Involved in setting up SSO environments. Integrated PingSSO product with existing web-based enterprise application which makes users use one set of login credentials to access multiple application within Fannie Mae.  • Developed cloud hosted web applications and REST API's using Spring boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Developed the web application using Core Java, J2EE technologies, Spring boot, Servlets, JSF.  • Configured resources including JDBC providers, JDBC data sources, connection pooling for Tomcat application server environment.  • Worked closely with the configuration in the Tomcat application server and Apache web server.  • Worked on CMS(Content Management Systems) such as Teamsite and Alfresco.  • Responsible in writing Unit test cases in order to test software/application using JUNT and Mockito Framework.  • Worked on Workfront cloud-based project management solution that helps the team to prioritize, route, manage and report on their work.  Environment: Java, Spring boot, HTML, CSS, JQuery, SVN, Coveo JS Framework, Jira, Workfront, Confluence, JUnit, Mockito, Putty, WinSCP, SQL, Oracle SQL developer Tool, Maven, Jenkins, PING SSO, SAML 2.0, JSP/Servlets, JDBC, Eclipse, CMS (Content Management system) TeamSite, Alfresco, Fidler, Tomcat App server, Apache Web Server. Java Full Stack Developer TD Ameritrade - Columbia, MD February 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in application requirements gathering, analysis, and design. Followed Agile software development and Involved in interactions with the client on the requirements for clear understanding and clarifications. Responsible for end-to-end development of project across all the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) stages.  • All functionality is implemented using Spring IO/ Spring Boot.  • Applied Java 8 concepts like lambda expressions, Functional Interfaces and Java Stream API for Bulk Data Operations on collection etc.  • Responsible towards Testing the software/application, Unit Testing doing by means of JUnit.  • Prepare and Implement Project Plan using the JIRA tool, it is the central point where all the work allocations and status updates are maintained.  • Responsible for attending SCRUM meeting on daily basis.  • Document code consistently throughout the development process by listing a description of the program, special instructions, and any changes made in database tables on procedural, modular and database level.  • Widely used JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, TypeScript, AngularJS, Node.js, BootStrap to build front end graphical user interface for customer login, dashboard, portfolio tables.  • Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures, call that stored procedures using callable statement.  • Involved in unit testing of the developed components and also implemented JUnit test cases for all the components to make sure the code coverage is more than 90% and generate the test case report using the Emma JaCoCo tool.  • Developed the Automation Test Scripts using Selenium JUnit framework.  • Used to check in Selenium script into GIT.  • Responsible for code reviews to track if the application development as per the coding standards so that a quality product will be delivered to the client.  • Implemented the Email Notification using Java mail SMTP when customer resetting the device.  • Responsible to lead and guide the team in understanding the business requirements design artifacts, developing the code as per standard and client satisfaction, deliver the quality product.  • Responsible to collect the status from team members and provide the status to reporting manager and client on a daily basis.  • Tracking the work status, effort, schedule and metrics using the confluence Atlassian tool to make sure the organization standards are maintained.  Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Initializr, Apache Tomcat, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Jenkins, Jira, Confluence, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, ANT, GIT, Putty, Tortoise SVN, SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, JSP/Servlets, JDBC, Eclipse, Git Bash, WinSCP, Hystrix, WorkManager, Log4j2, Swagger, Postman, Selenium Technical Graduate Assistant The College of Saint Rose - Albany, NY August 2015 to December 2016 Jr. Java Developer Risha Techno Solutions April 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  * Involved in requirements gathering with the business team, analysis, and design and end-to-end development of functionality.  * Involved in creation of Use case and sequence diagrams for the requirements using Rational Rose.  * Involved in Software Development Lifecycle.  * Worked with QA team, Developers and middle tier teams in code move, testing and UAT Phases in the Integration, QA environments.  * Followed Agile methodologies. Participated in daily scrum meetings and one bi-weekly sprint planning meetings.  * Performed Unit testing and integration testing of the each module in the application.  * Responsible in production support activities for deployment, bug fixing and troubleshooting for web based applications.  * Involved in preparing System Requirements for the project.  * Involved in preparing the Detailed Design document for the project.  Environment: Core Java, Servlets, JSP, XML, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, Rational Rose, Windows Operating System. Education Masters in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems The College of Saint Rose - Albany, NY January 2015 to December 2016 Technology JNT University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to April 2014 Skills Eclipse (2 years), Java (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), JDBC (2 years), JSP (2 years), Angular, Node, React Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java, C, and C++  Java Technologies Core Java, Threads, Swing, I/O, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Web services etc.  Web Technologies  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Node.JS, Web Services, React Js, EJB, JDBC, and Servlets.  XML Technologies: XML, XSL, XSLT, DOM, and JAXB.    Operating System UNIX, LINUX, Windows.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, JBoss, and WebSphere.  Development Tools/IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, Net Beans, JBuilder, Jdeveloper, and Visual Studio.  Databases Oracle, MySQL Server.  Version Control SVN, GIT  Other Tools Putty, VMware, Maven, Ant, Jira, Jenkins, WinSCP, Docker, Swagger, Postman, SoupUI.