Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - The General Nashville, TN • Around 4 years of extensive IT experience in all Phases of software Development Life Cycle which includes development, design, analysis of various web based applications.  • Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  • Effectively interacted with team members and business users from different regions for requirements capture and analysis.  • Experienced Release process for project execution as part of SCRUM.  • Expertise in developing web pages by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Utilized Java, Eclipse/ J2EE, testing programing code & Applications, collaborated with team and management.  • Experience with solid understanding of Micro Services.  • Good knowledge of Data Access Object pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the Business logic tier and the persistent storage tier.  • Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through Jenkins CI and CD Release Automation.  • Used version controller tools like Tortoise Subversion (SVN), Sourcetree and GIT.  • Prepared Unit test cases using Junit, Mockito.  • Designed and developed front end using JSP and JSTL.  • Experience in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with SOAP UI using end-points.  • Performed Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  • Implemented open source log4j logging framework in whole application. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer The General - Nashville, TN January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Agile Methodology is used for development of the application.  • Involved in the requirement Analysis, Design phase, Development, UAT and Production phase of the application.  • Created and maintained existing Restful Web Services using Jax-RS.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, AOP concepts and used Spring MVC framework to develop the application.  • Developed UI part of application by using JSP's, JavaScript, CSS, HTML and JQuery.  • Developed the Persistence layer using hibernate.  • MySQL programming for Production Support management.  • SQL Query tuning to enhance the performance to resolve DB related production issues.  • Used business Delegate, Singleton, Front Controller and DAO design patters.  • Extensively worked in Test Driven Development (TDD) framework using Junit and used defect tracking system JIRA.  • Used EJB Sessions beans for the exposure of the application in order to enable the third party usage.  • Used Unix Commands to go through the server logs and identify the issue. Java Developer ACT - Des Moines, IA January 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Understanding client's requirements and turning them into modularized stories for sprints.  • Creating/Managing release plan, sprint deliveries, responsible for version control (GIT) and configuration of the project, keeping track of project activities - Sprint execution, planning in JIRA.  • Collaborative work with the team on the sprint and pro-activeness in resolving roadblocks.  • Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using Java Script for creating objects that store the JSON data retrieved from REST Services.  • Developed Controller Classes using Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch modules and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration.  • Designed and Developed Module based persistence layer under the guidance of DAO design pattern, ORM principles, using Hibernate.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Worked on endpoints with OAuth 2.0 and implemented services using Restful web services in Java. Tested Web Services Using Postman.  • Extensively worked on event-based programs to incorporate incoming data, using Rabbit Queues.  • Written complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors and indexes.  • Worked on Mongo DB Aggregation Framework, map-reduce and created a job for running a combination of these frameworks.  • Developed the test cases to test the application functionalities using Junit using Mockito, PowerMock, EasyMock frameworks.  • Version control using Bitbucket.  • CI/CD process for continuous delivery of the stories.  • Hands on experience with Splunk for monitoring the logs in all the environments. Java Developer (Graduate Assistant) Lamar University - Beaumont, TX January 2017 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed dashboard menu section, Homepage, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create user's screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework and spring core.  • Implemented CI/CD model integrating with Maven for the build and deploy of the application.  • Scheduled Oracle Quartz jobs for batch processing and creating new Triggers integrated with spring job. Title Associate Software Engineer Green Dimensions - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTML  • Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using JavaScript and HTML.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, JQ Validator using AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used HTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request.  • Effective use of CSS features use as Borders, Backgrounds and Multiple columns.  • Wrote code to implement AJAX based applications be fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON.  • Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular.js and created HTML navigation menu.  • Implemented automatic/dynamic text filing support using Ajax/JSF components  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Worked closely with team members to meet the client requirements. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Lamar University January 2016 to May 2017 Skills Java, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, Soap, Core Java, Javascript Additional Information SKILLS  Languages: JAVA / JAVA8, C, C++  Web: Servlet, JSP, CSS3, JavaScript, HTML  Web Services: REST, SOAP, JAX-RS  Web / App Servers: Tomcat, Glassfish, Jboss  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, JPA, Spring Boot, JDBC, ORM, JUnit, Mockito  Databases: MySQL, Oracle, SQL, MongoDB  Cloud Services: AWS, S3, API-Gateway, VPC, EC2  Design Patterns: Singleton, DAO, Observer Pattern.  SDLC: Agile Scrum, Waterfall, TDD  Tools: Eclipse, STS, IntelliJ, NetBeans, MySQL Workbench, Git, SVN, Visual  Studio Code.  Platforms: Windows, MacOS, Linux  Other Technologies: ActiveMQ Messaging, Log4j, JavaFX, Maven, Jenkins.