Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Deloitte Consulting Concord, NH • Software Engineering Professional with 4.5+ Years of valuable Experience in server-side application design development and production support with Java, J2ee, Oracle and Data Warehouse.  • Experience in SDLC models like Waterfall Model, Agile methodologies and Dynamic System Development Model methodology.  • Hands on experience with Servlet, JSP, Java Script, jQuery, JDBC, XML, EJB's, Spring, Microservices, MyBatis and Hibernate.  • Good exposure to Object Oriented Design, Analysis and Modeling.  • Hands on experience in building and deploying applications in servers like WebLogic, WebLogic Integration, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS and IBM Web sphere.  • Extensive experience in using IDE's like Eclipse, J Developer, Net Beans, Anypoint Studio, MDM Workbench, Visual Studio for java application development.  • Hands on Experience on Spring framework extensively used Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring MVC Frameworks with Hibernate/MyBatis and JPA for building robust Web Applications.  • Experience in developing, implementing and deployment of Web Services using RESTful API.  • Experience of test-driven programming methodology using JUnit.  • Good exposure on RDBMS concepts and proficiency in using relational databases such as Oracle 12C, 11g, 10g, MS SQL server 2012, MySQL and No SQL that includes MongoDB.  • Experience in developing RESTful webservices using Mule ESB.  • Experience in using software configuration management and version control tools GitHub and Bitbucket  • Good hands on experience in Maven and Jenkins for build and deployment.  • Experience in developing and designing of reports using Jasper iReports.  • A results-driven, customer-focused, articulate, highly adaptable in quickly changing technical environments and very good team player with effective communication skills and zeal in learning.  • Expertise in generating daily status reports and documents to communicate with the upper management.  • Ability to work on critical projects individual under tight deadlines. Work Experience Java Developer Technosoft Corporation. - Concord, NH July 2017 to Present New-Heights is a web-based front-end application supported by a backend legacy z/OS Mainframe with DB2 database servers to create accounts, screen eligibility, apply for benefits and generate client notices. The application enables the worker from the state to collect all the required data from the client and automatically determine the eligibility of a person for a benefit program based on some predefined decision rules.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in project planning sessions with business analysts and team members to analyze business IT Requirements and translated business requirements into working model.  • Involved with project planning, daily meetings using Agile SDLC (Scrum).  • Used RESTful web services to retrieve and update the data which is populated in view using Angular JS directives/Services.  • Designed spring boot mechanism without configuration XML's and replaced it with Java classes and used spring boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for different environments.  • Used MyBatis as ORM for Java and Database interactions. Implemented persistence layer using MyBatis that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tuples.  • Implemented JAVA Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references using Spring framework - Dependency Injection (DI) / Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Developed new Batch Programs using Spring Batch Framework for processing of various Daily/ Monthly/ Quarterly or Annual Batch programs.  • Responsible for providing Status Reports for activities during the development.  • Involved in creation of logs using Log4J for error tracking.  • Used Maven for building the application and completed testing by deploying on application server.  • Used JUnit and PowerMock for Unit Testing.  • Closely worked with QA and BA Teams to ensure quality product as per the standards.  • Used Maven for build and deployment process.  • Used GitHub and Bitbucket for software configuration management and version control.  • Solved defects occurred in application DEV, INT, SYSTEST, UAT and in PROD.  • Involved in code review analysis adhering to client-side coding standards before promoting the code.  Environment: JAVA 8, J2EE8, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, JAX-WS/RS webservices, Spring MVC, JUnit, Maven, Eclipse, Angular5, HTML/HTML5/CSS, JavaScript, JSON, DB2, jQuery, JMS, IBM MQ Series 5.3, MyBatis 3, JPA, Log4j/SLF4j, WebSphere Liberty, Unix, GitHub, Bitbucket, Mule, Jenkins. Web Developer Youngspark - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2014 to November 2015 Telangana  Responsibilities:  • Administered and operated a startup that builds mobile products and provides IT services to its customer base.  • Worked as an active team player in developing web applications for both in-house and client applications in a startup environment.  • Researched and identified new business opportunities and consistently established trusted partnership with clients.  • Worked on web and mobile applications for Healthcare and Transportation domains.  • Actively involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Coding, Developing, and Testing.  • Dealt with clients regularly clarifying requirements and demonstrating prototypes over the entire project lifespan.  Environment: HTML5/CSS3, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax Systems Analyst Alchemy Software Solutions September 2012 to December 2014 Client: IBM India Pvt Ltd. Bengaluru, Karnataka  Worked in Health care domain of B2C portal application which provides Prescription Management, clinical and pharmacy services to the users who are registered or non-registered Medco Prescription plan holders. The main modules implemented are clinical data management, action data, drug and pharmacy choice and service modules to the registered users.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented using design patterns like MVC, Singleton, DAO, Front Controller, and Factory.  • Used Spring Framework to develop the business tier and integrated with OR mapping tool Hibernate.  • Designed and developed the data access layer using JPA with Hibernate to map the domain objects to Oracle11g database.  • Worked on client-side scripting language like jQuery, and JavaScript, Ajax to enhance client-side interaction.  • Used Maven to build project by defining all dependencies in POM.xml file.  • Participated in designing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed logging module-using Log4J.These log files aid in debugging as well as tracing functionality in the application.  • Used Bamboo Continuous Integration Tool for automating the build of the project.  • Design and developed many Java batch jobs and did configuration and scheduling through UNIX and Control-M.  • Used software versioning and revision control system GIT to maintain current and historical versions of codebase.  • Involved in the writing of unit test cases for different modules using JUnit Frame work.  • Actively participated in Code Reviews and Peer reviews.  • Contributed in standardizing project coding and code review guidelines and checklist.  • Actively participated in Active Collaboration Sessions with business teams and other teams.  • Actively participated in the Agile Development Process.  • Used TDD (Test Driven Development) methodology to develop the various modules.  • Actively participated in the Scrum Meetings.  Environment: JAVA 1.6, Java EE 6, JSP 2.1, Eclipse, Jboss 5.1, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, XML, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSP2.1 Windows 7, Oracle 11g, JUnit, GIT, SVN, Maven, and Log4J, Bamboo. Education Master's in Information in systems technologies Wilmington University Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communications in Electronics and Communications Anna University Skills Eclipse (4 years), HTML (4 years), Java (4 years), jQuery (4 years), JUnit (4 years), Spring, Java J2Ee, Core Java, JEE, Rest Additional Information Technical skills  Languages/APIs Java EE 8, Servlet 4, JSP 2.1, EJB 2.0, EJB 3, JPA, JMS, Struts 2, JDBC, RMI, PL/SQL, Spring 5, Spring boot  Tools Hibernate 5.1, JUnit, ANT, SVN, CVS, and PL/SQL Developer, Maven  Internet Technologies Java Script, jQuery, XML (SAX/DOM/JDOM/STAX), XSLT, HTML 5.  Patterns/Framework Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, MVC, Struts, Spring 5, Spring boot  Databases Oracle12c/ 11g/10g/9i/8i, MySQL, MS-Access, DB2, Mongo DB  Application Servers and Web Serves  BEA WebLogic 12C/10.3/9.2/8.1, WebLogic Integration, WBI Web sphere4.3, JBOSS4.x, Apache Tomcat 9, IBM WebSphere, WebSphere Liberty.    IDE's Eclipse 4.x, Net Beans, Any point studio, PyCharm, Visual Studio  Other Tools  Control-M, SVN subversion, CVS, Maven, Remedy, Team Track, Bugzilla, Jira, Rational Clear Case, Docker, Zookeeper, Git, Bit Bucket.    Operating Systems Windows 10/NT/2003/2000/XP, UNIX, LINUX.