Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - MasterCard Work Experience Software Engineer MasterCard - New York, NY September 2017 to Present Project: E -business applications are being developed and maintained including sales, Policy processing, contact management, information sharing, Banking policy monitoring and control, tracking the records/Policies, customer management, Policy forecast analysis and employee performance evaluation and Endorsing the policies. The Retirement Calculator is one of important part of the company's core business and it supports company's main business.    Responsibilities  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Designed and developed various RESTful Web Services (Join Profile, Register, and Rewards Balance) using Spring Rest Framework for various modules.  • Developed a Single Page Application (SPA) for client managers to keep a track of the flow of inventory between various departments. Designed and Developed Data access layer using Spring JDBC.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript and Angular2 techniques.  • Followed the overall application MVVM architecture to create MVC layers in Angular JS and Node JS layers.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML5, DHTML and CSS3 code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Node.js.  • Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.  • Implemented business process, database retrievals and access of information using Java and Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Security framework.  • Developed some part of the application using Spring MVC integrating different layers of the application.  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Involved in developing multithreaded modules and applications by using core java concepts  like Multithreading programming, Exception handling and collections.  • Used AWS to build Java applications that work with Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, Amazon SimpleDB, and more.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React. Js in effective web design.  • Created design documents for all RESTful web services with Request and Response Specifications.  • Developed UI pages with JSP, Spring MVC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript for creating responsive web  pages.  • Developed Maven build scripts to automate the deployment to various WebServers.  • Used Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data persistency.  • Worked on JQuery for developing AJAX application.  • Involved in code quality testing by adding JUnit and integration test cases to existing framework  components.  • Involved in development of Agile methodology and tested the application in each iteration and made changes as required.  Environment: Java8, Spring Framework 4.2 (Core, MVC, JDBC, Security, AOP, and RESTful Web Services), JUnit 4.12, Mockito 1.9.x, SVN, GIT, JUNIT, JIRA, Oracle 12c, Agile, Apache Tomcat 9.0, Log4j, Java Script, HTML 5, CSS 3. Application Developer SenseCorp - Austin, TX November 2016 to July 2017 Project: Application helps the clients to run the payroll of the employee, improve compliance, reduce costs, and get the best out of their most important assets and employees. Worked on the main portal and handled customer module, Orders and Employees and Payroll modules. The Project has been developed using Java/ J2EE technologies.  Responsibilities:  • Design and development of system based on J2EE specifications using Java.  • Involved in the application development using Spring MVC modules.  • Developed the presentation tier using Spring Framework that ensures MVC rapid application development.  • Developed account transfer system using Spring beans and developed persistence layer in Hibernate for data access  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the JSF Framework and Hibernate.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS and React. Js in effective web design.  • Built, configured and deployed applications using Maven.  • Used Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data persistency.  • Worked on JQuery for developing AJAX application.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Spring Framework, JBoss, HTML, CSS, JSP, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JDBC, SOAP UI, JSON, REST Web Service, SOAP Web Services, Apache Axis 2, JIRA, GIT, JUnit, Oracle 10g, SQL Developer, WebSphere. Java Developer Glovision Techno Services June 2015 to December 2015 Project: Job Processing System is web-based application developed for Merck technology group. This application handles lifecycle of various data processing jobs. JPS includes create/configure jobs, scheduling jobs and reporting of jobs.  Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirements gathering, Analysis, Conceptual Design, Detail Design, Development and Integration Testing.  • Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards. Designed the project by using MVC framework.  • The entire application was developed in J2EE using an MVC based architecture with help of Apache Struts.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, complex queries using SQL to process the data on Oracle DB.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, JSP, CSS and DHTML.  • Client-side validations are one using JavaScript.  • Developed the XML Schema for the data maintenance and structures.  • Implemented EJB session beans, messaging technologies like Message Driven Bean, JMS.  • Used JSP for presentation layer, entity beans as the model to represent the persistent data and interacted with Oracle database as per MVC Architecture. Education Masters in Computer Information Systems New England College