Web Analyst Web Analyst Web Analyst Verona, WI More than 4 years of experience in IT development in Java, xPression, Android. Recognized for ability to effectively communicate and work with colleagues, clients and senior management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Analyst Deloitte / State of WI January 2016 to May 2018 • Requirement gathering by communicating with the various internal groups.  • Responsible for the construction and release of HTML5 upgrade of Access, Cares Worker Web.  • Responsible for the construction and release of Paperless Correspondence project (PLC) in Access and CWW.  • Access Mobile Research and Business Analysis.  • Document Construction using xDesign and xAdmin.  • Scheduling Batch Jobs and Monitoring using Control-M.  • Production support and maintenance.  • Integration testing and performance tuning.  • Responsible for change requests and maintenance during development of the project.  • Responsible for postproduction maintenance of the project.  • Involved in complete software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Used Subversion (SVN) for version control.  • Responsible for document design, generation and mapping using xPression.    Environment:  RAD, Java 1.6, JSP, JavaScript, Data Studio, SQL, xPression (xDesign and xAdmin), winSCP, Putty, Control-M, SVN, Jira, Jama. Android Developer ISPG July 2012 to September 2013 • Apps developed: Oorjit Go, Ollco  • Involved in all phases of the project, requirement analysis, design, coding and Unit testing.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Test Case preparation and Testing.  • UAT support and bug fixing.  • Used JIRA to track tasks and bugs.  • Integrated location-based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest restaurants, shopping malls etc.  • Used Shared preferences, Internal Storage, SQLite Database to save current deals, user leisure preferences and available books history to refine the search.  • Used List Views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Used Android content providers for implementing features like sending E-mails, SMS, etc. from the app and designed GUIs for these applications.  • Constructing HTTP requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required.  • Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, 9-patch images, alert boxes and different form of widgets.  • Used Restful Web service with JSON.  • Used Android Volley Networking Library.  • Embedded Google Maps API, GPS Location Data into app with zooming controls.  • Working closely with client to get the requirements and coordinating with offshore.  • Collecting daily status from each team member and sending to client.    Environment:  ADT (Android Developer Tools), Java, SDK, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, HTTP Requests - Consuming JSON Data, REST Web Services, Tortoise SVN, XML, Web Service, Core Java. Java Trainee/ Developer CMC July 2011 to July 2012 • Has successfully completed essential diploma for graduate engineer (Edge) and worked as a Java trainee in CMC.  • Requirement gathering by communicating with the various internal groups.  • Developed and Released Remunerate 3.0.  • Production support and maintenance.  • Integration testing and performance tuning.  • Responsible for change requests and maintenance during development of the project.  • Responsible for postproduction maintenance of the project.  • Involved in complete software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Used Subversion (SVN) for version control.    Environment:  Struts, Java 1.5, Maven, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Junit, MySQL 5.0, JBOSS 5.0, JEP, iText, POI, Spring STS. Education B. Tech in Computer Science Vinayaka Missions Kirupananda Variyar Engineering College Skills ADT (1 year), Android (1 year), Android SDK (Less than 1 year), Database (1 year), Eclipse (1 year), Finance (Less than 1 year), GIT. (1 year), J2EE (Less than 1 year), Java (4 years), JavaScript (2 years), Jira. (3 years), Maven. (1 year), MySQL (1 year), Oracle. (Less than 1 year), Oracle 10g (Less than 1 year), SQL (2 years), Struts (1 year), Subversion (4 years), SVN (4 years), XML (1 year)