Java full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java full Stack Developer - Ford Motor Company Michigan City, IN ? Over 5+years of extensive IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes development, design, analysis, testing and Integration of various web based and client/serverapplications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in developing applications usingSDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile (TDD, SCRUM).  ? Developed Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Micro Service Architecture based J2EE applications.  ? Experience in applying best practice Design Patterns and Strategies to enterprise applications to reduce tight coupling, maximize performance and reduce maintenance/extensibility risks.  ? Expert in Core Java and implementing concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections in various projects.  ? Expertise in implementing design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Front Controller and DAO pattern.  ? Expertise in developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap,JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and AngularJS,Angular2/4, React.jswith webpage cross browser compatibility and responsive web design andhave knowledge onServer scripting language like Node JS.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Java/J2EE,Servlets, Struts (Struts, Tag Libraries and Struts custom validation rules, Tiles), Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Web Flow, Spring Data, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP & Restful services)and ORM frameworks like Hibernate, iBatis.  ? Apache CXF and Jersey Excellent in developing REST and SOAP based Web Services using JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-B, Apache Axis, frameworks.  ? Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Criteria API and Hibernate QueryLanguage (HQL).  ? Proficient in developing web services in Java using JAVA, XML, JSON.  ? Good Knowledge of Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the Business logic tier (Business object) and the Persistent storage tier (data source).  ? Worked with SQL databases likeOracle, My SQL, IBM DB2andHands on Experience in working with NoSQL Database like MongoDBto manage extremely large data sets.  ? Proficient in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, Triggers and creating business tables.  ? Hands on experience in working with JUnit, Mockito, and TestNG.  ? Experienced with deploying applications on to production servers,configuring various parameters of servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere.  ? Skilled in using collections in Java for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Portable deployment of applications as a single object using Docker.  ? Experienced in Automating, Configuring and deploying instances on AWS, Azure, PCF, cloud environments and Data centers.  ? Actively involved in the DevOps streamlining process through JenkinsCI and CD Release Automation.  ? Used version controller tools likeTortoiseSubversion(SVN),CVS and Git.  ? Experience with and solid understanding of Micro Services.  ? Created and consumed Micro Services based on Web API.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins, GitHub, and AWS AMI's.  ? Experience in working with IDE'S like Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite (STS), RAD andIntellij.  ? Have extensive experience working on Windows,Linux and UNIX Operating Systems.  ? Ability to work effectively in cross-functional team environments and experience of providing training to business users.  ? Good understanding of Business workflow, Business logic and Business methods for further implementation of user requirement in a distributed application environment. Work Experience Java full Stack Developer Ford Motor Company - Taylor, MI November 2018 to Present Description: The TBIRD project was to develop web services that is to sharing of driver data with insurers on a regular basis. It is a model of auto insurance where insurance providers offer discounts to customers based on the driving behavior associated with a VIN.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  ? Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in Angular4.  ? Implemented core features of Angular framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking Designing.  ? Experience in Consuming REST Services in Angular4 using http methods.  ? Used Angular to create Single Page Applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server  ? Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application.  ? Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc.  ? Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging.  ? Secured the API's by implementing Oauth2 token-based authentication/authorization scheme using spring security.  ? Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between MySQL database and Objects in Java.  ? Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through Java Programs from Oracle Database.  ? Worked on setting up Gradle scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target Application Servers and worked on continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  ? Developed monolithic application and involved in migrating existing monolithic application in to Micro Service Architecture based RESTful Service.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot.  ? Developed Restful Micro Services using Spring Rest and MVC, for OSS services.  ? Hands on Coding to build REST Micro Services using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON, Spring Config, Cloud Foundry and Jenkins.  ? Worked on developing Restful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with Restful endpoints.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  ? Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Rally, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.    Environment: Agile methodology,J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, XML, JSP, JAX-RS, Spring AOP, Spring security, MySQL, JSP, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular4,GIT, Rally, IntelliJ, JUnit, Log4J, Gradle, Jenkins, Tomcat Application Server, Full Stack Java/ J2EE Developer AT&T - Alpharetta, GA December 2017 to October 2018 Description:The project was to develop AT&T platform for web services that acts as a common gateway for APIs from different existing systems like Product and Offer Management, Billing, Sales, etc. The Java web services act as a one stop- shop for APIs for different AT&T Emerging Business Market Resellers, Clients and Partners looking to access AT&T APIs from their own systems.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  ? Developed User Interface using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery and Angular JS.  ? Used various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers.  ? Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  ? To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  ? Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate& Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  ? Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  ? Integrated Spring,Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for DB2.  ? Worked on Hibernate in Data Access Layer for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in different forms by using Restful service.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML using Apache CXFframework and worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  ? Created tables, triggers, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, SQL queries, Joins, and views for IBM DB2.  ? Implemented Restful and SOAP based Web Services and used Soap UI for testing.  ? Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners.  ? Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  ? Performed deployment of applications on JBOSS.  ? Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  ? Involved in resolving the high priority of JIRA issues (production issues at time) that involved data inconsistencies.  ? Involved in Bug fixing of various modules, raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  ? Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, JSP, JSTL, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, SOAP UI, Web Services, Restful, SOAP, WSDL, Log4j, JUnit, DB2, JBOSS, Jenkins, SVN, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, Agile Methodology, Linux, Rational Rose and UML Java Full Stack Developer Nike - Portland, OR August 2016 to November 2017 Description:Nike Technology designs, creates and implements the methods and tools needed to make the world's largest sports brand run faster, smarter and more securely. Nike id portal provides easy way for users to customize and buy footwear and gear. The site transforms the visitor into a designer, allowing them to apply their own choice of colors and materials to a broad range of shoes, bags and equipment.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  ? Developed presentation layer using JSP, JSF, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript, DOM.  ? Used two-way data binding features of AngularJS to implement Data binding to bind various server controls to the data from database.  ? Implemented animation and styling using CSS3 and jQuery.  ? Worked on High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  ? Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validation using JavaScript, DOM.  ? Involved in writing JSP and JSF components. Used JSTL Tag library to create standard dynamic web pages.  ? Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  ? Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture Micro Services, SOA, WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  ? Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting useful plans from different module.  ? Implemented Core Java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  ? Designed and integrated the full-scale Spring / Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  ? Implemented Object Relational Persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model.  ? Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the services.  ? Worked on web services and associated business modules integration.  ? Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, and Servlets.  ? Involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Business Delegate, and DAO.  ? Developed a production-level cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images like AMI.  ? Involved in creating resources stack on AWS EC2 using Cloud Formation by writing Template files.  ? Worked in wide-area network to maintain all the device related data onto MYSQL database.  ? Experienced in RDBMS such as Oracle, Cassandra, MySQL, PostgreSQL and IBM DB2 databases. Used NoSQL DB database Mongo DB for proof of concept and having experience in create a Stored Procedures and having experience in Remote Procedure call (RPC) and Redis.  ? Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate template support.  ? Used JMS API for communication between the components.  ? Experience in writing complex PL/SQL queries using joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors, and indexes in Data Access Layer.  ? Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications.  ? Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN. Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control.  ? Deployed and tested the application in Unix on IBMWeb Logic Application Server.    Environment: Java, Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, J2EE, HTML, Hibernate, Java SDK, Web Logic, SOA, AWS, Micro Services, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, JavaScript, JMS, Struts, JSON, Servlet, JSP, CSS3, HTML, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JDBC, Oracle, Maven, MySQL, Log4J, SVN, UML, JAXB, XML, Scrum, Unix/Linux, Junit. Education Vision InfoTech - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to September 2013