SalesForce Developer/Admin SalesForce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin SalesForce Developer/Admin - Capital One Hagerstown, MD • Certified Salesforce Admin and Salesforce Developer with 5 Years of total work experience in Enterprise Application development using Salesforce cloud Technologies and Java Technologies.  • Around 2 years of Experience on Salesforce.com CRM and Force.com platform.  • Thorough Understanding of Agile-Scrum & Waterfall Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), involved in all the phases like Requirements, Analysis/Design, Development, and Testing process.  • Extensive experience working as Salesforce Developer and Admin.  • Well versed with Salesforce administration, implementation, customization, user management, security analysis and implementation, data management, and migration, Automation, Case/lead management, service/Sales Cloud, custom objects, Visual Force, Lightning Process Builder and Flows.  • Build custom applications using the point-and-click capabilities of the platform.  • Build custom applications using Visualforce & Apex programming language.  • Strong Hands on experience in integrations using Web Services both SOAP and REST API.  • Strong Hands on experience in writing Apex controller classes, batch processes, schedulable classes, triggers, test classes.  • Experience in developing custom UI using Visualforce and developed Visualforce Pages, Visualforce Components along with Controllers.  • Involved in Code Deployments using Change sets from Sandbox to production.  • Involved in developing lightning pages and components.  • Involved in converting java script button to lightning actions.  • Build the business logic using formulas, Validation Rule, Workflow Rule & Approval Processes, and Lightning Process Builder  • Design the data model, user interface, business logic, and security for custom applications  • Design reports & dashboards with analytical aspects.  • Testing and its strategies.  • Quick adapt to new environments and learn new technologies.  • Successfully managed complex task implementation and rapidly evolving requirements.  • Project delivery under stringent timelines and high pressure.  • Experience in translating Business requirements to understandable IT systems requirements. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience SalesForce Developer/Admin Capital One - McLean, VA October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  Customized the Views by using custom Visualforce pages and Standard/Custom Apex Controllers.    • Created workflow rules and validation rules.  • Responsible for writing Test Apex Classes for providing adequate Code Coverage across all the modules (Triggers, Controllers) in the application.  • Created custom reports, dashboards that will show student progress yearly and subjectively.  • Provided Case Management by configuring Email-to-Case for an end user to submit a case through Outlook.  • Exported and updated the already existing data using data loader.  • Created a custom profile that only has access to several custom objects.  • Created custom visual force page using remote methods, wrapper classes for optimized use on Salesforce1.  • Created outbound change sets and deployed to the production.  • Created and Debugged Lightning Components, building with Lightning App Builder and Visualforce with the new Lightning Design System.  • Added Lightning Component to Lighting Pages and Record Pages. Have worked on Apex classes, Visualforce Pages, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Involved in Post-Production support activities.  • Involved in Salesforce.com setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Developed and Customized User interface in Salesforce.com using Visualforce, Apex controllers, and Force.com IDE.  • Designed and developed Visualforce pages and controllers for distribution enhancement.  • Created custom objects, triggers, and workflows to manage information on products, orders, returns, and Authors.  • Built apex classes implementing SOQL statements within Eclipse to manage interaction with the database.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  • Used refined global search in Lightning by developing Apex classes and Controllers.    Environment: SFDC, Apex, Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, XML, Triggers, API. Java Application Developer Dsignz Media (India) July 2014 to January 2017 Project Summary: eAuto Finance is a pre-finance application that enables financier and agent to simulate and analyze the interest and EMI calculation based on the down payment and also the agent and financier can track the customer CIBIL score, payments, Collateral, Id Proof, Income and etc for the new applicant and existing customer.    Responsibilities:  • Involving in analysis, designing, coding ( Java Collections, Concurrency, Multi-threading, Hibernate mapping), writing Server components.  • Developed various java objects mapping with Oracle objects. Created and updated SQL queries based on requirements and code review activities.  • Working closely with business users (product owners) to investigate and fix the production issues while working on parallel development for the scheduled release.  • Interacting with operate team by staging the packages/database scripts for deployments (Dev, UAT, and PROD) for all release.  • Worked on create and update SQL/PL SQL queries based on requirements.  • Adhering coding standard using Check Style, Find Bug, and PMD prior to all these releases  • The development has been based on agile scrum methodologies - every 4-week sprint.  • Responsible for manual testing in development and smoke test in the Production phase.    Environment: Java6 (Collections, Concurrency, Multi-threading), Struts1.3, Tag Libraries, Hibernate 3, Oracle, JUnit, Toad, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Javascript, CSS. Programmer TCS - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2013 to April 2014 Education B.E in Electronics and Communication Engineering Anna University in Tamilnadu July 1972 Skills Salesforce, Soql, Apex, Visualforce, SFDC Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Salesforce Technologies: Visual Force (Pages, Components, and Controllers), Apex Data Loader, Force.com Apex Explorer, Reports. Salesforce CRM, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, Apex Web Services, Lightning, Salesforce.com customizations like Record Type, Role Hierarchy, Validation, Quotes, Formulae, Page layouts, workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation, Custom Objects.  Salesforce Tools: Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Apex Data Loader, Force.com, Workbench, Force.com Platform.  Clouds Sales: Cloud, Service Cloud.  Languages: Apex, Java, SOQL, SOSL.  Databases: Oracle11g  OS: Linux, Windows, Mac  Frameworks/ORM: Hibernate3.3, JUnit, Log4j  IDEs/Tools: IntelliJ, Eclipse3.7.1, FileZilla 3.6, PuTTY, Oracle SQL Developer 3.2, Toad12.1.  App/Web Servers: Weblogic11g, Apache Tomcat6  Web Technology: Visualforce  Version Control: SVN, GIT  Defect Tracking & Build Tools: JIRA, Jenkins, Team City  Collaboration: Confluence