Senior UI/Web developer Senior UI/Web <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior UI/Web developer - WEX Reston, VA • Around 8 years of experience as a front end developer for Web Applications.  • Have excellent experience in working on Agile development lifecycle involving standups, sprint planning, retrospective sessions and managing user stories in Rally, JIRA.  • Have an extensive experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, JSP, HTML5, DOM, AJAX, JQuery, CSS3, SASS, SCSS and Bootstrap 3/4.  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks like Node JS, Angular 1.x, Angular 4, React JS.  • Experience working on AngularJS implementation custom directives, reusable components, MVC, data-binding.  • Used AngularJS dependency injection concepts using modules, factory and service.  • Experience in implementation of responsive web design RWD using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Queries.  • Used Responsive Web Design so that the website is compatible with different devices like desktops, laptops, tablets and smart phones.  • Worked on IDE's such as Eclipse, IBM RAD, Sublime text, Brackets, IntelliJ.  • Good exposure with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere, Nginx and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in writing unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Have a very good experience of working with ES6, ES7 features and typescript.  • Strong experience with version control tools like GIT, SVN, Bit bucket and GERRIT for code review.  • Integrated various 3rd party tools like WalkMe, Wistia, and Glance in the application to provide an enhanced user experience.  • Sound knowledge in working with cross browser's compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Chrome.  • Used Splunk for application log monitoring and Jenkins for build automation.  • Used Node JS npm modules like Gulp, web pack.  • Have hands on experience working with concepts of Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Implemented localization and Internationalization supporting multiple languages like Spanish, French and Portuguese.  • Extensively used Spring 3.1 framework to implement MVC architecture.  • Used XSD for client side XML definition and used XSLT for XML transformation.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Ensure the code review is performed on peer level and moderator level and ensure in writing optimized code.  • Excellent skills in relationship management with clients and effective in guiding team during the project development life cycle to yield the output within the stipulated time, cost and quality.    TECHNICAL SKILS:    Programming languages Java, J2EE, C/C++, C #, PHP, Python.  Web technologies HTML5, CSS3, Preprocessors, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery  Frameworks Angular 1.x/4, Node JS, React JS, Spring  Database Oracle PL/SQL10g, MySQL5 Work Experience Senior UI/Web developer WEX - South Portland, ME January 2017 to Present WEX Inc. is a provider of payment processing and information management services to the United States commercial and government vehicle fleet industry. The WOLNP portal is used by fleet segment which assists the vehicle fleet industries to manage their day today activities. The primary functionality includes creating driver cards, vehicle cards, view and manage transactions, payment processing and report generation etc.  The UI is built on Angular 4 web framework along with angular component router and Gulp as build tool. The application integrates localization and internationalization. It runs on all the browsers and various devices like desktop and tablet. Bit bucket was used for version control and code review. The dependent API's are polled on a timely basis for auto refresh and mailer alerts will be sent accordingly.    Responsibilities:  • The project follows agile project development cycle with Bi-weekly sprints, daily standup, retrospective sessions and sprint planning.  • The application is built using Angular 4 framework along with other front end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3 and SASS.  • Implemented Angular component router for navigation and have a good experience of writing the custom pipes.  • Involved in writing services to connect the web application to back-end APIs using Reactive programming.  • Have a very good experience of working with ES6, ES7 features and typescript.  • Have a very good knowledge of AOT and increasing the application boot time.  • Used OAuth for single-sign on authentication across the application.  • The site is made responsive using CSS3, preprocessors like SCSS, Bootstrap and media queries to support desktop and tablets.  • Implemented accessibility using JAWS/NVDA so that the site is accessible by people with disabilities  • Used Splunk for application log monitoring and Jira for creating user stories and for tracking development activities  • Used Gulp as Build tool for UI.  • Used Jenkins for CI/CD pipeline (Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery).  • GIT/ Bitbucket for source control.  • Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's.  • Worked on Swagger to view various API's and their responses. Handled various exceptions based on the response.  • Integrated WalkMe in the application which provides first time user experience.  • Implemented embedded video integrated in the application using videos hosted in Wistia which provides a video tour to the customers.  • Follow up code approval with promoting the code in DIT environment and QA/SIT environment for integration testing.  • Responsible in fixing the code breaks which the testing team reports.  • Responsible in following up QA sign-off with promoting the code to Stage environment for Beta testing and finally tagging it for release.  • Ensure the code review is performed on peer level and moderator level and ensure in writing optimized code.  • Implemented Glance (3rd party tool) in the application to get remote access in assisting the customers and provide real time application support to the customers.    Environment: Angular 4, CSS3, SCSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Media queries, Git/Bitbucket, Gulp, JAWS/NVDA, Jasmine, Apache Tomcat, Sketch, InVision, Swagger, Splunk and Jira. Java/J2EE Developer Robert-Bosch - IN July 2011 to October 2012 A quotation tool was developed which can be used by various distributors in North America and Canada for quoting various Bosch products to their customers. The product selections are made involving various criteria's and conditions and the net amount is generated as a PDF document based on American or Canadian price. The tool was started from scratch involving requirement gathering, design, development, testing and documentation.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a quotation tool application using J2EE architecture.  • Eclipse 3.6 IDE was used for developing, deploying and testing applications.  • Developed Interactive GUI Screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Worked with Java Servlet APIs for extending the functionality of a Web server.  • Created the JSP pages for dynamic Web-enabled data access and manipulation.  • Worked on Object Oriented concepts like inheritance, abstraction, polymorphism and encapsulation.  • Worked with Apache Tomcat Web Server 5.0 for deploying the application.  • Well hands on writing complex Stored Procedures, triggers and functions using MySQL 5.5.  • Developed database access components using JDBC.  • Setting up the testing environment for testing followed by preparation of test plans.  • JUnit was used for testing the functionality of every function.  • Developed Web-Services module for integration using SOAP, WSDL.  • The generated quotation is converted into PDF document using I Text which can be downloaded by the user.  • Various MS Excel reports were generated for admin purposes using Apache POI.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Java Servlets, JSP, HTML , CSS , AJAX, Apache Tomcat Web Server 5.0, MySQL 5.5, Java Script, JQuery , J Unit , SOAP, WSDL, iText, Apache POI Education Masters in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering University of New Hampshire Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Anna University