Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> O'Fallon, MO Energetic and enthusiastic college graduate looking to work in the Software Engineering field that combines my experience, school studies, and abilities. Seeking an organization that is innovative and forward-thinking, while also being very mission driven. Work Experience Java Developer Charter Communications Inc - Maryland Heights, MO April 2018 to Present • Developed enterprise level software that helped to merge multiple company networks and services into one consolidated network. The software was to replace the old networks and to facilitated the order and activation of the internet, phone and cable services provided by Charter Communications Inc.  • Development work was done in Java and is based on the Spring framework. It consisted of multiple different micro-services communicating through web requests and through Apache Kafka. Services also used the java  • Hibernate framework in order to communicate with an Oracle SQL database • Back-end development on multiple different Spring-based web-services. Helped to implement a variety of different features including the implementation of OAuth2 security. Also worked on fixing bugs and other problems throughout the services.  • Wrote a variety SQL scripts and helped manage the Oracle SQL databases that the services were using and connected to. Helped build and deploy services to the CentOS Linux development server. Provided support during software deployment to other environments. Software Developer Intern A.C.E. Home Inspection - Saint Peters, MO June 2016 to August 2018 • Helped to create software used to catalog, and store home inspection data. Created new software in Java based on the old software developed in Visual Basic 5.0. Used JavaFX to create the new UI.  • Used Apache POI as the framework to help create Microsoft Word documents that contained information regarding home inspections. These documents were sent to the customer to report the information gathered during the inspections.  • Investigated current system, created requirements for a new tool, configured and administered the new system. IT Intern Anchor Digital Services - Saint Charles, MO June 2014 to August 2014 • Web and Database Management • Helped to manage and update data on the MySQL database that contained the product information displayed on the website as well as prepare bulk inserts into the database.  • Quality control over product appearance on the website page. Helped to manage the website to insure that it displayed the correct images, descriptions, titles and product information. Helped to fix bugs and other issues that occurred on the website. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Missouri - Columbia, MO December 2017 Skills Java, JavaFX, Groovy, C, Python, Assembly, PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Apache Kafka, Spring, Apache POI, Hibernate, React, Rest Additional Information ~~ SKILLS ~~    • Programming Languages: Java, JavaFX, Groovy, C, Python, Assembly, PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  • Frameworks/Libraries: Apache Kafka, Spring, Apache POI, Hibernate, React, Bootstrap, Spock  • Design and IDE Tools: Eclipse, Intellij, Visual Studio, Git, Android Studio, Oracle SQL Developer, MySQL Workbench, FileZilla, Putty, Kafka Tool, Maven, Gradle  • Databases: MySQL Database, PostgreSQL Database, SQLite Database, Oracle SQL Database  • Servers: Microsoft Azure, CentOS Server, Apache Kafka  • Operating Systems: Windows (XP, 7, 8.1, 10), Linux (Ubuntu)  • Office Tools: Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint  • Writing Skills - Ability to efficiently produce concise, organized reports, labs and memos.    ~~ Relevant Coursework and Projects ~~    Senior Capstone Project - University of Missouri Columbia  • Developed a program in Java, that used a camera called LeapMotion, that would track a users hand movements and enabled them to preform certain actions in their operating system.  • Developed in a group with two other students. We created a system that would enable a user to create gestures using their hands, store those gestures and use those gestures to perform certain commands in their operating system such as clicking and moving the mouse as well as certain key inputs.  • Primarily developed the system that allowed a user to issue commands as well as certain aspects of the user interface and the gesture recognition system.  • Technologies used: Java, JavaFX, LeapMotion, Git, Slack    Software Engineering - University of Missouri Columbia  • Developed a website that replicated some of the features of the Linked In website  • Developed the website along with a group of three other people. The goal of the website was to replicate the features of the Linked In website. These features included developing a profile that allowed you to upload your work experience and resume to the website. The ability to find other peoples profiles and add them as a contact.  • Primary role included creating and developing the database on Microsoft's Azure Cloud Service and making sure that the database was accessible and usable by those creating the website. Other responsibilities include creating the front-end of the profile creation page and the main profile view page of the website.  • Technologies used: Bootstrap 3, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, SQL, Git, Slack    Operating Systems - University of Missouri Columbia  • Developed a basic and low-level hierarchical file system using C that allowed a user to create, delete, move, and view files in a directory style structure based on the Unix/Linux directory structure  • Developed the system in C and allowed a user to create files and store them in the structure and allowed them to serialize and deserialize the structure  • Developed the system along with another student. Primary role was to develop the features which allowed the user to navigate the file structure as well as create new files.  • Technologies used: C