Python Programmer Python Programmer Python Programmer - United Airlines Work Experience Python Programmer United Airlines - Houston, TX July 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Fortigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy, and PostgreSQL.  • Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  • Setting up Elastic Load Balancers (ELB's) and Auto Scaling groups on Production EC2 Instances to build Fault-Tolerant and High Availability applications.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/Python to automate repetitive work.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser • Worked no Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, and Elastic Load Balancer.  • Interacting with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  • Created Data tables utilizing MySQL utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Designed Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Web based applications • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN).  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Performed testing with RSpec, Capybara and Selenium. Performed Continuous Integration with Jenkins.    Environment: Python, AWS, EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, JQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Pandas, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Jinja, Flask, MongoDB, SQL Workbench Python Developer John Deere - East Moline, IL January 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Opscenter.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, Node.JS and Oracle dB while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, J Query and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated Rabbit MQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)..  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Cassandra with MySQL, Java script and J Query to optimize the user experience.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python mat plot lib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Cassandra, Rabbit MQ, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, HTML5, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Cassandra with MySQL, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, SQL server, JavaScript, Eclipse, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting, Visual basic. Java/Python Developer Pacetime Solutions May 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS, complex Flash integration.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/Python.  • Maintenances PHP/MySQL (primarily Joomla), Classic ASP/MSSQL. Communicating and interfacing with previous developers on a regular basis.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0 • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_python • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  • Rewrite existing Python/C++/ Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, PHP, C++, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, Cassandra with MySQL, JQuery, Json Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Cumberland Univ. TN