MuleSoft Developer MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mulesoft Developer Phoenix, AZ • Certified Mulesoft Developer.  • Strong business and technical experience in requirements gathering including Designing, development, implementation using MuleSoft.  • Hands on Experience in Mule Technologies: MuleSoft AnyPoint Platform, Mule AnyPoint Studio, Mule ESB, Mule Expression Language, Mule Connectors, Mule Scopes, Mule Routers, Mule Components, Mule Transformers, Mule Filters, Mule Flow Control, Mule Runtime Engine, Mule CloudHub, MUnit.  • Ability to troubleshoot Mule ESB (debuggers/flow analyzers), deployment, and tuning.  • Experience in working with different databases such as Oracle, SQL for different Data Models  • Experience with supporting and maintaining applications in Production environment like analyzing issues and providing resolutions to production tickets  • Experience with Source Control Tool’s such as GIT and BitBucket.  • Extensive experience using Java technologies: Core Java, JDBC, Servlet 3.0, JSP.  • Extensive experience using Java frameworks like Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Security.  • Experience in performing Unit testing, Integration Testing and generation of test cases using Junit.  • Experience in building CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins, Maven and Artifactory - Experienced in Configuring, creating Jobs, assigning roles etc. Took care of the entire Project Building Lifecycles within the company.  • Strong Experience in different operating systems such as Microsoft Windows, UNIX, and LINUX  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MuleSoft Developer Apisero - Phoenix, AZ June 2018 to Present • Experience in designing, implementing and debugging Mule API  • Worked on integration projects involving multiple systems. Implemented API-led Connectivity in the integrations.  • Developed System APIs, Process APIs and Experience APIs.  • Developed Mule applications (Batch Jobs) to automate data migrations and file transfers  • Used GIT as version controlling tool and Maven for building and Jenkins to deploy applications.  • Responsible for maintaining Anypoint Platform.  • Experience in implementing security policies on APIs (API manager), maintaining APIs on  runtime manager, Access management.  • Extensively used Mule components that include File, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, JDBC Connector, Web  Service Consumer, HTTP connector, and Transaction Manager  • Setting up CloudHub and migrating projects from On-Prem to CloudHub.  • Extensive experience using Active MQ and memory queues for achieving reliability pattern in  Mule applications.  • Involved in supporting and maintaining applications in Production environment like analyzing  issues and providing resolutions to production tickets. Java Developer Motorola solutions - Dallas, TX December 2016 to June 2018 Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement  gathering, Design and analysis of project development in Agile Methodology.  • Understanding of Functional analysis document given by project architect.  • Designed and developed front-end UI using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery  • Designed and developed back-end code in Java, Spring and Struts2  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using  Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Performed unit testing using Junit and developed test cases using Mockito and Mock MVC test framework  within Test Driven Development  • Integration and Committing the code on daily basis in repository (GIT)  • Bug Fixes after deploying it in Production.  • Worked in Agile environment while having the daily stand-up and bi-weekly sprint meeting and planning  with the team. Software Engineer 21st Century Software Solutions - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh June 2014 to April 2016 • Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Java, Selenium Web Driver, Jenkins, AWS S3  • Developed UI for the Web Applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node JS.  • Adding new functionality to the Web Pages using HTML, CSS, font-awesome icons, editablegrid.js, and JavaScript.  • Integrated the UI with Node JS APIs for populating data and checking for regular updates from server.  • Performed regression testing on content for all the content updates during my job.  • Developed content lists for updates using admin console, AWS S3 for uploading files and scheduling  updates.  • Automated the manual test cases on Admin console using Java, Junit, Selenium Web Driver, Selenium  Grid.  • Intensive experience using LINUX distributions like Fedora and Ubuntu writing shell scripts and debugging the server issues Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT DALLAS - Richardson, TX August 2016 to August 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science GITAM UNIVERSITY - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh June 2012 to April 2016 Skills JAVA (4 years), jQuery (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, Mulesoft (1 year), Jenkins (1 year), GitHub (4 years), Maven (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/gxc160430 https://github.com/GiridharChalumuri Certifications/Licenses Mulesoft Certified Developer March 2019 to March 2021 Mulesoft Certified Developer    Certificate:  https://training.mulesoft.com/award/certification/77e17e0b-65b5-3baf-9b61-a29c88fe1eee/view Additional Information Skills:  • Mule ESB: MuleSoft AnyPoint Platform, Anypoint Studio (3.5 and up), Mule Runtimes 3.x and 4.x, RAML, Mule ESB Flows, Data Weave, Connectors, Message Processors, Data Mapper, Components, Scopes, filters.  • Programming Languages: C, C++, Proficient in JAVA, Proficient in Python, Scala, R.  • Frameworks: Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Security  • Testing: JUnit, JMock,MUnit.  • Build tool: Maven  • Version Control: Git and BitBucket.  • CI/CD: Jenkins