Application Developer Senior Analyst Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Analyst Application Developer Senior Analyst - ACCENTURE SOLUTIONS PVT. LTD Work Experience Application Developer Senior Analyst ACCENTURE SOLUTIONS PVT. LTD February 2017 to Present IDE Used: Spyder  Visualization Tool: Tableau  Role: Data visualization and creation of an entire model and testing as per requirement  Technologies Involved:  ? Language: Python  ? Python Packages used: pandas, numpy, sklearn  ? Plotting tools used: matplotlib, seaborn  ? ML Algorithms: Random Forest Classifier  Team Size: 8    1. ServiceNow ITSM  Project Details:  The leading Insurance company has IT-enabled business segment over a decade in US. On an average It receives 220-25k IT incidents/tickets, which were handled to best practice ITIL framework with incident management, problem management, change management and configuration management processes. These ITIL practices attained matured process level and a recent audit confirmed that further improvement initiatives may not yield return of investment.  Now management is looking for ways to improve the incident management process as recent customer survey results shows that incident management is rated as poor. They came up with 3 key areas, where ML can help ITSM process.    Problem statement:  1. Auto tag the tickets with right priorities and right departments so that reassigning and related delay can be reduced.  2. Forecast the incident volume in different fields, quarterly and annual. So that they can be better prepared with resources and technology planning.  3. Predict RFC (Request for change) and possible failure / misconfiguration of ITSM assets.    IDE Used: PyCharm  Role: Responsible for development of an entire model and testing as per requirement  Technologies Used:  ? Language: Python  ? Python Packages used: pandas, numpy, sklearn  ? Plotting tools used: matplotlib, seaborn  ? ML Algorithms: Random Forest Classifier / XGBOOST  Team Size: 6    2. No-Churn Telecom  Project Details: No-Churn Telecom is an establish telecom operation in Europe with more than a decade in business. Due to new players in the market, telecom industry has become very competitive and retaining customers become challenge.  In spite of No-Churn initiative for reducing tariffs and promoting more offers, the churn rate (percentage of customers of migrating to competitors) is well above 10%.  No-Churns wants to explore possibility of machine learning to help with following use cases to retain competitive edge in the industry.    Problem statement:  1. Understanding the variables that influencing the customers to migrate.  2. Creating churn risk scores that can be indicative to drive retention campaigns.  3. To introduce new predicting variable CHURN-FLAG with value YES(1) and NO(0) so that email campaigns with lucrative offers can be targets churn YES customers. Java Developer ACCENTURE SOLUTIONS PVT. LTD May 2015 to January 2017 Technologies Involved:  JSP, Servlet, Struts 1.5, JavaScript, HTML  Team Size: 15    Platform: Java  Client: SingTel    Project Name: 1. Spear UI  2. OFT middle Ware  Project Details:  Spear is the UI for the customer of SingTel. Through which they can place an order. It uses JSP, Servlet, Struts 1.5, JavaScript, and HTML.  OFT is middle ware. It passes the order to the backend with certain verification and validation.  It uses Spring, Rule Author.    Responsibilities:  • Analysed the Business requirement Document (BRD).  • Prepared Functional Specification and Technical Design Document according to requirements.  • Enhanced the application according to client requirements.  • Tested the application in development environment.  • After deployment, worked on UAT defect and for Stabilization.  • After upgrade verifying whether all the changes works smoothly in UAT environment and then moving to production. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Kalasalingam University 2014