Web and Mobile Developer Web and Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web and Mobile Developer - Photon Infotech Application developer with four and half years of experience in software development and seeking an opportunity with a top organisation where I can best make use of my coding expertise and leadership skills to grow along with the company. Work Experience Web and Mobile Developer Photon Infotech June 2017 to Present Santander US:  • Developed back end for an internal web application which compares different credit cards and returns the most suitable card for the user.  • Contributed immensely to android app versions '4.5' and '5.0' for Santander US by developing important features like 'Enrollment' and 'Money Transfer'.    Boots UK:  • Enhanced supermarket android app by developing 'Photo Booth' and 'in-store mode' features from the scratch. Java developer DXC Technologies August 2014 to May 2017 Java server-side application named MPTS which runs on J2EE, JSP, servlets and connects with DB2 DB through JDBC.  • Resolved bugs whenever found and contributed to the stability of the application.  • Gained extensive knowledge on data structures, algorithms and design patterns while working on the application.  • Enhanced the application with new innovations and received appreciations from clients for my smart work. Education B.E in Electrical and Electronics SSN College of Engineering affiliated - Chennai, TAMIL NADU, IN 2010 to 2014 Links https://in.linkedin.com/in/ramji93 https://github.com/ramji93 Additional Information Skills:  Programming Languages: Java, SQL  Project Methodology: Agile (Scrum)  Skills &Libraries: Data Structures, Algorithms, Spring, Rest APIs  Version Control: Git, Github  Technical/Professional Competencies:  • Strong fundamental knowledge in data structures and algorithms.  • Skilled and experienced in multithreading and design patterns.  • Have good understanding of OOPS concepts and debugging skills.  • Always deliver thoroughly tested code.  • Possess strong problem solving and analytic skills  • Keen to learn new concepts and technologies.