RPA Developer RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA Developer - CAPITAL ONE • An enthusiastic RPA UiPath Certified professional with around 5 years of IT experience including 2 years of RPA Process implementation using UiPath, Blue Prism and developing software bots.  • Expertise in C, C++, Java, asp.net, vb.net, SQL Server, Robotic process implementation using UI Path, Blue prism.  • Experienced in developing Web applications using C#, VB Script, VB.NET, ASP.NET.  • Expertise in developing various applications using Visual Studio.NET technologies like C#.Net 4.5, ASP.NET, ASP, ADO.NET, XML, Web Services, WCF, WPF, MVC, SQL Server technologies.  • Working Experience with AJAX, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML and Bootstrap.  • Having experience in designing automation solutions using UiPath and Blueprism RPA platform.  • Implemented different RPA solutions to automate business processes across functions.  • Have knowledge of debugging process, identify errors in log file and close defects.  • Implemented all the Basic, Desktop, web recordings using numerous activities and Flow charts using UiPath.  • Designed multiple workflows using RE Framework in Uipath.  • Worked on UIPATH Orchestrator in the deployment of an Automation process.  • Designed and configured the Blue Prism infrastructure for development, test and live environments, which comprises Interactive clients, Resource PC's, Application servers and Database servers.  • Experience in designing different flow charts and sequences in UiPath for designing different processes.  • Worked as a POC for RPA developers and acted as a bridge between developing and testing.  • Good Experience in all implementation phases that include POC, Business process analysis  • Experience in implementing Data Access Layer using ADO.NET, Entity Framework.  • Automated numerous routine tasks using UI Path thereby reducing manual intervention also helpful in Error Handling and maintenance of robots.  • Hands on experience in managing robot's workloads using UiPath Queues.  • Expertise in creating the pages using CSS webpage layouts and vast knowledge in usability and accessibility concepts.  • Experience in using Software development methodologies such as agile methodologies like Scrum, Kanban and extreme programming.  • Proficient in developing applications using Object Oriented (OO) programming concepts.  • Worked with mainframe, windows, web application and surface automation. Work Experience RPA Developer CAPITAL ONE - McLean, VA November 2018 to Present Ui Path)  Responsibilities:  • Computed on Web Applications, Desktop Applications and Windows Applications by using basic, desktop, web recorders and screen scraping & data scraping.  • Experienced in building UI Path Processes and Business Objects for various business systems.  • Performed one of the Screen Scraping methods i.e. Optical character recognition (OCR) (Google OCR / Microsoft OCR engines) to process PDF invoices and JPEG images.  • Built some solutions by utilizing UiPath tool and further maintain technical responsibility for project delivery as the sole technical resource on a project.  • Performed the practical usage of various UiPath Orchestrator functionalities like Bots, Processes, Assets, Jobs, Schedulers, Logging, Recovery Methods and Application Credentials.  • Maintained both Attended and Unattended Robot resources, and provided centralized Robot logs, remote execution, monitoring, scheduling, and work queues using UiPath Orchestrator.  • Accessed data from multiple file formats like .CSV, .PDF, excel sheets, web pages etc., using multiple scraping techniques like full text, Native and OCR.  • Developed Re framework in UiPath for exception handling & used to define states in project.  • Operated various UiPath Activities such as Foreach, Switch activity, Citrix Screen Scraping for Remote machines, Loops, User prompts, OCR, Key strokes, Error handling, Break, Try Catch.  • Inspected on PDF Processing, Excel Automation, SAP Applications and various web-based Applications Automation.  • Implemented Web Recorder for automating logging and inserting data actions into browser applications using different Input methods such as Send window messages and Simulate.  • Evaluated task migration process from development to production systems through UiPath Orchestrator.  • Interacted with different mail services such as POP3, Outlook and IMAP to get the mail messages into folder.  • Developed workflows for various business activities like HR On-Boarding, Invoices generation and Exceptions Processing.  • Used UiPath selectors to store the attributes of a graphical user interface element and its parents, in the shape of an XML fragment.  • Created and documented test procedures and scenarios for Pre-UAT phases supporting the operational teams during UAT (User Acceptance Testing) and rollout phases.  • Implemented UiPath Orchestrator for deployment, monitoring, and management of UiPath Robots automation activity.  Environment: UI Path, VB Script, Java Script, AWS EC2, S3, HTML, WebSphere. Rpa Developer FREDDIE MAC March 2018 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the centralized infrastructure for maintaining several robots across the organization.  • Design solutions utilizing RPA (Robotic Process Automation) software, maintain technical responsibility for project delivery as the sole technical resource on a project or the leader of a delivery team  • Experience in using Blue Prism's Credential Manager for maintaining, securing and retrieving the user credentials.  • Conducted feasibility check for the given business model by the client.  • Innovatively integrated the advanced features of automation tools like OCR, Web Recorder for existing robots and improved the performance.  • Prepared Process Design Document (PDD) and Solution Design Document (SDD) for the workflow.  • Experienced in building Blue Prism Processes and Business Objects for various business systems.  • Maintain and the several RPA bots as batch processes on daily basis and ensure quality and high performance to the internal and vendor applications of the organization.  • Efficiently handled monitoring and troubleshooting the Blue Prism environment through Control room.  • Created RPA Bots to Screen scrape WEB and Mainframe data (Blue Prism)  • Provided technical training to team members, offshore on Automaton Tools and platform.  • Formulated and executed Agile processes for enhancing performance.  • Experience in managing robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues.  • Created reusable automation framework with Bots and reusable libraries with data externalization for RPA implementation.  • Provide technical guidance to junior-level technicians assigned to assist the development of User Interface.  • Worked with the UI team to design the appropriate icon and display for the screens.  Environment: Blue Prism 4.2, ASP.Net 3.5, C#, VBA, SQL Server 2012, windows, excels, Agile Scrum, Visual Studio 2015 Java/.Net Developer ITELLIGENCE - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Interfacing with business for analyzing business processes and creating business/functional requirements documents for the same.  • Developed the various screens and worked extensively with Web content management system and online web components by HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used User Controls for a group of common controls, common libraries, ensuring they are easily maintainable, easy to understand, and reusable.  • Implemented Win Forms to provide GUI components using .NET Framework.  • Creation of stored procedures, views, functions, triggers and DTS in MS SQL server2000.  • Designed and developed Search query in SQL.  • Involved in unit testing for various pages.  • Converted all the in-line SQL into stored procedure in SQL 2008 for better execution.  • Generated the required reports with the help of data grid, data list.  • Involved in Requirements Gathering.  • Created High Level and Low-Level Designs.  • Responsible for Coding and Development of modules.  • Done Code reviews and optimizations.  • Trained and mentored junior associates in their day-to-day work.  • Responsible for review of unit test cases and unit testing.  • Involved in integration and Unit testing.  • Responsible for Client Co-ordination.  Environment: .NET Framework 1.1, Java, SQL Server 2005, IIS 5.0, HTML, XML, Visual Studio.NET 2003, Classic ASP, JavaScript. NET Developer UV FORTUNE IT - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • User Interface was developed using Event Driven Web Forms using HTML, DHTML, Java Script, XML, CSS, and ASP.NET that runs on IIS 7.0 using Visual Studio 2005.  • Used Tab strip, dropdown, Menus, Web List Bar controls for .NET to customize the look and feel of the application.  • Created DB objects like Tables, views and SP in SQL Server.  • Have written SQL Query to fetch data for existing user.  • Have created multiple modules in win applications for Company Management, statement management and user management.  • Developed the Classes, Objects, Dataset Classes, and Methods depending upon the business requirements in C#.Net.  • Implemented and extensively used the Object-Oriented programming concepts (OOPS) in C# and ASP. Net.  • Involved in developing WCF Web Service using REST to communicate with legacy systems.  • Developed Custom Controls which provides flexibility, reusability better design time experience, and partial post back validations to manipulate data on web pages using AJAX.  • Used XML intensively to bind the data to the web controls, data manipulation and to store data and sent as parameter to the stored procedures.  • Performed Unit Testing for ensuring the reliability of the application development.  • Created test cases and implementation for Web application.  • Separate views are created to fetch the Details for all the individual modules.  • Bug fixing based on issue generated by the client.  • Involved in deployment process from Development server to stage and PROD.  • Implemented waterfall model for project development.  Environment: .Net 2.0, ASP.Net, AJAX, C#, VB.Net, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL Server 2005, Visual Studio 2005 and II Education M.S. in Information Technology University of Potomac B.S. in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills HTML (3 years), XML (3 years), .NET (3 years), ASP (3 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages C#, XML, C, SQL, PL/SQL, .NET 4.5, 4.0, 3.5, 2.0, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, Web Services, WCF, AJAX, MVC, AWS, Web API and Orchard CMS  Web Technologies Web- flow, HTML, CSS, VB Script, Servlets, JQuery, AJAX, JSP, DOM, SOAP /Restful Web Services, XML, XSD  Scripting Language VB Script, JQuery, Angular JS  RDBMS Oracle, DB2, MySQL, Mongo DB, Apache Cassandra  Development Tools Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Jenkins  Application/Web Servers Web Sphere 7.0, JBoss 5.0, Apache, Tomcat  Operating System Windows 9x/ 2000/XP, Widows Vista, Source Control CVS, Subversion  RPA Automation Tools Ui-Path, Blue Prism V4.2, V5 and V6.  Methodologies Waterfall, Agile, Scrum.