Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Fitch Ratings Woodbridge, NJ 4+ years of Financial, Insurance & Real Estate industry experience in Developing, Design, Analysis, Testing, Deployment of various web based and enterprise applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies and involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Primary areas of technical expertise include Core Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, JSON, MySQL, Oracle, Web-Services  • Hands on experience in Front-End UI development using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, React.  • Good knowledge on core java with strong understanding of Multithreading, Collections, Exception handling, Garbage Collector.  • Expertise in developing RESTful Web-Services.  • Proficient in analyzing and translating business requirements to technical requirements and design.  • Experience with J2EE Design Patterns.  • Experience with build management tools like Maven, SVN and Git.  • Independent contributor, team player and an effective communicator. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer Fitch Ratings - New York, NY August 2018 to Present Rating Cart: It is an in-house application used by Fitch Employees/Analyst all around the world to rate companies (public or private) or sovereigns. In this application, Fitch analyst create a cart for each Company (subsidiary or parent) to rate, where in senior Fitch employees meet (form a committee) and rate that entity and also fill out questionnaire as to why they rated that organization and if they have previously rated them, why did they upgraded or downgraded them based on their company's portfolio performance in the market.  Responsibilities:  • Develop source code in Eclipse using core Java, Spring, J2EE, Spring, and Design patterns.  • Involved in design and development of new modules as well as enhancements to existing modules.  • Creating new Web Services to add new features following Spring MVC architecture style.  • Designing the UI layer to create new Features using HTML5/CSS, JSP.  • Developing the business layer of the application using core java concepts.  • Working On complex SQL and different functionalities to accommodate different business Groups  • Perform deployment on Websphere application server.  • Working with business analysts to identify the requirements and correct them if user requirement changes and collaborating with various teams which provides functionalities to for new Services.  • Participated in code reviews with team members, involved in unit and regression testing.  Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Eclipse Neon, Spring MVC 4.0, HTML5, CSS, JSP, Apache Tomcat 7.0, JUnit 4.0, Maven. Java developer Prudential Financial August 2017 to June 2018 Plan Administration and Setup System Portal: Defined Contribution (DC Plan) is one of the primary retirement product of Prudential Retirement business unit. The process to setup DC Plan involved several handoffs, manual interventions, documents, forms and email communication which was a time consuming, inconsistent and laborious. Plan Administration & Setup System PORTal (PASSPORT) was built to overcome all the drawbacks of the conventional DC plan setup process. PASSPORT is a web-based application used by various business teams like Investment Team, Pension Consulting, Plan Modification and various other groups within Prudential Retirement.  Responsibilities:  • Develop source code in Eclipse using Java, J2EE, Spring, AngularJS (1.5), Design patterns, Web Services and Oracle.  • Create SQL queries for user support & clean-up work requests to modify, add and delete production data as per business needs. Generate ad hoc-reports which are customized reports for specific business needs using Oracle SQL Server.  • Perform code deployment in Development and Stage/UAT environments and co-ordinate with deployment teams to deploy the code in Production environment.  • Track and resolve defects logged by Users and UAT groups via JIRA.  • Prepare and maintain enhancement and production support related documents as per quality processes to ensure quality goals are met.  Environment: Tomcat 8.0, Eclipse Neon, Java 1.8 /J2EE, Spring, JSP, Servlets, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, Web Services, SVN, JIRA. Student developer Research Foundation for SUNY - Binghamton, NY January 2017 to July 2017 Description: The Research Foundation for The State University of New York (RF) is the largest comprehensive university-connected research foundation in the country. It exists to serve the State University of New York (SUNY) by providing essential administrative services that enable SUNY faculty to focus their efforts on the education of students and the performance of life-changing research across a wide range of disciplines including medicine, engineering, physical sciences, energy, computer science, and social sciences.  Responsibilities:  • Develop source code in Eclipse using Java, J2EE, Spring, AngularJS, Design patterns, Web-services and Oracle.  • Create SQL queries for user support & clean-up work requests to modify, add and delete production data as per business needs.  • Developed new process for web page evaluation which resulted in user friendly and regular web page updates for more than 400 pages.  • Updated all web page update requests for the Binghamton university Research websites.  • Edited the web content to look professional and aligned.  • Analyzed the web files for appropriate Organization and filing.    Environment: Java 1.8 /J2EE, Spring, JSP, Servlets, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, Web Services, SQL, MySQL, OmniUpdate. Student Project November 2016 to January 2017 HTTP Caching-Socket Programming: TCP is a reliable protocol that enables a client to make a connection to a server and the two systems to communicate. In TCP, each entity knows that its communication payloads have been received.  Responsibilities:  • Created HTTP proxy using TCP that also caches the web page.  • Used Java to implement socket programming, implements TCP protocol to connect server and clients.  • The contents that is transmitted is stored in a temporary cache.  • The contents of cache can be retrieved.  Environment: Eclipse, Java8, Excel, Sockets, Multithreading, Servlets, JDBC. Junior Developer Auto Choicepoint - Chennai, Tamil Nadu September 2015 to June 2016 Description: Auto Choicepoint was web-based application to compare auto insurance policies and purchase them online.  Responsibilities:  • Design and development of application.  • Enhanced the web version with some excellent Client-side critical validations (Custom Validations) like Credit Card Validation, Phone Number validations etc.  • Integrated Payment gateway (PAYPAL).  • Worked on Auto mailing option and Admin Control panel modules.  • Take part in DB-Design & write several complex stored procedures.  • Use JDBC to access the data from back-end SQL Server database.  Environment: Java/J2EE 1.7, JavaScript, Spring-Core, Spring-MVC, Apache Tomcat 7.0, Spring-JDBC, Git Junior developer EzTest - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2014 to August 2015 Description: EzTest was a web-based application which helped the Users and Quality Analyst to manage the test tracking, execution and data verification on multiple AS/400 Test Environments.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements, designed the application based on MVC frame work with singleton, service locator, service layer and DAO layer patterns.  • Developed user interface screens, configured Javamail and service layer, DAO layer classes  Environment: Java, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Javamail, MySQL 5.0, Tomcat 5.5, Eclipse 3.3. Education Master's Skills Ajax (Less than 1 year), Angularjs (1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Html5 (2 years), J2ee (2 years), Java (3 years), Javascript (2 years), Jdbc. (Less than 1 year), Maven. (Less than 1 year), Model view controller (2 years), Model-view-controller (2 years), Mvc (2 years), Mysql (1 year), Oracle. (1 year), Servlets (1 year), Sql (2 years), Subversion (Less than 1 year), Svn (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, SQL  J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JDBC Template, Spring (IOC, DI, MVC), Spring Boot, Web-Services  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS (1.5)  Databases: Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL    Operating Systems: Linux, Windows  Build Tools: Maven  Version Control: SVN, Git