Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Evans and Chambers Technology Work Experience Full Stack Developer Evans and Chambers Technology - Washington, DC March 2017 to Present Used Groovy, Java, Angular Material, and many open source tools to create applica ons for a variety of Government and commercial clients on an AWS stack  ? Created image recogni on tools using Tensor Flow and Amazon Rekogni on for government  clients on a custom ETL(Extrac on, Transforma on, and Loading) system Java Developer By Light Professional IT Services February 2016 to March 2017 Created a Government Video conference scheduling web applica on.  ? Used Tableau to generate reports and analy cs to clients.  ? Used Java, Oracle weblogic, and primefaces. PHP Developer Adfero - Washington, DC August 2015 to November 2015 Created custom Wordpress and Drupal websites  ? Made custom themes and plugins using PHP, HTML5, CSS, and JQuery. Web Developer Technology and Design - Harrisonburg, VA September 2014 to March 2015 Worked with clients and faculty to create websites for James Madison University's clubs and official pages.  ? Made custom themes and plugins using PHP, HTML5, CSS, and JQuery. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science James Madison University - Harrisonburg, VA May 2015 Skills Java, Node, Javascript, Angularjs, Python, Jquery, AWS (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/yoojames Certifications/Licenses AWS Cloud Practitioner March 2019 to March 2021 Additional Information SKILLS, ACTIVITIES & INTERESTS    Technical Skills:  ? Proficient in programming and debugging Java, C++, C, Python, PHP, HTML, CSS, and NodeJS  ? Proficient in Object-Oriented Programming and concepts  ? Proficient in naviga ng and using Windows, Linux OS and Mac OSX  ? Proficient in se ng up Analy c tools such as Kibana and Tableau  ? Proficient in Cloud concepts, mainly AWS(Lambda, Kinesis, EC2, Serverless integra on, etc.)  ? Proficient in Git, Mercurial, and other Version Control Systems (VCS)  ? Knowledgeable in Objec ve-C, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Ruby on Rails  ? Comfortable with Xcode, Netbeans, Eclipse, Coda, and Android Studio