Pega Developer Pega <span class="hl">Developer</span> Pega Developer - Vizient Inc * Around 8 years of experience in IT industry with experience in Software development life cycle (SDLC) including 5+ years in PEGA worked primarily in the domain of Financial, Health care and Insurance services.  * Knowledge in PEGA Implementation cycle. The implementation cycle includes modeling of Business Process, Tool installation, Analysis, Designing, Development, Integration, Testing and Deploying the BPM applications.  * Experience in upgrading previous version PEGA applications and CPM framework applications to latest PEGA7.  * Experience in latest version of PEGA 7.  * Knowledge in smart dispute framework workflows for both issuers and acquirers.  * Experience in implementing CPM Applications with PEGA 7.1.3 CPM framework.  * Sound skills in interacting with business users and for understanding the Business requirements.  * Good knowledge in Pega Health care industry foundation (HCIF) and product Composer System (PCS) framework and benefits system.  * Good knowledge in PCS for configuring benefits, groupers, benefits set and creation product templates and health care products.  * Excellent skills on working with (DCO) Application Accelerator and Application Profiler for creating new framework layer in development of Enterprise Applications.  * Good experience in working as production support team member to handle production issues * Experience in implementing various PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions, Constraints, and Indexes.  * Involved in creating Access Groups, Operators, Rule sets, Rule set versions, Work baskets, Work parties required to develop the application.  * Good experience on connecting to external systems using the integration services like SOAP, MQ, File, Email, JDBC and Java.  * Expertise on Integration Services like SOAP, REST, SQL using PRPC.  * Good knowledge in writing HTML, JSP, HTML fragments and Java code in PRPC.  * Hands on experience in writing Pega PRPC libraries and functions.  * Experience in creating custom portals in PRPC * Understanding of Object Oriented Principles and Web application architecture.  * Extensive understanding and knowledge of Pega Rules Process Commander.  * Participated in designing and developing Business Process Management (BPM) applications using PRPC.  * Sound skill son integrating with external systems and general concepts of methodologies for integrating process commander applications with other systems.  * Proficient in troubleshooting & performance tuning of PRPC applications using Clipboard, Tracer.  * Used Connectors and Services to integrate PRPC with External Systems.  * Good communication, interpersonal analytical, problem solving, fast learner, oral, written skills. Work Experience Pega Developer Vizient Inc - Irving, TX March 2017 to Present This project involved designing an application to provide the Business with a solution that combines the Member Processes and Claims systems in Health Care services. This application is developed using Pega CPM framework and this solution will provide a single enterprise web application used by Customer Service professionals.  Responsibilities: • Working with the Business users, Business Leads, and Business Analysts to define business requirements for designing, testing, and building Pega BPM solutions to comply with new government and corporate regulations.  • Involved in development of Technical Requirements to provide end state requirements for line of business and development team.  • Worked in the Design and Development of Data Model, Process Flow, Activities, and UI Properties.  • Good experience in configuring and implementing the services in CPMHC framework • Creation of HTML rules, Properties (Data types), Embedded Pages and Correspondences.  • Designing and troubleshooting Integration connectors through SOAP and Restful web service API's • Participated extensively in designing application security which involves setting up Access groups, Access Roles, Operators, Application ID, Org Divisions, Org Units and Work groups.  • Created specialization based on circumstance rules using single and multi-properties.  • Wrote SLAs and Activities to show the assignment on the exception case to resolve the case.  • Involved in Bug Fixing Activities with Lead and System Architects for Harness, Declare Expressions and When Rules.  • Implementation of Decision tables, Decision Maps and Declarative Expressions.  • Involved in Change Management aspects including defining and implementing procedures / technologies to deal with change in Business Environment.  • Extensively used PRPC-PAL, Performance Profiler, DBTrace tool for performance testing.  • We used the Service REST Rule to create the service and map it to the Service Package Rule.  • Developed SOAP service to provide service to external systems. End to end Integration testing of the application.  • Design and development of the application Enhancements - Worked on Class Structure Design, activities, decision rules, UI rules, SQL Connectors, SOAP Services and Connectors  Environment: Pega PRPC V7.2, CPMHC, Core Java, SOAP, Java Script, Web Services, Visio. Pega Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL December 2016 to February 2017 This project involved designing an application to provide the Business with a solution that combines the Member Processes and Claims systems in Health Care services. This application is developed using Pega CPM framework and this solution will provide a single enterprise web application used by Customer Service professionals.    Responsibilities: • Working with the Business users, Business Leads, and Business Analysts to define business requirements for designing, testing, and building Pega BPM solutions to comply with new government and corporate regulations.  • Involved in development of Technical Requirements to provide end state requirements for line of business and development team.  • Worked in the Design and Development of Data Model, Process Flow, Activities, and UI Properties.  • Good experience in configuring and implementing the services in CPMHC framework • Creation of HTML rules, Properties (Data types), Embedded Pages and Correspondences.  • Designing and troubleshooting Integration connectors through SOAP and Restful web service API's • Participated extensively in designing application security which involves setting up Access groups, Access Roles, Operators, Application ID, Org Divisions, Org Units and Work groups.  • Created specialization based on circumstance rules using single and multi-properties.  • Wrote SLAs and Activities to show the assignment on the exception case to resolve the case.  • Involved in Bug Fixing Activities with Lead and System Architects for Harness, Declare Expressions and When Rules.  • Implementation of Decision tables, Decision Maps and Declarative Expressions.  • Involved in Change Management aspects including defining and implementing procedures / technologies to deal with change in Business Environment.  • Extensively used PRPC-PAL, Performance Profiler, DBTrace tool for performance testing.  • We used the Service REST Rule to create the service and map it to the Service Package Rule.  • Developed SOAP service to provide service to external systems. End to end Integration testing of the application.  • Design and development of the application Enhancements - Worked on Class Structure Design, activities, decision rules, UI rules, SQL Connectors, SOAP Services and Connectors  Environment: Pega PRPC V7.1, CPMHC, Core Java, SOAP, Java Script, Web Services, Visio. Pega Developer Global Hospitals - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2013 to February 2015 The Objective of the application is to give the administration needed to Hospital System for Global Hospitals, HIS is a Software product suite intended to enhance the quality and administration of clinical process analysis and activity-based costing.    Responsibilities: • Involved in Developing User Interface using the inbuilt Harnesses & customizing the Sections and other UI components wherever required gaining assistance from Rules Inspector tool.  • Worked on writing Activities, steps, methods and calling other activities for implementingcore business logic.  • Participated extensively in designing application security which involves setting up • Access groups, Access Roles, Operators, Application ID, Org Divisions, Org Units and Work groups.  • Implementation of Decision tables, Decision Tree and Declarative expressions.  • Extensively used Clipboard tool & Tracer while Unit testing of the application.  • Coordinated with the team in understanding the concepts of Business Process andUnit testing.  Environment: Pega PRPC V6.2, Oracle 10G, SOAP, Windows XP, Apache Tomcat, JavaScript. Java developer Yash Technologies - IN November 2013 to November 2013 Quest is a logistics application developed for Avnet, USA. Avnet is a worldwide leader in handling logistics and distribution of computer peripherals as well as electronics components. The objective of quest application is to handle the entire transactions between Avnet and their customers in the form of quotes and ensure a smooth, efficient deliver to the quote to the end customers. The entire quest is divided into four modules namely create quote, deliver quote, customer info, work quotes.    Responsibilities: • Involved in development of Order Management and Performance analysis modules of the project • Involved in developing class diagrams, sequence diagrams in UML showing generalization and other relationships and describing the interaction of object respectively.  • Worked extensively on SOAP based Web Services.  • Developed UI using JAVA Server Pages (JSP), HTML and Java Script for the Presentation layer.  • Used Ajax to provide dynamic features where applicable.  • Developed front end controller in Servlet to handle all the requests • Developed service delegate to handle the Business logics • Developed DAO (data access object) patterns to access the database.  • Used Junit to develop the test cases for unit testing • Build and deployed the application in Production environment using maven builder • Writing test cases in selenium IDE and testing the application.  • Worked on Git version control system to maintain versions in the application development  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, IBM Web Sphere, Rational Rose, Eclipse IDE, SOAP, Oracle 9i, selenium, MAVEN builder, Junit, Unix AIX