Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Genius Business Solutions, Inc • Experienced on Cross Platform Web Application Development using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2 React JS, Bootstrap.  • Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: Form validation, CRUD, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages, users switch etc.  • Expertise with creating single page applications using Angular JS with MVC, Bootstrap, Router.  • Worked on React JS and Redux to make changes to the existing web applications and creating new components  • Experience integrating RESTful API's and Web-Services with applications.  • Experienced in developing event driven and back-end applications using AJAX and JSON/XML.  • Experienced with Bower for package management, installation, and maintenance, and task runners including Grunt and Gulp.  • Extensively used source code control systems such as GIT, JIRA and SVN.  • Experience with Test Driven Development using Karma/Jasmine the Test Runners for Unit Testing.  • Extensively worked on methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the current code utilizing debugger tools like Firebug, Chrome developer toolbar and so on., and able to identify problems in the underlying stages and execute brisk resolutions.  • Excellent communication and closely worked with business users and team members to understand/clarify requirements for Application Development and handled the deliverables of the team on time. Work Experience Application Developer Genius Business Solutions, Inc - East Moline, IL July 2017 to Present • Developing features/enhancements using front-end technologies and TeamSite along with Java, HTML5, JavaScript and jQuery for responsive web pages, handling all the viewports.  • Developing the components and re-use them throughout the application.  • Work along with TeamSite developers and Content authors to analyze the requirements and develop the application.  • Actively involving in SCRUM meetings, Retrospective and Sprint planning/review meetings.  • Also responsible for Deployment activities in Production and non-Production environment.  • Worked with version control tools like SVN and GIT.  • Responsible for maintaining the code quality and standards.  • Good exposure to defect tracking tools like JIRA, Rally and ServiceNow.  • Have implemented POC (proof of concept) on ReactJS as part of upscaling skills.  • Received multiple appreciations for being the star of the Sprint.  Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Agile Methodology, SVN, GIT, Visual Studio Code, ReactJS, TeamSite, RESTFUL services, JIRA, Rally, ServiceNow, Oracle DB. Application Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX May 2016 to July 2017 • Developing functionalities from Scratch Using AngularJS and AEM along with Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 & JavaScript.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java.  • Maintaining the code quality and standards.  • Have adequate knowledge in NodeJS, Grunt.  • Used Jasmine to write Test Cases in AngularJS.  • Created reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Used JIRA for Defect Management and Rally for enhancement of stories.  • Have a good exposure to CI/CD process using Jenkins and GIT.  • Managing Onshore and Offshore handshake, responsible for team activities and delivering the Sprint Stories on time by following Agile Methodology.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2, AEM, Agile Methodology, NodeJS, Grunt, GIT, Jenkins, IntelliJ, WebStorm, JIRA, Rally. UI Developer Wells Fargo, CA December 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on front-end single page application with user interactive web pages in a professional manner by using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, Angular JS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery  • Created Angular JS controllers, services and used Angular JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities  • Developed front-end code in a timely and high-quality manner while ensuring a consistent look and feel.  • Used JSON objects effectively for efficient client-side coding.  • Extensively worked with RESTFUL API services for retrieving data.  • Worked with Jasmine and Karma to test the applications.  • JIRA was used for Defect Management for QA Team.  • Actively involved in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, Node JS, JIRA, Web Services, GIT, Jenkins, Jasmine, Karma. Java UI Developer REST API, JSON November 2012 to December 2013 • Involved in all stages of the Software development life cycle.  • Developed HTML5 prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  • Web application development using Web 2.0 technologies, Java, J2EE, jQuery, REST API, JSON, and spring framework.  • Developed J2EE, (EJB) Enterprise Java Bean Components and deployed on Web Logic Application Server  • Developed the web application using MS SQL SERVER, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Promoted the site, monitored error logs, and identified and resolved potential problems.  • Used JavaScript as the scripting language and is used for detecting the visitor's browser, validating the forms, providing event functions, animation etc.  • Responsible for JavaScript/AJAX UI upgrades and improvements.  Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL Server, AJAX, Java, servlets Education Master of Science Murray State University - Murray, KY May 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University