Angular Developer Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular Developer - Small Medium Enterprise(SME) Currently employed with Capgemini India Pvt Ltd as Associate Consultant. Overall Experience of 2.9 years in  JavaScript, Html5, CSS, Angular2, Java. Work Experience Angular Developer Small Medium Enterprise(SME) January 2019 to Present COOP Bank (UK) Jan'19 - Till date    Client Profile Seventh biggest lender and one of the oldest banks in the UK  Project Small Medium Enterprise(SME)  Role Angular Developer  Team Size 15  Methodology Agile    Objects:  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4 modules, services, templates, directives, services.  • Good amount of work done on Reactive forms or Web forms 2.0 in Angular 2 and their validations.  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  • Update the application with new features of Angular 4.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-template and form validators.  • Designed and developed the application using Angular2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, Type Script, and JavaScript.  • Accessibility code implementation across application.  • Responsible for fixing defects in the Development Phase. Angular Developer Mortgage Product Switch May 2018 to January 2019 COOP Bank (UK) May'18 - Jan'19  Client Profile Seventh biggest lender and one of the oldest banks in the UK  Project Mortgage Product Switch  Role Angular Developer  Team Size 11  Methodology Agile    Objects:  • Worked Extensively with Angular CLI for creating Components, Services, pipes, Directives.  • Update the application with new features of Angular 4.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-template and form validators.  • Designed and developed the application using Angular2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3, Type Script, and JavaScript.  • Created a new web interface to avail online mortgage product switch facility to bank customers.  • Implemented MQ Services on java side to send data to the third-party applications.  • Accessibility code implementation across application.  • Responsible for fixing defects in the Development Phase.  • Production support. JavaScript Developer Retail (Online Banking) May 2017 to April 2018 COOP Bank (UK) May'17 - April'18  Client Profile Seventh biggest lender and one of the oldest banks in the UK  Project Retail (Online Banking)  Role JavaScript Developer  Team Size 8  Methodology Agile    Objects:  • Implemented the front-end logic that defines the behavior of the visual elements of web application.  • Interact with the Teams and Analysts to understand the functionality.  • Developed UI and Functionality for mobile and web applications.  • Developed Internationalization payment option for bank.  • Developed Paper-Paperless Statements, Chat window for customers, online registration option for online  banking, One Time Payment, 2FA Security, 6 Months Statement generation.  • To give support for bug fixing in production.  • Accessibility code implementation across application.  • Optimized code to increase the performance of the application.  • Responsible for fixing defects in the Development Phase Java Developer PSA (France) October 2016 to April 2017 Oct'16 - Apr'17  Client Profile French multinational manufacturer of automobiles and motorcycles, Peugeot  Project PSA Peugeot Citroën  Role Java Developer  Team Size 15  Methodology Agile    Objects:  • Worked as Front end UI developer in internal logistics.  • Developed functionality to manage, arrange, plan and delivery of finished product from point of origin to point of consumption in order to meet requirements of customers and corporations.  • Developed various web designed based on requirement given by client.  • Optimize code according to requirement of client and also to increase the performance of the application.  • Assured that all user input is validated before submitting to back-end.  • Responsible for fixing defects in the Development Phase. Links http://linkedin.com/in/ruchikaghate Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Worked in Technologies: JavaScript, Html5 and CSS3, Angular2, Java, Core Java, SQL, Spring Framework,  Multithreading, JDBC, OOPS.  ? Version Control Tools: SVN.  ? Project Management Tools used: Jira, Confluence.  ? Release Management Tools used: Jenkins.  ? Good knowledge of Agile Methodology.  ? Debugging tools: Chrome Developer Tools, Firebug  ? IDE s: Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++