UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Equifax Alpharetta, GA • 5+ years of experience in web developing and designing with proficiency in HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, and JSON.  • Hands on experience on Planning, Estimation, Designing and Developing an application development issues.  • Thorough knowledge of C# programming concepts, SDLC, testing and debugging methods, system design, and implementation, database system, including DB2 and relational databases, program documentation, web and desktop application development  • Proficient in Object oriented programming such as C, C++, C# as well as experience with MS SQL Server, ASP. NET, MVC, and Entity frameworks  • Skilled in creating Web Applications, User Interfaces and Layouts with HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT using W3C standards.  • Good knowledge on Document Object Model (DOM), DOM functions, OOP and ES6 Concepts.  • Working Knowledge on creating restful API using web API 2.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Type Script, Angular 2.0/4/6, Node JS, Bootstrap, Media Queries and CSS Preprocessor Sass.  • Expertise in Angular 2.0 framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  • Hands on Experience on Angular CLI (Command line Interface).  • Good amount of work done on Reactive forms or Web Forms 2.0 in Angular and their Validations.  • Expertise in using Angular directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Pipes, Templates, Events and Injectors.  • Experience in Web Technologies like Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JQueryUI, Underscore.Js, Require.Js, Bootstrap, Backbone.JS, Angular, Marionette.JS, JqGrids, Chart.Js and other JS Libraries.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Flex Box, CSS Grid, Pseudo Elements Classes and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Experience in using Chrome Developer Tools and IE Developer Tools for debugging and troubleshooting the code.  • Proficient experience in using the databases such as MS SQL Server, MySQL and NoSQL (MongoDB).  • Experience in Test Driven Development and agile methodologies like SCRUM.  • Excellent technical, logical, code debugging and problem-solving capabilities and ability to watch the future environment, the competitor and customer's probable activities carefully.  • Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments. Work Experience UI Developer Equifax - Alpharetta, GA June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Creating Dynamic Web Pages using Web Controls and developed forms using HTML5.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JS methods and properties.  • Developed applications using Angular single page applications SPAs to improve page performance.  • Developed the reusable templates and style sheets within the UI Standards and guidelines.  • Used AngularJS to develop a standalone test application, in scope of future usage of the framework.  • Creating Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular2 and Angular4 and Used Web pack to build Typescript modules.  • Implementing Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as customer performs application tasks.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Involving in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using jQuery UI Library.  • Creating Angular4 components and custom directives for application functionality and pipes for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Developed the features, scenarios, step definitions for BDD (Behavior Driven Development) and TDD (Test Driven Development) using Cucumber.  • Working on the unit test cases to test the functionality of the code written not only through the component level but also through the DOM level using Karma test runner and Jasmine framework.  • Working Experience with Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, Continuous Integration, TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Involved in application development using JIRA that illustrates the agile methodology of all new updates and upgrades in the project.    Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Angular1.5, Angular2&4, TypeScript, Agile, Bootstrap, REST API's, Web pack, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, GIT, TDD, Bit Bucket, Source tree, JIRA and Visual Studio Code. UI Developer JPMC - Dallas, TX April 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project.  • Built rich prototypes & applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  • Responsible for splitting the UI logic into Angular JS MVC Architecture Views, Models and Controllers.  • Responsible for estimations, code reviews and build deployments.  • Used best coding practices and naming conventions while writing code in AngularJS, CSS and HTML.  • Used Angular JS Http Request to read data from web services and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Followed JIRA for tracking processes and streamlining agile planning • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Git hub.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Handled REST API calls with AJAX and processed JSON and XML data responses to format, validate and display to the user.  • Responsible for Cross Browser compatibility and writing unit test cases using Jasmine.  • Involved in coding pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application and Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug.  • Managed and implemented all codes changes via GIT Control Version System.  • Deploying builds across development, staging and production instances and maintained code integrity.    Environment: HTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Jasmine, Karma, JIRA and Git. Java/UI developer Highpoints Technologies (P) Ltd July 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Development of Web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3.  • Worked on HTML5 SPA which was packaged and distributed as a chrome app, used the same HTML5 SPA for windows application through the use of Apache Cordova.  • Interfaced SFDC through the use of SQL queries.  • Good exposure/experience in AngularJS for building SPA dynamic web page development.  • Exposure in AngularJS components like controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routing, dependency injection, tow-way data binding and filters.  • Integrated the AngularJS application with the RESTful web services, used $HTTP service to make request to the server.  • Using UI Bootstrap coupled with AngularJS to create popovers, Modal Windows, Alerts and According to give the site expressive and dynamic functionality.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Used CSS features like selectors, different CSS properties for styling the webpage, CSS3 features like multi-column layout, gradients and web fonts, pagination, animation.  • Used SVN for Version Control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, Usability Testing, Web storm, Windows. UI Developer Winlintech Solutions January 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in system study, development and implementation of the project.  • Used UML diagrams Use Cases, Object, Class, State, Sequence and Collaboration to design the application using Object Oriented analysis and design.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.  • Developed Web pages using HTML, CSS.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  • Deep understanding of JavaScript.  • Worked with the team of architects and back-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Involved in JavaScript coding for validations.    Environment: HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript and Notepad Education Master's Skills Ajax (1 year), Bootstrap (3 years), Css (4 years), Dom (Less than 1 year), Git (2 years), Html (4 years), Html5. (2 years), Java (1 year), Javascript (4 years), Jira (2 years), jquery (3 years), Json (1 year), Sass (1 year), Sql (1 year), Subversion (1 year), Svn (1 year), Ui (4 years), User interface (4 years), Version control. (1 year), Xml (1 year)