Python Developer Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL) Arlington Heights, IL • Over 4 years of IT experience in the role of Python Software Developer with an earned reputation for meeting demanding deadlines and delivering critical solutions in Software Development, Software Testing & Build CM.  • 2+ years of experience in leading the team.  • Experience in Python, AWS, SPARK, C and Embedded-C.  • Expertise in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and Defect Life cycle with major responsibilities in all the phases.  • Expertise in creating Dev strategy in a mix environment of Linux (RHEL, CENTOS) servers along with Amazon Web Services.  • In-depth experience with Amazon AWS Cloud Services, (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, Cloud Watch, Elastic IP, RDS, SNS, SQS, Glacier, IAM, VPC, Cloud Formation, Route53) and managing security groups on AWS.  • Helped various teams to deploy the application on GCP, IBM soft layer and Microsoft Azure.  • Experience in Safety Standards like DO-178B, Coding standards MISRA - C, pyflakes.  • Highly experienced in Development, Build, Release, Configuration Management, and Testing.  • Experience in managing AWS VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) environment with around 200+ Linux and Ubuntu instances.  • Excelled on creating AMI (AWS Machine Images) that utilizes ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) and Auto Scaling. That Auto Scaling fired up new resources those will by default bootstrapped with the Chef-Server.  • Have experience with AWS LAMBDA which runs the code with response of events.  • Worked on Python SPARK framework to perform Batch Analytics, and Real-time Data Analytics.  • Hands on experience in Unit Testing with Pytest, RTRT, Simulation tools like Labcar, Cartslite, dSPACE, and testing tools like Seetest, and MTM (Microsoft Test Manager).  • SDLC Methodologies - Waterfall, Devops & Agile.  • Experience in Bugzilla, Jira and other defect tracking tools.  • Extensive experience in using various Configuration Management tools like Tortoise SVN Subversion, MKS, PVCS, ESI, TFS, Jenkins and GIT.  • Experienced in performing system testing which includes Functional, Non-Functional, Regression & Exploratory testing.  • Strong in understanding the business requirements and preparation of review report.  • Expertise in analyzing business specification documents, test planning, resource estimations, timeline and schedule planning, test strategy, test execution and test report maintenance.  • Worked in Retail, ecommerce, Air Traffic Management, Railway signaling, Engine Systems, Physical Network Inventory Management, and Telecommunication domains.  • Ability to quickly adapt to new domain, technologies & work environment effectively.  • Worked directly with stakeholders from different departments and groups of the multinational organizations and vendors in heterogeneous projects and programs.  • Shown flexibility, quick learner, proactive attitude, team managing and an amazing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL) - Chicago, IL August 2018 to Present Descriptions: The Compensation planning tool allows users to develop, test and run batch or online programs that perform high-volume background processing against data. JLL Comp planning tool allows users to execute common HR tasks, such as approving a promotion transaction, managing their team, viewing a pay slip or editing personal information. JLL Comp planning tool enables users usually executives and managers to analyze employee and organizational data via analytics software. JLL Comp planning tool can be customized to fit the needs of specific industries for managing, tracking and administrating the entire workforce, including managers, employees, contingent workers, faculty, student workers and contractors. Because JLL Comp planning tool is an app, it can be used on any mobile device, allowing users to access data from anywhere.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed customer preferences portal in Python using Django framework.  • Extensive use of Python / Django Framework for developing some backend components.  • Used secured web services for communication and integrations with other enterprise applications.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, SQL server and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib libraries for n-dimensional representation of data and plotting graphs.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the Python code redundancy to an optimal level.  • Improved the website part of the application using Django, and REST API.  • Implemented Ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls for upload and delete files.  • Enhanced the design of user interface using Bootstrap framework for Django.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV, HTML and excel file formats.  • Implemented web scraping using Python's Beautiful Soup library.  • Performed Data framing, Data Analysis, and Data representation using Python Pandas.  • Orchestration of real time data analytics, and batch analytics in SPARK using pyspark module.  • Built python scripts for SparkSQL, to work on database tables for interactive analytics.  • Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.  • Conducted every day scrum as part of the SCRUM Master role.  • Wrote python scripts to perform CRUD operations on MySQL database.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Involved in unit testing using pytest.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.    Environment: Python, SparkSQL, Pytest, Pylint, Django REST framework, Bootstrap Framework, Nodejs, Workfront, GIT, Zeus, JBOSS, Ruby, SQL serevr, GCP, Microsoft AZURE, PEP8. Python Developer WPS Health Solutions - Monona, WI August 2017 to July 2018 Descriptions: This project involves testing of WPS Health Solutions Mobile application on Android, and iOS devices. WPS Health Solutions is medical apparatus and equipment for use in electronic acquisition, capture, processing, presentation, storage and transmission of patient's medical and physiological data for use in programming, monitoring and testing implanted cardiac devices.    Responsibilities:  • Defining the scope of testing within the context of each release / delivery.  • To test Sirius Programmer Mobile Application on Android and iOS devices using SeeTest test automation tool.  • Deploying and managing resources for testing.  • Analyzing test requirements and developing test scripts.  • Planning, deploying and managing the testing effort for any given engagement.  • Developing test automation framework using python and SeeTest APIs.  • Developing Requirement Traceability Tool using python.  • Coordinating with the development team for any assistance in issue reproduction and testing.  • Executing test scripts using Visual Studio, MTM and SeeTest tool.  • Involved in Code reviews and Test Case reviews.  • Prepare any risk mitigation plans if in case any delays are foreseen.    Environment: Python, Pytest, Pylint, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Test Manager, See Test automation Tool, and TFS. Python Developer Alliance Data - Columbus, OH May 2016 to October 2016 Descriptions: This project involves design, development, and testing of physical inventory management for Alliance Data.    Responsibilities:  • Understand Requirements, conduct stakeholder analysis, Requirements Elicitation, Requirements analysis, and create Business Requirement Documents - BRD  • To develop the tools required for network inventory management for NBN's ground network using Python.  • Mentoring the team on critical design and deliveries.  • Querying the SpatialNet (database), and writing scripts for new tools.  • Enhancing the existing tools for new networks such as HFC, and Copper.  • Followed SNMP network protocol for collecting and organizing information across the connected resources.  • Unit testing to check the correctness of the data exported.  • Team leading, team building, and providing training.  • Working closely with testing team to discuss and understand the defects.  • Defect tracking and management with Jira and reporting it to client.  • Review of Functional Test Plan and Test Cases.    Environment: Python, PyCharm, Pyflakes, Spatial Net, MySQL, Spatial Info, Tortoise CVS, Eclipse, JavaScript, HTML, CSS. Java / Python Developer Virtusa - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to July 2015 Descriptions: The goal of monitoring concept is to prevent Electronic Throttle Control system from dangerous behaviors like sudden and strong acceleration without the intention of driver. It is accomplished by monitoring driver requests and system output, and by bringing the vehicle into safe state (no engine power or low engine power) in case of fault via resets.    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Designed and developed user interactive interfaces.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Performed database operations and queries using MySQL.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.    Environment: Java, Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, Shell Script, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer engineering Gujarat Technological University Master of Science in Computer Information System Florida Institute of Technology Skills .NET (1 year), Apache (1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Bugzilla (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Django (1 year), HTTP (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (1 year), JIRA (1 year), Linux (1 year), Microsoft Visual Studio (1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Python (3 years), Rational (Less than 1 year), real time (Less than 1 year), Red hat (Less than 1 year), SMTP (Less than 1 year), SQL (1 year), testing (2 years), Visual Studio (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages C, Embedded-C, Python, Django, Spark, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Shell Script  Tools Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, PyCharm, NetBeans, IDLE  Testing Tools Rational® Test Real Time, Bugzilla, and JIRA.  Databases Oracle, My SQL, Apache, Big Data,  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.