Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Genuine Parts Company • Overall5 years of IT experience in all facets of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), including requirements analysis, designing, coding, testing, and deployment.  • Over3 plus years of experience in Salesforce.com, service cloud and Force.com customizations as Developer andAdministrator.  • Extensively worked on various SFDC standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Leads, Campaigns, Cases, Solutions, Reports and Dashboards.  • Expert in customizing standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns as per client's need.  • Experience in Sales cloud, Service cloud, and Community Cloud.  • Experience in developing Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes for Automated alerts, new Tasks, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Hands on experience in implementation ofLightning components, Aura framework and Force.com platform.  • Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers.  • Worked on Process builder flows, Chatter and Quick Action.  • Experience in client-side technologies -HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS.  • Experience in developing SOAP Services (WSDL) using webservices and WCF services.  • Experienced in Data Migration using Apex Data Loader and Integration with third party tools.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Experience in developing the presentation layer in Visual force and business logic in the Apex by creating/using the Classes, Triggers, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers, SOQL, SOSL, Web Services API and Eclipse Force.com IDE Plug-in.  • Working knowledge of full software development cycle utilizing Agile methodologies - SCRUMand good Knowledge on Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Experience in using applications like JIRA, VERSION ONE for issue tracking and project management.  • Experience in upgrading from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages  • Assist users with Report and Dashboard requests.Worked closely with Sales, Marketing, Finance teams and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects if Salesforce.com (SFDC)  • In-depth understanding of SAAS, PAAS, and IAAS.  • Good knowledge on Salesforce CPQ (Configure Price Quote) process.  • Ability to meet deadlines and handle pressure in coordinating multiple tasks in a work/project environment. Versatile team player with excellent analytical and presentation skills.  • Strong understanding of fundamental business processes, excellent Communication and inter-personal skills with ability to work well in a dynamic team environment Work Experience Salesforce Developer Genuine Parts Company - Atlanta, GA 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed, and deployed Custom objects, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit application needs.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop the rich user interface and better interaction of pages  • Implemented Web-to-lead to track and solve leads from the website.  • Worked on Salesforce1 Platform to build Mobile App by enabling Lightning Components for use in Salesforce1mobile platform to make Lightning Application mobile.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications  • Created various profiles and configured permissions based on organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Implemented Service Cloud including Service Console, Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, Entitlements and Milestones, and Live Agent.  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud Call, Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of their sales teams.  • Implemented Salesforce Development Cycle covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud Call, Center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.  • Customized Service cloud with service console, Cases, Chatter Answers.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users.  • Customized Sales Cloud Account, Contact, Lead and Opportunity objects with multiple record types to support consulting, recruiting, and product sales business.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, junction objects, master-detail relationships, validation rules and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects and Developed UI containing angular/jQuery in Salesforce  • Worked on SOAP and REST Web Services POC's in Salesforce  • Worked on integrating 3rd part tools like Informatica.  • Designed, developed, tested and deployed custom Salesforce applications software using APEX Classes, Controller Classes, Batch APEX and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.    Environment:  Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Lightning Framework, Lightning Components, Aura Framework, CTI, Data Loader, Sales and Service cloud, HTML, Validation Rules, Page Layouts, Process Builder, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Lightning Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Northeastern University - Boston, MA 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization. Closely worked with other Salesforce.com consultants while implementing the solutions for the needs of the organization.  • Being the Administrator in the organization Created Profiles, Roles based on Organization role hierarchy and implemented Record-Level and Field-Level security and configured their sharing settings.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects. Also created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Worked on Service Cloud and Sales Cloud implementations.  • Designed, and developed Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application and worked in improving existing Apex code.  • Administrated and monitored the company's Salesforce CRM application.  • Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation, and email alert.  • Used Tabular, Summary, and Matrix reportcreating Standard reports and Custom reports.  • Troubleshooting and configuring Data Loader operations and running the Data Loader in batch mode.  • Worked on various salesforce objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Used Data loader to read, extract, and load data from comma-separated values (CSV) files.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and betterinteraction of pages.  • Responsible for Data load operations using Force.com, Apex Data Loader.  • Developed Validation rules to ensure Data integrity, and Cross-object formula fields to automatically calculate data based on other fields.  • Extensively worked with Customer Service, created and escalated Cases, configured Email-to-Case and Web-to-Case to direct cases, created Solutions and articles on Knowledge Base for various Cases.  • Configured Web-to-Lead functionality to gather Leads, converted them into Accounts, Contacts, and Opportunities, and worked with the Sales process.  • Conducted Knowledge Transfer to the Customer team to train them with understanding the system during the project implementation phase.  • Worked with the Senior Business Analyst to elicit, analyze and document solutions for some of the most complex business requirement.    Environment:  Saleforce.com platform, Service Cloud, Apex Language, Apex Scheduler, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Lookup and Maser Details Page, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, JavaScript, Java, Web Services, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer TCD Technologies - Houston, TX 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Working with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards  • Develop various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages  • Build page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages  • Create workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic  • Setup templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes  • Develop and configure various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization  • Worked with Apex Data loader for loading the Leads, Opportunities and their related activities into salesforce.com.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.    Environment:  Saleforce.com platform, APEX Language, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, HTML, JavaScript, Web Services, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Java Developer Genpact - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Involved in the database retrieval and connections established to the SQL Server.  • Implemented various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Designed and Developed Session Beans necessary for various functionalities.  • Designed and developed DAO's to implement the business logic.  • Implemented spring architecture and increased modularity by allowing the separation of cross-cutting concerns using Spring AOP.  • Designed Restful client utilizing POSTMAN plugin, utilized Jersey implementation of JAX-RS specification to design the Restful web service. Handled various types of HTTP requests like PUT, POST, DELETE, and GET etc. from client to web service, dealt with the various type of Text, XML, and JSON requests.  • Involved in Java Multithreading programming.    Environment:  HTML, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle, JSP, SOAP, WSDL, Spring framework, Apache Tomcat, Hibernate, JavaScript, Angular JS, Eclipse, XML, SQL, PL-SQL. Education Bachelor's JNTU - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Master's in Information Assurance Wilmington University Skills ECLIPSE (5 years), HTML (5 years), APEX (4 years), LOADER (4 years), WEB SERVICES (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  CRM Tools Salesforce.com, Lightning Application, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Chatter, Communities, Service Console.  SFDC Technologies  Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visualforce (Pages, Components, and Controllers), Apex Data Loader, Partner and Enterprise WSDL, Apex Web Services, AJAX, Dashboards, Reports, Standard/Custom Objects, Force.com IDE, Eclipse.    Programming Languages Apex, SQL, SOQL, SOSL, PL/SQL, Java, C, Java Script, SQL, XML, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON.  Data migration Tools Apex Data Loader, Custom Import wizard  Web Services SOAP API, REST API  Databases MS SQL Server 2000 / 2005, Oracle 10g, My SQL, MS Access