SailPoint Developer SailPoint <span class="hl">Developer</span> SailPoint Developer - Manhattan Associates • About 5 years of experience in Sailpoint IdentityIQ, identity management and developing enterprise applications using Java, J2EE.  • Extensive experience in various versions of IIQ including 6.2, 6.3 and 7.0.  • Strong knowledge of the RBAC concepts and implementation experience.  • Very proficient in developing forms, workflows, policies and rules within IIQ.  • Experience in configuring and customizing JML events and workflows.  • Experience working with both life cycle manager and compliance manager modules.  • Hands on experience onboarding different types of applications into IIQ.  • Experience in configuring and customizing different types of access reviews.  • Understanding of Okta administration for SSO solution.  • Experience in developing custom workflows and rules in BeanShell.  • Experienced in developing applications using Java, J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, JSF and Java Web Services), JDK, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  • Experience in developing Web services using technologies like SOAP, REST, SAML, and OAuth  • Experience in providing documentation including requirement and design specification.  • Assist QA team by providing test cases and unit testing.  • Proficient and capable of performing upgrades and code migration processes.  • Knowledgeable of different industry best practices around implementing IIQ.  • Experience working with small and large teams and an excellent team player.  • Ability to multi task and work well under pressure.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Work Experience SailPoint Developer Manhattan Associates - Alpharetta, GA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on custom tasks for aggregation threshold check to manage JDBC application account aggregations.  • Configured event based and continuous certifications for manager and application owner review  • Experience integrating IIQ with ITSM tools like ServiceNow.  • Developed custom rules for certifications like Exclusion rules, sign-off approver rules, delegation rules period enter rules.  • Worked on logical applications with complex account matching rules.  • Worked on custom IIQ connectors to ESB integration and unsupported versions of ticketing systems  • Managed service accounts and developed rules around maintaining service accounts in IIQ  • Configured the Application using AD, Flat file, JDBC and LDAP connectors to load the Identity Cubes.  • Created the IdentityIQ Quick links, Forms, Rules, and Custom Objects to design the workflows  • Conducted interviews with application teams to gather details around connection, usage and importance to the compliance regulations.  • Created rule for aggregation of different applications to change the status on links to match the actual status of the application account.  • Created rules for data manipulation and data cleanup.  • Designed and developed SOD policies and advanced policies to accommodate the requirements for access requests. SailPoint Developer Sanofi - Bridgewater, NJ November 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on role definitions and role based birthright provisioning  • Created custom workflows for contractor extensions and employee provisioning  • Developed and configured lifecycle events for user transfer, user terminate and native change detection  • Upgraded IIQ to latest versions from various existing versions including 6.0, 6.1, 6.4, 7.0, 7.1 and 7.2  • Experience in unit testing and detailed test cases to assist in UAT and SIT  • Created multiple run books, requirements specification and technical specification documents  • Customized the access request workflow to support multiple approval levels for different application types  • Coordinated with operations in getting their problems solved and having their queries answered  • Performed POC of Access Review (Certifications) to Governance and Higher Management so that detailed requirement documents can be prepared  • Customized UI to enable their Logos and Branding.  • Rename/Relabelling of application titles.  • Replaced legacy forms for application access wirth access request portal functionality in IIQ.  • Designed and developed custom workflows with multi-level approval and time-based escalation for approval process, profile update and self-service, changing the profile of user and modifications to groups.  • Developed custom rules, forms and policies using XML and BeanShell.  • Scheduled tasks using cron settings on task definition from the debug page. SailPoint Developer Ericsson - Piscataway, NJ October 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Assisted with Provisioning Team for application to get the User Access Management model to make it suitable to IIQ.  • Created customized report for disabled and uncorrelated accounts for various applications.  • Analyzed the completion status of different certification types like application owner, manager, entitlement owner, advanced etc.,  • Configured different reports in IIQ like Identity Reports, Account Discrepancy reports, Orphan Account reports, Application attribute reports and Role composition report etc.  • Designed and developed policies for access request and training.  • Customized the identity object configuration with new identity mappings with multiple sources and targets.  • Configured and scheduled aggregation and refresh tasks with cron jobs to execute at custom intervals.  • Wrote the rules in Beanshell like Aggregation rules, Application rules, connector rules, identity trigger rules, policy rules and certification rules.  • Involved in code reviews that would allow developers to review code within the team.  • Developed and managed entitlements and logical applications with custom rules. Java Developer Posidex Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Followed AGILE Methodology with SCRUM Meetings and involved in maintaining Sprint backlogs during the development cycles.  • Configured Spring XML files from scratch.  • Integrated Spring with Struts MVC framework, developed Use cases for project and Batch Jobs using Quartz Job scheduler  • Designed and developed client-side GUI using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, jQuery.  • Developed and deployed EJB's, Servlets and JSPs on JBoss Server.  • Reviewed and approved use cases artifacts in analysis and design stages and performed manual J2EE source code walk-thru.  • Took part in iteration & resource planning and organizational restructuring.  • Suggested best practices, agile methodologies and source code optimization techniques in J2EE programming (JSPs and Servlets). Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Osmania University Master's in Information Assurance in Information Assurance Wilmington University Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:    Identity and Access Management (IAM) SailPoint IIQ 6.x and 7.x.  Languages BeanShell, Java, SQL, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, JBoss And Glassfish  Java API J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Java Beans, Applet, AWT  Version control tool SVN (Subversion), GitHub.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, LINUX, Solaris  IDE's NetBeans, Eclipse  Skills Active Directory, ANT, Toad, XML, LDAP, AWS