Programmer Programmer Programmer Elmhurst, NY Work Experience Programmer Dexter Robot Arm Build - New York, NY February 2018 to May 2018 • Assembled 3D printed parts together to build robot arm.  • Wire harness, programming FPGA board and calibration to perform specific task in DDE.  • Performed auto writing and gripper application.    SKILLS & OTHER INTERESTS  • Skills:  Program Languages: Java, Python, C, C++.  Framework: Spring, SSH, SSM, Spring MVC.  Database: MYSQL, Oracle  Front end: HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, jQuery, ajax, Easy UI.  Tools: Eclipse, SVN, Maven, JDK, Power Designer, Free Marker, H Builder.  Operating System: Windows, Linux.  • Interests: Make new friends, Travel, Cooking. Java software developer Pansoft - Xi'an, CN February 2017 to July 2017 • Responsible for business needs analysis, business data modeling and design.  • Responsible for the detailed design, function development, unit testing and code optimization of the assigned functional modules.  • Follow the development management process, compile and improve the design documents.  • Provide technical support for other modules.  • In-service mainly to complete the task assigned by the leadership, the realization of some functional modules, in-service familiarity with the software development process, can independently complete the documentation and module coding. Java software developer Lei Shi Wan Ting Information Technology Company - Jinan, CN June 2016 to January 2017 • Responsible for the overall business development coding, in which many JS enhanced interaction;  • Responsible for the city profile module, including participating in the design of database related tables, the implementation of related business logic, front-end dynamic cascade operation, partial refresh of ajax, etc.  • Participated in the development of user identity authentication module. The main purpose is to use Spring MVC's interceptor to read user information from cookie. Check user information and release. Unable to find user information, login has expired and needs to jump to login interface. Java software development internship Shandong Ming An Information Technology Company - Jinan, CN October 2015 to May 2016 • Responsible for the registration of users in the user system, login Association management, responsible for the rights module, log module development.  • Providing technical support for other modules.  • Using power Designer modeling tool to design database permissions related tables.  • Assisting in the development of other modules, such as the use of Ajax technology to develop the front-end verification code function, login registration module function.    EXTRACURRICULAR & LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Software Engineering New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY May 2019 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Electronic and Circuit Design Shandong University - Jinan, CN May 2016