Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - ConnectiveRX Fairfield, NJ ? Around 7+ years of experience in development and implementation of Web-based Client-Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies (Front-End & Back-End)  ? Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, angular.js, Grunt js, Responsive design.  ? Experience in the full software development life cycle involving Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation of Java/J2EE application software in web-based environments along with diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing and building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology & open source applications.  ? Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  ? Experience in creating comprehensive web applications using MEAN stack implemented with MS SQL, Express, Angular 2/4/5 and Node.js, Java 8.  ? Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components(Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), Pivotal Cloud Fundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  ? Experience with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  ? Conduct in-house and public workshops and training seminars: Extreme Programming, Test-Driven Development, Agile Development, .NET Development, Design Patterns, "Communicating with Tests" seminar.  ? Worked on creating different screen using ExtJs worked on writing some Extjs Plugin.  ? Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  ? Architecting and implementing Portfolio Recommendation Analytics Engine using Hadoop MR, Oozie, Spark SQL, Spark Mlib and Cassandra.  ? Expertise in using configuration management tool like CVS and GIT for version controlling.  ? Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Incremental and Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model.  ? Knowledge of Multithreading/synchronization, NoSQL Database: MongoDB.  ? Experienced in Collected logs data from various sources and integrated in to HDFS using Flume and experience in developing custom UDFs for Hive.  ? Experienced in testing data in HDFS and Hive for each transaction of data.  ? Experienced in importing and exporting data using Sqoop from HDFS to Relational Database Systems and vice-versa.  ? Experienced with Akka building high performance and reliable distributed applications in Java and Scala.  ? Knowledge and experience in job work-flow scheduling and monitoring tools like Oozie and Zookeeper.  ? Hands on experience in Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, C#, JavaScript.  ? Knowledge of Eclipse tool for the development of Java projects.  ? Hands on experience Struts and Spring.  ? Good experience in Shell programming.  ? Knowledge in configuration and managing - Cloudera's Hadoop platform along with CDH3&4 clusters. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer ConnectiveRX - Fairfield, NJ February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript (client-side validations), JQuery and AJAX.  ? Developed the DAO layer with Mongo DB by writing Mongo queries.  ? Worked on upgrading the Mongo DB version from 2.4 to 2.6.  ? Used Scala for coding the components in Play and Akka.  ? Used scala scripts for spark machine learning libraries API execution for decision trees, ALS, logistic and linear regressions algorithms.  ? Developed Replica of AWS Cloud Search Domain Configuration Using Java Code.  ? Worked in developing front end technologies such as java script, Angular 2.0/4.0, JQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, JSP and Struts 1.0/2.0.  ? Strong experience with Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Cloud Foundry, Netflix OSS stack.  ? Proven ability in developing BDD scripts with Cucumber and writing step definitions for behaviour  ? Experience in Automation testing using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit and Maven.  ? Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework  ? Responsible for overall Docker & Kubernetes setup, configuration and Architecture.  ? Configured and maintained a large-scale Docker based PaaS environment using kubernetes  ? Used React JS and Node JS to develop faster, scalable application.  ? Developed single page applications using Angular 5, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  ? Research about of JBPM process engine for use in the implementation of Flow Control System of People.  ? Linux and windows servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services.  ? Proficient in writing Cloud Formation Templates (CFT) in YAML and JSON format to build the AWS services with the paradigm of Infrastructure as a Code.  ? Implemented dozer mapping service to map entity properties into domain properties and jackson parsing for input JSON to REST endpoints.  ? Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, web server speeds, data processing and more using D3, Backbone.js.  ? Involved in designing and deploying AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), auto scaling groups.  ? Experience in deploying the Cassandra cluster in cloud, on premises, data storage and disaster recovery.  ? Experience in designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language.  ? Created web application prototype using jQuery and Backbone.Js.  ? Expert in implementing unified data platform to gather data from different sources using Kafka and Java Producers and consumers.  ? Involved in design and development of keyword-driven automation framework using Selenium Webdriver.  ? Currently working on developing Server less functioning using AWS lambda with JAVA 8.  ? Worked on different Automation tooling techniques to support reporting/development and the CI/CD pipeline.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  ? Worked on Integration of Spring and Hibernate Frameworks using Spring ORM Module.  ? Developed software components for the Microkernel team using JAVA8 /J2EE.  ? Used Jenkins Continuous Integration build server to perform Pull Requests and Dev environment builds.  ? Hands on Experience on Angular 2 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular 2.  ? Involved in development of different modules using Spring boot framework, Restful Web Services, JPA and integrate the modules.  ? Built RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Big Data needs and remain insulated from rapid technology changes in the NoSQL field.  ? All the functionality of the application is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  ? Performed multiple functions like configuring jobs and pipelines using Jenkins, troubleshooting problems from build failures and test failures, as a part of CI/CD process  ? Used Jenkins Continuous Integration build server to perform Pull Requests and Dev environment builds.  ? Involved in development of different modules using Spring boot framework, Restful Web Services, JPA and integrate the modules.  ? Involved in architecture, design, development of projects in AJAX based Java Script with Dojo toolkit and JSON API with JSP.  ? Design and manipulation of JBPM process for the client activities in order to manage the people queue for each activity.  ? Wrote RESTful services on the server in NodeJS to listen to requests from devices.  ? Implemented Service oriented architecture (SOA) using RESTful web services.  ? Designed and developed a RESTful hub application which resolved the Single-Sign-On authentication of the target secured REST services.  ? Used Microservice with Spring Boot interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  ? Used J2EE SOA based JAX-WS web services to develop reusable web service components.  ? Configured Hibernate-ORM to map java objects such as clients and claims with database tables.  ? Involved in a project Development using Spring Web Flow and Hybris and developed front-end UI with JSF Richfaces, Backbone.js, JQuery, CSS3 Dojo and AJAX.  ? Implemented Micro services which contain the shared functionality that all business units inside the application may perform the same.  ? Validated web services manually and through automation.  ? Used svn for version control and used IBM RAD 6.0 for implementing the application.  ? Involved in developing and maintaining services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and spring MVC Framework.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JAXB, RESTful, CSS3, JSON, Node.js, AJAX,JQuery, React.js, Big Data, SparkSpark, YARN, HIVE, Pig, Scala, Python, Hadoop, Kibana, AWS, Dynamo DB, Kibana, Cloudera, EMR, JDBC, Redshift, NOSQL, Sqoop, MYSQL. Sr. Java Developer V2 Solutions - Santa Clara, CA March 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.  ? Micro services using the Akka reactive framework, functional programming using Java and Scala,  ? Worked with other engineers to design, implement, test, and tune features of MarkLogic Server, including EC2 integration, system monitoring, flexible replication, and forest replica failover. Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  ? Involved in complete Agile/SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  ? Involved in all the different stage of SDLC like requirement gathering, High level design, Low level design reviews, Coding, Code reviews and defect fixing etc.  ? Used client-side scripting languages such as Java Script and JQuery.  ? Implemented continuous integration & deployment (CICD) through Jenkins for Hadoop jobs  ? Experience in different Hadoop distributions like Cloudera (CDH3 & CDH4) and Horton Works Distributions (HDP) and MapR 2.  ? Worked on UI for Layered Security and S&L modules and hands on experience with Spark streaming to receive real time data using Kafka.  ? Used Amazon AWS (EC2/S3/EBS) for prototyping and subsequent evaluation.  ? Reduced server build time over 80% through the use of Powershell scripting, this included server settings, clustering, MS SQL and SAN configuration.  ? Implemented procedures for data storage management and modeling using Cloud base technologies.  ? Implemented continuous integration & deployment (CICD) through Jenkins for Hadoop jobs  ? Experience in different Hadoop distributions like Cloudera (CDH3 & CDH4) and Horton Works Distributions (HDP) and MapR 2.  ? Implemented procedures for data storage management and modeling using Cloud base technologies.  ? Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Servicesfor our new clients used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services.  ? Experience in performance tuning a Cassandra cluster to optimize writes and reads  ? Experienced in defining Application Deployment Solution on Docker based PaaS environment and migrating applications to Kubernetes and Docker platform  ? Replicated database from Oracle12g to SQL Server 2016 (Snapshot replication and Transactional replication).  ? Developed the Application making use Java 8's new Streams API and parallel Streams to partition the streams.  ? Implementation of Struts - Configuration Files, Validation Files, Interceptors, Filters, Listeners for Modules.  ? Implemented continuous integration & deployment (CICD) through Jenkins for Hadoop jobs  ? Experience in creating Models, Controllers, Templates, Custom Directives, Components, Filters and Services in Angular.JS.  ? Create and manage Spring Boot micro-services with REST endpoints.  ? Conducted Automation testing using the Standards, guidelines and structured methodology in testing the application.  ? Developed Kafka consumers to consume data from Kafka topics.  ? Selected the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements  ? Used PL/SQL to create Packages, Functions, and Procedure.  ? Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections  ? Used JSTL and developed required tiles and tile definitions for templating and defined configuration in the struts configuration.xml.  ? Created reusable Angular.js html templates using custom templates.  ? Resolve Micros xStore issues, restore databases, re-image and replace devices  ? Processing data ingestion and entity resolution using Hadoop and Pig.  ? Applied Hadoop MapReduce to reduce processing time from two weeks per year of data to one day.  ? Developed business layer using EJB stateless session beans and deployed on the Application server (Web logic).  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  ? Built restful web services using MongoDB/Node.JS and implemented the front-end using jQuery and Angular.JS controllers, directives, and service.  ? Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript  ? Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database.  ? Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server.  ? Creating Angular Services using factory services to implement the business logic.  ? Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries.  ? Proficient in using SVN for Version Control.  ? Actively involved in code reviews and also in bug fixing.    Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Ant, Elastic, Struts, Angular, POS, DOJO, Drools, Hbase, Solr, Marklogic, spring, MICROS, Kibana, Hibernate, RSA, WebSphere Application Server, DB2, Agile, XML, LDAP. Java Developer Mayo Clinic - New York, NY October 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design and documentation of the application model.  ? Tuning of the SQL queries, which takes long time to process the request using Explain Plan, Hints to reduce the response time.  ? Involved in designing re-usable schemas and XML components using XML Spy, SOAP, XML, DTD, and XML Schemas for web and EAI services for system integration  ? Involved in developing Java/JEE based Enterprise Applications and Integration Layer.  ? Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services, used Mongo DB (NoSQL) for database services.  ? Developed GUI using Java Script, HTML/HTML5,CSS3 and JQuery in ongoing projects.  ? Design & Development of Presentation Layer using JSF MVC Architecture  ? Involved in functional phase to map the requirements and provided analysis and feedback on Design documents.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, HTML5  ? Developed major websites and services by including Mongo DB and cassandra as backend software.  ? Developed services and applications using Java with the Spring Framework (Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Security, etc.) and Hibernate.  ? Back-end Java developer for Data Management Platform (DMP). Building RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Big Data needs and remain insulated from rapid technology changes in the NoSQL field.  ? Used Node JS, React JS, Backbone framework for developing Single Page Application.  ? Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Factory Design Pattern and Singleton Design Pattern.  ? Used spring framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate.  ? Experience with Python, Hadoop, Mongo DB.  ? Developed and Implemented new UI's using Angular JS and HTML  ? Developed Spring Configuration for dependency injection by using Spring IOC, Spring Controllers.  ? Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology with or without framework like Bootstrap.  ? Implementing Spring MVC and IOC methodologies.  ? Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha, Spring data, JPA.  ? Implemented application specific exception handling and logging frame work using Log4j  ? Involved in developing the component which provides the required information to Reporting system to generate the trend analysis reports for user attempts, success, user failures and system failures.  ? Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM' and tested the application in each iteration.  ? Involved in with xml, MVC, Backbone, svn Synfony2.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate, WebLogic, SOAP, JAXP, JAXB, Oracle, SQL , JUNIT. Java Developer BB&T - Winston-Salem, NC August 2012 to September 2013 Developed the user interface components using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery and also created custom tags.  ? Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency.  ? Used the features of Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring AOP, Spring ORM layer and Spring DAO support layer in order to develop the application.  ? Used TOAD as database tool for running SQL queries.  ? Involved in Hibernate mappings, configuration properties set up, creating sessions, transactions and second level cache set up.  ? Planning and setting up of Continuous Integration for various properties on Jenkins with Commit, Component, Assembly, Deploy and Smoke jobs.  ? Built and Deployed Java/J2EE to a web application server in an Agile continuous integration environment and also automated the whole process.  ? Wrote test cases in Junit for unit testing of classes  ? Involved in templates and screens in HTML and JavaScript.  ? Involved in integrating Web Services using WSDL and UDDI.  ? Built and deployed Java applications into multiple Unix based environments and produced both unit and functional test results along with release notes.  ? Extensively involved in the development of backend logic or data access logic using Hibernate and thus creating the object relational mapping with the Java beans in the application.  ? Install & Configure Oracle Fusion Middleware products on Linux environments.  ? Work involving Oracle FMW products (SOA Suite, OSB, ODI, Web Center, and WebLogic).    Environment: JAVA, Java Script, HTML, JDBC Drivers, SOAP Web Services, UNIX, Shell scripting, SQL Server. Education Bachelor's Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Html, Javascript, Pig, Python, Xml, Xslt, Cassandra, Css, Dhtml, Jdbc, Microsoft access, Oracle, Java J2Ee, Spring Additional Information Technical Skills:  ? Java/J2EE Technologies: JDBC, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, JQuery  ? Languages: Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, Pig Latin, HQL, R, Python, XPath, Spark  ? Frameworks: MVC Struts, spring, Hibernate.  ? Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, Microsoft Access, MS SQL  ? No SQL Databases: Cassandra, mongo DB, Kibana  ? Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XSLT, EME AWS.  ? Web/Application servers: Apache Tomcat6.0/7.0/8.0, JBoss  ? Operating Systems: UNIX, Ubuntu Linux and Windows, Centos, Sun Solaris.  ? Network protocols: TCP/IP fundamentals, LAN and WAN.  ? Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC, Extreme Programming, Test-Driven Development and Scrum. Certified ScrumMaster  ? Automation Tools: Selenium RC, Selenium Webdriver, Selenium Grid, Selenium IDE and AutoIT.