Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Boeing Chicago, IL • Around 6 years of competitive work experience in Software Design, Development, Maintenance, and Enhancement & Implementation of Enterprise applications using Java, J2EE technologies with strong Object-Oriented Programming skills.  • Proficient and strong working knowledge of J2EE Architectural & Design Patterns, SOAP Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, REST, e Frame work, Struts, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS, EJB, Hibernate.  • Having strong Experience with Web Service Applications using User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript & UI Libraries/Frameworks, Angular JS, Angular 2 , 4, React JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XSLT, AJAX, jQuery, JSON.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple dB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon CloudFront).  • Deployment, performance & scalability fine-tuning web/application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Pramati& Tomcat.  • Expertise in Spring framework, including Spring IoC, Spring DAO support, Spring ORM, Spring Microservices, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Cache, Spring Integration, Spring Boot, and Spring REST.  • Expertise in Developing applications using Restful Web Services, SOAP, Java, J2EE, Servlets, EJB, JPA, WebSphere Commerce, Hibernate, Spring Framework, Jasper Reports Server, Ext js, JSP, JMS, Struts, XML, Eclipse, NetBeans, jQuery, Visual Source Safe, CVS, SVN, JDBC, JNDI, JIRA, ANT, Maven, IReport, Apache Tiles, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Web flow, Spring Data JPA, JSF, ICE faces, HTML and Java Scripts.  • Expertise in developing Microservices using Spring Boot and Node JS to build more physically separated modular applications which will improve scalability, Availability, Agility of application.  • Experience and familiarity building modern Spring applications with Spring Boot.  • Experience in Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS.  • Experience in making Junit and Test NG test cases and executed as part of auto build process from Jenkins Jobs.  • Hands on experience in designing and implementation of Selenium WebDriver Automation Framework for Smoke test and Regression test using TestNG.  • Experience in developing end to end automation using Selenium WebDriver, Grid, POM, Junit, TestNG, Cucumber, Object Repository, Web Services (REST, SOAP).  • Excellent knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and triggers to interact with SQL, MySQL, Oracle databases.  • Experience in Maven pom.xml and as CICD tool Jenkins CI and Configured Log4j for logging mechanism. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Boeing - Chicago, IL June 2018 to Present • As a Java Developer on the project worked with JavaScript, ES6, React, Redux Saga, RESTful services, HTML5/CSS3/SASS/Bootstrap and Gitlab.  • Currently using Jenkins pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Implemented Redux Saga's with actions and reducers to implement a sync API calls.  • Worked on redux saga middleware to access redux application state and dispatched redux actions.  • Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Worked in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Used TestNG for white box testing of application. Created test conditions/test data.  • Extensive experience in working on Keyword Driven, Data Driven and Hybrid framework using Selenium Web Driver.  • Worked on Jenkins to deploy web services to cloud so CICD (Continuous Integration Continuous Delivery) goals are achieved and code quality metrics are met.  • Designed and implemented topics in new Kafka cluster in all environment & successfully secured the Kafka cluster with Kerberos.  • Implemented Kafka Security Features using SSL & further with more grain-fines security I set up Kerberos to have users and groups this will enable more advanced security features.  • Extensive experience in using Firefox Add-ons like Selenium IDE, Firebug, Fire Path, Selenium Builder.  • Worked on leading frameworks as React.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  • Involved in creating tables and worked on My SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions in the application and packages for complex Inserts and updates in the database.  • Involved in Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and implemented the Error Handling in the Stored Procedures and SQL objects and Modified already existing stored  • Used Java 8, REST, and Spring Framework for developing the application. Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with Spring to interact with the Cassandra Database from the DAO.  • Extensively worked on Java persistence layer in application migration to Cassandra using Spark to load data to and Cassandra Cluster.  • Developed Customized Spring Multi Action controllers for handling similar operations and configured spring and Spring JDBC frameworks to develop full-fledged MVC and DB interaction application.  • Worked on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement analysis, Design, Development, Testing, and Maintenance.  • Used AJAX based on JQUERY, and JSON technologies for making Asynchronous Http requests along with JavaScript.  • Followed TDD approach and creating environment for unit testing, user-acceptance testing and facilitating Integration tests with JUNIT, TESTNG, Selenium tests and Swagger-UI.  • Developed Automated selenium tests using testing and executor service where 2 actors can sign documents in parallel.  • Developed the components using Angular 6 needed for the application from the scratch and customizing from various Angular related libraries to meet the application's functionality.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 6 and typescript.  • Configured Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, Maven tool and created Selenium automation scripts in java using TestNG prior to agile release.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for RESTAPI's and Spring Boot for Microservices.  • Used Hibernate Criteria API to apply filtration rules and logical conditions on persistence objects.  • Build servers using AWS which includes importing necessary volumes, launching the EC2 instance, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers, Route 53 and SNS as per the architecture.  • Managed Chef Cookbooks to automate system operations and AWS Cloud management.  • Developed applications based on MVC frameworks such as Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto-Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  • Used Hibernate as an Object Relational Mapping tool for the data persistence.  • Developed Spring REST web services to serve multiple applications across the organization. The data is provided in Json and used Jackson library. Also, consumed REST web services.  • Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Bootstrap and LESS CSS which is further integrated with Web Services.  • Used Json to fetch data from CA groups and load in customer application.  • Conducted analysis of organizational needs and goals for the development and implementation of the application systems by involving with business personnel.  • Worked on AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting of EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), Elastic Search and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Worked on Creating AWS Route 53 to route traffic between different regions.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and Configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS used for sending bulk emails.  • Developed the micro services using Spring Sleuth, Config Server and NETFLIX OSS (Eureka, Hystrix, and Zuul).  • Worked on containerization using tools like Docker and Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under docker host.  • Worked on JDK 8 to write the code on functional interfaces, default methods in interfaces and filters using Stream.  • Installed Ranger in all environments for Second Level of security in Kafka Broker.  • Developed an internal application using ReactJS, Nextjs, Express and NodeJS for Relationship Mangers.  • Worked on Oracle (PL/SQL) database and wrote HQL query to access the data from the database. Used Annotations in Hibernate mapping.  • Used Apache Camel to implement Java Message Service (JMS) API for sending and receiving email notifications to the employee about notifications to their portal.  • Used GIT as Version Control and iText to generate pdf in the form of a tree. Done unit testing using Test NG & used GIT as version management & JIRA for defect management system.  • Developed all the user interfaces using JSP, Servlets and Spring framework also developed the DAO layer using Hibernate and used the caching system for real-time performance.  • Worked on object-oriented analysis and design using UML (uses cases, domain model, Activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, reports generation, reverse engineering) with tool Rational Rose.  • Created Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade.  • Developed Flex Custom Events for communication between various components and for Event Bubbling.  • Created error handling framework and persisted all the business validation errors and application error in to IFP error table.  • Used various J2EE design patterns in the project such as Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Data Access Object.  • Developed Flex Custom Events for communication between various components and for Event Bubbling.  • Utilized JavaScript to present a data entry form that when submitted transferred form information to the digital stamp placed on the PDF form. Java Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA February 2016 to June 2018 • As a java developer involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM Manipulation also migrated the existing environment and applications into Java8 and Tomcat 8 on Test Server.  • Worked on Tomcat Server domain using upgraded version& extensively used MVC architecture and Tomcat for deployment purposes.  • Created the build instructions docs and used to run weekly production build and release tags for all the applications.  • Implemented TestNG automation framework is that the crucial functions of the application and implemented Regression Test to verify the existing functionality.  • Spring MVC and Hibernate was used for developing java REST services on the back end.  • Used the feature of React JS of running the server and rendering the virtual DOM, returning to the browser as a regular page.  • Built S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and used S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Worked on creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases for each Java class that is being developed for this application using a mocking framework Mockito using Test Driven Development technique.  • Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building services and develop Spring based application with minimal configuration.  • Done the installing and configuring Confluent Kafka in R&D line, also Validate the installation with HDFS connector and Hive connectors.  • Used Storm and Kafka Services to push data to HBase and Hive tables & installed Kafka cluster with separate nodes for brokers.  • Integrated Kafka with Flume in sand box Environment using Kafka source and Kafka sink.  • Created Automation script using Selenium WebDriver and executed scripts on different browsers  • Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  • Used Web API's Media Type Formatter into JSON, XML or whatever format you want to add as a Media Type Formatter.  • Developed various web pages and components using Angular 6 by implementing predefined components from Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  • Used Babel to Transpile ES6 and JSX code into JavaScript that can load on the browser.  • Used JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS ( Java API for XML and RESTful Service).  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Worked under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE)&used Clear Case Version Control for Project Configuration Management.  • Used Spring Configuration Annotation for easy configuration, hibernate JPA Annotation in POJO classes as well as Spring Annotation across the spring boot application.  • Worked on Jenkins pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Created REST API's Microservices and EJB using Express Router/Model/Controller architecture.  • Developed the Spring Features such as Spring MVC, Spring DAO and implemented Spring AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming) using Hibernate ORM (Object Relational Mapping)  • Developed to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  • & built Spring based Java and Scala Microservices to support Enterprise Web application  • Written various AWS Lambda services for automating the process of taking EBS Snapshots every day in production environment on the cloud.  • Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk. Integrated delivery (CI and CD) using Jenkins and Ansible.  • Configured Route 53 by using CFT templates, assigned the DNS mapping for the AWS servers and trouble-shoot the issues of the load balancer's, auto scaling groups and Route 53.  • Converted commercial QTP Scripts to open source Selenium WebDriver scripts to maximize the profits of the company without compromising Quality.  • Created Database on Influx DB also worked on Interface, created for Kafka also checked the measurements on Databases.  • Worked on Kafka Backup Index, Log4j appender minimized logs and Pointed Ambari server logs to NAS Storage.  • Developed a front-end application using React Js and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Worked on React Js and working with React Flux architecture for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through REST endpoints.  • Used Tiles Plug-in to struts for designing JSP page layouts and in cooperating with common menus.  • Creating the project startup UI i.e. Generic XHTML face let templates error handling, data tables using JSF.  • Interacted with the business teams and worked on modeling the database schema and created tables queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, database triggers.  • Installed Kafka manager for consumer lags and for monitoring Kafka Metrics also this has been used for adding topics, Partitions etc.  • Created and enhanced numerous test scripts to handle changes in the objects, in the tested application's GUI and in the testing, environment using Selenium WebDriver.  • Involved in solving the issues related to PROD, TEST server environments also developed reports using Crystal Reports.  • Developed and continuously deployed java-based applications using CICD techniques.  • Performed Verification and validation process for the code written by making use of JavaScript testing frameworks Jasmine and Karma.  • Developed API driven RWA's by integrating Angular with Bootstrap and API's.  • Extensively used JavaScript library D3.js for manipulating documents based on data and for data-driven approach to DOM manipulation.  • Used Subversion (SVN) as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.  • Work on project build-script by using MAVEN and deployed on Tomcat also used log4J for enabling logging and debugging at run time.  • Used JMS ( Java Mailing Service) API to mail notifications upon success or failure when the backend processes are completed and to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems. Java Developer Café Coffee Day - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2013 to June 2015 • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA ( Java Persistence API) and deployed Microservices onto Docker also created RFP microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Microservices.  • Built components using JSX in React.js for rich user interface view, used web pack-built tool and Babel-Loader for transpiling JSX and ES6 to ES5. Redux for state management, to store the whole state of the app in an immutable object tree.  • Created responsive UI modules using Backbone JS with hard coded dependency of underscore JS in combination with Handlebar JS for templating.  • Used Cloud-watch for monitoring AWS cloud resources and the applications that deployed on AWS by creating new alarm, enable notification service.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Designed AWS CloudFormation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  • Managed multi-store state logic to maintain single source of truth and created Actions, Reducers, dumb components and smart components.  • Built applications using React.js which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  • Developed a single page, mobile first, cross device/cross browser web application for real time location sharing utilizing Angular JS and JavaScript API.  • Coded extensively in jQuery with Bootstrap to make rich Internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website.  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Created both Manual and Automation Test Scripts using Selenium WebDriver and JAVA Technologies (Eclipse IDE).  • Created reusable ReactJS components and implemented Redux Pattern into the solution to maintain the stable and always updated Application state.  • Used React.js in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Used Backbone JS to utilize its minimal set of data-structuring (models and collections) and user interface (views and URLs) primitives for building MVC work flow design  • Created JSP, JavaScript, JQUERY & HTML, extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table and Hash Set.  • Worked with JAXB, used JBoss Application Server that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE)  • Involved in Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  • Developed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagrams using UML/Rational Rose, used Spring MVC to decouple business logic and view components, involved in developing/coding the core framework classes and developed web services using JAX-WS to make use of existing applications.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Involved in requirement analysis & client interaction, Responsible for Writing Hibernate mapping XML Files, HQL. Education Master's in Computer & Information Science Wayne State University - Detroit, MI August 2015 to May 2017 Skills Java, Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate