Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - UBS NJ • Around 6+ years of experience in the IT industry with expertise in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, and Testing of Object Oriented applications using Java and J2EE.  • Experienced working with different Software methodologies like Agile Scrum and Waterfall model. Hands on experience in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Hands on experience in Requirement Analysis, High-level design using Design Patterns and Object-Oriented Programming.  • Experience using J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, DAO, Singleton and Facade Pattern for reusing most efficient and effective strategies for new development.  • Strong hands-on experience with Spring MVC Controllers, Spring Annotations, Spring Tag Library, Inversion of Control (IOC), Spring Boot, Spring DAO, Spring ORM (Hibernate)  • Good Knowledge on developing the UI pages from scratch using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading.  • Having knowledge on Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces, and Parallel Streams.  • Experience with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Node JS. Developed and consumed web services using SOAP and REST.  • Expertise in developing MVC architecture for web based applications using Spring MVC framework and Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP & REST)  • Have Experience on REST Micro services using Spring Boot for the customers to consume data.  • Familiar with web services formats XML and JSON.  • Hands on Experience with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ.  • Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between the applications.  • Developed and consumed RESTful Web Services in multiple projects.  • Extensive experience in developing producers & customers in Kafka to build a data pipeline.  • Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL Procedures / Functions, Triggers and Packages on Database (RDBMS) packages like Oracle 11g, MySQL.  • Good experience in working with Web/Application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and/or Web Logic, JBOSS.  • Worked on CI/CD tools for creating Jenkins jobs, trigger the build and perform release cuts of the application.  • Expertise in using version control tools like SVN and GIT, CVS.  • Expertise in creating build files using ANT, MAVEN, and logging using Log4J.  • Experience in Logging and tracing tool like log4j and SPLUNK.  • Expertise in developing database application using Oracle, Sybase, DB2, MySQL, SQL Server.  • Have experience to Develop scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker.  • Good Knowledge on using JUnit for Unit Testing along with Spring Mock and Mockito framework.  • Experienced in Business/Technical Requirements Capturing, Configuration Management, Team Coordination and Software Engineering Processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer UBS - Weehawken, NJ June 2017 to Present Roles& Responsibilities:  Responsibilities:  • Worked with various teams to understand business objectives and implementation of business logic  • Worked with business & technical teams to gather requirements and implement user friendly responses for 8 real time backend services (especially for exceptions/failures)  • Gained experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection, to make application easy to test and integrate.  • Worked on UI components using angular JS.  • Worked with advanced MVC framework such as Spring-IOC, AOP, MVC for implementing backend functionality.  • Followed Java & J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop scalable, reliable and robust software.  • Worked with GIT which is used as a version control tool in the project.  • Added logging and debugging capabilities using Log4j.  • Server-side implemented on J2EE, IntelliJ platform.  • Created team specific Agile process flow in JIRA to move tasks from one activity to another.  • Developed REST based Web Services using JAX-RS and Axis to interact with backend systems.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Configured Spring Cloud Config Server for externalized configuration.  • Created and maintained mapping file and transaction control in Hibernate.  • Used JSON parsing to implement REST Web Services.  • Worked with Swagger UI to extensively test new changes  • Used Spring framework and J2EE components, Utilized Spring MVC, IoC, AOP and DAO modules. Developed controller classes, backend processes, complex services and database interaction Added security for service layer methods using Spring Security.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript, codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Involved in consuming, producing Restful web services using JAX-RS.  • Installed WebSphere Server for handling HTTP Request/Response. The request and response from the client are controlled using Session Tracking in JSP.  • Used Swagger and Postman for API development, deployment and testing the functionality.  • Involved in transforming XML data into Java Objects using a JAXB binding tool.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have to communicate with a server.  • Implemented logging on 14 repositories to enable better metrics/logging and setup alarms for each failure type (permission issues, file generation issues, container restarts)  • Implemented CI/CD pipelines with Jenkins to setup pull request, pre-prod and prod deployment workflows with regression test suites  • Used Jenkins to build and stage the projects.  • Written client interfaces and implementation classes to consume the web services.  • Used RAD IDE for developing the applications and IBM Web sphere server for deploying various components of application.  Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, Angular JS, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, XML, RAD, Java Script, Maven, JIRA, JAX-RS, JUnit, GIT, Web sphere Application server, Tomcat, Jenkins, Cucumber, Mockito, Swagger UI, Postman. Java Developer Citi - Township of Warren, NJ January 2015 to May 2017 Roles& Responsibilities:    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in mock screens development and project start-up phase.  • Efficiently managed the tasks and working and delivering features in a fast-paced scrum environment  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming for web application that matches requirements of the client.  • Prepared Technical Design documents with UML diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Developed UI Layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, javascript.  • Involved in building a single page and cross browser compatible web application using Angular-JS (Angular routing).  • Developed Jsp's with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration.  • Extensively used JSTL tags and Struts tag libraries. Used Struts tiles as well in the presentation tier.  • Worked with advanced MVC framework such as Spring-IOC, AOP, MVC which is used for implementing backend functionality.  • Involved in the development of the using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Core, Hibernate, SQL, and IBM WebSphere.  • Support & Enhancement to the existing implementation of correspondence components which are developed using EJBs, JPA and Web Services.  • Developed SOAP based web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS and AXIS.  • Produced as well as consumed RESTful web services.  • Followed Java & J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop the application.  • Worked with GIT which is used as a version control tool in the project.  • Added logging and debugging capabilities using Log4j    Environment: Java 1.6/1.7, Eclipse IDE, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, JSP, JSTL, EJB, struts 1/2, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 3.0, Web Service, Web Sphere, SOAP, RESTFUL, JSON, log 4J, GIT, Oracle 10g,NoSQL, , Db2 XML, UML, SVN, JUNIT. Jr. Java Developer Mars Tech Solutions LLC April 2013 to December 2014 Roles &Responsibilities:    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of SDLC and followed the Agile methodology in the development of the project.  • Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Front-end is designed by using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JSF, PHP,Servlets, SWING, JSTL, Ajax.  • Integrated B2B interface with BPEL flows.  • Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  • Developed Client-side UI changes using JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSTL, jQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC and Web services.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection, to make application easy to test and integrate.  • Configured beans in spring configuration file with Spring IOC, Spring Core, Spring AOP and MVC for enhanced modules  • The business logic of the application is developed using POJOs.  • Used Apache CXF, WSDL, and XML for Creating SOAP web service.  • Unit Testing of Web Services using SOAP UI.  • Wrote Web Services using REST, SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface using JSON, XML data.  • Consumed RESTful web services using AngularJS HTTP service and rendered the JSON data on the screen.  • Used Design patterns such as Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, Session facade, DAO.  • Used SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, and JAXB)  • Worked on XML Technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to Java objects  • Used Gradle for build framework and Jenkins for the continuous build system.  • Used Spring DAO concept to interact with the database (DB2) using JDBC template.  • Developed MongoDB query based on aggregation framework.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Used CVS version controller to maintain the code.  • Involved in implementing the JMS ( Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Involved in using JMS Queues and JMS Topics for one-to-one and one-to-many communication.  • Used Eclipse with Tomcat application server for development and application deployment.  • Used JIRA for Project Management, Bug Tracking, and Issue Tracking.  • Used JUnit to Unit test the modules &Log4j along with Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  Environment: JDK, Servlets, JSP, Spring, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JDBC, Jenkins, Oracle 10g, JBoss, Eclipse, Maven, Agile development process, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, JAXB, CVS, PL/SQL, Rational ClearQuest, JUnit, Windows XP and Log4j Education Bachelor of Engineering in I.T in I.T SABAR Institute of Technology Skills JSP, Hibernate, Spring, Java, MVC, Javascript, J2Ee, JEE