Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - American Family • Result-driven IT Professional with 7+Years of referable & strong experience as Java Developer in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) core area such as Analysis, Design, Coding, Implementation, Testing, and Deployment of Object Oriented and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE technology.  • Expert in Web Application Development, Client-Server based Enterprise Applications, System Analysis, Technical Design, and Testing.  • Excellent understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies like Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.  • Experience in developing web applications with various open source frameworks: JSP, Spring Framework (MVC), Struts Framework, Spring Boot, Micro Services, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML and CSS.  • Expertise in HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, XML, XSL and JAXB.  • Good in Core Java API, multi-threading, Collections, Swing development and Application utilities.  • Experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBMDB2, MySQL and MS SQL Server 2008.  • Experience in database design and implementation using different RDBMS like Microsoft SQL Server 2008, DB2.  • Extensive experience of database programming in oracle environment using PL/SQL.  • Experience in deploying web and JEE enterprise applications on Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic and WebSphere.  • Expertise in various Java/J2EE design patterns including Data Access Object, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC (Model View Controller), Factory and Abstract Factory, Front Controller, Transfer Object and Singleton in the development of Multi-tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Hands on experience with version control systems like CVS (Concurrent Version Systems), SVN (Apache Subversion) and GIT/Bitbucket for providing common platform for all the developers.  • Experienced in build tools such as ANT, Maven, Gradle.  • Proficient in using various IDEs like Eclipse STS, IBM RAD, NetBeans, SQL Developer and Soap UI.  • Proficient in integration of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) with existing applications and using services provided in distributed applications through Web Services (JAX-RPC, JAX-WS and JAX-RS) and Apache Axis.  • Good Experience with JMS services using Apache Camel, Apache Active MQ, IBM MQS  • Experience in deployment of java applications and components as services through SOAP, RESTful and WSDL. Work Experience Java Developer American Family - Minneapolis, MN December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Be involved in the complete software development lifecycle, including working with the production operations team to prepare and execute releases.  • Develop innovative features that are highly performant, compatible and responsive.  • Deep knowledge of software engineering practices, unit testing, configuration management, and release management.  • Provides technical advice and assists in solving programming problems.  • Creating Automated Unit Tests using Flexible/Open Source Frameworks using a Test-Driven Development approach.  • Performed unit testing using Junit and monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Used Spring MVC framework to develop the entire business logic of the system.  • Performed client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Used Spring Framework to develop all this web pages screens.  • Used Spring MVC framework and developed various controller and validate for the front end  • Experience developing front-end code, HTML 5, jQuery, jQuery UI, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JSON and Thymeleaf.  • Experience with Apache HTTP, Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic.  • Experience with agile engineering practices such as TDD, Pair Programming, Continuous Integration, automated testing and deployment.  • Experience working with relational databases (SQL Server\Oracle).  • Experience working with non-relational databases MongoDB.  • Experience building and working with REST APIs.  • Experience with DevOps practices.  • Experience with Jenkins, Docker, Maven and Linux.  • Worked on JIRA reporting tools to report versions, epics, sprints, issues, etc.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Spring, Spring MVC, EJB 2.0, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Thymeleaf, Oracle 11g, MySQL, XML, Eclipse, Junit, Selenium, Apache tomcat, Hibernate, UNIX, Windows. Java Developer PNC Financial Services Group - Pittsburgh, PA August 2016 to September 2017 Description:  Responsibilities:  • Worked on complete life cycle of software development, which included new requirement gathering, redesigning and implementing the business specific functionalities, testing and assisted in deployment of the project to the PROD environment.  • Designed and developed applications using Agile Methodology, UML and OOAD.  • Part of development team using Agile-Scrum methodologies-developed uses cases from user stories, took part in daily scrum meeting, and part of a team to fix logging issues using JIRA.  • Wrote logic for Restful Web Services for end client using Jersey API to obtain response in JSON.  • Developed business APIs using Singleton, and Builder patterns.  • Developed maven pom.xml for building application EAR to deploy on servers.  • Familiarized with Pull Request when merging changes from feature branch to remote master branch using GIT.  • Designed Frontend within object-oriented JavaScript Framework using Angular2.  • Implemented the Spring Web Flow2 framework for managing navigation and page flow and used design patterns like Session Façade, Delegator, MVC and DTO for the back-end tier development.  • Involved in end-end development of the project.  • Development (coding) of UI Application, database, Reports, Testing (Junit), Code Reviewing, Bug Fixing.  • Implementation of backend modules using java and RESTful web services.  • Designed and developed modules and delivered successfully with technologies like Web Services, spring, JPA.  • Developed maven scripts to build a war and deploy on web logic server.  • Developed Junit test Cases.  • Worked on multiple configuration files for mapping Business Objects and Log4j deployment descriptor files such as web.xml, ejb-jar.xml and applicationContext.xml file.  • Worked extensively on database design, testing modules and deploying in various environments such as DEV, UAT, SIT and assist with deployment on PROD.  • Worked extensively on HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP for development UI. Implemented Spring framework for the backend development. Used Spring AOP and Dependency Injection (IOC) in developing discount generation Services. Configured and accessed Hibernate with Spring IOC.  • Involved in development of services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring Framework.  • Involved in enhancing all the tiers, Spring Java Classes and Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) Components like stateless Session beans which acts as Façade and all DAOs through which stored procedures were called to retrieve the data. Managed programmatic and declarative transactions using EJB.  • Worked on creating and consuming Web Services. Worked extensively on XML based technologies and worked on XSL and XPATH.  Environment: Java 1.4, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, EJB 2.0, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, IBM WebSphere 5.1, Oracle 9i/10g, TOAD, SOAP, XML, Eclipse, XML Spy, Hibernate, UNIX, Windows 2000. Java/J2EE Developer VINNIG Technologies - IN January 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete software development life cycle with Object Oriented approach of client's business process and continuous client feedback.  • Developed various Struts Forms, Struts controller classes, and exception handling.  • Used Struts UI tag libraries.  • Used Struts MVC and Struts Web flow module to develop front end of the application.  • Developed Persistence classes and XML Mapping files.  • Involved in creating XML configuration filed for Jasper templates to define the resulting reports.  • Developed JSP Custom Tag Libraries and associated with the controller Servlets.  • Generated reports in HTML, PDF, XLS formats.  • Creating the frontend UI using JSP and showing the rest web services result using Angular JS for Site Survey Application.  • Developed SQL, Stored procedure and PL/SQL for back end. Used Views and Functions at the Oracle Database end.  • Worked on performance testing tool like JMeter and JProfile to enhance the application performance on client network.  • Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  • Developed interactive web pages using, JavaScript for the client-side validation.  • Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP custom Taglibs, JSP templates, JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Developed customer and business support web applications mainly using AJAX and jQuery.  • Involved in publishing the web services to help users interacting with web services.  • Deployed and tested the applications in development and test environments.  • Worked closely with production support lead for server builds and deployment.  • Performed JavaScript, JSP troubleshooting as well as involved in troubleshooting problems on application server.  Environment: FJ2EE (EJB, JSP, Servlets, JDBC), Struts, Java MVC architecture, JMeter 2.10, jQuery, AJAX, Eclipse, HTML, AJAX, XML, XSLT, CSS, Ant, UML, Unix, JavaScript, Struts. Java Developer Visual Soft - IN April 2011 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development, and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Used agile software development methodology to develop project plans.  • Involved in developing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed GUI with HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and Struts frameworks  • Development of the US using JSP, Servlet and Angular JS as a scripting language and using MVC architecture.  • Involve in EOD process, create stored procedures in Sybase, Oracle and Control-m Jobs and written. shell scripts in Linux environment.  • Involved in designed and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Handled long running calls to XML web services and SQL Server 2005 stored procedures using multi threads.  • Developed utilities and modules to accomplish various administrative tasks using PHP, XQuery, C, SQL and others.  • Installed, configured and deployed the applications on WebSphere Portal and Application Server.  • Developed web services in Java with Apache Axis, and in PHP with various tools. Experienced with SOAP/WSDL. Have also designed and developed REST interfaces in Java.  • Used Oracle's Advanced Queuing mechanism to send messages to clients and interact with other systems (Unix and App server).  • Setting up Linux servers with JBoss, Apache, JDK 1.7, JIRA, Bamboo, Stash and Git.  • Wrote complex SQL queries using joins, sub queries and inline views to retrieve data from the database.  • Data Access programming using IBATIS.  • REST Web services written in Groovy/Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS.  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers with Linux, Tomcat, MySQL, Apache, etc.  • Created and consume Rest Web Services and SOAP Webservices.  • Experience in applying patches and plug-ins for JBoss Application Server.  • Developing all logic using Sencha touch 2.  • Developed the business layer logic and implemented EJBs Session beans.  • Responsible for developing the full stack (front-end development, application logic, services, data persistence) as well as server setup and maintenance.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing.  • Implemented Cross cutting concerns like logging and declarative transaction management using Spring AOP.  • Developed custom tags to simplify JSP code. Designed UI screens using JSP 2.0, CSS, XML, and HTML.  • Used Struts Validator framework for client side and server-side validations.  • Custom node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc.  • Used Oracle as the backend database. Involved in design of the database schema and development of stored procedures.  • Used WebSphere as an application server.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JDK 1.5/1.6, REST, SOAP, Servlets, Jms 2.0, EJB, Spring 3.2.5, Hibernate 4.3.0, JSF, JBoss 5.1 EAP, Ibatis, Maven 2, JavaBeans, Eclipse 3.4, Web-Services, AWS, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle10g and DB2, XQuery, Linux, POJO, backbone.js, Ext.js, jQuery, IBM WebSphere Application Server. Education Bachelor of Science B.R.Ambedkar University 2011 Skills Awt, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jax, Jaxp, Jax-ws, Jms, Jndi, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Api, C++, Design patterns Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java, J2EE, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, XML  Design Patterns  MVC, Business Objects, Business Delegates, Facade, Singleton, Front Controller, Dependency Injection, Data Access Objects    RDBMS Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server 2012/2008, Microsoft Access  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Microsoft IIS, Apache HTTP Server  Operating Systems Linux, Ubuntu, Red Hat Enterprise / Windows Server  Web Technologies  Spring MVC, Struts, Hibernate, JSP/JSTL, JUnit, Servlets, XML, Microsoft Web Developer, JavaScript, XHTML/HTML5, WebLogic, WebSphere    J2EE Technologies  Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Serialization, Exception Handling, RMI, File I/O, JDBC 1.x/2.x/3.x, JNDI 1.1/1.2, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, XML Beans, JAXP, Web Services (SOAP)    Core JAVA/APIs Multithreading, RMI, Collections, IO, Servlets, AWT, JDBC 3.0, RMI, JNDI, Java, Mail API, JMS  Frameworks Struts 1.x/2.x, spring 2.x, EJB 2.x, Hibernate 2.x/3.x, iBatis2.x, MQ, WebLogic Portal 10.3, Apache Axis2.0, JAX-WS, SOA, Ajax, DOJO 1.3, LOG4J