Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Vantage Health Plan, LA ? Around 7 years of professional experience in application analysis, design, development, integration, deployment and maintenance / support for web, standalone and client/server-based software applications in financial services, insurance and HealthCare industry domains.  ? Experience in using Struts 2.x, Spring and Hibernate 3.x framework (MVC) for various Web based application development.Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts2.0/1.2/1.0, Spring 3.0/2.5, Spring Webflow, JSF1.2/2.2.  ? Experience in web development using Spring 4.2/3.0/2.5,Hibernate 4.0/3.0, Maven, and Web Services.  ? Extensive experience in developing SOAP and Restful web service.  ? Strong experience working with relational databases such as Oracle, MS SQL Server 2008 and NoSQL database like MongoDB, DynamoDB.  ? Strong work experience on the front-end UI development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Dojo, JavaScript and jQuery along with Java Servlet and JSP.  ? Working experience in UNIX Shell Scripting.  ? Expert in software development process that included Agile Methodologies/ Scrum  ? Good knowledge in estimation and project planning.  ? Extensive experience in Unit testing (Cucumber/ Mockito / Power Mock), Integration testing, System testing, and production support of large-scale, enterprise applications, and products.  ? Created web applications prototype using Angular JS, Node JS, React JS.  ? Implemented the business logic using Spring MVC framework with Hibernate(with JPA) for CRUD operations.  ? Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN, CVS, Git.  ? Implemented the business logic using Struts framework, Spring MVC framework with Hibernate(with JPA) for CRUD operations.  ? Knowledge and experience of configuration and release management of large-scale projects  ? Adept in support documentation, debugging, fixing defects, operation, sustenance, and maintenance of end-to-end systems.  ? Experience in Developing application following Test Driven Development (TDD) and implemented unit and integration testing using Junit, Spring Test, Mockito, etc  ? Quick learner and excellent team player with ability to meet deadlines and work under pressure - either unsupervised or in a team.  ? Excellent problem-solving skills with a strong technical background and good interpersonal skills.  ? Excellent verbal and written communication skills.  ? Experience of serving as a lead technical resource on large projects with proven capability in meeting project goals.  ? Quick learner with great communication skills and adaptable to any situation.  ? Effective working relationships using independent judgment and initiative, and ability to work in a team environment to produce quality information delivery systems.  ? Good client interaction skills with experience in requirements gathering, Proof of Concepts (POC), and feasibility study. Work Experience Java Developer Vantage Health Plan, LA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  ? Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment.  ? Implemented Spring Framework for the project.  ? Responsible for Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of coreAngular 4, Polymer JS.  ? Created and maintain web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Java, J2EE and responsible for Designing of Web pages including Ajax controls and XML.  ? Created and managed microservices. Microservices were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features  ? Applied advanced HTML5, JavaScript, and CSS3 to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces using material design components in Polymer JS.  ? All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Microservices and Hibernate ORM.  ? Created and injected Spring Services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Followed agile methodology for developing the application.  ? Created continuous integration builds using Jenkins and deployed on app server.  ? Extensively used spring framework and Apache CXF for producing SOAP and REST web services as a part of the project development  ? Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components.  ? Used GitHub as version control and application is developed using Eclipse, GWT and GAE for cloud-based backend data.  ? Programmed the Event handling for DOJO Widgets to accept user inputs and validate it.  ? Responsible for validating user actions on the client side and provided responsive feedback using Polymer JS, Angular 4, and components.  ? Implementing Webservices using JSON.  ? Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  ? Designed and developed UI capabilities and J2EE server-based services.  ? Using GIT for Source Control and Version Management.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  ? Used JavaScript testing frameworks, Jasmine, Karma.  ? Communicated updates in daily scrum meetings using Rally software.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  ? Extensively used Ajax calls to send parameters and fetch data based on the user-triggered events.  ? Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach (TDD).  ? Manipulated data to both send and fetch data from the server through GET, DELETE and POST requests.  ? Regularly worked with the MEAN stacks and used GIT daily on a Mac OS.  ? Used SOCOCO for the daily stand-ups, power programming, and team communication.  ? Handled response data from Restful Webservices using XML, JSON and JQuery to update UI Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  ? Involved in writing test plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts using selenium  ? Designed and developed Test Scenario/Test Cases/Test steps for various Business Services/methods covering both positive and negative testing.  ? Used SOAPUI for testing Web Services, inspection of WSDL files, generation of SOA envelopes, and acceleration of many other common XML tasks encountered during development of Web-Service enabled applications.  ? Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, and Maven created Selenium automation scripts in java using JUnit.    Environment: Java 1.7/J2EE, Spring MVC, HTML5, XML, CSS3, LESS, JSON, JavaScript, Angular 2.0, Oracle 11g, Tomcat 5x/6x, Bootstrap, Maven, Hibernate, MySQL, Multithreading, Eclipse, AWS SDK, RESTful, Backbone JS, DB2, Cassandra, AJAX, JSON, Node JS, Express JS, AWS, Microservices, Restful API, JAX-RS, React JS, Node Js, Gulp, NPM, AWS, Apache Kafka, GitHub, NoSQL, TDD, Mongo DB, Jasmine, karma, Selenium, Soap UI 2.5. Java Developer Comcast - Austin, TX April 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Actively involved in analysis, detail design, development, bug fixing and enhancement in Agile methodology and involved in daily scrum and sprint planning meetings.  ? Used JavaScript and Angular4 to display the pages using JSON in the User Interface Application.  ? Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot.  ? Used Spring beans to encapsulate business logic and implemented application MVC architecture using Spring MVC framework.  ? Used Hibernate extensively to have Database access mechanism with complex queries through Hibernate Query, Criteria interfaces.  ? Used Rest Controller in Spring framework to create RESTful Web services and JSON objects for communication.  ? Use Core Java concepts such as multi-threading, collections, garbage collection and other JEE technologies during development phase and used different design patterns.  ? Used Java 8 Streams, Optional, Lambda Expressions, Predicates in the application.  ? Used Postman and SOAP UI for testing web service for server-side changes. Involved in deployment process of Tomcat server.  ? Developed SQL queries to retrieve and manipulate oracle database.  ? Developed build tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins.  ? Used Rally, JIRA for bug reporting and tasks and issue tracking.  ? Used GIT for version control tool for merging branches and used Source tree to solve conflicts.  ? Used React.JS for the front-end development and used AXIOS for ajax.  ? Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application    Environment:Spring MVC, JPA, J2EE, Twitter Bootstrap, HTML, jQuery, Spring, JPA, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, Junit, Log4j, Oracle 11g, CAS, TOAD, SQL, PL/SQL, ORACLE Forms, Apache Tiles, JIRA. Java Developer Goldman Sachs Group, Inc - Salt Lake City, UT September 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing real time application for the daily moving trades in Futures and Commodities market  ? WORKED ON JUNIT FRAMEWORK FOR UNIT TESTING.  ? Involved in deploying applications into QA, DEV and UAT environments.  ? Involved in designing 3 various application implementing SPRING MVC Architecture.  ? Writing standalone Java classes, reusable components using JDBC and Java Beans for getting data from SQL tables.  ? Developed the application using Spring MVC framework and IOC for dependency injection  ? Used Hibernate ORM framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  ? Worked on presentation layers using Angular JS, AJAX, Backbone JS, HTML, JSP, java script and XML.  ? Worked on Axis implementation and used SOAPUI to test the SOAP.  ? Worked on XML, XSD and XSLT to parse the request and create the new one based on the specification.  ? Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology and developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  ? Developed generic Java packages to produce and consume JMS messages through topics and queues in asynchronous message processing with guaranteed delivery.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  ? Implemented Multithreading feature for processing the multiple requests to achieve high performance.  ? Implemented Web Services to integrate between different applications using REST services using JAX-WS.  ? Implemented Singleton Design Pattern for database connectivity.    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring 3.0, AJAX, DOJO, Hibernate 3.0, Maven, Jenkins, MS Visio, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, WebSphere 7.0, TOAD, JIRA, Mockito, TDD, Power Mock, RAD Java Developer CVS - Chicago, IL February 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:    ? Analysed and designed various modules using Java design patterns which include Singleton pattern, Factory pattern, Prototype pattern, Observable pattern.  ? Understood function requirements specification and transformed that into design.  ? Complete support for the application. Solving all tickets associated with the application.  ? Monitoring the application for performance. Also answer user queries regarding application.  ? Developed various reusable helper and utility classes in Java, which were being used across all the modules of the application.  ? Used Spring 3.0 various modules like Spring Core, Spring MVC for building MVC framework and generated dependency injection.  ? Used Spring ORM for configuration with Hibernate as ORM tool.  ? Utilize Spring AOP modules to implement AOP task like transaction management.  ? Used Hibernate 3.0 as ORM tool to perform CRUD operation with Database with first and second level caching strategy.  ? Used Core Java core features such as OOPs concepts, Collections, Serialization and Exception in this application.  ? Used JSP framework to build UI pages with JSTL, JQuery and AJAX framework.  ? Used JAX-RS specification and created Restful web services using Jersey Implementation.  ? Analysed and determined the scope for ICON with respect to any enhancements or fix change to other interacting application.  ? Moved the code from Dev to Stage and Prod, which includes creating CR and attending meeting to analyse the impacts.  ? Performed Unit testing of the application against the requirement and worked closely with testers for clarifying queries related to business requirements.  ? Designed and maintained various project related documents using tools like rational rose and visual studio.  ? Coached and mentored team for improved productivity.  ? Provided support in production by observing log, checking environment stability during deployment of application or during an incident report.  ? Written SQL queries and created tables in oracle database.  ? Done Query tuning in oracle database for better performance optimization.    Environment: Java 1.6, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Restful web service, Maven, Jenkins, MS Visio, Oracle 11g, Log4j, PL/SQL, Web Sphere 7.0, TOAD, JIRA, Mockito, PowerMock, SVN, Eclipse, AJAX, JQuery. Education Bachelor's Computer Science Howard University 2012 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Amazon web services, Api, Dtd, Html, Javascript, Jenkins Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages /Web Services Core Java, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Python  RDBMS / Tools Oracle 9i (SQL), SQL, PL/SQL with TOAD 8.5  IDE/Editors IBM RAD, Eclipse  Web Technologies / Scripting Languages  Servlets, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Angular JS, Node JS, JQuery, Mobile, JQuery, JavaScript, Backbone JS, AJAX, React JS, Microservices, DWR (Direct Web Remoting)    XML Technologies XML, DTD, XSD, SAX, JAXB, 2.0  Design Tools UML-Rational Rose 7.5, MS VISIO & Argo UML  Databases Oracle 9i and 11g, IBM DB2 v8, My SQL  Application/Web Server Tomcat, WebSphere, Web logic , JBOSS and Pramati 3.0  Java Based Build Tool Ant 1.7.0, Maven 2.2.1, Jenkins, Build Forge / Splunk  Web Services SOAP Web Services (JAX-WS), REST Based (JAX-RS API) Apache CXF, JDBC, JMS, SPRING, Hibernate, XML  Testing Frameworks JUNIT, Corburtura Code Coverage, Mockito & Power Mock, mocking extensions to JUnit  Cloud Computing  AWS (Amazon Web Services) working with EC2, RDS, Dynamo DB, S3, and Cloud Formation Templates, AZURE services, GCP(Google Cloud Platform)    Version Control Tools SVN Subversion 1.4, Clear Case 7.0.1, T.F.S. (Team Foundation Server), VSS  Bug Tracking Tool JIRA portal, Quality Center 11, Bugzilla  Frame Works Struts 2.1 Hibernate 3.x, Spring 3.0  Queuing Tools/ job control system Web Sphere MQ Series 7.0, Autosys  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, TDD  Operating System Windows, Unix, UNIX Shell Scripting