Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Penn DOT Harrisburg, PA • Having 8+ Years of experience as a Full - Stack Java/J2EE Web Developer in analysis, design, development and implementation of web-based applications.  • Working knowledge in Core Java and JavaEE platform with Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot.  • Implemented Micro Services based Architecture using Spring Boot  • Experience in developing Single Page Applications(SPA) using Angular, TypeScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Worked upon Services, Components and Routing in Angular  • Experience in working on different layers of Spring MVC architecture such as Spring Controller, service and repository classes.  • Good experience on working with JPA tools like Hibernate for database operations  • Having experience working with database technologies like Oracle, MySQL.  • Proficient at designing dynamic web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, PrimeFaces.  • Good experience in developing applications with SOAP and RESTFul Web Services.  • Worked on various Java features Java 1.8 applications features like Lambda expressions, Stream API.  • Worked on application security tool SITEMINDER  • Worked on CDI(Context Dependency Injection) tools like PDJF(PennDOT Java FrameWork)  • Demonstrated my ability and passion to learn technologies quickly through projects I worked using Jakarta Struts, Spring, Web Services, Hibernate, JavaScript, Ajax, JSF, JDBC, Web Sphere, Tomcat, Web Logic servers.  • Extensive experience with Java compliant IDE's like Eclipse, MyEclipse, IBM RSA.  • Worked on Windows and LINUX operating systems.  • Configured logging using Log4J and managed version control tools using GIT and IBM JAZZ.  • Played a key role in my jobs in successfully completing my projects and effectively managing/coordinating with team members, delivering in fast paced & highly stressed environments.  • Experience in working on TDD(Testing Driven Development) tools like JREBEL.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology and followed Scrum sessions. Work Experience Java Developer Penn DOT - Harrisburg, PA December 2016 to Present Description: Keystone Environmental ePermitting System (KEES) portal provides access to the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection's water encroachment permit applications, related instructions and information. It allows for online compilation, submission and tracking of GP-8, GP-11, small and standard permit applications with additional Chapter 102 and 105 permit types to be added. KEES provides comprehensive site to guidance in applying for environmental permits and resources for preparing and filing online permit applications. Also the ability to check the status of a submitted application along with search for submitted and approved applications. The primary goal is to process the permit application in an efficient and timely manner while ensuring environment protection.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in Requirement discussions and in preparing the Design Documents.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular, Typescript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap  • Created custom, self-contained, reusable and testable Angular modules, controllers, directives and services to implement key functionalities of the project.  • Developed complex nested components for reuse such as Pop-Up, Navigation.  • Implemented pagination by using ngx-pagination module.  • Applied CSS3 and Bootstrap for responsive web pages  • Implemented Router to enable navigation from one component to another.  • Created Services to consume REST API's and to communicate between components using Dependency Injection provided by Angular 2.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine.  • Involved in Security process using SiteMinder.  • Used new content management GPC-part of PDJF  • Used Data Base Oracle with Geospatial.  • Involved in data exchange between KEES and eFACTS with multiple web services using RestFul API.  • Used new document repository ECS upgrading from EDMS  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J to manage the issues.  • Used Web Sphere Application Server to create, debug and deploy application modules.  • Responsible for managing the codebase, building snapshot build and release builds using Jenkins.  Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring Boot, Web Sphere, Type Script, Bootstrap, RESTFUL, PDJF, Hibernate, log4j, HTML, CSS, Java Script. Java/J2EE Developer General Electric - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2014 to August 2015 Description: The objective of Health Care System is to hold the data as per the statutory regulation by providing medical billing, electronic medical records, and practice management software to practices, hospitals, patients and others in the healthcare industry. Health Care System is designed to improve the quality and management of clinical care and hospital health care management in the areas of clinical process analysis and activity-based costing. Health Care System enables you to develop your organization and improve its effectiveness and quality of work.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing of Application based on J2EE using Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  • Worked on implementing directives and scope values using AngularJs for an existing webpage.  • Used Spring framework and worked on different Spring modules.  • Worked on IE Developer tools to debug given HTML.  • Written test cases for Unit testing using JUnit.  • Implemented logging mechanism using log4j.  • Used Maven tool to build, config, and package and deploy an application project.  • Used Sub version to maintain different versions of application code.  • Extensively used Hibernate ORM in data access layer to write DAOs. Developed hibernate mapping and Configuration files.  • Responsible for design and developing Persistence classes using Hibernate and Spring JDBC Template frameworks to save data in database tables.  • Generating Hibernate mapping files and domains using tables.  • JSF ( Java Server Faces) was used for to simplify development integration of user interfaces and the operation on the values they (UI) hold.  • Configured managed beans and made available to the application by declaring them in the faces-config.xml configuration file.  • Used Agile Scrum process    Environment: Java , Spring, Hibernate, log4j, JUnit, HTML, XML, , Java Script, WebLogic, Maven. Java Developer State of Nevada - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to March 2014 Description: The project is based on unemployment Insurance and tax, having the records of employer and employee, keeping the records of the tax amount record of each employee paid by employer based on the state rules, once employee comes under the unemployment, employees can able to registers themselves for unemployment claim, once eligibility criteria matches then the Government provides some amount as claim on weekly bases along with new job opportunity, trainings. Employer and Employee both can register themselves to system through agent and themselves. The Project basically has 4 modules-Tax, Benefits, Appeal, IWF (Imaging & Work Flow). State of Nevada provides unemployment Insurance to employees. Contribution module is used to calculate taxes for employers. Contribution module has features for employer registration, Merger and Acquisition, Bankruptcy, FUTA certification, correspondence, and collections. Contribution module calculates the tax to be paid by employers based on the employee wages reported by companies. Merger and Acquisition supports Total and Partial Acquisition for employers. Batch jobs supports different background works in System. Bankruptcy features supports for bankrupted companies to deal with counties and judgments. Collection feature supports to collect the balance amount from employers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, and development of the complete business solution.    • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using Rational Rose.    • Extensively used JSP, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3 for designing and formatting the user Interface.    • Designed and developed presentation layer using Spring MVC Framework.  • Used Spring Transactions in the application and developed Session beans for the business logic at the middle tier level.    • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate DAOs.  • Used different Spring components like Spring MVC to manage business layer.    • Used various built-in controllers (abstract, simple form) of Spring MVC.    • Declared Beans by using Dispatcher Servlet-XML of Spring MVC.    • Used Hibernate framework in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database SQL Server.  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Involved in creating, publishing and consuming Web Services using JAX-WS 2.0 API and other technologies like WSDL, UDDI and SOAP 1.2.  • Involved in designing data schema and development of SOAP web services with Axis implementation.    • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of the application.    • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and used Quality Center/ALM to manage the issues/project workflow.    • Maven is used as a build tool.  • Used WebLogic Application Server and Eclipse IDE.    Environment: Java 5, Spring MVC, JSP, Hibernate, WebLogic Application Server, Spring DI, Java Script, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse IDE, Soap. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to December 2011 Description: Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified Financial Services company providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance for more than 23 million customers through 6,000 stores, the internet and other distribution channels across North America and elsewhere internationally. CCER (Commercial Card Expense Reporting) was established to support Wells Fargo's Commercial Card customers by allowing them to manage their expense process through a web based interface. This project is an enhancement to the current offering and is a redesign of the application. Specifically, the redesign will address the user experience and re-evaluate the user flows to make the tool more intuitive, as well as update the look and feel so that it is consistent with other CEO applications.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the user interfaces using JSP.  • Developed Custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Developed the application using Struts (MVC) Framework.  • Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Account Transfer using Session EJBs.  • Used Eclipse to writing the code for JSP, Servlets, Struts and EJBs.  • Deployed the applications on Web Logic Application Server.  • Developed the entire Application(s) through Eclipse.  • Worked with Web Logic Application Server to deploy the Application(s).  • Developed the Ant scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity to Oracle.  • Worked with Oracle Database to create tables, procedures, functions and select statements.  • Used JUnit Testing, debugging, and bug fixing.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and developed WAR framework to alert the client and production support in case of application failures.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, JNDI, Oracle 10g, HTML, XML, Web Logic , Ant, CVS, Log4J,JUnit, JDBC, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Silicon Valley University - San Jose, CA 2016 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Acharya Nagarjuna University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh 2010 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Git, Javascript, Ajax, Tomcat, Weblogic, Websphere, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Html5, Apache, Linux, Version control, Angular, Java J2Ee, JSP, Rest, MVC, JEE Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: C, Java, J2EE, PL/SQL.  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, PrimeFaces, JavaScript, Ajax.  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux.  Frame Works/ J2EE Technologies: PDJF, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Angular  RDBMS: Oracle 11g, MySQL, Oracle/PL SQL developer.  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic.  IDE tools: Eclipse, MyEclipse, IBM RSA.  Version control: GIT, IBM JAZZ.