Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Panasonic Avionics, Lakeforest, CA Lake Forest, CA Work Experience Sr Java Developer Panasonic Avionics, Lakeforest, CA January 2018 to Present Project Description:    Role & Responsibilities:  • Developed the web interfaces for Process Flow using JSP technology, which provides flexibility in page design and makes easy for maintenance and modifications.  • Involved in Unit Testing of the specified Modules.  • Implemented in various design patterns in the project.  • Involved in Debugging of the application.  • Involved in System Testing and integration testing of the application.  • Wrote test cases based on Use Cases and data flow diagrams for testing validity of data.  • Involved in Bug fixing of the application.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine  • WebSphere used as IDE.  • Worked on core Java, Multi- threading and Collections framework.  • Object oriented analysis, design (OOAD) and implementation using Java/ J2EE Technologies.  • Worked on J2EE design patterns like DAO and Business Delegate to handle the business flow.  • Angular JS, Bootstrap and Web Services used for random dash board monitoring.  • Persistence layer developed using Hibernate and implemented DAO to handle the data base interaction.  • Experienced in using XML Technologies and client side designing and validation using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JSP.  • Experienced in using ANT for generating system builds.  • Used JUnit test cases to test the application.  • Worked on Log4J for tracking errors and debugging the code.  Environment: SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, Apache Tomcat, XML, Angular4, HTML5, CSS, Windows XP, Linux, Java1.7, Struts, EJB 2.0, Java/J2EE coding, J2EE patterns, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Web service, JDBC, Spring, WSDL, JQuery, Hibernate Java Developer Medreview - New York, NY August 2016 to December 2017 Project Description:    Role & Responsibilities:  • Played a developer role in developing an application, which acts as an interface between systems and the management vendor product. This interface is responsible for moving the data to the database that vendor product interacts with.  • Played a key role in migrating the legacy loaders in to strategic loaders, which is built completely on Java8 and spring.  • Developed an UI to perform UAT loads on all the servers. Arguments passed in from the UI will be used to execute a generic load script that I created. This helped us a lot in reducing the time we take to load the data into UAT servers and at the same time reduced the turnaround time for our users.  • Created a dashboard using Angular, which would plot a linear graph of batch load timings and load times based on the date parameters.  • Created a flat file comparison service which would compare the files row by row and if matched would compare the individual columns. Once the comparison is done it would give out a detailed report about matched and unmatched results. Made this tool available to the team members by creating an UI on top of it.  • Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot.  • Worked on java 8 features.  • Migrating existing application into micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot.  • Worked extensively with spring framework with modules like Spring AOP, spring core, Spring JDBC, spring batch, Spring MVC, Creating new beans and wrote loosely coupled code utilizing dependency injection.  • Played a key role in many other infrastructure uplift projects, which resulted in efficient use of our resources and improved data availability to end-users.  • Involved in supporting all of our applications and worked extensively on support reduction.  • Worked on creating secure Restful web services using JSon and Xml.  • Worked on build and deployment tools like maven, Bit bucket, Git and Jenkins.  Environment: Java 8, JSP, Struts, Restful web Services (JERSEY, Spring Boot), Hibernate, Web Services, Angular4, HTML5, CSS Ajax, JQuery, Shell Scripts, Stored Procedures, SOAP web services.  Tools: Eclipse IDE, IntelliJ. Java Developer Infosys - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2015 to December 2015 Client: Telstra Corporation Limited  Project Description: Telstra Corporation Limited (known as Telstra) is Australia's largest telecommunications and Media Company which builds and operates telecommunications networks and markets voice, mobile, internet access, pay television and other entertainment products and services.  Role & Responsibilities:  • Involved in coding to handle the business logic, UI and Model Components.  • Worked with business and user groups to identify and implement functional enhancements and new requirements.  • Worked on Spring MVC framework using annotations.  • Used J2EE design patterns and Data Access Object (DAO) for the business tier and integration Tier layer of the project  • Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and advanced prepared statement  • Involved in building and deploying MAVEN scripts, debugging through logging frameworks like log4j  • Worked mostly on developing backend services using Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate and also frontend javascript and JQuery  Environment: Core Java, Servlets, JSP, Junit, Maven, Spring MVC, Eclipse3.6, log4j, Java Script and JQuery, Agile methodology. Java Developer EureQa June 2012 to January 2015 Project Description: eureQa is a Cloud based product that makes regression testing easy by allowing a user to Automate software testing without the use of any programming languages. Create testing scenarios once and run it across multiple browsers and environments. Run tests from the Cloud without requiring any investment hardware, software and maintenance. Perform detailed analytics on test results to identify problem areas in their software and thus improve its quality.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked in building an automation testing tool using JSF. Involved in developing several modules of the application where user can upload recorded selenium scripts to the application get the results in the user interface.  • Involved in integrating Jira component with the application using restful web services.  • Worked on integrating the selenium with the application in order to get the results of the uploaded scripts.  • Worked on Jasper Reports to show the user the results of the uploaded scripts.  • Worked on Customer signup and User authentication components.  • Technologies: JSF, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax.  Environment: Restful web services, Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Junit, DHtmlxGrid, Eclipse3.6, log4j, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, and Maven. Education B. Tech in Electronics and communication Engineering in Electronics and communication Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 to 2012 Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, Jboss, Jdk, jquery, Struts, Ajax, Css, Tomcat, Web services, Javascript, Bootstrap, Python, Svn, Pl/sql, Sql, Html5, Soap, Jira Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Programming Languages: JAVA (JDK 1.6/1.7/1.8), PL/SQL, Python.  • Frame Works: Struts, spring.  • Web services: SOAP/WSDL, REST  • Frontend Languages: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular4, React, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap.  • Testing & Build Tools: Selenium, Maven, Hudson  • Application/Web Servers: Jboss and Apache Tomcat.  • IDE/Application Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, STS(Spring tool suite)  • Source Control: Sub Version (SVN), Bit Bucket.  • Testing tool: Selenium  • Bug tracking Tool: JIRA