Java Engineer <span class="hl">Java</span> Engineer Java Engineer - CDK Global • Software Professional with 6+ years of experience in Object Oriented programming, design, developing and testing of Client/Server, Enterprise and Web Applications.  • Proficient in the development of Client/server and web applications using JAVA, J2EE, J2SE, technologies and Web technologies for enterprise applications.  • Expert in developing enterprise web-based application based on Java technologies using J2EE, J2SE, EJB, Java Servlets, Struts, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI, ANT and Apache Maven.  • Expertise in developing web-based GUIs using Java Applets, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, DOJO, AJAX, JSF, & spring form tags.  • Seasoned professional in various frameworks: Struts, Hibernate, Spring 2.0, JSF.  • Extensive work experience in JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JDBC.  • Experience designing Enterprise SaaS solutions for multi-tenancy.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP/RESTful web services. Knowledge of Software as a Service (SaaS).  • Knowledge on the HIPAA policies and procedures for the program and ensure awareness of HIPAA breach process.  • Strong understanding and excellent skill in developing, designing, professional, Ajax driven elegant enterprise web application using Ajax, Flex, Action Script and JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Custom Tag Libraries, JSF, JQuery, Dojo and various java design patterns.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment  • Extensive Knowledge on databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Experience working with analytics systems using NoSQL database MongoDB and involved in Data Modelling that uses Query based methodology.  • Developed ANT scripts, and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications  • Working Knowledge on XML, XSLT, XPATH, XQUERY, and XSL-FO.  • Experience utilizing AWS Cloud Formation to automate infrastructure provisioning and deployment to reduce time to production.  • Experience in developing the micro services to get the advantage of rapid performance and inter module communication across the application.  • Hands on experience in implementing client-server business applications using MVC, SOA architecture and Micro Services.  • Hands on experience in configuration and deployment of multi-tier applications using servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat.  • Hands on experience in spring data, spring security, spring LDAP.  • Extensive experience to SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and experience in developing web services using Axis, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, WS_Security, XML-RPC and JAXB/JAXP.  • Extensive experience working in Spring 2.5/3.0 framework, spring boot, Struts 1.0/1.1/2.x framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate 3.x framework and web services (SOAP and RESTful).  • Strong experience in writing SQLs, stored procedures, joins and Triggers.  • Good working knowledge of database tools like TOAD, PL/SQL, Db Visualizer and SQL Navigator.  • Very good experience in OOAD, UML, Rational Rose Methodologies.  • Working experience in relational databases like ORACLE and SQL Server, DB2.  • Very good knowledge in writing Shell, ANT scripts for building the projects.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Data bases and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Good working knowledge of Ant for project build/test/deployment, Log4j for logging and Junit for unit and integration testing.  • Excellent team player with leadership abilities. Strong analytical skills with excellent interpersonal and communication skills with analytical ability and understanding of Organizational functioning.  • Development web components using JSP, Servlets and server-side components using EJB 3.0 under J2EE Environment.  • Design and development of web-based applications using different web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebSphere 8.0, JBoss, 7 and WebLogic.  • Implemented Unit Testing using Junit and Integration Testing during the projects.  • Exposure to tools such as ANT and hands on experience on SQlyog and SQL developer.  • Knowledge on UNIX shell scripting like Perl scripting.  • Used SVN, CVS, Harvest, Clear case and Clear Quest for Version controlling and error reporting.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Work Experience Java Engineer CDK Global - Portland, OR October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, Angular JS.  • Implemented the UI using Bootstrap.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Used Spring MVC, Ajax and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  • Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  • Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP.  • Followed Spring Boot and Spring framework for the development of the project.  • Used Rest methodology for the service layer interface and used JSON for the data transformation.  • Developed various AJAX and JSON calls for the communication between the server and the UI.  • Developed Web Services for produce and consumed the services.  • Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for MySQL Server.  • Used JavaScript and Struts 2 validation framework for performing front end validations.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and utilizing Hibernate Annotations.  • Developed the Mapping Resource Files for the database entities.  • Worked under dual role when required as IT Business Analyst and java engineer to identify and monitor the implementation of business logic.  • Performed gap analysis to ensure requirements meet needs of both front/back end systems and solidify business requirements  • Designed and developed application's GUI screens using GWT framework.  • Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.  • Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.  • Used J-Unit Testing and Ant Scripts.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in AGILE Methodology.  Environment: Java, JDK, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, XML, JSON, Ajax, Struts2, Hibernate, Spring, SOAP, MVC design patterns, WebSphere Server, MySQL Server, JMS, JNDI, Ant, JIRA, GIT, Maven, LINUX. Java Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR May 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project.  • Working knowledge in developing J2EE based applications using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, Struts, Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts like OOP'S design, Multi-threading, Generics, Exception handling, Collections, Java reflection, Annotation.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Implemented Business Services using the Core java and spring.  • Responsible for creating web pages using AngularJS, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap.  • Developed and consumed RESTful services for middle tier and front end.  • Coordinates and defect resolution tracks system and UAT defects with developers to resolve them within SLAs.  • Developed Web application using spring boot Framework (Annotations), Hibernate (ORM), Web Services.  • Developed persistence layer using Hibernate ORM framework, configured hibernate.xml file, Coding and fine-tuning of Hibernate Queries.  • Designed and developed Micro services business components using JAVA/J2EE, Spring Boot. Implemented REST web services based on RESTful APIs.  • Involved in application development for Cloud platforms using technologies like Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Micro Services, REST.  • Developed RESTful API's, which takes in an HTTP request and produces the HTTP response in JSON Format using micro services.  • Designed / Implemented micro services communication with OAuth server.  • Consumed TFS Restful services and deployed them to AWS.  • Implemented application modules using design patterns such as DAO, MVC.  • Developed build script using Maven to build, package, test and deploy Web applications in Tomcat container.  • Implemented dynamically configurable logging messages in applications using log4j.  • Provided code fixes for most of the production issues during initial application launch.  • Responsible for developing Spring Controllers, Service Components and DAO using Hibernate framework and MongoDB.  • Implemented business logic using spring boot framework and Data access objects (DAO) successfully.  • Involved in designing and creating service using Java.  • Worked closely with business and technical teams to ensure systems adhere to business and technical requirements.  • Used spring LDAP security services to authenticate and authorize user roles.  • Responsible for Integration testing, bug fixes and UAT using Scala.  • Worked with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking.  • Design and Develop RESTful web services that will allow a presentation layer to submit query request to Elastic Search.  • Automated all the unit tests and practiced continuous integration using Jenkins.  • Used TFS for tracking stories and bugs.  • Worked in Agile (SCRUM) methodology.  • Used git as a repository.  Environment: Java8, Core java, Lambda expressions, AngularJS, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Restful services, Spring LDAP, Maven, Jenkins, MongoDB, JIRA, Eclipse, Hibernate, spring boot, Apache Tomcat9, Bootstrap, git Java Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO August 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating various configuration files like struts and spring configuration files.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project.  • Well experienced with core Java concepts like Collections, RMI, Serialization and Java Bean.  • Extensively worked on core java concepts like Multi-Threading, Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Exception handling, and Collections Framework.  • Developed the application using Core Java, Multi-Threading, Spring Core, Beans, JDBC, Transaction and Batch, ORACLE, Maven.  • Wrote Web Services SOA, (SOAP, WSDL) for address validations. Implemented advanced java API and core java for coding sophisticated business logic.  • Used spring dependency injection mechanism to inject application and dependencies at runtime.  • Used Struts validation frame work to validate the form fields.  • Used DOJO widgets also used JSON for object representation.  • Involved in creating various Hibernate mapping files and configuring hibernate configuration file to persist data into the database.  • Created REST API's Micro services and EJB using Express Router/Model/Controller architecture. Models connect to SQL using Node.js.  • Developed micro services to configure and manage Jobs for all of our stacks.  • Used Hibernate and Spring JPA to persist Job data as part of Jobs Micro Services.  • Worked with Angular 2.0 along with Angular CLI to create UI for the Micro Services.  • Real time Micro services development experience using Cloud based DevOps solutions like AWS.  • Designed and implemented Report Module (using Jasper Report framework) in phase 2.  • Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, xml, MySQL, and Perl.  • Created dispatch action classes and use validation framework for validating fields.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for accessing data from database.  • Created database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures, Triggers, joins etc. with My SQL.  • Developed the applications using JSP, Struts and implemented MVC Architecture.  • Provided technical assistance to the rest of the team on matters relating to AWS.  • Had experience deploying Machine Learning solutions in AWS.  • Designed the Java Server Pages using Style sheets, HTML, and XML.  • Involved in implementing the different web services like SOAP.  • Used the Soap UI tool to test whether the expected and actual results of SOAP web service are same or not.  • Developed MAVEN scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  • Created Hibernate Mapping files and modelled the database.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Writing the front-end look and appearance for the screens using JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS and JQuery.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant code using Java for an application development effort. This involves working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB etc.  • Involved in the architecture of the modules according to the J2EE standards like client tier, web tier and business tier.  • Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and implemented Client Side validations using JavaScript.  • Preparing test cases by using Junit framework.  • Implemented MVVM in all interactive views using jQuery & Knockout.js and layouts in Bootstrap  • Working with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking.  • Proficiency in using development tools such as Eclipse, Netbeans  • Developed Web service modules based on SOA architecture to consume services.  • Involved in implementing Action Centre flow of User Dash Board to upload supported documents.  • Involved in implementing the different Spring Batches.  • Built the server module with Spring MVC, spring data and spring security technologies.  Environment: Java8, Core java,J2EE, Servlets, Jsp, JQuery, AWS, Spring 2.5, Spring MVC, SOAP, Spring security, spring Batch, Hibernate 3, Web Services, Micro services, XML, JBoss, Perl, JDBC, XSD, Agile, Web Logic 9.x, Junit, UML, Eclipse, Mule ESB, SQL, Maven, SVN, HTML, CSS, Shell, UNIX, EJB, AJAX, Jasper, Apache Tomcat, JIRA, Java Developer XPO Logistics - Portland, OR August 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in creation of Low-Level Design including sequence diagrams and class diagrams to understand the existing architecture.  • Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IoC). Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IoC framework.  • Involved in development of REST Web services using Apache Axis2 to extract client related data from databases.  • Created a Front - end application using JSF, Swing, ExtJS 3.0 and Spring MVC for registering a new patient and configured it to connect to database using hibernate.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, AngularJS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, views, joins.  • Implemented security solutions using spring security at the façade layer.  • Implemented JPA (ORM mapping tool) framework to interact with the database to update, retrieve, insert and delete values effectively.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components and RESTful service endpoints using Spring boot.  • Designing and developing new Rest based micro services on Spring Boot framework and deploy them on various environments.  • Developed Windows and Linux Scripts that will call the backend Rest Micro services through CURL calls in getting the JSON Format to integrate with User Interface Application.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot with Spring MVC flow.  • Developed Restful Services using JAX-RS with Spring Boot and Micro Service Architecture to enable Micro Services to deploy on the cloud.  • Developed Apache Ant script to create war/ear file and deployed on the application server.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver. Used Design Patterns such as singleton, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Service Locator, Simple Factory Pattern, Data Transfer Object.  • Used Apache CXF for building and developing web services using API like Restful JAX-RS  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-full server on a different domain.  • Developed test scripts to automate process of testing in Selenium.  • Written discrepancy reports and performed integration regressing testing using Selenium.  • Lead Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA  • Created standalone Scala programs to read data from several XLS files and insert data into the Database as needed by the testing team.  • Developed and configured tables including sequences, Functions, Procedures, joins and Table constraints using Oracle Database 11g, JDBC.  • Configured tiles-defs.xml file to configure the presentation views.  • Used Web Services (REST & WSDL) to exchange data between portal and other modules.  • Implemented spring - Hibernate as Data Access Layer.  • Bottle micro-framework implemented with REST API and MongoDB (NoSQL) as back end database.  • Designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational Data model with a SQL- based schema.  • Used WebLogic Application server to deploy and restart web applications.  • Expertise in the use of Java/J2EE design patterns like singleton, MVC, builder and strategy patterns.  • Fixing bugs in different testing phases with the help of Log4J logs.  • Involved in the creation of exhaustive Junit Test Cases.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, REST web services, Micro services, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, XML, XSD, Schema, PL/SQL, Agile methodology, Oracle WebLogic 10.0 Server, Oracle 11g, Apache ANT, Unix, Junit 4.0, AJAX, Eclipse, JavaScript, JQuery, REST, Struts, PL/SQL, JIRA. Java Developer Pegasus Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, and implementation/translation of business user requirements.  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Factory Pattern, Singleton, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Developed Web Services to allow communication between applications through SOAP over HTTP using Apache Axis2.  • Extensively worked with struts for middle tier development with Hibernate as ORM and spring IOC for dependency injection for the application based on MVC design paradigm.  • Redesigned the Aero portal screens and Menus using JSP, JQuery.  • Interpreted and manipulated Struts and hibernate configure files.  • Developed the admin screens using JSP and JavaScript.  • Used SQL, PL/SQL and SQL*PLUS for interfacing to databases like oracle 9.i and SQL server.  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, Struts, JNDI, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, JDBC, SQL  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection and integrated with the EJB 3.0 using annotations.  • Automate build process by writing ANT build scripts.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4j.  • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse and Maven for development.  • Developed various UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams and activity diagrams.  • Played a key role in the design and development of almost all the modules of the project.  Environment: Java, J2EE, SOAP web services, Spring 3.0, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Junit, JSP 2.0, JDBC 4.0, HTML, Servlets, Rational Rose, WebSphere application server 6.0, JBoss, UML, CVS, XML/XSL, SQL, Server, Spring MVC, EJB, ANT, PL/SQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Maven. Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Windows XP, 2000, Win- NT, Linux  Programming Languages Java, J2EE, SQL, C, C++  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Security, Spring IOC.  Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate, spring boot.  Databases DB2, Oracle, 10g/9i/8i, SQL, MY SQL and MONGO DB, Sybase, MS Access.  Development tools RAD 7.5.3, IDEA 8.1, Eclipse 3.5, STS, WSAD.  Web/Application Servers JBoss, Web Logic 10.X/8.0/7.1, Apache Tomcat 6.X, 7.1, WebSphere.  Web Development JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JQuery, XML, XSLT, XSD, AJAX, GWT, JAX-WS, AngularJS 2.0.  Build/Testing tools ANT 1.7.1, Maven 3.0, Junit 4.7.  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, Rest  Others/Tools Swing, Agile, RUP, Subversion, Jasper, Reports, JMock, Microsoft Visio, HL7.  Methodologies SDLC, RUP, Agile (Scrum/Extreme Programming)  Design/Version Control: Rational Clear Case, CVS and Tortoise SVN and PVCS  Message Service MQ series, JMS