Full-Stack Java Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Java Developer - Mattel LLC Irving, TX Experienced Full-Stack Java Developer with around 3 years of experience in enterprise software development and implementation of Java J2EE technologies in a variety of domains. Proficient in front-end development using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript (Bootstrap/ Angular 6) and has experience designing, developing, and testing the web application and integration of projects using object-oriented technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Microservices and Hibernate. Implemented SOAP and REST web services. Knowledgeable with Jenkins and docker and IDE/Tools like Eclipse, STS, SQL Developer, Maven, Log4j, and JIRA. Work Experience Full-Stack Java Developer Mattel LLC March 2018 to Present • Worked on Java web application suites and e-commerce applications for high value performance operations, which provided online-related data and operations of the business house to the customers and various clients.  • Developed iteration planning and business modules for the web services exposed.  • Planned discussions with the lead to lay down the plan for development.  • Followed Agile/Scrum for the delivery of the project deliverables.  • Designed, implemented, and managed e-commerce applications and websites.  • Worked on consumption of REST and SOAP services.  • Converted SOAP-based services to REST-based services.  • Worked on presentation/service layer of web services.  • Participated in UI design and implementation using Angular 6.  • Developed JUnit test cases for business modules and Spring Boot services for handling business functionality.  • Designed and implemented Spring boot microservices using Spring Boot 2.1  • Worked with Maven 3.5 for the build and deployment of the modules.  • Used Git for the source code version control and Jenkins 2 and Dockers for software automation.  • Used Apache Tomcat 8.5 for the local deployments and WebSphere 8.5 for upper environments.    Environment: Eclipse Neon, Angular 6, Java 1.8, J2EE, RESTful, Spring 5.0, Spring Boot, Microservices, Hibernate 5.0, Spring JDBC, DAO, SOAP, WSDL, Web services, XML, JAX-RS, Oracle 11g, SQL, HQL, IBM Web Sphere 8.5, Tomcat 8.5, Git, Maven 3.5, Jira, Windows 7, Windows 10. Entry-Level Java Developer Arvest Bank, AR August 2017 to January 2018 • Involved in developing the applications to meet the user requirements.  • Followed Agile/Scrum methodology for software development.  • Designed, developed, implemented and managed e-commerce applications and websites.  • Gained familiarity with Angular 2 for front-end UI designing.  • Worked on developing JUnit test cases for the business modules.  • Worked with Maven 3.0 for the build and deployment of the modules.  • Used Git for the source code version control.  • Used Apache Tomcat and IBM Web Sphere for deployment.    Environment: Eclipse, Angular 2, Bootstrap 2.0, Java 1.7, J2EE, Hibernate 3.5, Spring 3.5, JDBC, MySQL, IBM Web Sphere 8.0, Tomcat 8.0, Git, Maven 3.0, Windows 7, Windows 10. (Intern), Lalitpur, Nepal PROFESSIONAL COMPUTER SYSTEM 2012 to 2013 Software Engineer •  Instrumental contributor to client-requested new feature development and ongoing customer support. Conducted efficient data migrations. Performed database installation and backup. Managed server for consolidated clients.    Projects & Achievements:  • BankPlus: Designed new features on banking transaction application according to client requests while incorporating all banking rules defined by Nepal Rastra Bank; performed post-delivery support.  • Praised for successfully finalizing ATM backend module and providing clients with effective solutions.  • Promoted to full-time Software Engineer after successfully delivering project within time/quality expectations.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed web pages using with HTML, CSS, Ajax, Angular JS 2.0, React JS and jQuery based on the w3 standards.  • Extensively used SpringMVC, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS 2.0, ReactJs to provide UI functionality.  • Worked with technologies such as jQuery and Ajax to make the website more attractive.  • Created Angular directives, services and controllers for complete ground up development and migration of existing jQuery web application.  • Experience in working with HTML canvas element to create work flow chart with libraries and framework.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Involved in creating responsive web pages with Bootstrap and CSS framework like SAAS.  • Comfortable with HTML5 (new tags, changes, canvas) and CSS3 (selectors, animations and transforms).  • Attended meetings with UX team to discuss shortcomings, suggestions, limitations of framework, and technical glitches for the given wireframes.    Technologies:  • Languages: Oracle form Developer, PLSQL; Databases: Oracle; Tools: Oracle Form & Report Builder, SQL Developer, Notepad++; Platforms: Windows. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Sikkim Manipal University 2014 Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JMS, jQuery, JSF, JSP, RMI, SERVLET, DOCKER, Git, Hadoop, HBase, Hive, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP