Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Sabre Stamford, CT • 5+ years of experience as a Java Full stack developer in full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Extensively implemented various J2EE applications using MVC, Struts 2.0, Spring- Portlets, Spring MVC Spring AOP, Spring IOC.  • Developed UI and backend applications Struts, Hibernate, Java, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Extensive experience in developing web-based applications on J2EE platform. Worked on various web servers like Tomcat.  • Experienced in developing applications using Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Hibernate, Web Services, JDBC, XML, HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax and JQuery.  • Extensive experience working in a Test-Driven Development and Agile-Scrum Development.  • Experience in working in both Windows, Linux and UNIX platforms including programming and debugging skills in UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Good working knowledge of JEE best practice toolsets such as Ant, Maven, Bamboo, Urban Code.  • Employing Java Object/Relational bridge technologies such as Hibernate ORM, JPA, and spring.  • Developed applications based on Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using core design patterns (creational, structural, behavioral) and JEE design patterns (Data Access Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade etc.)  • Sound working knowledge on performance tuning in JAVA and JEE including hibernate tuning.  • Experience in using ANT tool Maven to compile, package and deploy the components to the Application Servers.  • Good Knowledge on using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/JEE application development.  • Proficiency in working with databases like Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, NoSQL.  • Exposure to Oracle, DB2, and MySQL databases in developing applications using SQL Scripts, Stored Procedures.  • Extensive experience on support tools like Application Life Cycle Management to perform Unit testing and Application integration testing.  • Extensive experience in developing Web Services applications using REST Client, REST API, SOAP UI.  • Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD), Waterfall model and Agile methodologies like SCRUM.  • Experienced in performing automation using Selenium, Java and performing Behavioral driven testing using Cucumber and JBehave.  • Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  • Experience in developing User Interface (UI) Applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JavaScript, RxJS, JQuery, AJAX, RWD, JSON, XHTML and XML.  • Good knowledge and experience in Core and J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Builder, MVC2, Business Delegate, DAO etc.  • Expertise building SOAP Web services based on AWS (Amazon Web Services)  • Experienced in other front-end technologies such as SASS, LESS, Typescript, BOOTSTRAP, Angular1, Angular1.5, Angular 2, Ajax, JSON, NodeJS etc.  • Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies - Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Struts, Spring products (core, boot, integrations, security), Hibernate Framework.  • Created POC's using NodeJS, MongoDB, Express-JS and Body-Parser to create REST services.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and using them with continuous integration tools like Jenkins to create and publish application artifacts.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Database and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL database which is MongoDB.  • Experience in writing SQL Queries, Triggers, and Stored procedures for database transactions.  • Proven aptitude on learning and working on emergency technologies. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Sabre - Southlake, TX January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Involved in analysis, design, and implementation and testing phases of SDLC through Agile Methodology.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Designed and developed Enterprise Eligibility business objects and domain objects with Object Relational Mapping framework such as Hibernate.  • Developed various generic JavaScript, Angular functions to implement client-side validations.  • Development of UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AngularJS and CSS.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Developed JSP custom tag libraries, and associated support in the Action Servlet, that assists in creating interactive form-based applications, which is the one of the primary area of functionality using Struts Framework.  • Used JBOSS application server for run time integration of j2ee applications.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Spring Framework.  • Developed and implemented the business logic component in middle tier using JDBC and EJB framework including stateless session classes and Entity bean classes  • Developed PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module.  • Make files and the like. Worked with Clear case source management.  • Enhanced and created new Jasper Reports according to the requirements.  • Implemented Angular 4 Router to enable navigation from one view to next as agent performs application tasks.  • Worked on creating WAR/EAR files from maven and deployed them on Apache Tomcat.  • Implemented Java SE8 features like Lambda, Streams and Predicates to reduce the line of code and better functionality in the Service Layer of the application.  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Involved in implementing Spring Netflix fault tolerance library to prevent failure from cascading failures.  • Used Spring Security for session fixation, clickjacking, cross site request forgery.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping using Hibernate framework to fetch the data from Oracle database.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of spring boot.  • Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.    Environment: Spring, Hibernate, WebLogic, Rest, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, WebSphere, Drools, JSTL, Servlets, AWS, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, EJB, UML, Eclipse, JUnit, JSF, Maven, JBOSS, GWT, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS, Clear case, Jasper Report, ILOG, Agile, Web 2.0, Adobe Flex, SOAP. Java Developer CIOX Health - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle which includes requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and prototyping.  • Identified and fixed various production issues related to IBM MQ server on Linux, UNIX, and Windows system.  • Responsible for developing and maintaining all the entity and session beans.  • Used Structs Model-View-Controller approach to help design new features and fix Jira bugs and request.  • Developed Rest Web services for IOS and Android mobile websites and apps.  • Handling user requests such as code enhancements, bug fixes.  • Used Java Collections Lists, Sets and Maps in advanced core java.  • Designed reports per the need of the user.  • Developed critical components of the application including Spring Controllers, Spring Forms, JSP Views and Business logic and data logic components that include Hibernate Entities, Spring-Hibernate DAO and Spring models following MVC architecture.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Wrote Drool rules in both rule flow and drools fusion for fetching the facts from the database.  • Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Cloud Foundry, and Spring Micro Services and enabled discovery using the AWS cloud services.  • Implemented Restful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the forms.  • Worked on developing web service calls using SOAP and WSDL.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server.  • Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.    Environment: Java, Agile Methodology, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Drools, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch, Spring Security, HTML5, IBM MQ 7.0, CSS3, Node.js, Bootstrap, JSTL, jQuery, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Hibernate, Restful API, SOA, JAX-RS, JSON, SQL, Oracle, CRUD, CI, CD, Jenkins, JIRA, MAVEN, JUnit, UNIX, IBM Web Sphere, Log4J, GIT. Java Developer Ally - Charlotte, NC April 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the requirements and went through the Software Requirement Specification document and Architecture document.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework to achieve Dependency Injection for loose coupling, modularity, easy unit testing.  • Used Agile Scrum methodologies for application development.  • Behavioral and integration testing is done using Cucumber and Selenium testing tools.  • Developed JSP and Servlets for the presentation tier.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot, Spring JPA.  • Created front-end user interfaces with React JS by creating many components and modules.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Responsible for developing the functionality end to end. It includes UI design, Business development in backend, writing Unit Test cases and Integration Testing.  • Used JBuilder for developing, deploying and debugging the applications.  • Involved in Units integration, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases.  • Supported technical team members in development of automated processes for data extraction and analysis.    Environment: FileNet, IBM RAD 6.0, Java 1.7, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, ICE Faces, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, UNIX, Web Services- SOAP, WAS 6.1, XML, IBM WebSphere 6.1, Rational Clear Case, Log 4j, IBM DB2. Skills JAVA (5 years), JSP (5 years), SERVLETS (5 years), CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Java/J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JSTL, and other java related technologies.  Scripting jQuery, JavaScript, Shell Script  Technologies Hadoop, Big Data  Frameworks Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, Social, Security, etc.), Hibernate, Bootstrap, Struts, Tiles, DWR (Direct Web Remoting)  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS, SSL, XML, AJAX, Web Services, REST  Web Servers JBoss, Weblogic, WebSphere, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, Sybase, PostgreSQL  Database Tools SQL Developer, DB Artisan, TOAD, MSSQL Server Management Studio  Reporting Tools Jasper Reports, BIRT, Crystal Reports  Build Tools Gradle, Maven, ANT  Other Tools JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, Sonar, Fisheye  Version Control Git, SVN, CVS, VSS (Visual Source Safe)  Operating Systems Windows (XP, 7, 8/8.1, 10), Linux, Unix