Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Ventera Corporation Columbus, OH ? Java Programmer with 5+years of experiencein Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Implementation of large-scale Business Application Software and Client/Server applications and Internet Applications.  ? Experience in developing applications using Core Java, Spring Framework, REST, J2EE, Servlets, Collections, Maven, Exception Handling, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, HTML, Eclipse, Tomcatand Oracle.  ? Good experience in data processing and Interfacing (Back-end Front-end connectivity) skills using Oracle 9i (SQL, PL/SQL), MySQL, SQL Server, and Create Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERD) for various database systems.  ? Strong experience in working web applications using Spring MVC, JSP, Servlets  ? Experience in design and architecture of the applications using Spring.  ? Excellent understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Maven tool.  ? Used versioning tools GIT Hub and Subversion.  ? Experience in System Testing, Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing and User Acceptance Testing on Client Server and Web Based Applications.  ? Well versed with Waterfall and Agile Methodologies  ? Sound knowledge in designing enterprise application architecture & client server environments  ? Expertise in analyzing Business Specification Documents, Functional Specification Documents, Use Cases, JUnit Test Cases, generating test scripts and analyzing test results.  ? Possess good work ethic, excellent oral, written, interpersonal communication skills and a Quick learner Work Experience Java Developer Ventera Corporation August 2016 to Present STARS - USDA Food and Nutrition Service (FNS)  FNS stars system Tracks and monitors data about the retailers that participate in the SNAP Program. It tracks the status of the retailers in the SNAP program, tracks retailers' eligibility every 5 years, tracks compliance history of the retailers, tracks redemptions at these retailer locations, tracks official mailing/communication to retailers. It contains the modules - STARS, ORA and OSA.  Responsibilities  ? Developed new dashboards for Administrative Review Branch (ARB) and Retailer Administration Branch (RAB) using Spring MVC, JPA and JSP  ? Designed the migration process from Springs to JPA and developed all JPA entities and DAOs for STARS, FNSCommon, ORA and OSA Modules  ? Migrated existing test modules to support JPA using Junit  ? Used Spring Dependency Injection to develop enhancements of dashboards, OSA and ORA  ? Developed Compliance module enhancements using Spring MVC, JPA.  ? Evaluated the modules performance using JMeter, Junit and Jvisualvm  ? Developed email notifications for ARB and RAB branches using Velocity templates  ? Migrated all compliance charge letter and warning letters to Database using JPA, Velocity and Apache FOP (XML and XSLT)  ? Ensured timely deliveries of work requests/enhancements by coordinating the team Involved coding, Unit Testing and review of the system.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Collections, Exception Handling, XML, XSLT, SQL Server/RDBMS, PL/SQL Procedure, Linux, Windows, Servlets, JIRA, Maven and GIT Tene Agricultural Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to April 2015 Tene Agricultural Solutions is an Agriculture based company. With the deep industry knowledge, Tene will provide the information to farmers which crop is suitablebased on the weather conditions. They collect the problems faced in the surroundings by the farmers, analyze the data, generate trends and make it available to the agricultural universities which will help in providing better solutions to farmers.The objective of the project is to develop a software which can be used to collect the crop data and feed into a database, which in turn is used to generate the reports.    Job Responsibilities:  ? Collect the business requirements and convert them to technical requirements.  ? Design and develop the HTML screens for data collection  ? Create the tables and write the PL / SQL procedures  ? Write the Unit and system testing scenarios using JUNITS  ? Provide the training to field officersto collect the data and upload to the central database.  ? Generate customreports  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Java Script, XML, HTML, DHTML, IIS, Quality Center, Unix/LINUX, Tomcat, Oracle9i, TOAD and JUNITS. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications IGNOU University 2003 to 2006 Master of Sciences in Maths Osmania University May 2004 Bachelorof Science in Computers Nagarjuna University April 2002 Skills Java, Spring, Jsp, Servlets, Jdbc, Mysql, Pl/sql, Sql, C++, Git, Html, Xml, Jira, Tomcat, Mvc, Rest, Ms-dos Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems: Windows98/2000/XP, MS-DOS.  Web Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring MVC, Java Script, REST, HTML and XML.  Languages: C, C++, VB, Java7 and PL/SQL.  Databases: Oracle9i, MYSQL.  Servers: Tomcat.  Tools: Jira, GIT HUB, Confluence, Microsoft Tools.