Job Seeker Java Developer Santa Fe, NM • Approximately 5 years of experience as a Full Stack Developer in IT industry and experienced in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE.  • Experience in working in environments using Agile (SCRUM) and Test Driven Development (TDD) development methodologies.  • Proficient in UI design, developed Front End using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2.0, NodeJs, ReactJs and have knowledge on Backbone Js.  • Hands on experiences with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, File Handling, I/O,Generics, Data Structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  • Experience in java8 features like Parallel Streams, Lambdas, functional interfaces and filters.  • Experience in developing, deploying, and managing N-tier, server-centric J2EE enterprise class projects using Eclipse IDE 3.x/4.x, My Eclipse 6.5, [ ] ( Java 2, Applets, Swing, JDBC 3.0, RMI), J2EE 1.5 Web application technologies (Servlets 2.x, JSP 1.x/2.x, JSTL 1.2, JSF 1.x, JNDI), Enterprise application technologies (EJB 2.x/3.0, JMS).  • Good experience on Design Patterns (J2EE) like Singleton, Factory, DAO, Session Facade, Front Controller, and Delegate Pattern.  • Experienced in developing messaging module by using Spring JMS, Spring Integration, Apache Camel, Kafka and Rabbit MQ.  • Experience in Spring (MVC/IOC/ORM/JDBC/AOP/BATCH/WEBFLOW/Context), Spring Integration and Struts (MVC, architecture, interceptors, action mappings and resource bundles).  • Experience in developing Microservices using Spring-Boot.  • Experience in development and deployment of applications using JBoss, Web LogicApplication Server, IBM WebSphere Application and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in developing SOAP based Web Services using Apache CXF and Apache Kafka and JAX-WS.  • Experienced in developing Restful Services using JAX-RS specification like Jersey and Rest Easy to implement REST based Application.  • Experience in using Socket Programming.  • Experience in using bug/issue tracking, project Tracking and Management tool JIRA.  • Experience working on Web Services SOAP & REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, WSDL and UDDI registry.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Service such as SOAP, UDDI and WSDL.  • Experience with Cloud Computing Service environment like (AWS) Amazon Web Services (EC2, EBS, S3 and ELASTIC SEARCH).  • Involved in designed fully distributed system with the use of Restful API and Micro Services.  • Complete understanding of the DevOps process with continuous integration using Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, CHEF.  • Expertise in developing model components using ORM technologies like MyBatis, Hibernate  (Caching, Hibernate Template, DAO) to write Database independent persistence logic and to  maintain portable relationships between the databases.  • Good experience in J2EE Testing in developing test cases with JUnit, MOCKITO for Unit testing, and logging using Log4j.  • Good Experience in Mock Testing.  • Experienced with RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle ATG, My SQL, MSSQL and DB2.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using No SQL Database such as MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools likeGIT, SVN and CVS.  • Experience in using the tools like Ant and Maven for build automation.  • Extensive experience in testing on multiple operating systems including Linux, Unix, Sun Solaris, and Windows. Work Experience Deloitte March 2019 to Present JavaDeveloper  "Deloitte" is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit & assurance, consulting, risk and financial advisory, risk management, tax, and related services to select clients.    Responsibilities:  • Gather and prepare the requirements from clients for product design and enhancements.  • Work on Agile Methodology (Scrum Framework) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Ensure standard agile practices through regular Sprint Planning, Story Sizing, Task Breakdown, Spring Retrospective Meeting and Sprint Review sessions.  • Participate in user requirement sessions to gather business requirements.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  • Work on Standalone Applications and Web Applications.  • Lead high-functioning agile team with development having a heavy emphasis on crisp delivery of the user stories created by the product owner and stakeholders.  • Implemented Pre-Authentication and database security with Site Minder and spring security.  • Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.  • Use Team Collaboration Software JIRA and Confluence.  • Followed strict guidelines to enforce a HIPAA-compliant EDI X12 operation.  • Manage and maintain MongoDB servers across multiple environments  • Participated in NoSQL database integration and implementation.  • Used Node.js and Npm modules.  • Implement mock services in node.JS with the help of modules using ExpressJS.  • Implement the Angular MVC and two-way data binding.  • As functional tech lead, involved in design/POC implementations using OpenStack API.  • Work on the Cloud storages to pull all the contents to integrate in to the system  • Use Elastic search for Real time analytics and a Full text search functionality.  • Use HTML5 and JQuery for the Uninstall Survey Page Application.  • Work on AngularJS for one of the single page application and cross browser functionality.  • Use SoapUI for testing Web Service Apache POI API to generate Output files  • Use REST API with JAX-RS for consuming web services to handle two interfaces XML and JSON.  • Work on Single Sign in survey page application.  • Use Spring boot for Single Sign on page application to access more quickly.  • Use Eclipse IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules  • Design the Cascaded Style Sheets for designing the styles, skinning and layouts  • Involved in designing the page layouts using Wire Frames templates  • Use Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object to database table persistency  • Implement Batch Updates using Spring and configured beans in Application Context file  • Extensively worked on JDBC Prepared statements and callable statements to access data base  • Work on Java Messaging Services (JMS) for developing messaging services  • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database  • Use Oracle 10g Server as the backend database storage  • Create data base tables according to the application requirements    Environment: Java8/J2ee, JSP, Web Services - Restful (Microservices), Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, MongoDB,AWS, Eclipse, Jenkins, Maven, Github, Log4J, Ant, Tomcat, Oracle 10g, JUnit, UML, Unix, Design Patterns, Shell Scripting, Spring boot, SQL, Agile, SOA, Apache Axis, JMS, WEB 2.0, JIRA. Java Developer Ardent Mills, Colorado August 2017 to February 2019 Ardent Mills is flour supplier and grain innovator. With more than 40 community flour mills and blending facilities throughout the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, they offer the broadest range of premium multi-use flours, whole grains, mixes and custom multi-grain blends.    Responsibilities:  • Defined strategic initiatives on Continuous Integration & Delivery (CI/CD) model with Test-driven development, Extreme programming (XP), and build automation, in an AGILE development environment to help, respond quickly to business needs and to ship world class Quality products.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally.  • Enhanced and optimized the functionality of Web UI using RichFaces, JSF, AJAX, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring integration with Hibernate.  • Implemented application architecture of the System is based on Spring MVC and J2EE specifications.  • Worked on Security-System development for Web Applications.  • Involved and developed all phases of security implementation using spring security system against modes of authentications: LDAP authentication, Database authentication and Pre-Authentication.  • Integrated application with Spring Security for form based authentication and authorization by used spring security JSP tags to provide UI level spring security.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring Security Modules.  • Implemented & exposed the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using design patterns such as Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  • Created Server instances on AWS. Tomcat, Swagger and Hawtio are installed and used for deploying Micro-services.  • Used Rabbit MQ queues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence onto the Oracle database.  Environment: Java 7.0, Spring 3, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring JTA, Spring Boot, Python, Kubernetes, JPA, JavaScript, NodeJS, HTML5.0, CSS3, JMS, Rabbit MQ, JAXP (SAX & DOM), JBoss, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, Cassandra, Kafka, RESTful, log4j, JUnit, XML, Web Services, GIT, DevOps, AWS Java UI Developer Vanna Infotech Pvt Ltd January 2013 to December 2015 Vanna Infotech has an ongoing mandate to ensure that its workforce remains in compliance with federal, self-regulatory organizations and state registration requirements. The Registration Dashboard is a tool provided to members of field management to track and monitor the status of registration, associates who are in danger of missing exam window(s), lapses in continuing education status, and it also identifies individuals who do not have the requisite for their job code. It provides management access to registration information on associates assigned to them.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Presentation tier implementation which involves in creating the JSP pages, configuring action classes and developing several Action classes involved in the project.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Worked on Server-side pagination for processing high volume of data to the UI.  • Designed user interface layout using JavaScript, CSS, and HTML.  • Validation is performed using Struts validator.  • Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Oracle10g Database  • Created a Front-end application using JSPs and Spring MVC for registering a new entry and configured it to connect to database using Hibernate.  • Extensively participated in Agile Scrum Development Methodology with Test Driven Development (TDD) process, from the development phase to testing phase and postproduction phase.  • Developed Web Service provider methods (bottom up approach) using WSDL, XML and SOAP for transferring data between the Applications.  • GUI Implementation using JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 10g Database.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool for accessing database.  • Designed and developed all the user interfaces using JSP, Servlets and Spring framework.  • Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets and Spring.  • Developed Presentation layer usingJavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Configured the deployment descriptors in Hibernate to achieve object relational mapping.  • Write SQL queries to pull some information from the Backend.  • Created JSP pages using standard JSTL tags, Struts tags and custom tags.  • Worked on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Used Ajax to provide dynamic features where applicable.  • Developed several DAO's using Hibernate.  • Used Log4J for logging and analyzing system performance and flow, involved in code refactoring and bug fixing  • Used Agile Development methodology of software development.  • Part of production support team, which involved in resolving production related issues.    Environment: Java, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AJAX, Struts, TDD, Spring boot and cloud,Hibernate, HTML, CSS, Oracle10g, WebSphere Application Server 8.0, Eclipse, Tortoise SVN, and Win SCP. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, J2se, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Struts, Javascript, Subversion, Svn, Visio, Xml, Database, Db2, Informix, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql Additional Information SKILL SET:    Languages/Technologies Core Java, J2SE, J2EE, JSPs, Ajax, JSF2.0, EJB, JDBC,JavaScript, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, XML, Angular JS, Web Services, SQL, WSDL, JUnit  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, Struts 2.0  Design Methodologies Rational Rose, MS Visio  Application/Web Servers WebSphere8.0 ,Weblogic 8.x/7.x, Oracle, Tomcat 5.0, JBoss 5.0  Database Environments ORACLE 9i/10g/11i/12C, SQL Server, MYSQL, DB2, Informix DB.  IDEs Eclipse, Netbeans, RAD, Jdeveloper 9.0.3, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer, Tortise SVN, DBvisuilizer.  Testing Tools Junit, Test-Ng.  SCM Tools CVS, Perforce,Clearcase, Subversion  Operating Systems Windows NT/XP/2000, Unix, Linux, Redhatlinux, Solaris  Protocols HTTP, FTP, TCP/IP, LAN and WAN.