Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - AT&T Dallas, TX • Having 8 years of professional experience of developing enterprise applications using Object Oriented methodologies, enterprise technologies, frameworks and design patterns.  • Experience in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle - analysis, design, development, deployment, testing and maintenance of enterprise applications.  • Proficient in using various design patterns such as MVC, Data Transfer Object, Value Object, Singleton, Service Locator, Session Façade, Factory Pattern and DAO.  • Experience developing front-end components using JSP, HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript, Ajax.  • Excellent understanding and expertise in web tier frameworks like Struts and Spring MVC.  • Knowledge in all components of struts-config file. Well-versed with various struts actions classes.  • Hands on development experience in Core Java and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Excellent hands on experience on Struts framework and extensively used Validator Framework and Tiles Framework  • Expertise in Web page creation using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Less CSS.  • Expertise in developing Middle-Tier components using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) and other Remote Components.  • Experience working in and building Continuous Integration (CI) and Continues Deployment (CD) by building custom build and deployments jobs in Jenkins, Bamboo and team city and building automation tests based on Gherkin, utilizing Cucumber and selenium web driver.  • Good Experience of Object Relational mapping frameworks like Hibernate and JPA  • Good knowledge and experience in implementing open source frameworks Hibernate and Spring  • Excellent knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures to interact with Oracle and MS SQL Server databases  • Expertise in Code reviews, Bug fixes and Unit & System testing  • Expertise in troubleshooting Production incidents/issues  • Expertise in developing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) and clients to use Web services.  • Well versed with all parts of WSDL.  • Hands-on experience in implementing RESTful Web services.  • Used various web servers like Apache Tomcat, Camel-JBOSS and IBM Web Sphere  • Experience on different Operating Systems - Windows 2003/2008/XP/Vista/7, Linux and Unix  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN and Clear Case  • Good interpersonal skills, excellent verbal, written and presentation skills and can work both independently and in a team  • Received Appreciations for Successful and Smooth rollout of the Enterprise Applications in the Production environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and developing high performance throttling service.  • Created rest client API for the application.  • Worked on AJAX implementation to retrieve the content and for displaying it without reloading the existing page.  • Developed user interface using JSP, Java Script, HTML5 and CSS.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection Framework, Interfaces, and Exception Handling programming.  • Tested the entire application using JUnit.  • Experience writing and utilizing Restful API services and performance tuning large scale web applications.  • Participated in Build & Deployment activities using Gradle build scripts.  • Involved in various SDLC Life cycle phases like design, development, testing, documentation, deployment & maintenance of application software.  • Development involved technologies like Java, J2EE (Multithreading, JNDI, XML Parsers), JSP, Servlets and Spring MVC.  • Developed the JUKE BOX web application using JSP, JSTL, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Struts framework and CDS API's so that the customers can shop for mobile content using their web browser.  • Developed Junit classes to test the functionality and Involved in the handset testing of the application on various XHTML and WML browsers using openwave simulator.  • Developed SOAP WebServices using apache axis and used CDS API's to send billing notification events to external billing systems to bill user based on the downloaded content.  • Used Swagger framework and WADL for documentation of REST API'S.  • Developed user-friendly web-based GUI using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular1.  • Configuring of Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring the servers for specified applications.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets and Stored Procedures.  • Developed Data Access Objects to handle HQL queries using Hibernate and Transfer objects.  • Developed various helper classes using Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • AngularJS to consume restful services.  • Learned and used bamboo which is the new way of deployment and build process.  • Developed JSP pages, Controller, Helper & Validator classes for the application. Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Design common framework for REST API consumption using Spring Rest Templates.  • Used Angular1 to develop a small UI for the demo purpose.  • Built Cloud infrastructure like EC2, ELB, S3, SNS and Lambda on AWS using Cloud Formation.  • Writing SPA (Single Page Application) using AngularJS.  • Used JIRA for project stories, defect tracking and raising different type of severity of the defects.  • Designed Presentation layer using JSP, Struts framework and did front-end validations using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implementing Business logic based on user selection using JQuery and Angular 1.0.  • Developed application using AngularJS to implement Single Page Architecture (SPA).  • Used log4j for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Used GIT Bash as a version control tool.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Improving the coding standards, code reuse, and performance of the application by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Used ng-table, ng-grid and various types of Angular Directives.  • Opened CRQs to deploy the application in Stable and Production environments and deployed the application in Development, DB-Dev, Stable and Production environments and validated the application upon successful deployment.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, Ajax and jQuery.  • Designed and developed Rest Services using Java, spring, Spring Boot, RESTful, JPA, Hibernate.  • Worked on Vagrant development environment for local verification.  • Prepared and executed test cases for Unit, System and Integration testing using JUnit.  • Used log4j for logging info and also for debugging the issues.  • Worked on Sonar for the check style issues.  • Used Crucible for reviewing the code.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM.    Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC,CSS, Hibernate, HTML5, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, API, Junit, Oracle 11g, Log4j, Maven, Gradle, XML, Windows, JQuery. Java Developer Fidelity Investments - Westlake, TX July 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Agile/Scrum methodology.  • Implemented various design patterns like facade Design Pattern, DAO, DTO, Singleton, view resolver. Developed GUI using Angular.JS, HTML5, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, and CSS.  • This Application was developed using Spring-MVC, Spring Web flow, and IoC/Dependency Injection, Restful and SOAP web services integrating different layers of the application.  • Created and managed CI/CD pipeline for java web applications (maven builds) using Jenkins.  • Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth2 authentication protocol respectively.  • Communicating with different web Services by using Spring Integration.  • Wrote Interceptors, Validators and loggers using Spring MVC frame work.  • Worked with Jenkins and Hudson for continuous Integration.  • Wrote Hibernate classes, DAO's to retrieve & store data, configured Hibernate files.  • Developed Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate  • Worked on Spring-JDBC in development of DAO Layer.  • Developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances.  • Worked in establishing JMS for sending Reminder mails to Users for reminding the application of Credit Cards using Cheetah Mail Service.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Implemented various SQL queries and assisted in writing Stored Procedure for Application field validations, phone class assigned etc. Worked with Jquery for the front end development of the application. Implemented various validation controls for client-side validation with Angular.js and HTML5.  • Implemented REST Web Services within the application with the use of URI templates and content negotiation. Associated the design patterns within the core Java back-end design and development. Used lots of data structures, collections, exception handlings and multithreading programming during the module implementation including customer info module, statement module and other with core Java.  • Application was developed using JBOSS Developer Studio IDE and STASH for version control and deployed using JBOSS Server in Windows environment.  • Implemented MicroServices Architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST, SOAP.  • Responsible to create an API product with developer services involving debugging as well testing. Developed the presentation layer using Ajax, JavaScript, Asynchronous requests, CSS and HTML taken from Bootstrap to develop for multiple browsers including mobiles and tablets.  • Worked on SQL Query Optimizations and performance tuning of frequently used SQL Queries.  • Performance testing, optimization of Throughput and increase of Scalability of the application by using Angular.js.  • Used AngularJS MVC framework to create Models and Collections that includes logic to interact with REST services. Created User Interface in DOJO/AJAX and Struts2 tags for different customized screens for each type of user.  • Performed webservices testing for REST API.  • Worked on Jenkins to provide continuous integration services for software development. Responsible for data validation on the Client side by using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on Integration on the Project modules of UI Layer, Presentation Service Layer and Shared Services Layer for the Production.  • Built MicroServices using spring boot with continuous deployment and continuous integration using Jenkins.  • Provided production support for the release of the Projects.  • Wrote JUnit Test Cases for action classes and service layer classes.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC/Dependency Injection, Junit, Agile/Scrum, JPA, JDBC, JMS, JAXB, DB2 Server, SQL Developer, Log4j, REST and SOAP Web Services, RESTful API, AngularJS, Maven, Jboss Server, JBoss Developer Studio, GIT, Jenkins, Windows. Java/J2EE developer Northern Trust Bank - Chicago, IL May 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved at different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Design, Requirements gathering, Analysis and Code development  • Developed the application based on MVC architecture using the J2EE design patterns and technologies  • Development is done using J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, Session façade, Object Pattern and service locator, DAO, Factory and Singleton.  • Development of user interfaces using AJAX and JSPs.  • Experience in developing OOAD architecture and designing artifacts.  • Worked on GUI related work like alignment, designing and connections.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for accessing and updating data from database.  • Implementation of Spring Framework for a common look in all the presentation views.  • Implementing Business rationale in light of client choice utilizing JQuery and Angular 1.0.  • Implementation of access privileged security for different front end views.  • Development and creation of Web Services using REST with JSON response type.  • Usage of RAD IDE based on Eclipse in the code development of Action Classes, Spring Beans and JSP.  • Used Hibernate with POJOs in the implementation of persistence layer to represent the persistence database.  • Integrated spring MVC with Spring Hibernate DAO and Spring DI.  • Used Hibernate DAO Support in writing DAO, DTO's  • Implementation of the version control by using SVN.  • Involved in the development of Java Web Services to get customer data from various application systems.  • Deployed the application in to the server using JBoss Application Server.  • Developed JUnit Test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods to accomplish TDD approach.  • Usage of Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Preparation of WAR files along with the supportive ANT scripts development to deploy J2EE components into the server.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, JDBC, XML, SOAP, WSDL, AJAX, JSP, EXT JS, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Log4J, JAXB, JUnit, JBoss 5.0, LDAP, IntelliJ,DB2,Linux,SOAPUI,UNIX, JSP Java Developer Cerner - Kansas City, MO January 2010 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing System Requirements and preparing System Design document, Mockup documents.  • Full life cycle experience including requirements gathering, business analysis, high level design, detailed design, data design, coding, testing, and creation of functional documentation.  • Expertise in Core Java coding and development using Multithreading and various design Patterns.  • Developed the presentation Tier using HTML, JSP, and JavaScript.  • Used Struts Validation framework to perform the client side validations.  • Used EJB Session Beans to develop the business logic.  • Used JSTL and also developed custom tag libraries to use in the JSP.  • Used Hibernate ORM Framework for the persistence layer.  • Used XML, XSD to design the SOAP based web services.  • Consumed SOAP based web services.  • Used design patterns such as Singleton, Service Location, Business Delegate, Session Façade and DAO.  • Develop the code for GUI using JAVA, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, spring, Hibernate and HTML.  • Used AJAX extensively to create user specific search in an application  • Developed Unit Test Cases using JUnit.  • Implemented collection framework using Hash maps, Linked list, Tree map.  • Used Eclipse as the IDE.  • Hands on experience with Core Java with multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections  • Used Ant for the build and deployment.  • Used Clear Quest for Defect Tracking purposes.  • Used Rational Clear Case for revision control.  • Used UNIX environment to deploy the applications into QA environments.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, JQuery, JSTL, MVC Design, HTML, SQL Server, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, XML, AIX/Unix, XML Spy, CVS, Websphere Application Server (WAS), Sonar, CSS, web services, RQM, RSA, Clear Case & Clear Quest. Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, JBUILDER, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, APPLICATION SERVER, C++, CASE TOOLS, HTML, JSON, SVN, XML, CSS