Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Kognitic Princeton, NJ • Over 6+ years of professional experience in developing Java/J2EE Web based applications using technologies such as Spring frameworks and Servlet, JSP, JDBC in Banking & Insurance Company.  • Experience in Core Java technology such as Collections Multi-Threading, , Exception Handling and new feature of Java 8.  • Strong experience in Internet Systems using Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) methodologies.  • Expertise in Spring IOC, AOP, MVC, ORM (integration with Hibernate), and RESTFul API.  • Experience in developing Server Side Programming using Spring Framework include Spring Boot and Spring Data JPA.  • Experience in Front-end development using AngularJS, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap4, HTML and CSS.  • Expertise in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Prototype, Factory and builder pattern.  • Diverse experience utilized tools in MicroService architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components (Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), Restful Web Services.  • Experience in handling messaging services and real time streaming the data using Apache Kafka.  • Experience with databases including MySQL using SQL and MongoDB, Cassandra, stored procedure, trigger, function, index, and package.  • Experience with Agile development methodologies, Test Driven Development.  • Hands on experience in integrated testing and build development process using JUnit, and Jenkins.  • Familiar with Amazon AWS and Docker deployment.  • Experience with ANT and MAVEN for building and packaging Java applications.    • Excellent analytical, problem-solving and communication skills. Proactive and innovative team player proven to work under tight deadlines. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Kognitic - Somerset, NJ July 2018 to Present Project: Web/Email Notification System  Description: This system is divided into two parts: Web Notification and Email Notification.  The Web Notification System is triggered when the user logs in, the system will prompt the user to view related content on the website. The users here are C-Suite, Corporate Strategy and Commercial groups are using Kognitic platform daily.  The content of the notification includes the trend of each cancer, the changes in the phase of a certain type of cancer and so on. After the user logs in and clicks the notification button, the details in the information can be viewed. Users can use this notification system to catch the changes in the content they are subscribed to. Early pipeline portfolio/pipeline strategy early decision making.  The business logic behind the Email Notification System is to send an email notification to registered users every Monday at 9:00AM to remind the user to log in to the Kognitic platform to check the details of the notification.    Responsibilities:  • As the Only SDE in the United States (another Dev team is in India), responsible for the implementation of the all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) involving in analysis, design and development of system.  • Key features included: Send mail at scheduled time/Bulk Mailing/ Highlighting Changes/ Multiple Users.  • The Front-end design table by using DataTables library, the functions include: Pagination, Instant search, Multi-column ordering and sorting.  • Solving high concurrency problems. Email-Notification-System can send emails to every registered user at the same time. (Delay control within 2000 milliseconds)  • Extensively implemented Controller layer, Service layer, and DAO layer (with Spring Data JPA) using Spring Boot frameworks.  •Configured Spring AOP for declarative transaction management, Configured Spring AOP to do Logging.  •Built the MVC architecture, implements actions class, implemented and configure internationalization.  •Worked in Agile software development methodology.  •Designed Database tables, SQLs, stored procedures, triggers. Designed mapping between relational database tables and object oriented Java objects using Hibernate.  • Use Advanced Core Java concepts of Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Synchronization for Design Patterns.    Environment: Java 8, Spring-Boot 2.0.4, Hibernate 5, Quartz-scheduler 2.2.1, Junit 4.8.2, Jquery 3.1.0, Bootstrap 4.0.0-alpha.2, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE. Sr. Java Developer PNC Bank - Wilmington, DE October 2017 to June 2018 Project: EIMS (Employee Information Message System)  Description: This project is PNC's internal management system which used to record and manage team members' information. EIMS is designed for our team members on PNC. With this system, they can login their account to this system, and they can not only view their own information but also update/delete the information.    Responsibilities:  • Improve service's efficiency of calling database by 25% using elastic search with Hibernate.  •Key features included Groups (like subreddits)/ Multiple Users/Authorizations/ Posts/ Linking user profiles with @symbol.    • Develop application using Spring platform and implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure.  • Use pessimistic locking skills to solve the issue of the data conflicts and concurrent edits.  • Implement the middle tier with Spring framework and integrated that with the Hibernate ORM framework. Made used of Spring IoC, AOP and HibernateDaoSupport features.    • Use Spring Boot to develop the RESTful Controller and Service layer to handle the customer requests.  • Use Advanced Core Java concepts of Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Synchronization for Design Patterns.  • Apply Java Collections such as Hash Map, List to store data and passed along with JSP efficiently.  • Apply Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) principles by using Interface, Abstract, Overriding and Overloading.  • Design and developed very complex and large web pages using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap4 for Dynamic web pages.  • Work on form validation, error handling and event handling using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Participate in all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) involving in analysis, design and development of system.    Environment: Java 8, Spring 4, Hibernate 5, JSP, JDBC, JUnit, MySQL, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, IntelliJ IDE. Java Developer Bank of America - Wilmington, DE November 2015 to September 2017 Project: Money Transfer  Description: The Application provides a module to manage money transfer. This module can be used for both one-time transfer and regular payments such as utility fees payment, health insurance payment etc. To process the one-time transfer, additional authentication is required to protect the account. Alerts can be configured to text or email the client whenever a transfer happens.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in completed Software Development Life Cycle of design(SDLC), development, testing and deployment of application.  • Involved in Module layer, View layer, Service/Controller layer to implement the Spring MVC module.  • Used Hibernate framework for the data persistence.  • Implemented persistence layer using Custom DAOs to handle CRUD operations.  • Used Spring Core for concept Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection  • Designed and developed RESTful Services to retrieving configuration JSON documents related to the customer.  • Developed repository, controller, service to handle the request from the user.  • Used GIT for version control tool for merging branches, used SourceTree to solve conflicts.  • Used Chrome developer tools to resolve the JavaScript errors.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit classes and created integration test to for API services.  • Extensively used Java 8 features such as Lambda Expressions, Stream API on collections for effective sorting mechanisms.    Environment: Java 7, JDK1.5, Spring Framework (Core, Context, AOP, ORM, DAO), Hibernate, Maven, Eclipse IDE, SVN, Junit, UNIX    Project: Customer Invest and Wealth Management  Description: The application provides comprehensive service of customer invest and wealth management. The application gives the clients access to powerful in-built research tools and calculators along with portfolio management system. The client can also get professional support from experienced financial advisor and dedicated teams of specialists.    Responsibilities:  • Used Maven as a build tool, wrote the dependencies for the JARS that needs to be migrated.  • Involve in the team to integrate the Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA and Hibernate.  • Use Spring Boot to develop the RESTful Controller and Service layer to handle the customer request.  • Applied Spring Framework as the Top-level framework and integrated with the hibernate framework, and made used of Spring IOC, AOP features.  • Designed and developed very complex and large web pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap4 for Dynamic web pages.  • Developed Unit Test by using Junit to test the business logics.  • Participated in team with Agile developing cycle.    Environment: Java7, Tomcat 7, Spring 3, Hibernate 4, JSP, JDBC, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap4, MySQL, IntelliJ IDE. Java Developer AAA - New York, NY October 2012 to October 2015 Project: Employee Information Message System  Description: The Application provides a module to help the client to manage his account including payment, mortgage, transactions, account settings, alerts etc. This module is heterogeneous in nature and used legacy code from previous projects. Security is the priority.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in all stages of software development Life Cycle which is Requirements Gathering, System Analysis, System Design, Development, Unit Testing Performance testing and Production Support.  • Extensively implemented presentation layer, controller layer, service layer, and DAO layer using Spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Used Hibernate techniques: optimistic locking, association mappings, second level cache and lazy Loading.  • Configured Spring AOP for declarative transaction management, Configured Spring AOP to do Logging.  • Built the MVC architecture, implements actions class, implemented and configure internationalization.  • Worked in Agile software development methodology.  • Implemented business logic with POJO using multithreading and design patterns.  • Designed Database tables, SQLs, stored procedures, triggers. Designed mapping between relational database tables and object oriented Java objects using Hibernate.  • Unit testing with JUnit.  • Provide support to production deployment team to deploy the application in production environment.    Environment: Java 7, JDK 1.5, Spring3, Framework (Core, Context, Security, AOP, ORM, DAO), Hibernate, Maven, JavaScript, Web services, XML, Eclipse IDE, UNIX, SQL. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Delaware - Newark, DE Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Mvc, Front-end, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Python, Svn, Angularjs, Junit, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g Additional Information Technical Skills    • Languages Java, Python, JavaScript  • Front-end Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, AngularJS, BootStrap4  • Back-end Technologies Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Spring AOP, IOC, MVC, Hibernate  • Database MySQL, Oracle 10g/11g, MongoDB  • Web Services RESTful, Spring Cloud  • Application Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic  • IDE IntelliJ, Eclipse, Sublime, WebStorm  • Testing/Control Tools: JUnit, Jenkins/ SVN, GIT  • Operation System: Windows, Unix, Linux, Mac OS