Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer Dublin, OH • More than 6 years of experience in Enterprise and Web application development using Java/J2EE.  • Expertise in development using J2SE, J2EE, XML, HTML, JMS, JDBC, JDK 1.X in Windows and UNIX environments.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process which includes Analysis, Designing, Developing, Testing, Implementing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Proficient knowledge in developing the web-based applications design and development using JAVA, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Spring, JDBC, Hibernate, ANT, Eclipse, XML, JDBC and Databases.  • Experience in web application design using open source Struts, Spring MVC, Frameworks and J2EE Design Patterns. Developed ANT, Maven scripts in to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Experience implementing Struts (Model View Controller framework), spring frameworks and Object Relational mapping (ORM) tools such as Hibernate.  • Extensive knowledge on Core Java technologies such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Reflection, Collections, Streams & File I/O.  • Strong experience in developing JAVA/J2EE applications using IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ and Web servers like JBoss, Tomcat, WebLogic.  • Strong working experience on mapping tools like Hibernate (Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Hibernate Caching, Transactions).  • Implemented Business Logic using POJOs and used Tomcat and WebLogic to deploy the applications.  • Good perception of Object Oriented Programming concepts (OOPS).  • Good experience in spring modules like Spring AOP, IOC etc. Working experience on Multithreading synchronous and event based programming.  • Extensive knowledge in deploying and maintaining the application on Tomcat and WebLogic servers.  • Used Maven for the project management like build, install.  • Hands on experience in Object Oriented Design and Core Java concepts like Design Patterns, Multithreading, Exception Handling and Collection API's.  • Good experience in Spring like Spring Core, IOC, AOP, Spring MVC  • Expertise in configuring the Spring Application Context with dependency injection and using Spring Framework that can integrate Hibernate and Web Services.  • Developed various Spring starter POMs for Spring Boot based Rest services.  • Wrote SQL queries, triggers, modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using ORACLE database.  • Good exposure to UML - Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams and Class diagrams.  • Used GIT for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer FedEx India March 2015 to March 2019 • Experienced in complete projects Life Cycle, i.e. Design, Implementation, unit Testing and UAT Testing support and Production Maintenance. Extensively used Agile development methodology and project planning.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring, JSP &Java beans. Involved in development of services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring MVC Framework. Developed micro services using Spring Boot and implemented batch jobs using Spring Batch and micro services.  • Having experience on designing and coding of Controller classes and Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with AOP concepts.  • Experience on integrating services with Oracle11g. Responsible for writing/reviewing server side code using Spring JDBC and DAO module of spring for executing stored procedures and SQL queries. Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Designed Stateless Session Beans fitting the requirement of the business and implemented its Interfaces.  • Used Restful web services to consume the service and Postman to test the web services.  • Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services.  • Involved in development of a well responsive single page application using Angularjs2 framework, JavaScript and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards and using TypeScript.  • Worked on creating a test harness using POJOs which would come along with the installer and test the services every time the installer would be run.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing and jasmine for angular unit testing and that was build using Maven.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component Ant projects with Nexus repositories and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Experienced in working with Tomcat, WebLogic and web servers.  • Developed the front-end using JSP, Servlets, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Written SQL queries for Performing CRUD Operations using JDBC.  • Designed Screens using HTML and images.  • Administering the SQL Server by creating user logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Involved in creating Unit Test plans and executing the same.    Environment: Java 7.0, Spring, JSP, JavaScript, Angular2, Maven, Jenkins, Hibernate, HTML5, XML, Servlets, Oracle11g, SOAP UI, XML, Restful web services, AWS, JSP 1.1, JDBC, XML, Spring MVC, SQL, JavaScript, WebLogic, Eclipse Java Developer Panterra Networks - IN January 2013 to March 2015 • Worked closely with the Requirements team and analyzed the Use cases. Elaborated on the Use cases based on business requirements and was responsible for creation of class diagrams, sequence diagrams.  • Adopted J2EE best Practices, using Core J2EE patterns. Developed in Eclipse environment using Struts based MVC framework. Designed and developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Created JSPs using JSTL and Spring tag libraries. Developed Struts Action and Action Form classes. Created the Tile definitions as required. User Input Validation is done using the JavaScript.  • Performed SQL operations using Oracle Database. Deployed J2EE components (EJB, Servlets) in Tomcat Application server.  • Coding for Model and Controller. Development of Web application using Struts framework based on MVC architecture. Implemented and configured various Action classes for handling the client requests using Struts framework.  • Used POSTMAN and SOAP UI client for unit testing the services.  • EJBs (Stateless Session beans) to implement the business logic, MDBs (JMS) for asynchronous communication internal and external to the system.  • Create Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface. Used Design patterns such as Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, Session façade, DAO, DTO.  • Created REST based controllers to handle the incoming request and output the response.  • Developed connection components using JDBC.  • Developed handlers and DAO's to get the data from Database.  • Developed the front-end using JSP, Servlets, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Written SQL queries for Performing CRUD Operations using JDBC.  • Designed Screens using HTML and images.  • Administering the SQL Server by creating user logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups.  • Involved in creating Unit Test plans and executing the same.    Environment: Spring MVC, Hibernate, Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Oracle, Xml, SVN, Tomcat Server, Maven, Restful API, Oracle 11g. Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Git, Javascript, Middleware, Svn, Visio, Xml, Jdbc, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Html5, Soap, Tomcat, Web logic Additional Information SKILLS    J2EE Frameworks: Spring3.0, JPA, Hibernate3.x, Struts2, JMS and JDBC  Web Technologies: Servlet2.5, JSP2.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, jQuery and WSDL  Middleware Technology: JMS, MQ Messaging, Solace, Active MQ  Application/Web Servers: Web Sphere, Web Logic, Drools, JBoss 5.x and Tomcat 6.x  Databases: Oracle 12g, My SQL.  Languages: Core Java, C, PL/SQL, Java script  Software Methodologies: UML, SDLC (Agile, Iterative), waterfall model  IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, MyEclipse, IntelliJ  Source Control: CVS, SVN, GIT.  Defect Tracking Tool: JIRA, QC  Operating Systems: UNIX, SUN Solaris, WINDOWS, Mac  Tools: Maven, ANT, Log4J, MockIt, Soap UI, JUnit, Rational Rose, Visio