Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Synthio Memphis, TN • Overall 5 years of experience in software industry which includes, experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of Enterprise wide applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Experience in front end development and design using - Core Java, Multi-Threading, Servlets, JSP, HTML, PL/SQL.  • Extensive Experience in designing application architecture based on Spring Framework, developing Custom Tag libraries for JSP Pages, developing customized MVC architecture.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, XML, Web Services.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas.  • Have working experience on Angular.5 and Node.js.  • Proven experience with Application Servers like Oracle/BEA WebLogic, JBoss and Tomcat.  • Good working experience with deploying applications in Unix/Linux.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases - Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server [ ] DB2, My SQL.  • Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Eclipse, RAD, Netbeans, SVN and VSS.  • Experienced in application design using Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Object Oriented Methodologies like UML.  • Proficient in using RDBMS concepts with Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL and experienced in writing SQL, PL/SQL Stored procedures.  • Experienced and proven best practices of Web services development and Integration (both REST and SOAP).  • Understanding on API design with Data structures and Algorithms (Hash Code, Tree, etc.)  • Hands on experience with build tools like Maven and logging tools like Log4J.  • Expertise in testing with Junit.  • Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum.  • Experience on Flex to utilize the power of Java servers while creating expressive and interactive interfaces with a technology that has almost 100% deployment in browsers. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Synthio - Atlanta, GA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Gathering, analyzing, and document user requirements and translate them into system requirements.  • Analysis, design and development of Application based on JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Responsible for team building activities and providing training to new team members.  • Working with Struts 1.2 framework for the backend.  • Using SOAP service provided by GDS.  • Using REST services provided by GDS.  • Involved in the development of Web Services for various business functionalities.  • Writing unit tests for modules.  • Following an agile project development model with bi-weekly sprints.  • Using JDBC to interact with database.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation.  • Used extensive JSP, JavaScript to develop presentation layer using MVC architecture.  • Experience working with HTML5, CSS3, Angular 5, Node.js and UI Integration as a Front End Developer.  • Developed the front end screen using Ajax.  • Developed a loyalty marketing client using Web Services and JS.  • Deployed the application using Apache Tomcat Application Servers.  • Used JIRA for bug reporting and tasks and issue tracking  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using JUnit framework.  • Used Log4J components for logging. Perform daily monitoring of log files and resolve issues.  • Developed Exception handling mechanism for the project.  • Actively participated and contributed to establishing Coding Standards and Guidelines.  • Provide maintenance and troubleshooting of system hardware and software to ensure appropriate security level.    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, CSS 3.0, SQL, Eclipse Mars, log4j, Struts 1.2, J2EE Patterns, JSP, Windows, Java Web Services (SOAP and REST), JUnit, SQL, JavaScript. Java/J2EE Developer Hilton - Dallas, TX March 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed the back-end part of the application involving Spring 2, Hibernate 3.2 and Web Services.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using Struts, JSP, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript framework like Bootstrap and Angular.5  • Used Hibernate annotations for object relational metadata and practiced Generic Data Access Pattern for designing and implementing persistence layer.  • Used SOAP UI to test web service API calls.  • Concerned with the efficiency of our backend requests, writing clean and extensible code, and creating an easy-to-use API for our front-end app developers.  • Created clean and readable API documentation using Slate to assist our current and future developers.  • Involved in creating Restful web services.  • Used frameworks such as Angular, backbone.js to a handful of web applications.  • Worked as a drools developer with rich experience in complex rule development on Jboss.  • Experience working with HTML, CSS, jQuery as a Front End Developer.  • Designed effective test cases to test business logic using JUnit.  • Implemented Hibernate to map all the tables from different data sources to make database updating. Explored Map-reduce algorithm.  • The platform uses a Tomcat server and various OEM engines including eForms, BPM and records management.  • The changes are tested by performing operations using increased amount of dummy data. Load testing with increased (dummy) data to check the capacity & performance tuning.  • Provided production support for product after development and resolved defects and worked on bug fixing and resolving issues working with the QA team.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection, AOP and Transaction management.  • Used various features of Spring 2 such as XML configuration extensions for declarative transaction management, Java generics support, Annotation driven dependency injection.  • Developed user- friendly GUI using JSP, JavaScript, CSS, and HTML.  • Created web servlets using JSP, JavaScript, JDBC and adopted Agile methodology.  • Developed the front end screen using Ajax.    Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring 2.0, JSP, JDBC, JAX-RS ,Linux, backbone.js, JavaScript, Ajax, CSS, Hibernate, Tomcat, WebSphere , Angular JS, JMS, EJB, Strut, Eclipse, Junit, Web services,Log4j. Java Developer Charles Schwab - Denver, CO July 2016 to January 2017 Description: The Company involves in banking, securities brokerage, money management, wealth management and financial advisory services.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by developing Java web services using WSDL and SOAP.  • Used Hibernate to write DAO classes for interaction with the database.  • Developed the web tier using JSP, Spring MVC.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Used Spring framework for the implementation of the application.  • Developed business rules using Core Java (J2SE).  • Involved in fixing defects in application worked in JSF managed beans, converters, validator and configuration files.  • Designed and developed front end applications using Struts 1.x.  • Mapped business objects to database using Hibernate and used JPA annotations for mapping DB to objects.  • Deployed the application in WebSphere server.  • Created the unit test cases and mock objects using Junit framework and used Eclipse as the IDE for the development.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate. Utilized Hibernate as persistence and Spring API for transaction management.  • Stored the entire details of the project for database needs using Oracle 10g.  • Developed business components and integrated those using Spring features such as Dependency Injection, Auto wiring components such as DAO layers and service proxy layers.  • As part of a different application, implemented MVC web based application using Struts.  • Implemented REST services for web application using JERSEY implementation of RESTful services.  • Implemented JAX-WS based web services.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE 1.4, JSP 2.0, Servlets, Spring 2.5, IOC, JPA, Struts 1.x, JDBC, JavaScript, Web services REST, SOAP, Oracle 10g, SQL, HTML, AJAX, XML, WebSphere 7.0, Eclipse 3.2, Junit. Java Developer Canara Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2012 to December 2015 Project: Online Loans Application  Description: Worked as a programmer analyst for a financial client (www.canarabank.com) of TCS. This client requires an online application for loans section where client can request for loans, see approval status of loans, loan balance, historic payments and transactions online and bank management can approve the loans online and update the payments and their status online.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in acquiring requirements from the clients.  • Designed use cases for different scenarios.  • Designed and developed components for billing application.  • Developed functional code and met expected requirements.  • Wrote product technical documentation as necessary.  • Designed presentation part in JSP(Dynamic content) and HTML(for static pages).  • Designed Business logic in EJB and Business facades.  • Used MDBs (JMS) Series for Account information exchange between current and legacy system.  • Attached an SMTP server to the system which handles Dynamic E-Mail Dispatches.  • Created Connection pools and Data Sources.  • Involved in the Enhancements of Data Base tables and procedures.  • Deployed this application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Web logic 5.1 and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  • Participated in code reviews and optimization of code.  • Followed Change Control Process by utilizing winCVS Version Manager.    Environment: JDK 1.4,J2EE, JSP, Struts Frame Work, EJB, JMS, JBoss Application Server, Tomcat Web Server, PL/SQL, winCVS, MS PowerPoint, MS Outlook.