Sr Java Full Stack Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Full Stack Developer Austin, TX • Around 6 years of professional experience in software design and development with a strong Java, J2EE background and UI Development  • Experience of enterprise level application development with Java centric technologies in the domain of Banking and Insurance  • Extensive experience working in a Test-Driven Development and Agile-Scrum Development  • Experience in working in both Windows and UNIX platforms including programming and debugging skills in UNIX Shell Scripting  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Play framework, Slick.  • Worked on migrating the old java stack to Type safe stack using Scala for backend programming.  • Used OOPS concepts for message passing and data binding.  • Strong capabilities to Create and maintain code design documentation and Effectively manage IVR applications and systems  • Experience in developing User Interface (UI) Applications and professional web applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, RWD, JSON, XHTML and XML.  • Experience in debugging and profiling code.  • Strong testing and debugging skills and knowledge of ETL procedures and strategies to extract data from different source systems.  • Extensive experience in design and development of J2EE applications using Core Java, Java Collections, Data Structures, Multithreading, Transaction Management, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, XML, Web Services and other open source frameworks and APIs.  • Good working knowledge of J2EE best practice toolsets such as Ant, Maven, Log4j, Slf4j.  • Employing Java Object/Relational bridge technologies such as Hibernate, JPA, and spring.  • Developed applications using frameworks and API like Struts, Spring MVC.  • Experienced in other front-end technologies such as SASS, LESS, Typescript, BOOTSTRAP, Angular1, Angular1.5, Angular2, Ajax, JSON, Node.js etc.  • Experience with working in java script framework like JQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS.  • JAVA/J2EE development experience in server side and client-side programming  • Experience in Front-End UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries and JSTL.  • Experienced in Web Services approach for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experienced in web development using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, DOJO, Angular JS, and AJAX technologies.  • Good Experience in implementing Puppet, Chef, Jenkins and Docker,  • Developed applications based on Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using Core design patterns (creational, structural, behavioral) and J2EE design patterns (Data Access Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Façade etc.)  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer(RAD) for Java/J2EE application development  • Strong Hands on Experience with IBM MQ Series and JMS for communication between middleware components.    • Experience in creating REST APIs, and Vertex.  • Extensive experience in Application Software Design, Object Oriented Design, Development, Documentation, Debugging, Testing and Implementation.  • Proficiency in working with databases like Oracle, MySQL.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using SQL, T-SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle and SQL Server environments.  • Expertise in developing applications using Web Services (SOAP, RESTFUL), Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, HTML, Java Scripts and develop Jasper Reports, Birt, Reports.  • Experience in Unit testing using JUnit, Selenium.  • In-depth knowledge of PL/SQL with the experience in constructing the triggers, tables, functions, user defined data type, procedures etc.  • Experience using an Integrated Development Environment like Eclipse, RAD 7.5/8.5 for code development.  • Extensive experience on support tools like Application Life Cycle Management to perform Unit testing and Application integration testing.  • Experience of configuration tools like CVS, Clear, and Tortoise SVN developing on Linux, Windows Operating Systems.  • Extensive experience in developing Web Services applications using REST Client, REST API, SOAP UI, dozer mapper. Work Experience Sr Java Full Stack Developer Department of public Safety - Austin, TX February 2019 to August 2019 Responsibilities:  • Developed/Implemented code on new requirements as a developer using Spring MVC and Hibernate by using Agile Methodology.  • Participated in gathering new requirements with business, IT and Subject Matter Experts for implementing the required functionalities.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Mapping Diagrams & Class Diagrams in UML.  • Creating new Database tables and map to the existing ones with primary keys.  • Developed different modules using Java, Apache Camel, Spring and Hibernate.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using JQUERY, JavaScript  • Developed Controller and Business layers of the MVC, using spring.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Encoding build properties and Server properties Cp1252 format to UTF-8 for developing Diacritical marks.  • Implemented Diacritical marks with 48 characters in the Texas Driving license System.  • Developing APIs to support Angular JS UI migration, and XSDs to build web service data.  • Worked in front end design development using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Developed code to consume web services using SOAP and REST.  • Developed RESTful web services using JAX-RS.  • Finding Memory Issues by using JVM memory management tools.  • Refactored the bad code to best design patterns.  • Proficient in Test Automation using UTF and Selenium tools, Web Drivers, JUnit and TestNG.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, JDBC, XML, Hibernate, Spring etc.  • Developed unit test cases using Karma and performed end to end testing using Protractor and Selenium.  • Created utility Java components and integrated them using spring framework for Hibernate Object-Relational persistence.  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the spring bean profiling. Consumed SOAP/JAX- services.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JDK, spring, Hibernate, JSP, AngularJS, NodeJS, DB2, NoSQL, JavaScript, Servlet's, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, HTML5, CSS3, Java8, SQL, JUNIT, Agile, RDBMS, GIT, Apache Tomcat, Ant, Jenkins. Java Full Stack Developer Fort Worth, TX February 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed/Implemented code on new requirements as a developer using Spring MVC and Hibernate by using Agile Methodology.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Mapping Diagrams & Class Diagrams in UML.  • Developed Controller and Business layers of the MVC, using spring.  • Developing APIs to support Angular JS UI migration, and XSDs to build web service data.  • Worked in front end design development using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Developed code to consume web services using SOAP and REST.  • Developed RESTful web services using JAX-RS.  • Finding Memory Issues by using JVM memory management tools.  • Refactored the bad code to best design patterns.  • Developed Sequential and UML notation documents for the new tasks.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTPAPIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end testing using Protractor and Selenium.  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the spring bean profiling. Consumed SOAP/JAX- services.  • Used REST to test the rest-based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  • Assisted in designing and preparation of call flows with usability services.  • Conducted complete analysis of system and business requirements for all IVR applications.  • Maintained comprehensive technical documentation such as programming specifications, functional and technical designs.  • Coordinated with user focus groups for tuning, testing, refactoring and optimization of call flows.  • Resolved technical issues by debugging and support coding and testing functions.  • Responded to application issues by troubleshooting, analysis and assessment of root cause.  • Suggested effective processes for improvement of operations and functionality of voice user interface applications.  • Provided technical assistance for designing and maintenance of enterprise based IVR systems.  • Used Spring MVC for implementing web tier and developed web-based application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database and used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to query the database for complex data.  • Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Exposed Restful Web Services using JAX-RS and Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Restful API for various requirements.  • Extensively used XML and Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB) to map java classes to XML representation.  • Build Restful API web services using Node JS and Express JS and used a full complement of Express, AngularJS, NodeJS, and Mongo DB to store and present assessments.  • Coordinated with QA team for development of test plan, test cases, test code and responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects using Selenium.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and go for continuous delivery/deployment of the applications.  • Maintaining user data using Microsoft Excel.  • Backend scripting/parsing using Perl and Python.  • Enhanced the GUI using Java APIs and added features to tracking the fuse revision of several processors.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  • Hands-on experience on developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances and involved in the automated provisioning of AWS cloud environment using Jenkins and chef.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JDK, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Perl, Python, AngularJS, NodeJS, Mongo DB, NoSQL, JavaScript, Servlet's, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, HTML5, CSS3, Java8, Oracle Database, SQL, JUNIT, Agile, RDBMS, GIT, Apache Tomcat, Maven, Jenkins. Java Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO April 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Engaged in gathering and analyzing requirements, identifying various individual logical components, expressing the system design through UML diagrams.  • Implemented Action classes for different modules using spring.  • Developed DAO components using JPA & Hibernate.  • Designed and developed Restful Web Services using Spring Boot.  • Responsible in developing Spring Boot Microservices from scratch.  • Involved in handling front end part of the application as well as writing back end Services related logic as well.  • Involved in gathering the requirements, understanding and analyzing them.  • Designed and implemented Business Delegate, Session Facade, DAO, Singleton, Factory and DTO Design Patterns.  • Used JDBC, MQ Series, Web Services and Hibernate framework to access the data from back-end SQL database server.  • Involved in application development in Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture using Spring MVC, Servlet and JSP.  • Configured log4J for Spring Boot Microservices.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Transactions and Spring Security modules.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers using Angular.js.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring 3.0 framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance in persistent layer.  • Worked on Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit for writing test cases.  • Built custom validations and used Angular validations before submitting it to backend.  • Actively participated in the SCRUM to discuss about the status of the tasks and project.  • Front-end prototype and theming with Angular.JS and jQuery and developed single page applications using Angular.JS.  • Tested the application functionality with JUnit Test Cases.  • Developed logging module using Log4j to create log files to debug application flow.  • Used TFS for version control.    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, JDBC, Servlet, XML, JUnit, REST, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring IO, Spring Security, Web Sphere MQ, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, SQL, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, TFS, TDD, Agile, IBM WebSphere. Java Developer Bank One - Chicago, IL June 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design & Development of technical specifications using UML, Design Patterns and OOPS methodology using UML and Enterprise Architect.  • Developing UML (class/sequence/component/deployment) diagrams for the application  • Involved in the full life cycle of the Application using Agile/SCRUM SDLC process.  • Developed user friendly application as per client need and industry best practices.  • Implementation of the view level customizations and interface with the application logic.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP and Servlets with Eclipse tool.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON for better and faster interactive front-end development.  • Written Spring MVC Controllers and integrated with backend using Spring and Hibernate.  • Implemented Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring ORM, Spring AOP for developing server side, persistence and business logic using Hibernate and writing business delegates.  • Developed EJB Message Driven beans using JMS/EJB to implement Integration Logic.  • Worked with JDBC and Hibernate for ORM development and connecting to the underlying DB2database.  • Exposed services as RESTful APIs so that a mobile view can also use the same code.  • Implemented the Web services using Apache Axis in Eclipse environment.  • Developed and executed unit test cases and test scripts using JUnit, JMock.  • Involved in setting up the internal processes to scale application development.  • Tested applications on device simulators and actual devices to fine-tune products.  • Deploying the application in JBoss server and testing the application using SOAP UI and web service client.  • Configured JMS Queues and Topics in JBoss server and written JMS clients for message-oriented services.  • Configured logging levels in JBoss server and configured Web services security in server.  • Developed application level build files using ANT Script to automate the build process.  • Produced the environment support to fix the bugs at application level and server level.  • Sub version is used for Version control.    Environment: OOAD, UML, SDLC, Agile/SCRUM, SOA, Design Patterns, JDK 1.5, J2EE (EJB, JSP, JDBC, Servest), JDBC, EJB, JMock, Spring, Hibernate, Apache AXIS2, SOAP & REST Web Services, Jersey API, , HTML 5, CSS3, Java Script, Spring MVC, JQuery, AJAX, XML, XSD, WSDL, JAXB, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, Web Logic App Server 10g, Eclipse 3.1, Rational Clear case, UNIX, Android, UNIX Commands, Shell Scripts. Java Developer Persistent Systems - IN August 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering, Design Analysis and Code development.  • Implemented Struts framework based on the Model View Controller design paradigm.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Struts MVC.  • Designed the application by implementing Struts based on MVC Architecture, used simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP-UI Components as View and Action Servlet as a Controller.  • Used JDBC for data access from Oracle tables.  • Implemented EJB's Container Managed Persistent strategy.  • Worked on triggers and stored procedures on Oracle database.  • Apache ANT was used for the entire build process.  • JUnit was used to implement test cases for beans.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE to write the code and integrate the application.  • Application was deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Coordinated with testing team for timely release of product.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JMS, JavaScript, Eclipse, WebSphere, PL/SQL, Oracle, Log4j, JUnit, ANT, Clear-case, Windows. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in ECE JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana 2013 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jax, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Api, C++, Cucumber, Git, Gradle, Html Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting.  J2EE Technologies: Struts, JavaBeans, EJB, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JSF.  Framework: Hibernate/JPA and Spring (MVC, Boot, IOC, AOP, Security, Data and Batch)  Web Services: API RESTful (JAX-WX, JAX-RS), SOAP and WSDL  Web Technologies: JavaScript, Node JS, Angular (1, 2 and 4), Bootstrap, DOJO, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, HTML,  CSS, XML, DHTML.  Development: IDE RAD, Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans.  Databases: Oracle, DB2, MongoDB and Cassandra  Application Servers: WebLogic, Web Sphere, Tomcat, JBOSS and Jetty.  Cloud: AWS EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, VPC, IAM, Cloud Watch and Route53.  Testing: Cucumber, JUnit, Jasmine and Mockito.  Versions: Controls GIT, CVS, SVN  Others: Postman, Splunk, Log4j, JIRA, Maven, Gradle and ANT