Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - BCBS - Segundo, CA Segundo, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Developer BCBS - Segundo, CA June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  • Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  • Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used several J2EE Design Patterns like Session Façade, for the Middle Tier development.  • Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  • Involved in preparing the web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  • Coded various java beans to implement the business logic  • Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application    Environment: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, Junit, log4j, JavaScript, DHTML, Axis, WSAD, XML, XSLT, SQL, CSS, JSON, Windows, and Unix-IBM AIX. Sr Java Developer Madison Square Garden, NY July 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:    • Involved in various phases of SDLC of the application using Scrum methodology.  • Developed the application using Struts, Servlets and JSP for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for the client-side validations.  • Used Hibernate to do the object relational mapping between the tables and Java objects.  • Developed web applications using Java/J2EE technologies MVC and Spring Boot.  • Used Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Microservices.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot and used various component classes to customize the monitoring of Microservices.  • Deployed and tested the application with Web Server Tomcat, WebSphere.  • Developed GUI using Front end technologies like JSP, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3 and Java Script  • Integrated the spring framework with Hibernate ORM tool to access the Oracle database  • Developed a Web-based authentication technologies using OAuth  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins and Bamboo for continuous Integration process.  • Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to client and handled the security.  • Developed Spring-Jersey REST resources to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Implemented JavaScript and jQuery technologies for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Used Junit for test cases and Log4j to print info, warning and error data on to the logs.  • Setting up Linux servers with JBoss and GIT repository.  • Used Jira to publish daily defect reports to the management.    Environment: Java Spring, Spring Boot, Microservices, Hibernate, HTML, XML, JMS, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JBoss, AngularJS, RESTful, SOA, WebSphere, SOAP UI, Git, Oracle, Maven, Jenkins, Bamboo, Jira, JUnit, Log4j. Java Developer Subway Franchise World Headquarters - Milford, CT November 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:    • The project involved enhancement of POS System to meet new business requirements. Enhancement includes integration of middleware with new POS Credit Card Processing System and development of new web services integrated to POS functionalities  • Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Account Transfer using spring 4 beans in the service layer.  • Developed complete Web tier of the application with Spring MVC framework.  • Extensively used Hibernate framework for Object Relational Mapping.  • Developed JUnit based unit test classes.  • Responsible for implementing the workflow and business process management of our application using Activity BPM Platform.  • Developed and implemented GUI Functionality using GSP, Groovy, and AJAX, Javascript, JQuery.  • Developed automation test scripts using Selenium Web Driver and Java.  • Performed repetitive tasks like modification, building, compiling, Unit testing using Grunt.  • Involved in implementing spring dependency injection for a maven project using Annotation.  • Involved in developing web application using Spring MVC & Cloud integrated with Thyme leaf.  • Used Git for version control our application.  • Used spring modules (annotations) i.e. Spring Core, IOP, AOP, Security, spring batch and spring boot.  • Developed views using the HTML, CSS and Javascript components of Bootstrap framework.  • Experienced using Maven, Grade for auto uniform building of our project.  • Experienced in unit testing using JUnit.  • Deployed and configured the data source for database in Web sphere application server  • Involved in implementing authentication and authorization to our application using spring security.  • Implemented Spring Beans using IOC and Transaction management features to handle the transactions and business logic.  • Developed one-much, many-one, one-one annotation based mappings in Hibernate.  • Implemented Logging framework using Slf4J with Log4J as back-end.  • Developed the Maven build file for preparing WAR files used to deploy application.  • Written PL/SQL in Oracle Database for creating tables, triggers and select statements.    Environment: Java , J2EE , JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Kafka, React.JS, JMS, JNDI, Oracle, Spring Boot, HTML5, XML, RAD, WebSphere, Bamboo, Redux, Maven, Grade, Git, Slf4J, Log4j, JUnit, jQuery UI , CSS, JavaScript, Unix and Oracle 11g, Bootstrap Framework. Java Developer Visa Inc - Austin, TX October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:    • Writing web pages and templates using W3C web standards.  • Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views.  • Used JIRA for issue tracking.  • Created JUnit test cases for unit testing the code at minute level and used Eclipse IDE.  • Built the endpoints using Jenkins and pushed tasks into QA for testing.  • Handled client side validation using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked with object oriented programming concept such as Inheritance, Polymorphism, and Encapsulation.  • Used Hibernate to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to SQL.  • Implemented navigation using Spring MVC controllers, configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Used CVS as version control system to check in and checkout the data.  • Developed JSP custom tags for front end.  • Implemented spring service layer with dependency wiring, transaction, DAO and annotations.  • Created indexes, stored and retrieved documents in NoSQL database Elastic search using query DSL Performed full text search using Elastic Search.  • Worked on Proof of Concept phase for cloud migration including build & deployment to AWS components like EC2 and setting up AWS S3 storage Objects.  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Used Agile methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.    Environment: Java 1.7, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JSP, Servlet, Photoshop, Flash, Edit plus, W3c Validator, XML, Junit, Jira Windows Platforms, IDE- Eclipse, Oracle, Windows, Linux, PL/SQL. Java Developer TORRY Harris Business Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2014 to November 2014 Responsibilities:    • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed a prototype of the application and demonstrated to business users to verify the application functionality.  • Involved in designing and developing Customized tags using JSP tag lib  • Implemented Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Struts Framework and Spring framework  • Developed browser-based Java Server Faces front-end to an AS/400 system  • Worked on Web Sphere Application Server  • Used Ajax to provide dynamic features where applicable  • Used MVC pattern for GUI development in JSF and worked closely with JSF lifecycle, Servlets and JSPs are used for real-time reporting which is too complex to be handled by the Business Objects  • Developing front end of application using HTML, CSS, backbone.js, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used Angular Js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Prepared user documentation with screenshots for UAT (User Acceptance testing).    Environment: Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XPath, Selenium WebDriver, Eclipse, JUnit, JMeter, Jira, Windows, Mac OSX, Oracle 10g, Agile Methodology. Java Developer Amforma IT Private LTD - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:    • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Hands on experience with MVC JavaScript frameworks such as Backbone.js, Angular.js and Node.js.  • Implemented server-side tasks using Servlets and XML.  • Helped developed page templates using Struts Tiles framework.  • Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Server side validation.  • Developed JSP's with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration.  • Implemented Struts Action classes using Struts controller component.  • Developed Web services (SOAP) through WSDL in Apache Axis to interact with other components.    Environment: Java.5, JSP, JDBC, Spring Core 2.0, Design Patterns, XML, Oracle, PL/SQL Developer, WebLogic 10.3, ANT, Clear case, JUnit, UML, Web services, SOAP, XSLT, Jira. Java Developer Aviva Life Insurance - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Designing Market Interface (MI) Flow using Hibernate Framework for Object Relational Mappings and Spring Framework for Dependency Injection.  • Designed and implemented XML to provide the interface to the various clients running on both java and Non- Java applications.  • Maintaining Database using MySQL.  • Developed Web Services which communicates with different other applications using SOAP.  • Developed JSP, jQuery and HTML have been used for developing User Interface components.  • Performed the integration testing and Maven for building the web application framework.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Hibernate, JMS, Spring, MySQL, XML, jQuery, SOAP, HTML, Maven, Eclipse, Junit. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Technology Purdue University Skills JAVA (8 years), JSP (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), XML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years) Additional Information Skills:  Java(7 years), JSP (7 years), HTML (7 years), XML (7 years), JUNIT (7 years)    Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Java SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, HTML, UML, XML, JavaScript, Java J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, EJB, AJAX, JMS, JNDI, JSF, JDBC  Frameworks Struts, Hibernate, Spring, JSF, Rest Web services, SOAP web services  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ext Js, AJAX, Angular, Node.js  RDBMS Oracle 11g/10g, PL/SQL, MySQL, NoSQL, DB2, MongoDB  Web/Application Servers Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, UNIX  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, WebSphere, SQL Developer  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, GIT, MS Visual Studio  Other Tools Maven, Ant, Jenkins, JUnit, Jira, Log4j, SOAP UI, Unix Shell Scripting  Methodologies SDLC, Agile-Scrum, UML, SOA, OOAD