Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Lincoln Financial Group Radnor, PA • Over 8 years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, testing and deployment of web-based and Enterprise based Client-Server business applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Functional programming.  • Extensive experience with Core Java concepts like Multithreading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Expertise in designing and developing front-end UI using HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, ES5, ES6, TypeScript, jQuery, Bootstrap JS.  • proficient with Typescript ES6 new features block scope, type restrictions, decorators, arrow functions, classes, interfaces, modules (import and exports).  • Experience in using MVC based JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Back Bone JS, Ext JS, Ember JS and Knockout JS.  • Extensive experience on MVVM frameworks like Angular 4.0, Angular 2.0 to develop dynamic web applications.  • Experience in designing and developing various Angular 2.0/4.0 Components (ngModules), Services(observable/promises), Directive and Pipes.  • Extensively used view rendering JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, React JS and Ember JS.  • Strong experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA), using MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular and Node) stack.  • Experience in application of client-side JavaScript frameworks such as Backbone Js, Ember JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Solid experience in developing the rendering view React JS components, forms, events, routers and Redux asynchronous functions and implemented React - Flux pattern for core dependency.  • Expert level knowledge on Server-side JavaScript structures like Node JS, Hapi JS and Express JS.  • Good understanding of Client- side build tools like Gulp, NPM, Webpack, Grunt, and Bower.  • Strong experience in unit testing tools of JavaScript framework like Karma, Jasmine and Protractor for Angular, Mocha and Chai for React JS.  • Experience in developing and deploying Microservice oriented applications using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud and used Spring Boot to modularize code and implemented Rest API's using Spring Rest.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring boot for REST API by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Achieved Advanced Monitoring and Tracing of applications with Spring Boot Actuator.  • Expertise in developing web-based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS and JDBC.  • Expertise with various web MVC frameworks such as Spring MVC and Struts.  • Master level aptitudes in Spring system modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring REST, Spring JTA, Spring IO, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring Transaction Management, Spring Batch, Spring Cloud, and Spring Boot.  • Experience in implementing security functionality for various projects using Spring Security and Site Minder (SSO).  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architectures) and Microservice architectures using J2EE web services based on Restful (JAX-RS), SOAP(JAX_WS), JAX-RPC and JAXR ( Java API for XML Registries) using frameworks like Apache CXF, Jersey, Apache Axis.  • Worked on WSDL and WADL implementing SOAP services using Axis-2 and Apache CXF framework.  • Extensive experience with Java based ORM frameworks involving Hibernate, JPA, Spring Data and iBATIS.  • Experience with SQL and PL/SQL to query various Relational Database Management Systems including Oracle, MY SQL, MS SQL, DB2 and PostgreSQL.  • Exceptional Experience with NoSQL based ORM frameworks like Mongoose Connector and Cassandra Node Driver.  • Experience in working with NoSQL databases Mongo DB, Apache Cassandra, DynamoDB, Couch DB, Graph DB.  • Optimized Wide-column stores such as Apache Cassandra for queries over large datasets and store columns of data together, instead of rows, synchronized the data between databases and machines using Couch DB's schema-free document model.  • Hands on experience with build tools like Maven, Gradle and ANT.  • Experience in building continuous integration and continuous deployment using Jenkins, Travis and AWS Code Pipeline with any cloud repository.  • Solid experience in integration tools like Spring Integration, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel to integrate the enterprise application technologies with existing JVM environment.  • Developed real-time dashboard applications for visualization and analytics on Apache web servers using Elastic Search and Kibana 4.0(ELK).  • Analyzed and visualized the machine-generated data gathered from the websites using SPLUNK.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3 and Glacier for storing objects, Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic Cache and Dynamo DB for storing data.  • Used Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for distributing incoming application traffic and scaling resources to meet traffic demands.  • Experience in Windows Azure services like PAAS, IAAS and worked on storages like Blob and SQL Azure.  • Good understanding of PAAS platforms like Open shift and Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Good Experience in software configuration management using SVN, Clear Case, Bitbucket, Gitlab and Git.  • Experience in Message Queue (MQ) services like Apache Kafka, Rabbit MQ, Active MQ and IBM MQ.  • Experience in developing Apache Kafka as a distributed publish-subscribe messaging system and a robust queue that can handle a high volume of data.  • created windowing parameters and performed joins of data within a stream using Streams API within Apache Kafka.  • Worked with Kafka Cluster using Zookeeper.  • Strong understanding in implementation using Spring Cloud-Netflix OSS stack for microservices deployment and auto configurations like Eureka (Service Discovery Server), Ribbon (Dynamic Routing and Load Balancing), Hystrix (Circuit Breaker), Zuul (Edge Proxy) and Monitoring and centralized log analyses (ELK).  • Experience in Spring Security Framework for User Access Management, JWT token-based authentication and involved OAuth 2.0 configuration for authentication and authorization.  • Hands on experience using Docker for installing, testing, upgrading, removing and running software applications.  • Experience in deploying the applications using Docker container services and building continuous integration and deployment pipeline using Jenkins with GitHub.  • Extensively used Orchestration container Kubernetes for load balancing and to schedule the tasks across the computer cluster and load balancers for backend API services.  • Good Knowledge in documentation of REST API's using Swagger 2 and WADL.  • Experience on performing unit Testing utilizing JUnit, TestNG, Spock and ridiculing systems like JMock and Mockito and ensured code changes won't break existing Unit Tests.  • Implemented the Test-Driven Development (TDD) process to develop the quality and design of code using Junit Framework.  • Experience in conveying and arranging application servers, for example, IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic, Jboss and Apache Tomcat. Work Experience Sr Java Developer Lincoln Financial Group - Radnor, PA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used features like concurrency, Stream's, Filters API and Lambda functions and Functional interface java 8 programming.  • Designed and Developed dynamic and responsive Web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Implemented Angular 4 component router for navigation. Worked with Angular 4 Directives, Injectables, pipes, Components.  • Created Typescript reusable services and components to consume RESTAPI's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Created single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by using Angular 4.0 framework and Node JS.  • Worked on Angular 4 by consuming Restful web services & Used Angular 2.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Created Angular 4 components, implemented Interpolation, input variables, Bootstrapping, NgFor, NgIf, Router Outlet, binding the click event, Component decorator, binding to the hidden property.  • Developed Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 4 Injectable property, to make the service available for dependency Injection when creating components.  • Worked with Application using Node.js and React.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view.  • Developed various Typescripts (ES6) objects including Components, ngModules, Providers, Services and classes using arrow functions and optional types.  • Worked with Express.js for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  • Using Express framework built RESTful & Real-Time web applications and services with Node.js.  • Performed verification and validation process for the code written by making use of Karma and Jasmine.  • Worked with JavaScript testing framework by testing across various scenarios of the Angular 4 applications.  • Worked with the Node package manager (NPM) along with Gulp.  • Used JavaScript build tools and task runners like Webpack for Angular 2.0/Angular 4.0.  • Worked with SASS to build better and optimized Style sheets.  • Designed and developed RESTful web services using Spring boot and Jersey framework.  • Used Spring boot which is radically faster in building cloud micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Migrated existing application into REST based Microservices to provide all the CRUD capabilities using Spring boot.  • Implemented data modeling for Relational Databases that includes MySQL.  • Used Spring Data JPA as the ORM framework to connect with MYSQL database.  • Worked with various features in Spring such as Spring AOP, Spring Transaction management.  • Implementation of Spring Bean Factory using IOC configured Bean properties using dependency injection.  • Using a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Handled consumer logs and monitor Kafka Metrics using Kafka Manager.  • Developed data transformer for converting legacy data from source tables to Avro format and fed into Kafka using Camel to process the file for multiple routes to different host locations.  • Implemented Spring Netflix Zuul API gateway and Eureka service registry for reverse proxy and Dynamic service discovery of API's.  • Implementation of Hystrix circuit breaker to avoid loss of messages during handling of messages at the consumer level.  • Built real-time dashboard applications for visualization on Apache web servers using Elastic Search, Splunk.  • Implemented Spring Security OAuth 2.0 and OIDC Token mechanism for authentication and authorizing for social websites logins using Spring Social Module.  • Created a pipeline from Mongo DB cluster by configuring Mongoose Connector, to sync with multiple sources like Elastic Search or another Mongo DB.  • Worked on performance tuning of cluster using MongoDB, configured internode communication between MongoDB nodes and client using SSL encryption by Mongoose Connector.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database automating data changes and reporting and managing and maintaining Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Worked in setting up Docker daemon, Docker client, Docker hub, Docker registries.  • Created Docker images from Docker file and handled multiple images by storing them in containers to deploy.  • Written Kubernetes deployment and service files for the Docker images. Experience in designed micro services deployment using Docker and Kubernetes.  • Deployed docker containers on server nodes with master node using Kubernetes by creating pods and managing on the cluster environment on Kubernetes.  • Deployed our Application on Pivotal Cloud Foundry which is used to reduce the development overhead by providing a ready to use platform.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry for injecting the connection/service binding details from the deployed cloud platform itself.  • Used Load Balancer in Pivotal Cloud Foundry to improve the performance and reliability of the server and deployed a single instance of HAProxy for test environments in pivotal cloud Foundry.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly Pushed the code to GitHub.  • Designed and prepared Unit test case using JUnit and Log4j as logging tool  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of buds/issues on everyday basis.  • Used Git for version control, and Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tool in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.    Environment: java 8, Angular 4.0, HTML 5, CSS3, typescript, Jasmine, Karma, Junit, GULP, NPM, Spring Boot, MongoDB, Spring Data, Node.js, OAuth 2, MySQL, Elastic Search, React with Redux, Apache Kafka, Docker, Kubernetes, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, EC2, Jenkins, MAVEN Spring AOP, Spring Cloud, Netflix-Zuul, Hystrix, Swagger. Sr Java Developer Price Waterhouse Coopers - Albany, NY July 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Coordinated with project managers, analyzed new proposed ideas and Requirements, designed the integrated tool, developed and implemented all the modules.  • Developed User Interface using React JS, HTML5, CSS/CSS3(SAAS), Bootstrap 4.0, Redux, CouchDB.  • Responsible for the style, look and feel of the web page with LESS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM and Redux library.  • Worked in using React.js Router, Forms, Animations, Keys, components, Events and Flux concept.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Including Tree, Building components library, Table Grid and Slide-View.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Developed a dashboard based on Ajax calls with Business Customers Count, Flags, Real-time graphs for Analytical Reporting using Node.js.  • Used Express.js which is assertive, fast, essential and moderate web framework of Node.js that helps manage a server and routes.  • Post-processors, transpires, tests etc. based on build target.  • Developed REST API services using Node JS, Express JS, Body-Parse and other node modules to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Developed readable and writable streams of Node JS to process the data from external means of the application.  • Added Excel-Building to download the Tabular data in Excel Format using React.  • Developed unit test scripts using Karma and Jasmine for Angular 2 framework and Mocha for Node JS API end points.  • Using Couch DB provided RESTful interface for NoSQL database by creating and replicating Data Insertion via HTTP and stored JSON documents via RESTful interface.  • Used Replication Filters in CouchDB to filter precisely the data that needs to be replicated to different nodes.  • Worked on Oracle Database management system, configuring & tuning the DBMS with the middleware systems.  • Developed various SQL queries and implemented SQL stored Procedures in Oracle DB for the Application.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from database, maintained mapping files of ORM while implementing transaction control layer.  • Hibernate Session Manger used to configure multiple data source and provide independent database connectivity.  • Worked with Micro services architecture using Spring Boot to modularized code and implemented Rest API's using Spring Rest.  • with microservice architecture, designed and developed RESTful web services using Apache CXF and Spring Boot framework.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Implemented Spring Cloud-Netflix OSS Stack along with Netflix Zuul API Gateway with Eureka service registry for reverse proxy infrastructure and Hystrix Circuit Breaker for fault tolerance.  • Created AWS Lambda, EC2 instances provisioning on AWS environment and implemented security groups, administered Amazon VPC's.  • Installed a single node Elasticsearch "cluster" to index MongoDB for use in a NodeJS, Express on a native AWS EC2 Ubuntu 14.04 instances.  • Used build tools to bundle the application through webpack and used Grunt for task automation and minification.  • Designed, built and deployed application using the AWS stack (Including EC2, Mongo DB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container (EKS)) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance and manage Docker containers with multiple name spaced versions.  • Deploying the applications using Docker container services and building continuous integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD) pipeline using Jenkins with GitHub.  • Implemented Kibana for centralized logging and monitoring that builds on Elasticsearch of the application data for analytics and visualization of the user's login.  • Employed the Single Sign On (SSO) authentication using Site Minder for logging to the application from different websites.  • Involved in writing test cases for testing the Business components developed in spring using Junit and ridiculing systems like jMock and Mockito and ensured code changes won't break existing Unit Tests.  • Developed build and deployment scripts for automating tasks using Gradle as a build tool.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Express JS, JavaScript, React js, Redux, Node JS, Bootstrap, REST API, Load Balancer, Couch DB, Oracle DB, REST administrations, Docker, Mocha, Jasmine, Karma, Gulp, SSO Authentication, Web Pack, Kubernetes, Gradle and Jenkins. GIT, Jenkins, AWS Services, Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2). Java Developer Wells Fargo - West Des Moines, IA October 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Experience in building or supporting web applications with Sencha Ext JS, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Ajax.  • Developed cross-browser/platform using Ext JS to desired design specs for single page layout using code standards.  • Worked on Ext JS and created reusable components like Menu Navigation, Session monitor which was very useful in the application.  • Developed user interactive web pages using jQuery UI plugins like Draggable, Resizable, Autocomplete, AJAX, JSON.  • Utilized Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading and Exception handling to develop business components.  • Performed Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of production Cloud Environments such as Tomcat, Apache, Jetty, and JIRA.  • Designed application to meet international market standards using Spring MVC Internationalization and spring core modules.  • Developed RESTful services based on Spring REST using Jersey framework.  • Performed Load testing of SOAP Web Services using SOAP UI and Apache JMeter tools.  • Server-side validations are achieved using Spring Validation framework.  • Deployed and monitored web services using Spring Cloud Foundry Managed Domains and Routes with Spring Cloud Service Registry.  • Adopted JMS API to setup mail notification upon the success or failure when the backend processes are completed and to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring Framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Utilized Apache Cassandra for storing the external stream of data and building real time analytics dashboard using Google Charts API with Angular JS Components.  • Developed Spring Batch processes for financial reporting applications and modules using Perl and Korn shell scripts on Oracle database, with partitions and sub-partitions.  • Implemented Quartz scheduler to execute batch programming using Spring Batch.  • Implemented various validations rules using JBoss Business rules in the drl (drools file) using Drools rule engine.  • Used Rabbit MQ for transport of data in Queue in between components of the application.  • Developed Test classes using Junit and Easy Mock and test coverage using EMMA plug-in.  • Utilized AWS Services platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets, creating EC2 instances and to deploy the Dockerized Container services.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JBoss 3.0, Spring Core, JMeter, Cassandra, Hibernate, Jetty, Perl, Spring MVC, Angular Js, JavaScript, Backbone.JS, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, JMS, jQuery, Spring MVC, Jenkin, Amazon Ec2, Amazon S3, Rabbit MQ, Oracle, Drools. Java Developer GE Healthcare - Chicago, IL December 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile methodology.  • Developed the view-controller components using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Worked on writing AngularJS controllers, views, services and scripts on jQuery-based Ajax Requests.  • Used Angular JS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Applications.  • Worked with AngularJS and jQuery for DOM manipulation and two-way binding. Implemented AngularJS controllers to update entity models  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTful Services.  • Experience in developing RESTful web service that usually defines a URI (Uniform Resource Identifier), which is a service that provides resource representation such as JSON and a set of HTTP Methods.  • Used Spring MVC Design Pattern to hold the UI data and serve the request and to send the response.  • Responsible for creating Model/Value Objects in MVC Design Pattern. Involved in writing Spring Container and Controller classes.  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of Spring Framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL packages and stored procedures for data warehouse that consolidated loan information from disparate systems and platforms.  • Used Hibernate for connecting to the database and mapping the entities by using hibernate annotations.  • Performing unit Testing utilizing JUnit and configured Log4j for adding the debugging information in the code base.  • Deployed our Application on Pivotal Cloud Foundry which is used to reduce the development overhead by providing a ready to use platform.  • Integrated testing methods implemented by using Karma.  • Used Jenkins and Maven for automated builds and deployments.  • To keep track of issues and tasks on individuals used JIRA ticketing system.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Agile, Angular JS, AJAX, Spring MVC, Spring Container, Spring AOP, REST, Hibernate, Oracle (PL/SQL), Junit, Log4j, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Karma. Java Developer IBM - IN July 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture and developed Form classes, Action Classes for the entire application using Spring Framework.  • Adopted Hibernate Framework to develop Data Layer and configured XML mapping files.  • Persisted java objects to relational database using Hibernate ORM.  • Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer.  • Invoked view components by configuring Dispatcher Servlet and View Resolver to handle incoming requests and manage the Spring MVC flow.  • Implemented Cross cutting concerns like logging and declarative transaction management using Spring AOP.  • Implemented Multithreading concept to load data from files to table, transforming files from one format to other. Made multiple service calls in individual thread safety for a request.  • Designed and developed front-end User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery Framework.  • Involved in design, development and implementation of front-end part widget-based application.  • Client-side validations are performed using JavaScript and jQuery Framework.  • Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms.  • Developed the view components using JSP, HTML, Struts Logic tags libraries.  • Performed testing of SOAP web services using SOAP UI tool.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing  • Installed WebSphere Application Web Server for handling HTTP Request/Response. The request and response from the client are controlled using Session Tracking in JSP.  • Designed and developed Use Case, Class and Sequence Diagram based on UML standards using Rational Rose.    Environment: J2EE, Java, Struts, Tiles, JSP, JNDI, Clear Case, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAXB, JAXP, Schema (XST), EJB 2.0, ANT, JavaScript, JMS, Rational Rose, WSAD, DB 2. Skills Awt, Bea, Bea weblogic, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jfc, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Java/J2EE Technologies  Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JPA JNDI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Java Beans, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking, Spring data, Spring Boot, Spring framework, Spring JDBC Templates, java mail, Google API, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, RESTFUL    Programming Languages Java JDK1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7, C++, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Application/Web Servers Oracle/BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat, jerkins, AEM, Nginx.  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/4.x/5/x, Hibernate, JSF, iBatis, Angular Ionic, RCP  DevOps Tools Docker, Kubernetes, Amazon Web Services (EC2, EBS, EKS), Jenkins  Web technologies JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XSLT, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, Express.js, Ext JS, Backbone JS, Node JS.  Webservices Frameworks JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, Apache CXF, Axis, Jersey  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis, XMLSpy.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, TDD, SDLC Waterfall model  Modelling Tools Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose  Testing technologies/tools JUnit, JMeter, Cucumber, Mockito, TestNg, Karma, Jasmine, Protractor, Mocha, Chai  Database Servers Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, Postgre.  Version Control CVS, SVN, Clear Case, Git, Bitbucket  Build Tools ANT, Maven 3.0, Gradle, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Jenkins  Cloud Amazon Webservices (AWS) Cloud, Microsoft Azure, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)