Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Capital One Richmond, VA, VA, VA, VA • 7+ years of experience in IT industry and Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis including development and implementation of various applications using Java, J2EE technologies.  • Thorough experience in Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Documenting of various Web-based Applications, Client/Server and Distributed Applications.  • Thorough knowledge in developing applications using Core Java concepts like OOP, Java SWING, JDBC, JMS, Multithreading, Junit and advanced Java concepts like Web Services, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, EJB, XML, XSLT, JSF, J2EE, RMI, Struts.  • Sound knowledge in Object Oriented Programming (OOP), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) techniques and developing Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Use Case diagrams using tools like UML, Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Adept in working with Windows, LINUX and UNIX platforms and also in environments using Agile (SCRUM) development methodologies.  • Thorough knowledge in working with IOC frameworks like spring and Spring AOP, ORM frameworks like Hibernate, JPA and MVC framework like struts.  • Strong knowledge on Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC, Business Delegate, Factory Method, Session Façade and Data Access Object (DAO) pattern.  • Good experience in implementing web services like SOAP, REST, WSDL and UDDI.  • Experience in using application servers like BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat and JBoss basing on requirements and specifications.  • Expert in database access using JDBC and extensive experience in building the data layer using O/R mapping technology such as Hibernate.  • Expertise in database programming (SQL, PL/SQL) with Oracle, MySQL and MSSQL server.  • Extensively used Eclipse, Net Beans and IntelliJ as IDE for application development and support.  • Rich functional experience on Maven, ANT as build script for application build and deployment.  • Extensively used log4j for logging also working knowledge on Version Control systems like SVN and Gita  • Good experience working with Recommendation Engine in providing recommendations to the end user.  • Expertise in developing and using Client specific frameworks built on open source code like Struts for client specific Error Handling and Re-Usability.  • Experienced in process, validate, parse, and extract data from .xml file.  • Proficient time-management skills, able to deliver assignments with superior quality on schedule and within budget. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Microservices & APIs using Spring Boot  • Used Apache Kafka cluster as messaging system between the APIs and Microservices  • Worked with Spring Integration to connect different components of the service seamlessly  • Consumed various SOAP and REST webservices related to Partnerships and Branded cards processing systems  • Used Docker to containerize the Services and APIs to run on EC2 instances  • Involved in Mongo Data Modeling for Partnership's system Modernization  • Developed custom repository to use Spring data with Mongo  • Worked on creating Spring Data Repositories for SQL/NoSQL databases  • Knowledge on Apache Spark java API  • Worked on Drools to configure rules as per business requirements  • Used Spring framework to handle application logic and make calls to business objects and services  • Creating the AWS stacks for Dev/QA Environments which include Consul, Apache Kafka, Zookeeper, Shipyard master/slave.  • Worked on Mesosphere's Mesos and Marathon to handle application deployment  • Work on AngularJS components for pay-by-phone UI; Written ATDD Tests using Cucumber and Gherkin  • Developed Unit Tests using Junit, Mockito and PowerMock and Involved in functional and integration testing  • As part of documentation, have written Swagger Docs for APIs  • Worked with Product Owners and SMEs to understand the requirements and implement the same  • Analyzed requirement documents, created use cases and designed and developed prototype    Environment: Java 8, Spring 4.*, Spring Boot, Spring Integration, Apache Kafka, Docker, Consul, Mesos, Marathon, AWS, MongoDB, Jenkins Java Developer Cisco Systems Inc - San Jose, CA September 2016 to February 2017 • Involved in various phases of Software Development LifeCycle (SDLC), analysis, modeling, developing code & testing  • Developed RESTFUL web services and Microservices using Spring Boot and Spring MVC.  • Consumed various REST webservices  • Implemented persistence layer using hibernate and worked on creating Spring Data Repositories for SQL database  • Worked on removing users from community and also removing them from mailing list once they leave a community.  • Implemented the feature for the Admins to create and manage events at the global level.  • Fixed issues with email RSVP not saving in DB, sending event invites to multiple non-members, chapter not displayed for selection.  • Used spring framework to handle business logic.  • Used Jackson API's ObjectMapper to map Java objects to json.  • Used criteria API to implement criteria queries that return instances of persistence objects.  • Used Log4J to capture the logs that includes application logs, system logs and performance logs.  • Used PUTTY to login to Linux servers to check logs.  • Used Git commands to push, pull, merge the branches.  • Used Rally to groom user stories, list tasks, provide estimates and track defects.  • Self-starter, fast learner and a team player with good communication and personal skills.  • Worked in Agile model and familiar with all the ceremonies - Sprint planning meetings, Daily Standups, Sprint    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Microservices, RESTFUL web services, Oracle 12, Postman, Rally, Git, Bit bucket  Responsibilities: Java Developer Hewlett-Packard - Boise, ID January 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering analysis and documentation.  • Responsible for coding the business logic using Spring MVC.  • Designed the data layer using a combination of SOAP, Restful web services and occasionally Hibernate ORM.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Involved in implementing validations, exception handling.  • Worked with XML, XSLT for building up & transforming the xml files.  • Used IBM MQ and IBM Broker is used for transferring the data across multiple applications.  • Used log4j for logging the debug and info logs.  • Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations by using DB2 database.  • Debugged, tested and documented code fixes for production issues working with both on shore and offshore resources.  • Implemented SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Involved in assisting the operations support team in deploying code to the production servers.  • Used PUTTY for UNIX login and to check the server logs.    Environment: J2EE, IBM RAD, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, DB2 Server, JavaScript, jQuery, Maven, Log4j, JUnit, REST, SOAP, WebSphere, HTML, CSS. Java Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH March 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase using Rational Rose and OOA/OOD concepts.  • Used Agile Scrum methodologies for application development.  • Developed the Presentation and Controller layers using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Business logic using Spring (IOC, AOP), and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate Persistence Strategy for all modules.  • Generated reports from the database using PL/SQL and SQL  • Used Maven to create EAR, WAR & JAR files and deployed  • Used Jenkins for continuous delivery by enabling deployment into several environments of Test, QA and production  • Consumed Web Service using WSDL and SOAP tested using SOAP UI  • Configured JMS messaging queues to update the request status in JBoss  • Used SVN for the source control and merge code to integration branch  • Used JUnit 4.0 framework for Unit testing of application  • Used Git for version control and Log4J to create log files to debug as well as trace application.  • Supported technical team members in development of automated processes for data extraction and analysis. Java Developer Everyday Health - Plainsboro, NJ May 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Played the role of J2EE Developer with heavy hands-on coding and entire SDLC.  • Involved in the analysis and design of the system as a whole.  • Involved in screen designs, SRS (Software Requirement Specification) and documentation of screens with CSS, JSP and HTML.  • Involved in Implementation and coding of front end screens using Java, JSP  • Developed web pages using JSPs, Servlets and JSTL to help end user make online submission of rebates.  • Wrote business logic for online Trade enquires and processing of the applications for Trade business and validations.  • Created WSDL Resources which is a formal description of web service and, configured Business Services.  • Implemented Tiles in Struts Framework in order to avoid code redundancy for developing user screens that contain same Headers and Footers  • Developed session beans, JNDI, MDBs in EJB for business logic and used SAX Parser to parse XML docs and Session Façade and Business delegate design patterns in Enterprise Java Beans implementation.  • Responsible for deployments in JBoss Server in production environment.  • Used JMS API in order to communicate with OASIS interface regarding approval of the transaction.  • Wrote UNIX shell scripts for Batch jobs, which should run on nightly basis and remove soft lock.  • Used Oracle 9i as database in order to access customers Deal-Ticket Information based on customers Portfolio Number and asset portfolio number using Hibernate as Data Access Object.  • Worked closely with testing team and involved in automated testing using QTP.  • Designed and Developed Web services using SOAP to make submissions.  • Developed JUnit test cases and deployed code only after passing through Test.  • Involved in Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Bug Fixing.    Environment: J2EE, Java, Struts, Tiles Framework, Ant, JDK, Servlets, Web Services, MDB, JNDI, JDBC, HIBERNATE, SOAP, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, UML, XML, PL/SQL, TOAD, Oracle, JBoss, JMS, Rational Rose UML, Agile, SCRUM, Windows 2000Advanced server Java Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designing JSP using Java Beans.  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing and Integration of the application.  • Implementing business logic and data base connectivity.  • Client side installation and configuration of project.  • Developed using simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Co-coordinated Application testing with the help of testing team.  • Writing database queries on Oracle 8i.  • Writing stored procedures, Packages, Views, Cursors, Functions and triggers using SQL & PL/SQL in the back end.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database.  • Developed web services using SOAP, WSDL, XML and Apache Axis  • Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  • Created and implemented Oracle Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and complex queries using SQL and PL/SQL as well as query optimization  • Worked with Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and Asynchronous Communication.  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.  • Ability to quickly adjust priorities and take on projects with limited specifications.  • Effective team player with excellent logical and analytical abilities.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, inter-personal skills and self-learning attitude.    Environment: Java, JSP, Struts, CMS, Spring, SOAP Web services, SOA, JavaScript, CSS, XML, JAXB XHTML, XSLT, JMS, Ajax, Hibernate, EJB, Log4j, Oracle 9i/10g, Web Sphere, Ant, RAD, Eclipse, UNIX, Perl. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (6 years), HIBERNATE (4 years), SPRING (5 years), JSP (4 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Java/J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC and JSTL  Web Design Tools HTML, DHTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS  Languages Core and Advanced Java.  Frameworks Spring Libraries, Hibernate  Operating systems Windows, UNIX  Servers WebLogic Application Server, IBM WebSphere Server, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS.  Design Patterns  MVC, Session Facade, Service Locator, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object / Value Object, Business Delegate, Singleton.    Version Control Tools SVN, GIT.  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10G, SQL Server, NoSQL, DB2, MySQL, MongoDB.  IDE's Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ.  Other Tools Rational Rose, Maven 2.0, ANT, SQL Developer.