Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Pittsburgh, PA Work Experience Java Developer PNC BANK - Pittsburgh, PA February 2019 to July 2019 Responsibilities  • Configured Liquibase Database and loading data through changesets.  • Involved in all the Environments and enhanced the code according to the requirement.  • Used CSS3 and HTML 5 in the Front end to Design the Pages and content where the content is the Json Object used to populate with internal Framework of premier INC called Fireball.  • Analysis of HTTP requests and responses using proxy tools to identify security issues and to design and develop the solutions to resolve the same.  • Used GIT as repository as Version control Management Tool.  • Tested Using Mockito which is best mocking framework for JAVA and also written Integration test cases.  • Implemented OR Mapping with the tables in the Postgres database for one-to-one relation and many-to-one relation with the tables  • Implemented tax services for Premier INC application using third party API.  • Configured new Deployment plans and created new Environments containers in Bamboo.  • Involved in Agile methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning  • Developed RESTful web service using Spring and JAX RS  • Used Maven to define the dependencies / plug-in and build the application.  • Used Rest Controller in Spring framework to create RESTful Web services and JSON objects for communication.  • Used Docker to run software packages of the E-commerce Application and have done some configurations to the Docker in New Environment.    Environment: Java 1.8, Hibernate, STS, SVN, Maven 3.3.9, Web Services, REST, Spring Boot, Postgres, Liquibase, CSS3, HTML5, Fireball, Bamboo, Docker, GIT. Java Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA September 2017 to February 2019 Responsibilities.  • Involved in Agile methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning  • Implemented Application issues on Jira.  • Used Spring to define Controller, action mappings, forms and View pages for IdeaMill Desktop.  • Used JMS to pass messages as payload to track different statuses, milestones and status.  • Involved in the config set for Web logic servers, Data Sources, JMS queues and the deployment.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) API to create, send, receive, and read messages.  • Used MongoDB to save the messages that are sent by Queue Generator.  • Worked extensively on technologies Spring boot, XML, JMS and MongoDB.  • Experience using various web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere server.  • Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS.  • Developed RESTful web service using Spring and JAX RS  • Developed Java classes that used JMS to communicate with the Queue managers.  • Used Spring Controller to pass the control of the application and validate user input.  • Integrated the application with Spring-MVC using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (DI), and Spring Annotations.  • Used Maven to define the dependencies / plug-in and build the application.  • Used Rest Controller in Spring framework to create RESTful Web services and JSON objects for communication.  • Tested Rest APIs in Spring-Controller at backend for JSON data using Postman.  • Worked on Spring Boot for development of web-based applications using Service and Dao layers.  • End to end design and implementation using Spring Boot.  • Version Controlled using SVN.  • Experience working with Java NIO (vectored I/O, memory mapped I/O, non-blocking sockets, etc.) and memory management.  • Working Demo on Acitve MQ    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Tomcat 7, Oracle 11g, My Eclipse, SVN, Maven 3.3, Web Services, REST, Spring Boot, IBM MQ series, MongoDB, Active MQ. Sr. Java J2EE Developer BCBS - Chicago, IL January 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analysed business requirements and existing software for High Level Design.  • Worked in an agile development process, monthly Sprint and daily Scrum.  • Used spring framework for building the application based on MVC design paradigm.  • Used Springs AOP to implement security, where cross cutting concerns were identified.  • Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces.  • Developed Business logic with the help of Spring and Data Access was implemented using Hibernate.  • Developed SQL queries and executed them by using JDBC Template provided by Spring.  • Design and implementation of Angular modules/components/services integration.  • Implemented OR Mapping with the tables in the Oracle database for one-to-one relation and many-to-one relation with the tables  • Utilized Apache Tomcat server integrated with Eclipse for debugging and Unit testing  • Developed REST services using Spring and Used JAXB API for XML parsing.  • Worked on Restful API and invoked web services (consumed) that are based on EJBs.  • Did Packaging and Deployment of builds through ANT script.  • Used Spring MVC frameworks, Spring AOP framework features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications.  • Used Java script, JQuery, JSTL, CSS and Struts 2 tags for developing the JSP'S.  • Test Driven Development (TDD) approach was utilized and the test coverage was always maintained and validated using Clover and Cruise Control.  • Experience in various spring framework modules like Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring DAO, Spring Security, Spring IOC and Spring AOP along with Hibernate  • Web logic Application Server is being used as the Business Service Tool in middle tier.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Used Log4j for tracking the applications and Used Harvest as version control tool and Clear Quest for defect management.  • Consumed and created REST Web services for Quick Quote Details  • Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Involved in the code review process and updating the best practices document.  • Conducted Testing and Evaluation of projects at established integration points to assess progress and identify key functionality issues.    Environment: Java 1.7, Jersey REST, Web logic, Oracle 11, Spring MVC, IOC, Spring AOP, Hibernate, Scrum, NoSql, ANT, SVN, Jdeveloper, Putty, Spring Boot, junit. Sr. Java Developer State of WI-DOR (Wisconsin) October 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Rational Unified Process throughout the lifecycle of the project.  • Applied Object Oriented concepts (inheritance, composition, interface, etc) and design patterns (singleton, strategy Etc).  • Responsible for designing and reviewing web services WSDL, their structure, data types and operations with Application architect team.  • Responsible for Web Services consuming and packaging using Axis.  • Applied Spring IOC Container to facilitate Dependency Injection.  • Used Spring AOP to implement security, where cross cutting concerns were identified.  • Involved in designing and developing architectural structure for Hibenate Interceptors and Web Filters  • Developed Web service's using REST  • Involved in design and decision making for Hibernate ORMapping.  • Developed Hibernate Mapping file (. hbm.xml) files for mapping declaration  • Responsible for designing front end system using JSP technology, HTML and JQuery.  • Re-factored large code base to conform to best practices to spring design patterns.  • Integrated Drools Business Rules Engines implementing business rules.  • Involved in Managing Web Services and operations.  • Involved in developing the core base Classes and designed the packaging needed for the project.  • Implemented Stored Procedures for the tables in the database DB2.  • Involved in designing reporting generating system from XML files using XML technology, JAXP.  • Involved in Developing and performing Mock Testing and Unit Testing using JUNIT and EasyMock. Also used JIRA for bug tracking and project management.  • Involved in implementing APIs using Spring Restful web services  • Built project using Apache Maven build scripts.  • Used GIT Version Controller.    Environment: Java1.6/J2EE, Microsoft Visio, Web Sphere Application Server 8.0, Spring MVC, IOC, Spring AOP, Apache Axis, Hibernate, REST Web service, RAD 7.0, JQuery, Maven 2.0, Stored Procedure, DB2, ClearCase, GIT JUnit 4, JIRA, Easy Mock, Agile, RUP, Spring Boot, Junit. Java Developer Hcl Technologies - Noida, Uttar Pradesh June 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements analysis and gathering and converting them into technical specifications using UML diagrams: Use Case Model, Business Domain Model, Activity & Sequence Diagrams and State Diagrams.  • Applied Object Oriented concepts (inheritance, composition, interface, etc) and design patterns (singleton, strategy Etc).  • Was also actively involved in setting coding standards and writing related  • Documentation.  • Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE.  • Integrated web service with Hibernate ORM (Object Relational Mapping) Framework to interact with the database  • Preparing Technical Design Documents for the Business requirements  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI) from third party for authorizing users.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Writing/Manipulating the database queries for Ingress database.  • Build web application using ANT as build tool.  • Used Spring Framework for implementing MVC  • Developing a Self-Executable jar file configured as a service  • Performed unit testing using JUnit Testing Framework and Log4J to monitor the error log.    Environment: Java1.6, Spring, Hibernate, Axis, Eclipse, Ant, NoSQL, Ingress, SOAP. Education M.S in Information Technology in Management Campbellsville University 2018 Bachelor of Information Systems in Information Systems Agra University 2005