Sr. Java,J2EE Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Java</span>,J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java,J2EE Developer - Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation • 8+years of experience in requirements gathering, deployment of Web Applications and client server multi-tier applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Extensive expertise with Java, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, Java Beans, EJBs (Session beans, Entity Beans and JMS), JBoss, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, CSS, Ajax, Jason, XML, DTD, XSD, JAXP, JAXB, Web Services, Struts, Spring, Microservices, Hibernate and Oracle PL/SQL.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC from requirement analysis, designing, coding, UAT, documentation & implementation.  • Good knowledge on core java with strong understanding of Multithreading, Collections, Exception handling, Garbage Collector.  • Good at development in enterprise web applications using Core Java, Java 1.8, and Java EE.  • Experience in consuming SOAP WebServices using Apache CXF and Axis frameworks.  • Extensive experience in developing RESTful (JAX-RS) web service using REST Easy and Jersey framework, JSON as a data exchange format to integrate custom web applications and various enterprise systems.  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts, queries, PL-SQL, stored procedures, functions using Oracle.  • Experience in Web/Application Servers such as Tomcat 6, JBoss 6 for deploying and configuring web applications.  • Good at development in enterprise web applications using Core Java, Java EE.  • Expertise in web development using HTML, XHTML, CSS, Ajax, AngularJS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets.  • Expertise with frameworks like AngularJS, jQuery in web presentation layer with servlets, JSP, Spring MVC at the web controller layer.  • Valuable experience in working with the Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM functions.  • Expertise with development tools like Eclipse, TOAD, MQ browser, WSAD, WID, DB2 Command editor, NetBeans, IntelliJ, Edit plus.  • Expertise in developing web services using WSDL, RESTFUL and SOAP.  • Expertise in different open source frameworks like Struts2.0/2.1, Spring 2.5/3.0 and ORM Technology like Hibernate 3.0, IBatis, Mybatis, jQuery.  • Adopted Spring Security to support the Single sign on between old and new platform.  • Experienced in deploying J2EE applications on Apache Tomcat web server and WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss application server.  • Used NodeJS, React. JS, MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application (SPA).  • Hands-on experience in deploying applications on Windows and UNIX environments.  • Experience in using Text-Editors like Eclipse, Komodo Edit, Sublime Text and Notepad++.  • Strong Experience in RDBMS using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Prepared Statements.  • Expertise in developing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers in databases viz. Oracle, SQL Server 2014, My SQL, and DB2 and excellent development experience using Agile Methodology.  • Developed and maintained code for various applications using PHP, Java and MySQL.  • Hands on experience of Build & Deployment phases and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools.  • Good Working experience in using different Spring modules like Spring Core Container Module.  • Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring AOP Module, Spring ORM Module, Spring security, Spring Quartz scheduler in Web applications.  • Experience in writing queries using Oracle 12g, Sybase, SQL Server 2008 and MySQL.  • Experience in writing with no schema database Couch DB and have knowledge on MongoDB.  • Expertise in writing JUnit test cases for system testing, Used Log4j for logging.  • Expertise in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, Enhancement, Production Support and Change Management of business applications, even used mythologies like Agile, Waterfall, TDD and RAD development. Work Experience Sr. Java,J2EE Developer Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation - Coppell, TX May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Java/J2EE Developer in complete software development lifecycle using Agile to Analyze, identify applications and business user impacts due to technology upgrades, infrastructure changes, new corporate initiatives.  • Used Struts Framework as the MVC for the development and implementation of the project.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using JSP, Java script, HTML, JQuery, Bootstrap, CSS and AngularJS.  • Worked with Single Page Application Framework AngularJS extensively using routing, services, components and directives.  • Associated support in the Action Servlet that assists in creating interactive form-based applications which is the one of the primary area of functionality using Struts Framework.  • Extensively used Action Classes, Dispatch Section, Action Forms and Struts configuration from Struts.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and JQuery.  • Developed and Consumed SOAP and Restful web services for communicating with other applications.  • Used Developer tools to debug the front end application.  • Implemented Batch jobs using Spring Batch that process large data sets.  • Experience in developing JSP's, Servlets & EJB's and have in- depth knowledge in content management.  • Used Spring MVC framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced and maintenance will be very easy.  • Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping customer log data and transactions details etc.  • Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  • Used Hibernate to develop DAO in Model component of Struts MVC and to interface with the database.  • Used Java Messaging Services for the reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment and plan information.  • Developed all J2EE components using My Eclipse IDE and used ALM for defect tracking.  • Developed build scripts using ANT as the build tool for the creation of the artifacts like war/ear files.  • Worked on testing application controllers extensively with Angular built in testing facilities.  • Developed Module level reports using IBM Cognos reporting tool.  • Developed and deployed the application on Web Sphere using ANT build.xml script and also Configured connection pooling using WAS.  • Involved in Code integration and shipment of code to other environments.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL queries for different database operations.  • Actively involved in resolving issues in development and production levels.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, JSP, HTML5, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate, WebServices, SOAP, RESTful, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, XSD, JAXB, JavaScript, WebSphere 8.x, No SQL, Linux, Maven, SVN, SQL Developer, UML, JUnit, JIRA, Jenkins, Log4j. Java,J2EE Developer Genworth Financial - Raleigh, NC July 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked in a highly dynamic AGILE environment and participated in scrum and sprint meetings.  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Factory, and Builder etc.  • Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections, multithreading and for effective sorting mechanisms and Streams to store and process the data.  • Implemented Multithreading concept to handle transaction management with isolation and propagation levels.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Bootstrap, AngularJS and Node.js as frontend building Environment.  • Configure and run gulp tasks in Node.js runtime and handle injection, CSS pre-processing, test-running.  • Developed custom directives, Factories and Services in AngularJS and implemented code asper coding standards.  • Expertise in consuming RESTful web services using Node.js, AngularJS and jQuery along with JSON parsing to implement AJAX call and render the response data to User Interface.  • Used Spring DI, Annotations and MVC to implement business and navigation of application.  • Used Spring Ribbon along with Spring Boot for load balancing and Fault tolerance of the application.  • Developed MicroServices with Spring to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each MicroServices in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Hands on experience in setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket to ensure fault tolerance and high availability.  • Experience in creating RESTful web services using Jersey, SPRING framework and JAX-RS.  • Implemented RESTful web services to retrieve data from client side and made RESTAPI calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to project client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security &OAuth2.  • Implemented the business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data mapping.  • Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data from MySQL.  • Worked on Proof of Concept for developing application using Node JS with AngularJS and Mongo DB.  • Maintained, structured, and surveyed documents within the NoSQL MongoDB database, ensuring data integrity, correcting anomalies, and increasing the overall maintainability of the database.  • MYSQL was used as the database for the application which was hosted in the cloud using Amazon RDS service.  • Developed and maintained functions, procedures, triggers, indexes using MYSQL database programming.  • Used JIRA for resolving bugs/defects in application by coordinated with team members of the project.  • Used GIT as a version control system and deployed the application in Production environment and implemented Log4J for Logging Errors  • Involved in Production Support and Maintenance of the application and troubleshooting of Issues on JBoss by checking logs, payments etc.    Environment: Java 8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Quartz, Spring Security, Jersey, JAX-RS, OAuth2, MySQL, Mongo DB, AWS, Hibernate, Drools, Dockers, REST, JSON, Eclipse, Maven, JUnit, Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, Log4J, JBoss. Java,J2EE Developer Berkley Risk Administrators Company - Minneapolis, MN October 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed code using Java, J2EE, and spring also used Hibernate as an ORM tool for object relational mapping  • Designed components for the project using best practices and J2EE design patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC), Data Access Object, and Value Object.  • Designed and developed a Restful APIs for different modules in the project as per the requirement.  • Developed user-friendly web-based GUI using AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and NodeJS.  • Used a light front-end framework against the JSON API for their service requests.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using JavaScript, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.  • Designed the User Interface using use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase using Rational Rose.  • Used Multithreading and collections to improve performance of application.  • Coordinate with all the teams for functional requirements and ensure compliance to all architecture standards.  • Used Spring MVC framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced and maintenance will be very easy.  • Designed and developed Rest Based Webservices using Jersey framework.  • Developed applications using latest technologies like spring, hibernate (using annotations), and REST based WebServices, XML API and tools.  • Used spring framework for integrating the MVC components with business services.  • Design and development web-application for business reporting and systems monitoring and troubleshooting; using J2EE, Tomcat.  • Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate POJO's, configuring Hibernate persistence layer.  • Worked as a front-end web developer and AngularJs based application.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Spring Controllers were used with AngularJS to route the control to desired Java services  • Worked on Spring MVC Architecture for web applications.  • Responsible for developing the full stack (from the Markup, JavaScript, Application Services, Database, and Build Scripts).  • Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat and Web Sphere.  • Built Java applications using Maven and deployed JAVA/J2EE applications through Application servers.    Environment: Java 1.6/1.7, J2EE, RESTful Web Services, SOAP, Hibernate, Spring, Eclipse IDE, AngularJS, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Web Sphere, Tomcat, XML, XSD, Unix, Linux, UML, Rational Rose, Oracle, Maven JMS, JUNIT, Power Mock, log4J, WSDL, JSON, JNDI. Java Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX August 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing Followed Agile methodology.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes devices, Using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AngularJS created GUI interface of the web page.  • Created custom directives and components which extend the elements and modules of Core AngularJS.  • To get AJAX functionality for the website wrote JavaScript and JQuery programming.  • Connected to Data sources and performed operations using Spring Data Framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate to fetch data from database and avoid redundant database access statements.  • Created and presented training materials surrounding adoption of the Groovy language.  • Implemented core features of AngularJS framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking.  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript for developing user interface. Have knowledge in developing Web Applications Development using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML and ReactJS.  • Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, web server speeds, data processing and more using D3 JS, Backbone JS.  • Developed the application based on main modules of Spring MVC framework such as Core Container, Data Access/Integration and Web  • Developed Micro Services to provide Restful API's utilizing Spring MVC.  • Migrated Spring based application to cloud based Microservices. Implemented Micro-services using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) platform  • Used JQuery and AngularJS to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client-side validations.  • Developed single page applications using no-route module in AngularJS.  • Worked throughout the full stack (Node.js, Angular.js) to see software extensions through to completion.  • Designed Database schema and created complex SQL queries, Procedures for creating, reading, updating and deleting data in Oracle 11g.Mapped business objects to database using Hibernate.  • Experience with RDBMS systems including MySQL and PostgreSQL.    Environment: Java, Spring 3.0, XML, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, JAX-WS, Log4j, Spring MVC framework, Spring AOP, Spring security, Spring Boot, Node.js, AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, GIT, JAR, Eclipse 3.0, WebLogic Application Server, Oracle 11g, SQL Server. Java,UI Developer Cross River Bank - Fort Lee, NJ June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding and analyzing the requirements of the project.  • Implemented server-side programs by using Servlets and JSP.  • Designed, developed and User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  • Used JavaScript to perform Client-Side Validation.  • Implemented using the MVC design pattern.  • Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  • Developed forms for user event handling and validations using JavaScript's and AJAX.  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Designed the application using various spring technologies and used Spring Security to provide better authentication instances.  • Expertise in developing applications using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collection.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Used WebSphere server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebSphere.  • Used JDBC to interact with the underlying MySQL Database.  • Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Involved in Unit testing for various components.  • Used Log4J for any logging purposes during the development of the application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Eclipse, JUnit, MVC, Apache Tomcat and MySQL. Java Developer Equifax - Atlanta, GA March 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Agile methodology including team-based design and code reviews.  • Actively involved in Requirement Analysis, designing, development and testing of the entire application.  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  • Enhance and modify the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using JSP and client-side validations done using JavaScript.  • Worked on the Common UI layout for defining the Header, Footer and Menu using JSF Facelets.  • Implemented navigation using Spring MVC controllers, configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  • Implemented spring framework BeanFactory&ApplicationContext for bean initialization and configurations.  • SpringAOP is used for logging, auditing, and security and transaction management to distinguish business logic from the crosscutting concerns.  • Implemented the back-end functionality of the modules using Singleton and Session Facade design patterns.  • Configured Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 10g Database.  • Configured Hibernate objects as Spring Beans in Spring Configuration File.  • Involved in development of POJO classes and writing Hibernate Query Language (HQL) queries.  • Asynchronous messaging is done using JMS and created Queue for point to point messaging.  • Developed REST web services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from database and used SOAP UI for testing these RESTFUL API web services.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming RESTful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Designed and implemented Java Classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects to be able to modify the data received in the response.  • Implemented Core Java Concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections when needed.  • Handled Multi-Threading part in the back-end component, one thread will be running for each other.  • Worked with DB2 and wrote SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, triggers, views and integrated SQL Queries into DAO.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat Application Server.  • Used Log4j logging mechanism for logging.  • Used SVN for versioning and concurrent access to the project files.  • Resolving spring framework artefacts and code build & deployment with Maven.  • Used JIRA for defect and issue tracking.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration/continuous deployment.  • Automated regression test cases using Selenium.  • Coordinated with testing team for timely release of product.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React JS, JMS, SOAP, Axis2, Maven, Jenkins, DB2, Selenium, Log4j, SVN, JIRA, Tomcat 6.0. Java Developer Soft Tech Consulting, Inc - Chantilly, VA July 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all phases of the project like design, development, testing, enhancements and production support.  • Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Developed front end using JSP, HTML, CSS and client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented MVC architecture and developed form classes, action classes for the entire application using Struts Framework.  • Implemented Singleton, Service Locator design patterns in MVC framework and developed command, delegate, model action script classes to interact with the backend.  • Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  • Developed Enterprise Java Beans like Entity Beans, Session Beans (both Stateless and State Full Session beans).  • Designed and developed reusable Java utility classes for the business logic functionality using services like JDBC and JNDI.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic application server.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixing the problems.  • Designed database Tables, View, Index's and create triggers for optimized data access.  • Written JUnit test cases for unit testing of the application.  • Written Ant scripts for building application artifacts.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.  Environment: Java 6, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Struts 2.0, EJB 2.1, JDBC, JNDI, JUnit, Log4j, WebLogic 7.0, Rational Rose. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Angularjs, Bootstrap, Html5, Mvc, Visual studio Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Java Technology Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JSTL, JSON, POJO, JMS, JSF, JPA), Struts, Spring Core and MVC, Hibernate, Web services.  Web Technology HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, XML, XSLT, RHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, Groovy, Microservices, AWS, jQuery, JSON, MySQL, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJS.  Scripting languages Unix shell script, JavaScript.  App/Web Servers Web logic, Tomcat, Web Sphere, JBOSS  Databases Oracle 12c/11g/10g Microsoft SQL Server 2012,2014, DB2, PostgreSQL, MYSQL, Mongo DB.  Testing Tools Junit, Selenium, Jasmine and karma.  IDES Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio, RAD and IntelliJ.  Messaging TechnologiesJMS and IBM MQ  Version control Tool GIT, SVN and CVS.  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle.  Operating System Windows (98/2000/XP/7/8), Linux, Ubuntu.