Sr. Full stack Java Developer Sr. Full stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full stack Java Developer - CENTENE CORPORATION St. Louis, MO • An astute professional with 8+ years of experience in object oriented programming, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and implementation of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Expertise in Agile Web development using HTML5, DHTML, XML, XSLT, Parsers (SAX, DOM), JSP, JSTL CSS and JavaScript, AngularJS, EXT-JS, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSF, AJAX, JAXP.  • Extensively worked on coding using core java concepts like multithreading, collections, serialization, Synchronization, exception handling, generics, network APIs and database connections.  • Experience in developing business applications using JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JPA, JMS, JTA, JSF, JNDI, JDBC and POJO.  • Strong experience on various Java Design Patterns such as Session Façade, Service Locator, DAO, DTO (Data Transfer Object), Value Object, Delegate, Front Controller, Factory, Business Object, and Singleton.  • Extensive experience in working on various Spring modules (Spring MVC, DAO and AOP) and implementing MVC framework using Spring, Struts in J2EE architecture.  • Experienced in developing ORM persistence mappings using Hibernate, Spring Data.  • Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Spring Framework 4, Struts 2, JSF  • Experience using persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Hands on experience on using caching technologies like Terracotta and EHCache.  • Hands on experience in working with NoSQL, Mongo DB for handling huge amount of data  • Enhanced experience in using different IDEs like the Eclipse, Net beans, Spring Tool Suite, Brackets and Atom.  • Expertise in client scripting language and serve scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Node.js, AngularJS, Backbone.js.  • Expertise in UML which includes creating Use-Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Interaction diagrams (Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams) using Designer tools like MS Visio, Rational Rose.  • Strong experience in Release Management, Production support, Development to UAT and Production in Cloud environment.  • Very much comfortable in analyzing, debugging, troubleshooting and solving problems and issues in application  • Highly motivated and a self-starter with effective communication and organizational skills, combined with attention to detail and business process improvements  • Experienced in working with small to large-scale teams with onshore/offshore models in Agile and Waterfall environments.  • Skilled at Software Development Life Cycles and Agile Programming & Agile Ops Methodologies.  • Developed Puppet modules to automate deployment, configuration, and lifecycle management of key clusters.  • Experience in integrating Unit Tests and Code Quality Analysis Tools like Cobertura, Sonar, Clover, FindBugs and CheckMarx.  • Experience in developing cross platform server side applications using Node.jsBackBone.js and Angular.js.to achieve scalability in real-time web applications.  • Implemented detailed systems and services monitoring using Nagios and PRTG across corporate office, data center and AWS cloud resources. Wrote intelligent custom health checks to reduce notification noise and automate service restarts.  • Having exposure in extracting data, transformation and loading data using ETL Tool.  • Experience with Ansible and cloud formation to do configuration management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full stack Java Developer CENTENE CORPORATION - St. Louis, MO January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing Web service operations in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Analyze requirements with team, write High Level design documents, System Use Case, analyze risk factors.  • Followedagilemethodology during complete SDLCprocess.  • Participated Agile/Scrum development and deployment teams.  • Used Spring Framework 4.1for the application development.  • Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using jQuery, Angular2, and AJAX.  • Used Spring for bean instantiation, annotations, controllers, request mapping to handle the webservice request and response.  • Implemented server side components and front-end components primarily leveraging Java 8, Spring-Boot, Core Java, Hibernate, Restful Web Service and Angular using GIT Agile Teams.  • Worked on features of Angular2 such as directives, modules and routing.  • Highly used Angular2 router to build single page application for navigates through the different status and multiple modals.  • Involved in front end development using Struts, JSP's, JSF and JSTL.  • Used JAXB for marshalling and unmarshalling of work order, billing XML documents, and JAXP for processing.  • Used Mango DB as database and wrote Mongo DB models and schema by using mongoose to query data and experienced in managing Mongo DB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Developed RESTWeb services to make web service calls simple and easy for the client to access it with the help of standard HTTP URIs.  • Design and developed request and response XML Schema(XSD) documents for webservice operations such as RetrieveHistory.  • Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, DDL and DML SQL queries using relational databases like Oracle 10g/11g/12c, DB2, MySQL and SQL Server.  • Design and developed multiple web (UI) pages using JSF, Rich Faces, JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Used architecture .for the Client application using JSP, Servlets, ICEfaces, JSF.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used GruntJS, BowerJS, Express from NodeJS.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSF, Ajax, LESS, DOJO, and JQuery.  • Developing Intranet Web Application using J2EE architecture, using JSP to design the user interfaces and Hibernate for database connectivity.  • Consumed Web Services implemented with Apache CXF API'S like JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC, JSON and REST to get the external web service responses.  • Developed DAOs using JPA, Hibernatepersistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle Database.  • Experience of Database design in Oracle/ MySQL/ SQL Server/ Postgres query-based programming and PL/SQL procedure programming and proficient in Database programming using JDBC and SQL.  • Designed and Developed the Automation Testing Framework using Java, Selenium Web Driver and TestNG Automation Framework.  • Worked extensively in Oracle ADF, Java, J2EE and SOA Integration with ADF, SOAP, JSP, Oracle PL/SQL, Servlets, JavaScript, JDeveloper, Eclipse JPA, Webcenter, Ajax and HTML.  • Developed web service client using Spring Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer credentials and information.  • Followed agile methodologies to execute project. Build the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  • UI development using Angular JS (strong preference) , React.Js and Node.Js  • Implementing JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) along with Expression Language (EL).  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Worked with Angular 2 CLI and Typescript in Angular js to create Controllers and Angular components for the Web Pages.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) to role-based access controls, applying and enforcing roles and permissions to ensure that users can only view and affect the spaces they got granted access.  • Used Angular 2 as the development framework to build a single-page application and reusable AngularJs applications.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, QA Testing, Staging, and Production).  • Additional UI Components implemented using an asynchronous AJAX, jQuery, Angular 4 based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed reporting dashboards, which processes large amount data that are stored in Elastic Search and My SQL platforms and generates reports and displays in dashboards.  • Developed application on Spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Multi-threading, Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Spring Web flow using Spring MVC.  • Designed solution to migrate thousands of Hibernate files from DB2 to both MS SQL and Oracle.  • AWS EC2 instances were configured in dev and qa environments with NodeJS.  • Involved in writing Unit test cases for unit testing using Junit.  • Used Easymock for mocking downline services.  • Used Selenium for UI automation.  • Taken care of multi-threading in back end java beans.  • Build application with ANT tool and deployed the application on IBM Websphere application.  • Automated test cases using Selenium.  • Implemented Front-end User Interface using Angular 4, HTML, CSS3(SASS) and using Bootstrap for responsive design.    Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Typescript, Hibernate 4.0, JAX-RS Webservices, JAX-WS Webservices, Apache CXF, JQuery 1.10, JQueryUI, AJAX, UML, MS Visio, JSTL, Oracle 11g, WebLogic 10.1, Eclipse 4.2, Junit, XMLSPY, SOAPUI 5.1, Log4j, Maven 3.1, PMD, AWS, Bootstrap, React JS, AngularJS, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3, Toad, Hudson, NodeJS, TcpMon, Sun Jersey, Junit 4.1, Powermock, Selenium, JIRA, Rally, Freemarker, Apache POI, Quartz Scheduler, GIT, Bamboo CI, Cucumber. Full stack Java Developer High Mark - Pittsburgh, PA September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and prototyping.  • Used Node.js for server-side code and Express.js as the framework. Written callback functions for the Restful API.  • Produced the Webservices using Apache CXF API'S like JAX-WS, JAX-RS, and JAX-RPC.  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  • Identified and fixed various production issues related to IBM MQ server on Linux, UNIX, and Windows system.  • Used Structs Model-View-Controller approach to help design new features and fix Jira bugs and request.  • Developed Rest Web services for IOS and Android mobile websites and apps.  • Used AWS deployment services to quickly set up a dynamic website and configured virtual servers.  • Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with LINUX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Cloud Foundry, and Spring Micro Services and enabled discovery using the AWS cloud services.  • Designed Java Components and integrated using spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism.  • Developed modular code for connecting/fetching Oracle/Cassandra database which can be reused across the teams.  • Experienced with developing rich user interface applications using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Twitter Bootstrap, JQuery, XML, JSON that are browser compatible.  • Experience in using JSP and Servlets to create web interfaces and integrating apache tools like Kafka.  • Used Struts Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern.  • User level support for multiple applications including web-based, iOS, and Android mobile apps.  • Worked throughout the full stack (Node.js, Angular.js) to see software extensions through to completion.  • Implemented Restful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  • Created web services using spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend.  • Backup, recovery, and troubleshooting for IBM MQ.  • UI design using iOS latest feature Adaptive Layout.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as unmarshalling process.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the IBM DB2 UDB database and written HQL to access the data from the database.  • Consuming the Kafka message which are produced by different micro services and modified the rule engine process to handle Kafka message as per the business intent.  • Validated Customer, Account, Address and Order entities with Drools rules engine.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Fundamental mastery of AWS clouds computing platform and its dimensions of scalability.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2, manage documents in S3, providing IAM access to S3 buckets.  • Modified the Avro schema of the Kafka message based on the business requirement.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, a file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Developed Java code for functionalities which are not supported in LISA tool like "Cassandra" database connectivity.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j Framework to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven Tools.  • Worked on developing web service calls using SOAP and WSDL.  • Involved in installing, upgrading, configuring and Troubleshooting IBM Web Sphere Application Server and IBM MQ on AIX and Linux  • Junit and Easymock were incorporated for unit testing.  • Responsible for setting up Angular.JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML, CSS, bootstrap and Angular.JS.  • Strategize approach for migrating legacy data to NoSQL - Cassandra databases.  • Worked with NPM commands and using package. JSON for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server.  • Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.    Environment: Java, Agile Methodology, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Drools, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch, Spring Security, HTML5, IBM MQ 7.0, CSS3, Node.js, Bootstrap, JSTL, jQuery, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Hibernate, Restful API, SOA, JAX-RS, JSON, Kafka , SQL, Oracle, CRUD, CI, CD, Cassandra, Jenkins, JIRA, MAVEN, JUnit, UNIX, STS, IBM Web Sphere, Log4J, GIT. Java Developer First National Bank - Omaha, NE January 2016 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing the business user requirements and participated in meeting the users with Business Analysts.  • Designed detailed design diagrams based on the requirement specifications by using Rational Rose.  • Developed on Agile Methodology for the User Interface and backend Java development of the business Application.  • Good experience in developing client/server and N-tier web applications using Java, J2EE, Apache Struts framework and Spring (MVC) framework.  • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging (database) and logging using Spring AOP.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed and constructed computer applications and systems using Groovy.  • Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shading, 2D 3D animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files and many others.  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models). Developed SQL, HQL procedures for login module and written complex SQL queries.  • Used Camel Components like HTTP/HTTPS, SQL and AWS S3.  • Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  • Implemented Log4j API forlogging of the errors, warnings, messages, stack traces, debuggers throughout the code.  • Implemented web-services using JAX-WS and also Restful web services with JAX-RS using Jersey framework.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Used JPA/Hibernate to communicate with data layer and XML/JAXB to read XML data.  • Design and Development of Struts Action classes, DAO (Data Access Objects), Views using Struts custom tags.  • Java Beans were used to handle business logic as a Model and Servlets to control the flow of application as Controller.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using Tiles, JSP, JSTL and java script, Bootstrap, Business objects developed using POJOs and data access layer using IBATIS framework.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Power Mock, Mockito, and Junit. Used log4j for capturing .logging events. Used Active MQ for messaging  • Experienced with developing rich user interface applications using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Twitter Bootstrap, JQuery, XML, JSON that are browser compatible.  • Utilized Struts2, Spring and Hibernate3, JPA, EJB3, JMS framework  • Worked on service-oriented systems that utilize REST web frameworks, SOAP and message queue technologies (Spring MVC 4, Spring REST Template, Active MQ server, Spring Integration).  • Conducted weekly code walk through using UNIX Shell Scripts.  • Used Rational Application Developer (RAD), which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code.  • Experience in using control tools like SVN, and GIT in the configuration management.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts, Multi-Threading, Spring, JSP, Apache CXF, JAX-B, HTML, JavaScript, J-Query, CSS, Oracle RIDC, JSON, WebLogic, SOAPUI, Ant, SVN, GIT, Eclipse, Windows XP, JAX-WS,Sql, My Sql server, HTML5,UNIX, Junit. Java Developer American Family Insurance - Madison, WI September 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the business analysts to gather the requirements and understanding the functional design specifications for the requirements.  • Followed agile methodologies to execute project. Build the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  • Designed the application architecture of the System based on MVC, Struts Framework and J2EE specifications.  • Utilized pair programming approach to ensure high quality code.  • Designed and developed user interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Designed and Developed advance dynamic views using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and JavaScript.  • Log4j were used to log the various debug, error and informational messages at various levels.  • Used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  • Worked with spring and web services with SOAP by creating SOAP services using Spring Controller class.  • Implemented spring dependency injection (DI) for all the DAO's, Service Beans.  • Designed enterprise level applications on XML schema, SOAP and WSDL technologies.  • Used XPATH, XQuery and XSLT for XML transformations.  • Developed service layer using various J2EE design patterns Singleton, DAO, Factory, and Repository, Builder.  • Involved in creating, modifying and tuning SQL queries, prepared statements and stored procedures used by the application  • Used Java Mailing or Messaging Service (JMS) API's for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator of any system related problems.  • Involved in development of business domain layer using session and entity beans -EJBs.  • Used Hibernate to connect to the database.  • Involved in the defect fixes. Configured and created application log files using Log4j required to trace application.  • Development of server side programming using Servlets, JSP, Struts.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JDBC, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MVC, Struts, TDD,Mongo DB, WebLogic, DAO, servlets, JSP, TDD, Eclipse, XML, SQL, JMS, Web Services, CVS, SOAP. Java Developer Solvent Software Solutions June 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing and bug fixing of the R&D application.  • Developed Billing module in the application to interact using Model View Controller architecture (MVC).  • Involved in design & documentation of validation and report modules within the R&D application.  • Developed the application on MVC framework by writing UI with Java Script and JSP pages in user-friendly environment.  • Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  • Created JSP, HTML and business layer component beans and their dependencies in spring application  • Frame work (spring, MVC, ORM, and AOP).  • Defined POJOs ( java beans), Hibernate mapping files and named queries for Reverse Auction components.  • Worked extensively integration of the modules Responsible for trouble shooting the production issues and performance of the application.  • Used Hibernate framework and Spring JDBC framework modules for backend communication with the rest of Treasury application.  • Implemented Business processes like user authentication, transfer of service using Session EJB's  • Participated in performing extensive Unit Testing for the application using Junit and JMeter.  • Involved in setting up the environment for Development, Testing, and Maintaining.  • Involved in taking responsibility to train new team members on the framework and the R&D application design.    Environment: Eclipse, Web Logic, Hibernate, Spring (MVC), Oracle 9, SQL, Java 1.6, JSP, Java script HTML, XML, SVN, TOAD, Junit, Jmeter, POJO, AOP. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Skills Html (7 years), Java (7 years), Jsp (7 years), Model-view-controller (7 years), Mvc. (7 years), Servlet, JSP, JNDI, JSTL, JSF, Web Services HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, EXT-JS, JSF Spring, Struts 2, Hibernate, Log4J, DevOps-Agile framework (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting  JSE Technologies JDBC, AWT, RMI, Swing  J2EE Technologies Servlet, JSP, JNDI, JSTL, JSF, Web Services  UI Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, EXT-JS, JSF  Frameworks Spring, Struts 2, Hibernate, Log4J, DevOps-Agile framework  Spring Framework  Spring Data JPA, Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM, Spring Web Services, Spring Transaction, Spring AOP    Unit Testing Unit Testing  Cache Technologies GigaSpaces, EHCache, Terracotta  Reporting API JasperReports  Design Skills UML, Anti-Patterns, Enterprise Architect  Web/App Servers Tomcat 6.x/7.x, Websphere, JBoss, Weblogic Server 10  XML Technologies XML, XSLT, XML Schema, DOM, SAX, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, XML-Beans, JAXP, AJAX, JSON  IDEs Eclipse 3.0, 3.1, MyEclipse 4.1, IntelliJ, Netbeans, JBuilder 2007, JDeveloper.  Databases Oracle 11g, MongoDB, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server  GO4 Design Patterns Template Method, Command Pattern, Facade, Singleton, Factory Method  Build Tools Maven, Gradle, ANT, Jenkins  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, GIT  Operating Systems Windows XP, UNIX, Linux, Mac OS  Webservice Specifications JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Webservice Tools SoapUI 4.0,5.1, TcpMon  Webservice Implementations Axis 1.0,2.1, JWSDP2.1, Sun Metro, Sun Jersey, Apache XFire, Apache CXF  Whitebox Testing Junit 3, Junit 4, DBUnit, JUnitPerf, HttpUnit, LoadTest, TimedTest, Selenium, Fitnesse, EasyMock, PowerMock  Blackbox Testing JMeter, LoadUI, LoadRunner, HP Quality Center, WinRunner,  Client Testing Jasmine  Application Servers Weblogic 8.1, 10.0, Websphere 6.1, JBoss 4.0, Glassfish 4.0  Batch Jobs Quartz Scheduler, Cron, Spring Batch  HTML Editors MS-Frontpage 2003, Adobe Dreamweaver, Coffee Cup HTML  Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Dynamo DB  Micro Services Swagger, Pivital Cloud Foundry, Spring Micro Services, Springboot, Netflix Eureka.