Senior Java Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Software Developer • Overall 10+ years of experience worked for financial, telecommunication, pension and insurance companies. -  ? JP Morgan Chase  ? Vitech Systems Group  ? Verizon Wireless  ? Bank Of America  ? Accenture Technology Solutions  * Bristol Myers Squibb, NJ  * Mayor's Office of Contract Services, NY Work Experience Senior Java Software Developer Telos Corporation July 2018 to March 2019 Continuum application correlates scan results from multiple security products across organization into a single view, and maps them to the relevant controls for security and risk management. These results are used to create reports for continuous security assessment and to understand trending security issues in the environment.  Responsibilities:  * Developed features, enhancements and fixed bugs in the existing application to meet the business requirement.  * Responsible for design and development of the plug-in for the application.  * Coordination and discussions with business analysts to gather requirements, daily stand up calls following agile methodologies.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Maven, SQL developer, Jira. Software Engineer JP Morgan Chase June 2015 to October 2017 Target services Application is a payment application supports high, low value cross country and cross currency payment transaction through various methods such wire, book transfer, account transfer, drafts/checks.  It facilitates payment initiation using free form, templates, modification of payments, matrix approval and file imports.  Responsibilities:  * Coordinating with product owners and business analysts to design and document the solution as per the requirements.  * Contributing in project planning and design discussions with a responsibility to architect the solution diagrams.  * Responsible for developing the solutions and testing the same with all aspects like unit, performance and integration.  * Actively working on source code development as a full stack developer contributing at both ends front and back.  * Responsible for build generation and correction and code deployments in Jenkins with continuous integration or manual.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Ember, CSS, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Maven, Drools, SQL developer, Jira, ALM, Elastic Search. Java Developer Vitech Systems Group August 2012 to November 2014 V3 Application is a software solution for pension funds and administrators. It supports Defined Benefit, Defined Contribution and Tax Deferred Annuity processing. It address the full spectrum of administration requirements including enrollment, payroll reporting, contributions processing, benefits calculations, benefits payroll and investment administration in a single, integrated application.  Responsibilities:  * Interacted with business analysts and testing team to produce quality deliverables.  * Designed and developed client specific business layer using DAO, singleton design patterns which handles the pension information of various account users and members.  * Created and fixed issues related to UI web content using HTML, CSS and Java.  * Designed and developed reports using Jasper tool.  * Developed features,enhancements and fixed bugs for the product and client side of the application using Java/Spring/Hibernate.  * Worked to resolve performance testing issues in different environments by debugging the existing code and using tools YourKit, Visual VM.  * Interaction with DBA and deployment teams to resolve the performance issues.  * Developed detail level design document for the application performance testing.  * Used Maven to Compile and build the application and Rapidsvn for source code management.  Environment: Java, J2EE,Spring,Hibernate,HTML,CSS,Oracle 11g,Jasper report, Eclipse, Jetty,SQL developer,Jira,YourKit,Unix Developer Verizon Wireless - Township of Warren, NJ June 2011 to June 2012 Application manages account on-the-go with My Verizon Mobile app. It facilitate information about monthly usage, upgrade eligibility date and balance. User can make payments and accessory purchases and change account features, Voice Mail password, plan, billing address.  Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed the presentation and business layer of the application using Struts which handles the usage, plan, account and profile information of various account users.  * Designed and developed the new features in the existing application to meet the business requirement.  * Developed web services to access the user information from various systems.  * Used XML parsing techniques for data handling and used Castor to marshal and unmarshal the XML data  * Handled production issues raised by users in Unix environment.  * Created release notes and documents and stand up call to discuss production issues across teams.  * Understand the existing application to rewrite using HTML5 to work with cross browser and mobile compatibility.  * Responsible for mobile UI development in HTML5, CSS, JavaScript. AJAX and  * Client side validations and server side validations are done according to the business needs.  * Interacted with busyness analysts and testing team to produce quality deliverables.  Environment: Java, Servlets,JavaScript, HTML 5,J2EE,AJAX,CSS,Oracle 11g,XML, Castor,XPATH,Soap,Rest Web services,Websphere,RAD,Jira. Java Developer Bank Of America, NJ June 2010 to December 2010 Identity Provisioning Gateway application acts as single point of contact for all on-Boarding activities by replacing existing multiple On-Boarding sub systems to minimize On-Boarding time in cost efficient manner.    Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed the business layer of the application using Spring which handles the generation of various identifications required by the bank for the new hire to be productive and provide information about employee on boarding.  * Developed the Validation frame work for the entire Module for server side validations.  * Developed business layer of the application using spring and the data access layer using hibernate.  * Unit testing of the application using JUnit  Environment: - Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle 11g,XML, Websphere, Toad, Windows. Java Developer Bristol Myers Squibb, NJ July 2009 to June 2010 Application facilitates information about medical drugs information, side effects, clinical trials etc to representatives.  Responsibilities:  * Developed web services to expose the product information, specification and side effects.  * Developed the business layer of the application using Spring which handles the product information, side effects and the specification mapping.  * Developed the complete administration module for the application using Spring so as to enable the admin users to configure the application and enter the product related data.  * Developed the authentication and authorization module for the application using Spring.  * Developed reports in html which the health professionals can use to get knowledge about the drug.  * Unit testing of the application using JUnit.  Environment: - Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle ,XML, XPATH, Soap, Websphere, Toad,JUnit, Windows. Developer Mayor's Office of Contract Services, NY June 2008 to June 2009 Application to retire paper based procurement business to transparent procurement system for government of the City of New York.  Responsibilities:  * Developed web forms for user entry using Struts based on the conceptual and detailed design as well as the requirements Traceability Matrix.  * Developed the middle tier using java beans which encapsulates the business logic for the application  * Worked with other application Development team and Business Process Architect team members as necessary to ensure common understanding of requirements.  * Unit testing of the application using JUnit.  Environment: - Java, JSP,Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, J2EE, Struts, Oracle, Websphere, Toad, JUnit, Windows. Developer Accenture Technology Solutions, NJ February 2008 to May 2008 HRS Application provides solution to manage employee records, payroll , benefit information for HR and employees. Responsibilities:  * Developed a J2EE, Struts, Oracle based intranet system for the HRS Application  * Developed the Validation frame work for the entire Module for server side validations.  * Developed the middle tier using action classes, action forms which encapsulates the business logic for the application  * Unit testing of the application using JUnit.  Environment: - Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Tomcat, JUnit, Windows. Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Application server, Design patterns, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Object oriented, Object oriented programming Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Excellent programming skills in CORE JAVA, Collection (data structures), J2EE, XML, Object Oriented Programming concepts.  • Proficient knowledge and good understanding of database in Oracle, SQL.  • Extensive working experience in Client-Server Systems, Web-based Systems.  • Excellent conceptual base in Object-Oriented Design and Implementation Methodologies, Design Patterns, Web based Architecture using web technologies like JSP, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate and Spring.  • Expertise in all phases of software development life cycle Design, Development, Testing, Deployment, support, documentation & Configuration Management.  • Excellent analytical, communication skills, leadership qualities, self-motivated, organizational and interpersonal skills in addition to productive working as a team member.  • Strong desire to use my cross-functional experience working individually or in a team to conceptualize, drive, and deliver usable, quality products on time and to the satisfaction of customers.    TECHNICAL SKILLS & DEVELOPMENTS    Project Mgmt Methodology: Agile  Programming Languages: Java, Java Script, SQL, PL/SQL.  Web Technologies: J2EE, Web Services, Restful services, SOAP, JSP, JavaScript, XML, SAX, DOM, JSON, Castor, HTML, Log4j, ElasticSearch.  Frameworks: Struts, spring, Hibernate.  Application Server: Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat  Appl. Mgmt tools: Clear Case, VSS, TFS, Rapidsvn, and Jasper Report  Database and Development tools: Oracle, PL/SQL, Toad, SQL developer, Build Forge  UI Technologies: HTML5, CSS, AJAX, Ember.  IDE: Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD)  Development methodologies,  deployment and testing: Agile Methodology, Ant, Junit, Maven, Jenkins