Java/ J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/ J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/ J2EE Developer - Hub Group Chicago, IL • Over 6 years of progressively responsible experience in development, testing, documentation & production support applications using Internet, Web and Client Server Technologies in N-Tier J2EE Architecture.  • Expertise through all parts of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in developing web applications 0usingJAVA, J2EE, EJB, Web services, SOA, SOAP, RESTful etc.  • Extensive hands-on experience with core expertise in design, development, and deployment of N-Tier enterprise applications for the J2EE platform using Core Java, Servlets, Struts, Spring, EJB, JSP, Webservices, JPA, JNDI, JMS, JAXP, JUnit, JMeter.  • Solid background in Core Java concepts like Exception handling, Multi-threading, Synchronization,  • Serialization, IO, Collections framework, Java Beans, Executor Services, Thread pools.  • Experience in working with open source frameworks like Spring, Struts and ORM frameworks like Hibernate and Spring JPA.  • Extensive experience using JSF, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JSTL and JNDI.  • Experienced with hands on development in various Spring components like Spring MVC, AOP, SpringIOC, Spring JDBC, Spring JPA, Spring Securities and Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, and swagger API's.  • Expertise in IDEs forsoftware development like NetBeans, Eclipse, Eclipse STS, RAD, and JDeveloper.  • Experience in working with various Application Servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat Servers.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) Components like EC2 for virtual servers, S3.  • Good working knowledge of NoSQL Database, MongoDB.  • Experienced with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, Active MQ and Mule ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture).  • Good Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, REST, and JAX-WS.  • Experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, views with the major databases like Oracle 9i to 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Access.  • Experiences in Data Modeling, Dimensional Modeling of large databases.  • Experience in unit testing the applications using JUnit, TDD Framework.  • Worked on implementing full life cycle of Software development process (SDLC) in using version control tools like Rational Clear Case, Tortoise SVN, CVS (Concurrent Version System).  • Experience in generating Reports and Dashboards on Dynatrace (APM tool) and Splunk.  • Involved in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts, debugging through logging frameworks like log4j, automated build tool with Jenkins.  • Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Incremental & Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model. To track the progress of Agile process used JIRA. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java/ J2EE Developer Hub Group - Chicago, IL November 2018 to Present • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, and packages on Oracle database.  • Using Java script validation framework for performing front end validations.  • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology.  • Extensively involved in coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Worked on API documentation using Swagger.  • Involved in system design and development using Collections and multithreading for the action classes.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap in creating the Application.  • Used NodeJS for doing non-blocking design operation for server-side code and Angular.js framework in developing various UI components.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Development of Python API's for monitoring of data acquisition and automation of data quality check process.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance and created AWS EC2 instances.  • Designed services to store and retrieve user data using Mongo DB database and communicated with remote servers using REST enabled Web Services on Jersey framework.  • Experience in Implementing API's in Java Multi-Threaded Environment.  • Use Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Debugging the application by running the server in debug mode and having the experience in usage of log4J to log the information in log files.  • Use Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for issue tracking  • Use SVN for version control and JIRA for project and issue tracking.  Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, AJAX, SOA, Web Services, SQL Server, Microservices, XML, Websphere 8.5, Clear Case, Apache Maven, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB, JUnit, Html, Unit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML, JENKINS, Spark, Kafka. Java/ J2EE Developer Progressive - Mayfield, OH September 2017 to October 2018 Project Description: Developing and responsive web application named Rates and Reskin for auto insurance where the traditional layout is being migrated to new responsive system. Functionality of the modules in the backend are also updated as per the new Layout.    • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design and Code development.  • Developed business components using Java Objects, Core Java, Multithreading and Collections  • Developed end to end application on spring boot framework (Rest Api Application/Spring JPA using Crud repository).  • Used Maven build script for building and deploying the application and Designing new database tables for the enhancements.  • Created User defined exception classes using Java.  • Used Core, Context, and Security, Bean modules of Spring Framework.  • Implemented MVC, Singleton, Factory, DAO, Value Object, session, Facade, Data Access Object, Business Object paradigm.  • Configured the XML files for Hibernate 3 and applied its Object Relational Mapping ORM to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database using caching on Session Factory as well as caching on query.  • Used JQuery framework for creating front end applications and for Client Side validations.  • Strong experience in implementing Service oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL API's.  • Wrote spring configuration file to define beans, define data source and Hibernate properties.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and updates in the database.  • Understanding user change requirements and analyzing the source systems and Developed UI pages using JSP and Spring MVC framework.  • Developing backend services in Java  • Validations are done using Spring MVC validation framework and JavaScript.  • Designed, developed and implemented unit tests and product features.  • Maintained, structured, and surveyed documents within the NoSQL, MongoDB database; ensuring data integrity, correcting anomalies, and increasing the overall maintainability of the database.  • Responsible for building/deploying consistently repeatable build/deployments to company non-production environments using JENKINS & BUILD Pipelines.  • Monitored the control using Spring IOC.  • Followed Scrum/Agile Methodology during the software development life cycle.  • Extensively worked with XML while using Maven, Dispatcher Servlet etc.  Environment: Java SE, JDK 1.7 and 1.8, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, Groovy, Tiles, JSP, XML, XSLT, SQL Server, Maven, Apache Tomcat 8, Eclipse 6.0, SVN, Jenkins, Spring Boot, JUnit, Mongo DB, Docker. Java Developer LBrands International - Columbus, OH November 2016 to August 2017 LBrands in an American Fashion retailer company which manufacturers different varieties of products under different brands. Developed an interactive web application for Victoria Secret. The main purpose of this application is to generate reports for the sales, customer related debit/ credit cards, offers eligibility and upcoming events.    • Design and implemented the backend layer using Hibernate.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Façade Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern and Singleton.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence in Workflow screens. Used RAD6, WSAD as IDE for development of the application. Worked with WebLogic, Tomcat as the application servers and JMS as the message Server.  • Performed Clear Quest defects, Database change requests logging using Clear Quest. Used Perforce as versioning system.  • Worked on Code design and develop the code in Java /J2EE components including Core Java, JavaScript, JSP/Servlets, Building Restful Web services, with SQL, Sybase DB.  • Implemented and tested the enterprise application with jQuery, Spring MVC.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Extensive usage of BOOTSTRAP and LESS CSS for Responsive design.  • Developed SQL scripts for data migration.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server.  • Created and built project using Maven.  • Created Stored Procedures and other SQL scripts using PL-SQL.  • Implemented logging using log4j and Spring AOP.  • Implemented JUnit test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing  • Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.  • Provide post production support for the project.  Environment: JSP, JSF, Spring, Servlet, Hibernate, JMS, CSS, XML Schema, AJAX, JSON,SAX, DOM, SOAP, Java script, PL/SQL, D/HTML, XHTML, Maven, Log4j, JUnit, Weblogic 8.0, Oracle 9i RDBMS, Eclipse 3.2. Java/ J2EE Developer ASM Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2014 to March 2015 Project Description: Developed web application for Ecolab where administrators can access the Employee status, bookings, status respective to each booking and has privileges to access Employee Database    • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of the project.  • Writing JSP's for user interfaces, JSP's uses Java Beans objects to produce responses.  • Involved in Tomcat server configuration for deployment.  • Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application.  • Involved in testing the XML files and checked whether data is parsed and loaded to staging tables.  • Used Java Script libraries for developing the Java Script Programs.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap.  • Designed the Cascaded Style Sheets for designing the styles, skinning and layouts.  • Involved in designing the page layouts using Wire Frames templates.  • Used extensively Eclipse in development and debugging the application.  • Validating the Application by Deploying and testing on JBoss Server.  • Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews.  Environment: Java1.6, Junit 4, JBoss 7, Oracle 10g, HTML, JSP, Javascript, React-JS, Node-JS, Mongo-db, Spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, Atom, Web services, Maven, Junit, log4j , JavaScript. Java/ J2EE Developer Parexel International - IN June 2012 to December 2014 Randomization Trials and Supplies Management: Involved in Developing Interactive Web Response Systems for a clinical trial which adapts Randomization technique and developing several modules for the trial which includes drug safety management, study management, Inventory management, site management, patient's management.    • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects  • Used AJAX to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers  • Testing the website on multiple browsers to check if they are Cross Compatible  • Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug.  • Used to work with OOPS concepts and memory concepts like string pool.  • Hands on experience in JSP and Struts frameworks.  • Used UI Development using HTML, and coded Java components which Retrieves data using SQL from Oracle database.  • Actively participated in meetings with clients to determine website goals and develop strategies.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Involved in various technical and architectural design discussions with back-end teams as well as front-end team to integrate front-end and back-end.  • Involved in documentation and creating site maps for the complete design flow.  • Been an active team player, helped in bug fixing and also carried out troubleshooting.  Environment: Struts, Java, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JSON, jQuery Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Wsad, Database, Jdbc, Microsoft access, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server Additional Information Skill set:  Programming Languages Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Perl, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, jQuery  J2EE Technologies Servlets 2.2/2.3/2.4, JSP 1.1/1.2/2.0, JDBC 2.0/3.0, JNDI, OSGI, EJB 2.0/3.0, RMI  Database skills Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL, Oracle 11g, MySQL, Ms SQL Server 2008, SQL Developer, Toad, SQLite3, Microsoft Access, EBX  Web Technologies HTML5, XML, CSS, XSL, AJAX 2.0, .Net, XSL, XHTML  Web/Application Servers JBOSS, Apache Tomcat7.1, Weblogic, IBM WebSphere  Scripting languages Java Scripting, PERL Scripting, Shell scripting  IDE's Eclipse, Netbeans, Intellij, Sublime, RAD, WSAD  Version control tools CVS, SVN, Git, ClearCase  Frameworks Struts 1.2/1.3/2.0, Spring 1.2/1.3/2.0/3.2, MVC, Hibernate 2.0/3.0, Tiles, Validator.  Build/Testing tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson, JUnit, Mockito, Power Mockito, Log4j, XML Spy, SOAP UI, GITHUB  Operating system LINUX, UNIX, Windows 7, Vista, XP, 2000, 98