Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Credit Suisse • 7 years of experience as a Full Stack Java/J2EE developer in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing on Application Development using SDLC with various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum.  • Extensively worked on Core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Synchronization and Exception Handling.  • Deep understanding of Object-Oriented Design and proficient in implementing codes using Java for Design Patterns: Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Facade, Observer and Adapter.  • Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using JSF, JSTL, and JSP pages that interact with Servlets 3.x and JMS.  • Good Working experience in using different Spring modules like Spring Core Container Module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring AOP Module, Spring Security, Spring ORM Module, Spring Data, Spring Boot in Web applications.  • Used Spring Boot to develop REST API's using Micro-Services architecture.  • Expertise in writing SQL queries.  • Worked on Relational Data bases like MySQL  • Worked on Scripting languages JavaScript, AJAX and jQuery.  • Strong experience in configuring and deploying web Applications using different web/application servers such as Web Logic 12.x, WebSphere 8.x, JBoss 5/4, and Apache Tomcat 8/7/6.  • Strong front-end UI development skills using HTML5/4, CSS3, JavaScript 2.0, jQuery 3.x, AJAX, Bootstrap3.x, Angular JS and Angular4/2.  • Proficient in programming by using the Integrated Development Environments such as Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Spring Tool Suite.  • Worked on SOA Web Services using SOAP with JAX-WS, RESTful with JAX-RS for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON data over HTTP.  • Experienced in developing the unit test cases using JUnit 4.0, Mockito.  • Possess good knowledge on using EC2 Instances, CICD Pipeline.  • Expertise in deploying enterprise applications by using Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment. (CI/CD)  • Working knowledge on version control software such as SVN and GIT.  • Expertise in implementing TDD methodology for application development.  • Extensively used Building tools such as Maven 3.x, Gradle.  • Proficient in writing project documents and giving technical presentations & experience of working in a deadline oriented, fast-paced environment.  • Quick Learner, Motivated team player with strong analytical, problem solving and communication skills. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Credit Suisse - New York, NY November 2018 to Present Description:  The Investment Banking Application is to enhance a section of the Application where updated information is displayed to investors regarding loan payments, Daily cutoffs, Fort-night cutoffs, monthly cutoffs. Data is sent to the Clients after tallying, extending the usage of the application to consolidate information from various investment avenues and report real time information for investors.    Responsibilities:  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with object oriented of business process and worked on developing Service oriented architecture applications in agile development environment.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Angular 5 for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Involved in designing in web pages using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, React.js, Redux, React-Bootstrap, Node.js, express.js, Mongo DB.  • Skilled in leading frameworks as React.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  • Developed user interface by using the React HOC, Flux/Redux for SPA development.  • Used React Observables to create custom components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format.  • Used Mongo DB along with Node. js, as a database to store JSON.  • Enhanced the React Observables with Redux, React-router and Redux-thunk.  • Used Redux-Thunk as middleware to manipulate the data type and handle multiple actions.  • Extensively used core Java concepts like Multi-threading, Collections, File I/O and concurrency.  • Altered parts of code by using Java 8 technologies such as Lambda Functions, Streams.  • Designed and Developed Micro Service based architecture using Spring Boot Application.  • Spring Boot Framework IOC design pattern to provide relation between application components. Separated application configuration and dependency specification from actual application code.  • Implemented logging in the application using Spring Framework AOP 4.x module to know the application status.  • Used Spring Data (JPA) module for performing CRUD operations on database.  • Involved in implementing Hashing Algorithm for quick lookups and to impose better security.  • Developed REST web services using Spring Boot 4.x to extract client related data from database.  • Used Postman for testing RESTful API web services.  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  • Implemented Spring Security for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using OAuth 2.0.  • Used JAXB binding to convert Java object to XML and vice-versa.  • Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of information between applications.  • Worked on CICD process for automated delivery and Wrote deployment scripts for building jobs in Jenkins tool.  • Our Project deployment was hybrid, so some of the application was on Cloud using AWS EBS.  • Worked on Apache Tomcat 7 in creating mock API's for testing purposes.  • Used LDAP Mail Server for sending detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and for mailing administrator for any system related problem.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework and Mockito Framework in Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Used Eclipse IDE and used its standard features for Debugging, Running and Testing.  • Used Apache POI for generating reports in excel format.  • Used SonarQube for continuous inspection of code quality    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Spring Data JPA, MySQL, Spring Boot 4.x, Spring AOP, Spring Security, LDAP Mail Server, Restful Web services, AWS EBS, AJAX, XML, HTML 5, CSS 3, GitHub, Jenkins 2.x, Maven, Junit 4.x, TDD, SonarQube, React.js, Angular 5. Senior Java Developer Charter Communications - Denver, CO October 2017 to October 2018 Description:  The Charter Communication Access Network System provides the customer's access to their accounts with robust and secure data communication over the Internet. Worked on Property/casualty Billing. It had three-tier J2EE Architecture. The web-tier was developed using JSP, Servlets and Struts framework. The middle-tier consisted of Enterprise Java beans maintaining the business logic and interacting with the Oracle database. The application was managed over BEA Web logic application server.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint. Communication with external teams, verbally and written on a daily basis.  • Created Single Page Application (SPA) which can data bind and synchronize server with Angular 4 framework.  • Developed user interfaces using JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, XHTML, CSS custom tags, Node.JS.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux/Redux for SPA development.  • Used React JS to create custom components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web and client-server environments including Java J2EE, Java multi-threading, Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets, Struts, spring, Hibernate and Java database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  • Extensively used various modules in Spring like AOP, DI(IOC), Bean Auto wiring, Spring Inheritance, Auto Wiring, Spring JDBC Templates and Spring Quartz Schedulers for Jobs.  • Developed presentation, business, service and persistence layer components over J2EE using, Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  • Developed web services and responsible for creating web services using Restful and SOAP with HTTP protocol.  • Implemented Swagger framework for Restful web services documentation. Used Swagger annotations to generate Swagger documentation.  • Building RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines allowing other groups to quickly meet their Big Data needs and remain insulated from rapid technology changes in the NoSQL field.  • Implemented multi-threading in business layer for asynchronous processing of merchant rules  • Hibernate DAO classes were developed to retrieve and save data using Spring framework manager classes.  • Experience in Creating, Dropping Indexes, Tables, Stored Procs and Views on Oracle DB.  • Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through java Programs from Oracle Database.  • Selenium's playback tool feature for authoring tests has been used in executing more than 100 test cases.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration in which all development work is integrated and involved in deploying the application using Docker to AWS environment.    Environment: Java 1.8, Agile(SCRUM), HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, NodeJS, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular 4, Micro Services, Hibernate, Spring, MongoDB, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, XML, GIT, JSP, Spring MVC, JDBC, Mockito, JUnit, Maven, Selenium, Restful, Java Server Pages, JIRA, Spring Security, Jenkins. Senior Java Developer Conduent Inc - Raleigh, NC August 2015 to July 2017 Description:  Conduent Medical's patient self-service products include a Patient Portal, Patient Kiosk, and Patient Queuing. The Patient Portal is an online application where patients use to complete administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments, registering for appointments, paying bills, and exchanging secure messages with providers. Patients can also view their clinical information such as lab results, medication.    Responsibilities:  • Used Agile SCRUM process with Test Driven Development process form development phase to testing phase.  • Designed the sequence diagrams and class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Ajax, JavaScript, Web services, Servlets.  • Taken care of java multithreading in common java classes / library. Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API's.  • Provided non-breaking solutions on existing REST services, sometimes by versioning new APIs. Called the RESTful web services to get the JSON object (Response) and manipulated the JSON Object to display the response in the webpage.  • Implemented RESTful web-services for every functionality related to the site such as registration, login using Node JS (with Express JS framework) as the server-side programming language.  • Used Hibernate to develop the persistent layer for Order Viewing component.  • Used J2EE Design Patterns (Singleton Pattern, Factory Pattern, and Business Delegate Pattern) for Middle Tier Development.  • Involved in development using struts components - action mappings in struts-config.xml, tiles, Form Beans, Action classes for handling the Http requests from the front-end components, Backend, plug-ins in Struts architecture  • Worked on Mongo DB database ideas, for example, locking, lists, sharing, replication, pattern.    Environment: Java1.7/J2EE, Struts Framework 2.0, Angular JS 2, AJAX, Eclipse IDE, Java Beans, MongoDB, Oracle 10g, Spring 3.0, Core java, Web Services, JAX-WS, Hibernate 3.0, GIT, Node JS, JPA, HTML/HTML5, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript, Maven, UNIX. Java Developer Kremlin Tech Ventures - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh September 2014 to June 2016 Description:  Kremlin Tech Ventures is a Tech based company which does web development, Application development, Security and social media marketing and soon.  To Design an application employee Care System. Developed an application Employee Care System. Existing employees can login into their account and get the existing information and make changes to it on request approval from admin. They can also submit the payments online and can apply for new claim or check the claim status. New users can do the registration process to create the account and get the quotes for new plan.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Agile Methodology for software development process.  • Designed the application by using Spring Framework.  • Extensively used Spring MVC framework to develop the web layer for the application.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Value Object Pattern, MVC, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator and DAO.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine, configured O/R mapping and wrote Hibernate queries using HQL.  • Developed all JSPs, action classes and helper classes involved in the project.  • Integrated the application with Spring Framework for implementing Dependency Injection and provide abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer.  • Implemented Controller and mapped it to a URL in.servlet.xml file.  • Implemented JSP corresponding to the controller where in the data was propagated into it from the model and view object from the controller.  • Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller in the Struts Framework.  • Parsed the data retrieved from the database using JAXB.  • Exposed various capabilities such as Web Services using SOAP and WSDL.  • Configured and created application log files using slf4j 1.6 required to trace messages.  • Used SOAPUI for local testing.  • Involved in Requirements gathering and Designed Application flows and developed UML diagrams.    Environment: Java 7, Spring 3.0, Spring JSP, Hibernate 3.0, Oracle 10g, HTML 5, XML, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, JUnit 3.0, ANT, slf4J 1.6, SVN, Tomcat7, Eclipse 3.6, Servlets. Java Developer Kremlin Tech Ventures - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh August 2012 to August 2013 Description:  Kremlin Tech Ventures is a Tech based company which does web development, Application development, Security and social media marketing and soon.  To Design an application Student Care System. Students Can login into their account and get information and make changes to it on the request approval from the admin. In Addition to that they can access attendance, checking grades, paying their bills and other school activities. New students can do the registration process to create the account and get their required things.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Waterfall Methodology to implement the application.  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life cycle SDLC.  • Participated in design and code reviews.  • Developed server-side applications using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and JDBC.  • Used JMS for communicating various clients and its components.  • Used Struts the MVC framework for building web applications.  • Used Web Services-WSDL and SOAP  • Retrieved and Updated the required data from the data base by using the SQL queries.  • Developed UI pages with HTML and CSS.  • Designed functionalities based on the Software Requirements Specifications (SRS) document.  • Used Eclipse IDE and used its standard features for Debugging, Running and Testing.  • Used GIT to maintain the source code.  • Performed Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  • Deployed the application using WebLogic Web server    Environment: Java5, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, My SQL, HTML5, SOAP, Eclipse, WSDL, WebLogic Server, EJB 2, GIT, CSS, Struct Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Visual studio, C++, Cucumber, Git, Gradle, Javascript, Python, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Css Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages JAVA 8/7/6, C, C++, PL/SQL, PYTHON.  Web Technologies HTML5, JavaScript, XML, CSS, AJAX, AngularJS, Angular5, React.js, jQuery.  J2EE Technologies Servlets 3.0, JSP, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate 4.x, Spring 4/3, JPA.  Servers Tomcat 8/7/6, WebLogic 12/11.  Databases SQL Server 2008, MySQL 5, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  Web Services REST, SOAP.  Operating Systems Windows 10/8/7/XP, Unix.  Development Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual Studio, Sublime Text.  Building Tools Maven 3.x, Gradle.  Testing Tools Junit 4/5, Mockito, Selenium, Cucumber.  Frameworks Structs, Spring 4.3, MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate 2.0/3.0/4.x, Spring Cloud.  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN.