Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer - Raymond James Financial Work Experience Java developer Raymond James Financial - Saint Petersburg, FL October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Agile standup meetings and scrum.  • We used RESTful webservice to re write the existing legacy application.  • Testing the existing legacy application response and designing new RESTFUL APIs to achieve new response with same functionality.  • Created restful endpoint using Jersey and JAX-RS.  • Implemented core java concepts like OOPS, multi-threading, Collections and exception handling.  • All the API end points follow a spring MVC architecture and I have applied concepts of spring framework like dependency injection etc.  • Various modules of spring such as Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring core and Spring AOP etc.  • Used Lombok Project in Spring to avoid boiler plate code.  • Since this is a TDD and CICD I have written Junit tests using Junit and Mockito frameworks.  • Worked with version control system Git to manage the code repository.  • Used postman to test the endpoints and test the API response along with the functionality testing.  • Implemented Git merging and branching strategies to do user isolation and as well as feature isolation at branch level for easy rollbacks.  • Good experience in solving SonarQube issues in order to maintain proper code quality. Used sonar lint plugin for this.  • Conduct Code reviews for other developers code every day whenever there's a Merge Request and suggested changes.  • Migrated monolithic application to microservice architecture in order to increase the performance of the application.  • Used java 8 streams, lambdas and other functional programming concepts in order to implement good coding standards.  • Used slack for communication purpose across the teams.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, REST, Spring4.0, JSP, JBoss, Eclipse Oxygen/IntelliJ/STS, Junit, Jenkins, SonarQube, Slack, Windows 7, Git, Postman, Java developer Capital One - Richmond, VA July 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services using JENKINS CI server.  • Successfully built a Single Page Application from scratch utilizing Angular 2.  • JSON objects have been created to store them in Database in OFFLINE mode.  • Developed Micro Services using Spring Boot.  • Used Kafka as a Messaging Service.  • Created Docker images and deployed it on AWS cloud.  • JUnit test cases for the Micro Services.  • Developed ATDD for the Micro Services.  • Used Maven Deployment Descriptor in setting up build environment by writing Maven build.xml, taking build, configuring and deploying of the application in all the servers.  • Configured pom.xml to manage project dependencies, plugins and goals.  • Used Maven for running unit tests and create reports.  • Responsible for development of Business logic in Core Java.  • Used SonarQube for automated code review and to find bugs.  • Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is daily SCRUM meetings to understand the status and resolve any issues.  • Designed multiple enhancements to BATCH subsystems that reduced online response time.  • Worked with the team in improving and debugging various production issues.  • Apache Tomcat to deploy and configure Java API's and Front-end modules.  • Created Collections and documents and performed CRUD operations with Mongo repositories.    Environment: JDK 1.8, JSON, MongoDB, Spring Boot, AWS, Agile Methodology, JUnit, ATDD, Mockito, Cucumber, XML, Angular 2, Tomcat 8.x, Jenkins, Maven and GitHub. Java developer Nielsen - Tampa, FL July 2016 to June 2017 Nielsen is a global performance management company that provides a comprehensive understanding of what consumers Watch and Buy. Nielsen's Watch segment provides media and advertising clients with Total Audience measurement services across all devices where content - video, audio and text - is consumed. The Buy segment offers consumer packaged goods manufacturers and retailers the industry's only global view of retail performance measurement.    Responsibilities:  • Developed better, faster and interactive Front-End using JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Service oriented architecture (SOA) has been implemented using Restful web services which can accept a JSON object coming from the user.  • Used Spring IOC for Dependency injection and Spring Hibernate for Data access layer.  • Used Spring AOP to capture performance statistics of business logic and DAO layer methods.  • Spring Security has been implemented to make more robust application.  • JSON objects have been created to store them in Database in OFFLINE mode.  • Developed portal screens using JSP and Spring MVC framework.  • Developed Restful Controllers using Spring MVC.  • Selenium IDE and JUnit are used to test UI and backend respectively.  • Used Maven Deployment Descriptor in setting up build environment by writing Maven build.xml, taking build, configuring and deploying of the application in all the servers.  • Configured pom.xml to manage project dependencies, plugins and goals.  • Used Maven for running unit tests and create reports.  • Responsible for development of Business logic in Core Java.  • Implemented the module using Multithreading to make the transactions asynchronous.  • Hibernate Framework was used to develop persistence layer, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is daily SCRUM meetings to understand the status and resolve any issues.  • Designed multiple enhancements to OLTP and BATCH subsystems that reduced online response time.  • Worked with client testing team in improving and debugging various production issues.  • Apache Tomcat servers to deploy and configure Java API's and Front-end modules.  • Created Collections and documents and performed CRUD operations with Mongo repositories.  • Written variety of filter queries in MongoDB to retrieve JSON data and passed to service layer.    Environment: JDK 1.8, JSP, JSON, Servlets, Hibernate ,MongoDB, Spring , Agile Methodology, JUnit, Selenium Testing, JavaMail, Javascript, AJAX, XML, XSLT, CSS, Tomcat 7.x, WebLogic 3.1, REST Web services, SQL Server, Jenkins integrated with Maven and GitHub. JAVA Developer Supervalu - Boise, ID February 2015 to April 2016 SUPERVALU is a grocery industry leader, serving customers through a network of more than 2,000 owned, franchised, and independently owned stores across the country. Today, SUPERVALU and its 30,000 employees serve customers across the United States through a network of 2,012 stores composed of 1,815 stores operated by wholesale customers serviced primarily by the Company's food distribution business and 197 traditional retail grocery stores operated under five retail banners.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating UML diagrams used Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the optimization Module using Microsoft Visio.  • Used Spring framework for building the application based on MVC design paradigm.  • Provided Integration for Spring MVC module.  • Performed data loading using spring framework.  • Used Spring Boot and developed Spring based applications with very less configuration.  • Developed the user Interface Presentation screens using HTML and JSP, format the HTML forms using CSS.  • Developed Action Classes for the MVC framework.  • Produced and delivered the images and other types of mime files as per client requirement using Restful web service.  • Extensively worked on the backend of the application with the database. Involved with various modules of Hibernate (ORM). Implemented OR mappings and HQL. Work on Hibernate-Springs (ORM module) Integration  • In springs-hibernate.xml, defined Data Source, session factory, hibernate-template as bean and used Spring in reference to Hibernate Template object, where it will see Session Factory Bean object, which gives access to the data source including database tables and POJO classes.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server and perform other administrative activities on WebLogic application server via Linux.  • Used build.xml for Apache ANT for automating build processes for the application.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Involved in the development of Page Flows, Business Objects, Hibernate database mappings and POJOs. Used xml style syntax for defining object relational metadata.  • Worked on JavaScript, AngularJS and CSS for design of the UI.  • Used J2EE design patterns, JPA, JSP, jQuery, JSF, EJB, REST web services, struts and Hibernate.  • Application developed in MVC architecture using spring framework, Hibernate, EJB.  • Developed Servlets, JSP pages, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Used Hibernate Query language and the Hibernate Criteria Queries to do the database operations.  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the Optimization Module and created functions, sub queries and stored procedures used PL/SQL.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Microsoft Visio, EJB3.0, JSP, JSF, Web services, Spring, JMS, JavaScript, HTML, ANT, Agile, JUnit, ECLIPSE, Struts, Oracle, XML, RESTful Web Services, WebLogic, JUnit, UNIX/Windows, design patterns Java Developer Comcast - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2013 to December 2014 Comcast Corporation is an American global telecommunications conglomerate that is the largest broadcasting and cable television company in the world by revenue. It is the second-largest pay-tv company after AT&T, largest cable TV company and largest home Internet service provider in the United States, and the nation's third-largest home telephone service provider. As a Java Developer I was responsible to build and run large-scale web production systems and applications environment, control and manage of all source code repositories.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, evaluation, testing and debugging documents and implement moderately complex software applications.  • Modified procedures to solve complex problems considering computer equipment capacity and limitations, operating time, and form of desired results.  • Implemented Agile development process.  • Implemented, integrated and maintained the client server and web related applications.  • Implemented the project using Ajax, Java Script, HTML5, and JSP as UI components.  • Designed, implemented, and test networking application using J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, Tomcat and MongoDB.  • Implemented the project by using Spring MVC framework for the business layer using Spring Core, DAO, Spring ORM, and Spring Web MVC.  • Spring MVC based web application followed agile methodology to work in Team. Code application components as per TDD using hibernate. To communicate with database, we used Hibernate framework.  • Experience with unit testing using JUnit and writing build scripts using Maven.  • Implemented the project using SOAP Web Services, WSDL, UDDI, and JPA.SOAP is also used to communicate with other systems by using Apache Axis.  • Exposure to Oracle database with JDBC drivers in developing applications using SQL and Stored Procedures (PL/SQL) database techniques.  • Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements.  • Used GIT as Version Control System for the application.  • Designed and developed base framework classes, common re-usable components.    Environment: JDK 1.7, PL/SQL, Agile, Maven, JMS, Servlets, JAX-WS, Maven, Multithreading, Web Logic , JDBC, Hibernate, MongoDB XML, DOM, SAX, JAXB, HTML, HTTP Ajax, JNDI, Web Services, JPA, Spring MVC, Soap UI, WSDL, SOAP, JUNIT, JavaScript, Oracle11g, SVN. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Systems Florida Institute of Technology - Melbourne, FL May 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Bapuji Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kuvempu University, Karnataka Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxp, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jsp, Jstl, Servlet, Struts, C++, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Middleware, Orm, Scripting, Visio Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Programming Languages: Java, C, C++  Client Scripting: JavaScript, Applets  UML Tools: Rational Rose, MS Visio  Web Technologies: Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Tag Libraries, JAXP, JSTL, DHTML and HTML, CSS.  Frameworks: Spring (MVC, DAO, DI, Aspects), Struts.  ORM Framework: Hibernate, JPA  Web service /Middleware: Rest, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JMS.  Build Tools: Maven, ANT, Jenkins  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development  Databases: MongoDB, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL  Application Servers: WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere  Platforms: Windows, Unix/ Linux.