JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - Golden State Bancorp Mortgage Los Angeles, CA • 8 years of experience in IT Industry in Development, Design, Analysis, Testing and Maintenance/Support of Applications using Java/J2EE Technologies.  • Hands on experience in building Enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, STRUTS, Hibernate, SPRING, SPRING MVC, JDBC, JMS) and XML  • Experienced in frameworks: Spring MVC, Jakarta struts framework, JSF, spring and Hibernate.  • Diverse experience utilizing and implementing complex Client/Server Intranet/Web based N-tier and Microservices architecture applications in Banking, Insurance, Telecom and E-commerce platforms using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components (Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), Pivotal Cloud Foundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.)  • Experienced on latest version of object-oriented JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.JS, Backbone, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Knockout JS, React JS, Ember JS, Expres JS, and Dojo toolkit.  • Experienced in designing and developing application based on Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Templates, Hibernate, Microservices, AWS Web Services using Axis and Jersey Frame works, Java 8.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Cloud Formation, AWS Cloud Front and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Worked on full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes requirements analysis, modelling, design, architecture, development, integration, documentation, testing, and deployment.  • Experienced in designing, developing multi-tier application using J2EE technologies Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JNDI, JDBC, Ant, Log4j, XML DOM, Web services, soap, DOJO using J2EE design platform.  • Extensive experience in developing various web-based applications using Hibernate 3.0, Apache Struts, Apache tomcat and Spring frameworks.  • Development and deployment experience with BEA Web logic IBM WebSphere V7.0/6.1, Apache Tomcat 6.0 and JBoss 4.0 Application Servers. Experience with WEB 2.0 technologies like Flex 3.0, DWR, Ajax, Bootstrap and CSS 3. Hands on experience on Alfresco 2.1 content repository.  • Experience in configuring and managing Oracle Real Application Cluster (RAC) with ASM, Data Guard for Oracle High Availability.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework including Spring Core/IOC, Spring Security and implement the authentication, authorization and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Experienced in Distributed Transaction Management system with Spring JTA Based on Atomikos.  • Experience in developing with various open sources frameworks such as spring (Core, IOC, AOP, Batch, Security, Boot) Framework, Struts Framework and ORM Tools like Hibernate and IBatis.  • Experience with messaging frameworks (ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, Kafka). Experience on Apache Kafka, used for Messaging broker, Log Aggregation and Stream processing. Created JSP's, Conversations, POJOs, Services and DAO. Developed applications using MQ Series.  • Developed web applications using Java Server Faces and RedHat JBoss EAP. Proficient in developing Java Web Applications using JSP and Servlets.  • Experienced in performing automation using Selenium, Java and performing Behavioral driven testing using Cucumber and JBehave.  • Extensive experience in web based and client/server application using HTML5, DHTML, jQuery, Angular JS, Ember JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Django, PHP.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, Bitbucket. GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Hands on experience in Apache Sqoop, Apache Storm and Apache Hive integration. Hands on experience working with different File Formats like TEXTFILE, JSON, AVROFILE, ORC for HIVE querying and processing.  • Experience with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL-Python.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Experienced in designing and development of complex RESTFUL API's along with third party integration (JSON file format)  • Hands on experience in implementing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and web services such as SOAP and REST using WSDL, CXF2, JAX-WS, and JAX-RS.  • Experience in designing and developing integration solutions using WebSphere Message Broker and Message Broker Toolkit.  • Experienced in building highly scalable Big-data solutions using Hadoop and multiple distributions i.e., Cloudera, Hortonworks and NoSQL platforms (HBase & Cassandra).  • Hands-on experience in development of microservices and deploying in Docker.  • Experience in using Docker and Ansible to fully automate the deployment and execution of the benchmark suite on a cluster of machines.  • Experienced in developing fully functional responsive modules using Scala with Akka, ArangoDB.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.  • Experience with Apache Kafka JMS and Rabbit MQ as the message-oriented middleware.  • Extensively experienced in using Akka architecture for scalable multi-threading.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using PHP, Angular JS, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Having good knowledge of Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, 11g and DB2 as Database and excellent in writing the SQL queries.  • Having good knowledge on Oracle Migration in J2EE applications with Data integration and validation Perl  • Good working knowledge of JEE best practice toolsets such as Ant, Maven, Bamboo, Urban Code.  • Extensively worked with risk margin applications; Worked heavily with microservices and AWS  infrastructure set up.  • Experience in UNIX shell scripting (file validations, file downloads, workflow executions).  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behaviour Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Experienced in developing the unit test cases using JUnit 3.0/4.0.  • Experienced in code audit, performance testing and application tuning.  • Set up build environment by writing ANT build.xml, taking build, configuring and deploying applications in all the servers.  • Experience in using OAuth 2 for Micro services security. Experienced with Junit frameworks such as Mockito, Easy Mock.  • Experience in developing with various open sources frameworks such as spring (Core, IOC, AOP, Batch, Security, Boot) Framework, Struts Framework and ORM Tools like Hibernate and IBatis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER Golden State Bancorp Mortgage - Los Angeles, CA October 2018 to Present • Implemented business logic, data exchange and created graphics using JAVA, struts and Spring MVC.  • Used JAVA, struts and Spring MVC to interface with the jQuery UI, Bootstrap and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  • Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, HTML5, Spring Boot, AngularJS, Servlets, JavaBeans with Eclipse.  • Used new Java 8 features, such as Lambda expressions, Streams and Functional Interfaces.  • Designed and developed using the Java collection API with Java 8 features and other java processes to fulfill business case requirement, such clients account statements and clients running balance based on each transaction.  • Replaced existed Angular JS code with Angular 4 code, which decreased number of lines of code for a web application which increased performance.  • Expertise in Big data architecture with Hadoop File system and its eco system tools MapReduce, HBase, Hive, Agile, Pig, Zookeeper, Oozie, Flume, Avro, Impala, Apache spark and Spark Streaming and Spark SQL  • Worked on Modularization of the JDK under Project Jigsaw on Java 8. RAML specifications/build experience with Mulesfoft.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB and also configured MULE API manager and RAML.  • Worked on RAML and REST based Web services for Mule ESB flows, also on Mule Soft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.)  • Developed restful Web-services using Grails framework in Python.  • Used Spring RESTful API to create RESTful Web Services, set JSON data type between front-end and the middle-tier controller  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Implemented REST web service in Scala using Akka for CBPMAN log tracking application.  • Worked in developing front end technologies such as java script, Angular 2.0+, JQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, JSP and Struts 1.0/2.0  • Team leader on numerous projects utilizing Java, Java EE, Enterprise Java Bean, and Apache Struts Web applications to create fully-integrated client management systems.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using Jenkins  • Worked with Splunk and ELK stack for creating monitoring and analytics solutions.  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud.  • Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Built Spring Boot microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise  • Created the ALB, ELBs and EC2 instances to deploy the applications into cloud environment.  • Providing service discovery for all microservices using Spring Cloud Kubernetes project  • Applications are monitored using the Splunk, New Relic and CloudWatch alarms.  • Used IAM to manage and create AWS users and groups and used permissions to allow and deny access to AWS resources.  • Extensively used Akka http which helps lay the ground work for the team to use different libraries to code the functionality required.  • Wrote build & deployed scripts using Maven on Unix environment and participated in configuring Jenkins for build automation. Used Docker as CI/CD tool for integrating different code components.  • Developed fully functional responsive modules based on Business Requirements using Scala with Akka, ArangoDB.  • Development of new listeners for producers and consumer for both Rabbit MQ and Kafka  • Used Microservice with Spring Boot interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Worked in building servers like DHCP, PXE with kick-start, DNS and NFS and used them in building infrastructure in a Linux Environment. Automated build, testing and integration with Ant, Maven and JUnit.  • Worked on JUnit testing using Mockito and Power Mockito, integration testing and SOAP UI testing.  • Knowledge in Spark APIs to cleanse, explores, aggregate, transform, and store data.  • Worked on implementing Microservices architecture by using containers.  • Developed the microservices using Spring Cloud with components of Netflix OSS (Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix, Ribbon, Feign)  • Involved in implementing Spring Netflix fault tolerance library to prevent failure from cascading failures.  • Oversee all stages of design, development, and deployment of new Java-based vendor application system for financial-services industry.  • Work directly with management, vendors, and third parties to ensure that Web-site's financial transactions and database management applications operate at peak efficiency.  • Managed team of four co-workers on nine separate projects, ensuring projects were completed on time and within budget.  • Played key role in enhancing client's Web reporting system, reducing time of delay financial tracking analysis by 30%.  • Implemented client-side interface using React.js, flux pattern and Redux framework for SPA.  • Key contact with Ace Acme Bank and Standard Bank during analysis of financial life cycle for new check-card and debit-transaction system.  • Used various Data stores like ArangoDB, HDFS, Couchbase, and Cassandra.  • Used RabbitMQ to put messages on the queue to be consumed by Cassandra to journal various events while migrating data from ArangoDB.  • Using CQRS in Akka for building a distributed system where there is a read-side and a write -side which helps a user check for the events on the write-side (journal) and query the read-side.  • Used Docker Container to automate the deployment of applications inside as images which can be shipped easily and used anywhere it is required.  • Used Scala for the concurrency and synchronizing process for the functional yet Object-Oriented features.  • Maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as deployment tools and development and staging environments.  • Implemented new cancelled-check imaging system, which eliminated necessity for physical documentation and reduced wasted time by 25%.  • Have an exposure to CI/CD tools such as Ansible and Jenkins is an advantage.  • Developed J2EE applications on different IDE's like Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Worked as a Java Developer and involved in analysis of requirements, design, development, integration, deployment and testing and fixing the production issues.  • Using Data structures and efficient Algorithms; Designing, building and maintaining high-performance  • Developed Java applications using spring and other J2EE design patterns.  • Angular JS tinplating uses a combination of customizable HTML tags and expressions.  • Implemented Node JS, JSF and Backbone JS for developing the server side web applications and network programs.  • Developed Kafka consumers to consume data from Kafka topics. Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow. Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow  • Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Developed various web applications /web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, NodeJS. Designed various web concepts like security (OAuth, SiteMinder and OpenID), session controlling, storage.  • Implemented Java SE8 features like Lambda, Streams and Predicates to reduce the line of code and better functionality in the Service Layer of the application.  • Implemented Pre-Authentication and database security with Site Minder and spring security.  • Design solution for various system components using Microsoft Azure  • Developed multi-user cloud hosted software with one or more public cloud platforms such as Azure  • Analyzed large amounts of data sets to determine optimal way to aggregate and report on it.  • Performed Code Optimizations to improve the performance of the applications.  • Handled importing of data from various data sources, performed transformations using Hive, MapReduce, loaded data into HDFS and exported the data from HDFS to MYSQL using Sqoop.  • Configured Spark Streaming to receive real time data from the Event Hubs and store the stream data to HDFS using Scala.  • Develop cutting edge cloud platform solutions using the latest tools and platforms like Azure, etc.  • Experience with Azure PaaS services such as web sites, SQL, Stream Analytics, IoT Hubs, Event Hubs, Data Lake, Azure Data Factory.  • Used Spark Streaming APIs to perform transformations and actions on the fly for building common learner data model which gets the data from Kafka in near real time and persist it to Cassandra.  • Expert level skills in designing and implementing web server solutions and deploying java application servers like Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, WebLogic on Windows& UNIX platform.  • Developed JSP custom tag libraries, and associated support in the Action Servlet, that assists in creating interactive form-based applications, which is the one of the primary area of functionality using Struts Framework.  • Used JBOSS application server for run time integration of j2ee applications.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Spring Framework.  • Developed and implemented the business logic component in middle tier using JDBC and EJB framework including stateless session classes and Entity bean classes. Developed PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module.  • Writing Entities in Java, Play Framework along with named queries to interact with database.  • Worked on AKKA Play frame work which provides abstraction for transparent distribution and the basis for truly scalable and fault-tolerant applications. JAVA DEVELOPER Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH February 2015 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented business logic, data exchange and created graphics using JAVA, struts and Spring MVC.  • Developed restful Web-services using Grails framework in Python.  • Used JAVA, struts and Spring MVC to interface with the jQuery UI, Bootstrap and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed application using JavaScript, AngularJS for frontend, JPA, RESTful web services, MySQL for Backend and deployed in AWS. Developed single page application by using Angular JS and ReactJS.  • Legacy UniData ported using Redback RBO data connection via Cold Fusion. Intranet programming for local data, also UniData/Redback with Cold Fusion.  • Cold Fusion Developer with Flash & Flash Remoting.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Spring MVC framework.  • Worked on Payment Portal as primary Java developer using JSF ( Java Server Faces), JBoss Seam, Hibernate, JBoss and Seam as primary Java developer.  • Worked on service project and developed cohesive, scalable Microservices using JAX-RS in Microservice architecture.  • Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, jQuery for developing the front-end and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  • Used Spring MVC Database API's and JPA ( Java persistence API) to access database objects.  • Written Angular services driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Used Rabbit MQqueues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Leveraged AngularJS resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Maintained the Parent and child elements by using State and Props in AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  • Responsible for implementing UI mock-ups, integrating third party react libraries, and handling/creating Redux store data.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Designed and documented of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high-volume Max, Min and Mean statistical data.  • Worked in Oracle 12C (RDBMS) database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS admin console.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Designed and Developed Web? Implemented Micro-Services with Spring Cloud provided library services like Netflix Eureka Naming Server, Netflix Ribbon and Feign Client as a Rest client to map response to the client bean. Api's for Microservice's. and Consumed XML Web services using the Microservices.  • Wrote JAVA code to simplify lists in JAVA with list comprehension and JAVA OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing and created User Model for application.  • Implemented OAuth2.0 for authentication-based web application and accessed APIs for fetching data services  • Implemented Micro-Services with Spring Cloud provided library services like Netflix Eureka Naming Server, Netflix Ribbon and Feign Client as a Rest client to map response to the client bean.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Shading, replication, schema design.  • Used Spring Core, Spring Web MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, and DAO, Spring AOP.  • Managed Linux/JBoss testing environment, worked closely with? Implemented Micro-Services with Spring Cloud provided library services like Netflix Eureka Naming Server, Netflix Ribbon and Feign Client as a Rest client to map response to the client bean. testers and mentored MUMPS developers in Java development.  • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using MongoDB Java Driver module.  • Involved in Data Migration process using Azure by integrating with Github repository and Jenkins.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • Implemented automate scripts to back up the old records using MongoDB export command and transfer these backup files into backup machine using ftplib.  • Maintaining multiple copies of data in different database servers using MongoDB Replication concept.  • SOAP web services were developed in a top-down approach using hibernate and Oracle and the clients were generated with JAX-WS.  • Worked in Oracle 12C (RDBMS) database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Implemented and designed AWS virtual servers by Ansible roles to ensure deployment of web applications. Worked with multiple development teams to troubleshot and resolve issues.  • Created Server instances on AWS and installed Swagger for deploying Microservices.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon Web Services focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Created S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and backup on AWS.  • Configured AWS RDS Aurora database users to allow each individual user privileges to perform their related tasks.  • Deployed microservices to Ansible Playbook in Docker containers, managed by Mesos/Marathon  • Develops microservices and has extensive experience using GitLab, Jenkins, clustering other tools and technologies for developing a scalable application.  • Developed various web applications /web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, NodeJS. Designed various web concepts like security (OAuth, SiteMinder and OpenID), session controlling, storage.  • Created a new cluster and container management tool using Kubernetes for Zero downtime Deployment.  • Experienced in Security-System development for Web Applications. Involved and developed all phases of security implementation using spring security system against modes of authentications: LDAP authentication, Database authentication and Pre-Authentication.  • Integrated application with Spring Security for form-based authentication and authorization by used spring security JSP tags to provide UI level spring security.  • Created front-end user interfaces with React JS by creating many components and modules.  • Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thyme leaf and Hibernate ORM.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread using Executor Service Framework access.  • Created continuous integration builds using Ant, Jenkins, and Gradle and deployed on the WebSphere app server.  • Behavioral and integration testing is done using Cucumber and Selenium testing tools.  • Used JPA ( Java Persistence API) with Hibernate as Persistence provider for Object Relational mapping.  • WebSphere monitoring by gathering diagnostic data using administrative tools for problem solving proficiency  • Developed Views and Templates with JAVA and using Spring MVC's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Used JAVA and Apache axis to interface with the jQuery UI, Struts and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implement features of the legacy application made in Cold Fusion.  • Worked to migrate sensitive data from a legacy cold fusion, oracle SQL stack to the industry's leading data management solution.  • Involved in the deployment of the application using JBoss, WebLogic servers.  • Developed Application servers for business solutions using Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBoss.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using JAVA Graph Stream library  • Used JAVA library Jaunt for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Developed custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes) using JavaScript and AngularJs.  • Developed single page applications using Angular.js, Implemented two-way data binding using AngularJS.  • Used JMF API to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed a web application for developers to generate their own REST API calls in, JAVA, and Python.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  • Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services.  • Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of JAVA Spring MVC framework in developing several modules for the application.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript.  • Installed and configured MS SQL Server VM in Azure Database and worked on cloud services, storage accounts, service buses, event hubs, app service plans and Azure active directory and SQL Azure.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Placed data into JSON files using JAVA to test Apache websites.  • JAVA Scripts that test and return REST API calls  • Automated creation of AWS EC2 instances (Linux and Windows), RDS Instances, ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) using AMI, Cloud Formation and Ansible Playbooks.  • Wrote a microservice to turn our main app into a SAML Service Provider so authentication could be handled by our client's systems.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  • Implemented AWS client API to interact with different services as Console configuration for AWS EC2.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Git.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React.js.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Designed Selenium IDE test routines for User Interface Testing of web-framework and applications.  • Persisted data from database, leveraging Hibernate and SQL Server 2008.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Extensively used XML, JSP, Javascript, AJAX, Servlets to drive the application / request user input from backend. JAVA DEVELOPER Revenue Analytics - Atlanta, GA June 2011 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Automated data movements using JAVA scripts. Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Used several JAVA libraries like Apache DBCP, Apache Struts, Apache IO, Jsoup, JDOM, DOM4J, Gson.  • Built all database mapping classes using Hibernate models.  • Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility and designed dynamic client-side JavaScript, codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Designed and developed the RESTful web services using the JAVA Communications API to communicate over the network.  • Integrating bulk data into Cassandra file system using MapReduce programs.  • Expertise in designing, data modelling for Cassandra NoSQL database.  • Wrote JAVA code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Provided non-breaking solutions on existing REST services, sometimes by versioning new APIs.  • Called the RESTful web services to get the JSON object (Response) and manipulated the JSON Object to display the response in the webpage.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Fine-tuned procedures/SQL queries for maximum efficiency in Oracle 12C, for Rule based optimization.  • Created parallel hints to parallelize operations and indexes for avoiding full table scans and disks sorts and improved the performance and tuned the oracle queries.  • Creating scripts to Migrate data between different databases like Oracle to Postgres and vice versa using enterprise migration tool kit and Unix scripts.  • Worked on loading data from excel into Oracle Table using external tables.  • Wrote complex SQL's using joins, sub queries and correlated sub queries in Oracle to generate business reports accordingly.  • Successfully migrated the Spring MVC database from SQLite to MongoDB with complete data integrity.  • Wrote JAVA scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Installed and set up Java AWS and EC2 cloud platform.  • Managed Ubuntu Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using Open-Source Chef Server.  • Built scripts on AWS cloud for scheduling EC2 auto scaling load balancer with python sdk.  • Worked on AWS cloud watch for monitoring the application infrastructure and used AWS email services for notifying.  • Migrated applications from internal data centre to AWS.  • Used collections in JAVA for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using JAVA on Spring MVC Web Framework.  • Used Spring MVC for framework for accessing various consumer Data from various sources.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Created reusable components using typescript on the client side in Angular Js, used fast data access purpose React Js, NodeJS.  • Utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and SPA framework based on Node JS.  • Involve in the usage of JPA API for configuration of ORM tools.  • Developed views and templates with JAVA and Spring MVC's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized standard JAVA modules for development.  • Worked on JAVA OpenStack APIs and used it for Numerical analysis.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed Wrapper in JAVA for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Used JAVA scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files and generated JAVA and Spring MVC Forms to record data of online users.  • Used JAVA and Spring MVC creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many JAVA bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies.  • Skilled in using collections in JAVA for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Used JAVA packages like javasql and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Very good understanding of JAVA requests module and HTTP requests, response, methods, headers.  • Created independent libraries in JAVA which can be used by multiple projects which have common functionalities.  • Developed test plan, test scripts and test procedures from the specification document in JAVA and automating them to run in the real time HIL environment.  • Developed and designed automation framework using JAVA and Shell scripting.  • Built single-page applications with JavaScript on a custom-built framework  • Leveraged AngularJS and JavaScript to build presentation layer for retail payment page  • Developed and maintained critical components of e-commerce website, including shopping cart, quick view, and checkout page, using React component  • Involved in developing a web service for print using a SOAP, HTTPs request and response.  • Involved in calling from a communication web service to Expression web service in order to send email and fax to MS Exchange server  • Used Spring DAO concept in order to interact with Database using JDBC template and Hibernate template.  • Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  • Worked with Maven, Spring and spring suite to develop the coding to batch jobs.  • Used Maven for building and deploying the project on Web Sphere application server.  • Used JaxB for Marshalling/UnMarshalling, used XSD's to generate classes.  • Developed ORM mapping using Hibernate 3.x, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Created Test suites in SOAPUI projects and created internal test cases depending on the requirement.  • Developed and deployed application on WebSphere Application server.  • Hands on experience with MVC JavaScript frameworks such as Backbone.js, Angular.js and Node.js.  • Developed Action Forms and Action Classes in Struts frame work.  • Designed, developed and implemented custom SOAP and REST web services API.  • Developed Web API using Node.JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Improved the UI logging of suggest edits interface with Flux and React.js.  • Used React.js to render changing currency spreads and to dynamically update the DOM. Education Bachelor's