Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Intuit INC • AWS Certified Java EE software professional around 8+ years of experience and demonstrated ability to successfully implement complex large-scale, N-tier, distributed, real-time enterprise applications involving Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of application software with J2EE/J2EETechnologies.  • Expertise in Core Java Such as OOPs, Collections, Exceptions Handling, Input/output (I/O) System, Swing, Annotations, Concurrency, Multi-Threading, Lambda and Generics.  • Strong experience in developing software systems using Java, J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JMS, JNDI on UNIX and Windows environments  • Experience in understanding and using Design Patterns Singleton, Prototype, Façade, Factory and Observer.  • Experience in Designing and developing interactive Front- end applications using HTML5, CSS3 and AJAX.  • Experience in Designing and building dynamic and user interactive websites using JavaScript, React JS, Node.js and jQuery.  • Experience in Integrating and deploying applications using Apache Camel, Apache CXF, Apache Karaf, Service Mix and JBoss Fuse Enterprise Service Bus (ESB).  • Experience in Developing Application using frameworks Spring Dependency Injection (DI), IOC, Aspect oriented Programming (AOP), Instrumentation, Integration, Security, Boot, Struts and Hibernate.  • Experience in building flexible, reliable, efficient and secured Enterprise and Web based applications using Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow frameworks and spring boot.  • Experience in using Docker for installing, testing, upgrading, removing and running software applications.  • Expertise in understanding and hands-on using various extensible Markup Languages (XML) technologies like XPath, XQuery, XSLT, XSD, SAX, DOM and JAXB.  • Proficient in n-tier application design and development using Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring DI, Spring AOP, JSP and Custom tags using Struts frameworks.  • Used Spring with ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  • Extensive experience in writing EJB Session and Entity Bean classes.  • Developed applications using different J2EE Design Patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service Locator and DAO.  • Experience in using Hibernate and IBatis Object Relational mapping tool in J2EE environment.  • Strong in design and development of SOA like SOAP & Restful Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, CXF, AXIS, JAX-RS, JERSEY, JSON, CXF, and WS-Security.  • Proficient Expertise in designing and developing enterprise and web applications using Java and J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP with custom tags, JSTL, Hibernate, iBatis, JPA, Struts, EJB. Spring Batch and JMS.  • Experienced with Jenkins methodologies includes CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment).  • Experiences on various IDE's like Eclipse, JBuilder, Net Beans, Web sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD), RAD, WID  • Experiences on Apache Derby, Cassandra database servers.  • Strong knowledge on JMS MQ's like IBM MQ, Rabbit MQ and Active MQ.  • Experiences on (A.W.S.) Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon Cloud Front), using the Elastic Search APIs (Document, Search, Indices, Cluster, etc.), High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure. Knowledge with migration to Amazon web Services (AWS) from Datacenter.  • Experience in Software Development Life cycle - SDLC (Analysis, Design, Development and Testing), requirement gathering, client interaction, Drools, and Blaze rule engine, JSF, Junit, and Log4j  • Experience in building microservices and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Extensive experience in performing reviews like Code reviews and peer reviews for maintaining best coding standards  • Experienced with IDEs such as Eclipse SDE, JDeveloper, and IntelliJ.  • Experience in utilizing Java logging frameworks such as ApacheLog4j to display debug and error log messages.  • Experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS and Node.js. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Intuit INC - Woodland Hills, CA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of project from analysis and requirement phase to delivering the project.  • Created System Requirement Specifications (SRS) report of the project by collecting all the requirements from client.  • Analyzed the requirements and formulated project scope.  • Developed the functionalities using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in the application development using Java platform. Model View Control (MVC) structure implementation.  • Responsible for providing the client side JavaScript validations and usage of HTML, JavaScript, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements to enhance the Portal UI.  • Used Spring Core for Dependency Injection.  • Mapping of ORM objects to tables using the Hibernate as the persistence framework.  • Involved in different service classes, used across the framework.  • Implementation of Web Services using Axis for the integration of different systems  • Used XML, SOAP and WSDL with DOM parser in the development of the Web Services component to transform and transfer the data between the applications.  • Usage of SOAP/WSDL in the exposure of various capabilities as the Web Services.  • Testing of Web Services using the SOAP UI, by sending the SOAP i/p request.  • Used HTML, CSS, Spring MVC, JSP, and JQuery, JavaScript, React.js, Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap in the development and the designing the UI.  • Gradient effects through the development of the CSS style sheets. Developed navigation, icons and layouts.  • Migrated the existing application from an XML-based configuration to a Java annotation-based configuration.  • Implementation of business logic, validation Frame Work using Spring Web flow and Spring MVC.  • Implemented Web tier of the application through the usage of Spring MVC framework.  • Implementation of clean separation of layers through the usage of different design patterns like Factory pattern, Singleton and DAO pattern.  • Used JSON strings to transfer java object data to Angular JS and vice versa.  • Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using Mongo-DB (NoSQL) database.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Used Oracle10g database tool to build, edit, and format database queries, as well as eliminate performance issues in the code.  • Serialization in the flattening of the objects.  • Used core java concepts like Collections, multithreading while developing server-side services.  • Worked with IBM Web Sphere Application Server Developer Tools for Eclipse by using lightweight set of tools to assemble, develop and deploy Java EE, Web 2.0, and mobile applications.  • Involved with GUI using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  • used JIRA to track the progress of the project and wrote test cases and Used Junit as a testing framework in a Test-Driven Development environment.  • Experience with Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling.  • Developed client-side user interface and server-side software components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  • Hands-on experience in developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances and involved in the automated provisioning of AWS cloud environment using Jenkins and chef.  Environment: Java, CSS, J2EE, HTML, XMI, Hibernate, DB2, Spring, PL/SQL, Log4j, JavaScript, JSP, JQuery, Angular JS, Node js, Eclipse, UNIX, JBoss Application server, SOAP, WSDL, Web Sphere, Oracle, AWS, EC2, Jenkins, Chef. Java Full Stack Developer Athene Holding - Des Moines, IA October 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involving in all the phases of the SDLC life cycle.  • Communicating project related information to the development, QA and management teams.  • Designing and developed User Interface, application modules using Angular4.js, Hibernate and Spring Boot.  • Extensively involved in the review and analysis of business requirements, documenting the requirements and design and communicating the development approach to the development team.  • Build Data Access Layer using Elastic Search for Recommendation view for repair events.  • Involved in High Level and Low level analysis and design & implementing business layer.  • Execute testing on both front end and back end systems using cucumber.  • Developed and worked with JSP custom tags.  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using Ext JS UI Framework, HTML, CSS, JSP, Struts.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development the CSX Application MA Queue, MQ.  • Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure  • Used tools like SQL Developer and TOAD to run SQL and PL/SQL queries.  • Design, analysis and Data modeling of n-tired, Object-Oriented system architectures using Rational Rose.  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JNDI, JMS, and Message Queue.  • Involved in validations using HTML, jQuery, Ext. JS and JSP as per user requirements.  • Used core Java to build new functionality based on requirements.  • Implemented database integration with Hibernate with DAO patterns and done the traction management with Hibernate template and transaction by using session factory.  • Interacted with the Mainframe and Business teams and worked on Data modeling the database schema.  • Achieved Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) implementation with Cucumber where backend language used is Java and expanded test scenarios, tracked Cucumber reports.  • Involved in unit testing, code reviews of others work for all functionality implemented.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate.  • Implemented Restful Web services using jersey API.  • Consumed Restful Web service using jersey API.  • Done the bug fixes while development is going and involved in the support of this product deployed at customer site.  • Utilized most of the AWS services like S3 as a data store for storing the files that falls into the bucket, IAM roles, Elastic Bean Stalk, generated Lambda Functions to trigger an event that occurs in S3, Code Commit as a Version control service, AWS Cloud Watch.  • Coded classes to invoke Web Services.  • Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, DHTML and java scripts.  • Preparation of JUnit through Easy Mock.  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  • Responsible for all code committed to sub version (SVN) and merging of changes to the latest code from the branch.  • Used Maven to build the application.  Environment: core Java/J2EE, Spring, Jsp, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Maven, Agile, Ext JS, Spring Source tool, Backbone.js, SOA, MQ, SOAP UI, TDD, Cucumber, Swing, JMS, Hudson Build tool, DB2, Web Sphere as application server, SQL, PL/SQL Sr. Java Developer Equifax - Alpharetta, GA November 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing of Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams  • Involved in designing the application and developed the code for various options to Claim Information and Enrolled Users Profiles Info.  • Provided NoSQL solutions in MongoDB for data extraction and storing huge amount of data.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture and configured Struts-config.xml file for mappings.  • Used JDBC-API to communicate with Database.  • Developed front end using Struts Frame Work.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Used JSP, Struts and JavaScript libraries like backbone and JQuery to develop the user interface.  • Interacted with the business teams and worked on Data modeling the database schema and created the PL/SQL scripts.  • Used Spring 3.0 Inversion of Control, to make application easy to test and integrate.  • Involved in designing JSP pages using Struts tags and scriptlets to encapsulate the logic that generates the content for the page.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Infrastructure services.  • Developed JavaScript to do client side validations  • Designed and developed Application based on Struts 2.0 Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development the CSX Application MAQU, MQ.  • Rigorously used Angular Directives for developing personalized components  • Develop/capture/document architectural best practices for building systems on AWS  • Involved in front-end designing using HTML5, CSS and Angular JS with JSF Ajax and tag libraries.  • Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ or Apache Kafka message brokers and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy Identity microservices.  • Developed Service Locator object to abstract all JNDI usage and to hide the complexities of initial context creation, EJB home object lookup.  • Extensive use of EJBs for business tier component implementation and implementation of business logic.  • Used SCRUM-Agile Software Development Method for managing application developments.  • Worked with NoSQL database to store JSON like dynamic connections data.  • Extensively worked on controllers, service and DAO. Working on DAO involved developing stored procedures and writing SQL queries to query the databases.  • Implemented JDBC framework for connectivity with Oracle 9i database as backend.  • Define and build EJB 3.0 Activation specs in WebSphere 7.0 for Message Driven Beans.  • Used Ant to build the application and deploy on Web Logic Application Server.  Environment: Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, Struts 2.0, JQuery, Ajax, Json, Jsf, Java 5.0, JSP, Servlets, MQ, Struts, Java Script, Backbone.Js, HTML, SQL, EJB, XML, JDBC, Gradle, SCRUM-Agile, Oracle 10i, Ant, SQL, PL/SQL. Java Developer EClinical Works India Pvt. Ltd January 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile methodology with 2 week sprint duration.  • Designed application using JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, JPA Repository, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, JDBC, MAVEN. Configured JPA to use Hibernate as ORM tool.  • Developed User Interface of the Application using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap and JSP.  • Designed RESTAPI for retrieving high volumes of data.  • Written JPA Repository to retrieve & store data from database.  • Used Tiles framework for code reusability and Jira management tool.  • Handling JSON data for submission of forms and various other data manipulations.  • Worked on fixing bugs, and major enhancements of the phases.  • Implemented Flex Data Services, using HTTP Services (REST), Web Services (SOAP) and Remote Object Services (AMF) using LCDS and Blaze DS.  • Built and Deployed Hybrid Mobile Application (iOS & Android) using MeteorJS, IONIC Framework, HTML5 and CSS3 Using Blaze Template System.  • Improved some areas in code to use using correct features of Spring Batch to improve the quality of code and also Refactored code to remove unnecessary code.  • Actively Participated in tracking and resolving Production issues.  • Used spring dependency injection and Spring-Hibernate Integration.  • Used Node Request module for consuming REST full API's.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Backbone.js.  • Used MongoDB to create modern applications never before possible at a fraction of the cost of legacy databases.  • Develop extensions or configurations within the Cúram Framework.  • Responsible for cleansing the legacy data by discussing with state people and making them aware of data issues and finding the logics to convert the legacy data in order to fit the target Curam design.  • Node.js used to proxy requests Java web services, as well as store application preferences.  • Used Tortoise SVN to update day to day work progress.  • Used Junit test environment for test based development.  • Apache log4J framework and extensive use of AJAX calls.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database using JDBC.  • Designing and implementing fully automated server build, management, monitoring and deployment using Jenkins.  • Refactored, re-architected, and enhanced an existing AngularJS application.  • Implementation of the Business logic layer for MongoDB Services.  • Worked closely with top customers, ensure their success with AWS.  • Develop/capture/document architectural best practices for building systems on AWS.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, JPA Repository, Jenkins ,JAX-RS, SPLUNK, JIRA, CSS, Tiles, HTML, JQuery, node.js, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Apache, Maven ,Junit, log4j, t3js, Spring Batch, Sublime text, AWS, MongoDB and bootboxJs Java Developer Medline Industries India Pvt. Ltd March 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of SDLC such as requirement gathering, modelling, analysis and development.  • Worked in an agile environment with a two-week sprint cycle, on applications that is responsible for document generation.  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings and paired programming to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Used core Java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  • Extensively used Hibernate/JPA and Spring-JDBC in data access layer to access and update  • Involved in Developing the Application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing Controller, Service classes.  • Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to front-end. Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON (few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology) Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  • Responsible for design, coding and testing using project approved technologies (Blaze DS, Spring, Hibernate and JPA) and other open source libraries.  • Worked with Blaze Advisor using Blaze IDE, developed templates and providers, and web-based rules maintenance applications. Deployed the drools rules as a service in J2EE stack environment, and maintained multiple existing projects including rules entry through RMA/ Blaze IDE.  • Made use of Spring Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Designed application using AngularJs, Spring MVC, MAVEN, restful services in AWS environment.  • Designing and implementing fully automated server build, management, monitoring and deployment using Jenkins.  • Experience on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, EBS, VPC, Route53, Auto scaling groups, Cloud watch, Cloud Front, IAM for installing configuring and troubleshooting on various Amazon images for server migration from physical into cloud.  • Experience with Junit test cases using Mockito.  • Developed application using angular 2 for doc upload project.  • Experience in various modules of spring like Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC and Spring MVC.  • Performed testing on application Renewals to determine case is renewed and program determination given as per CURAM rules engine  • Hands on experience in Curam Framework.  • Done several file validations by doing content extraction using apache Tika.  • Quick adaption to capital one internal frameworks.  • Written ATDD scripts as well.  • JMS for message driven development.  • Kafka to save audit logging messages to in NO SQL database.  • Extensive use of Git command line.  • Expose to Terra form in AWS environment.  • Experiences on Grunt Server and Jasmine to do unit testing on the frontend side of Angular code.  • Used Log4J for different levels of logging.  • Launch of instance in aws environment for different environments of development.  • Collaboration with multiple teams for architectural level decisions.  • Extensive use of Spring MVC framework in back and front end.  • Used Grunt JavaScript task runner.  • Worked in various phases of SDLC such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, and design    Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2, Jenkins, Maven, JAX-RS, SPLUNK, JIRA, CSS, site catalyst, HTML, kafka, zookeeper, Apache, Grunt, Mockito, Jasmine, Junit, Teraform, log4j, AWS. Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlet, Struts, C++, Design patterns, Git, Html, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Enterprise Java JSP, Servlet, JNDI, JDBC, Java security, JSF  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Backbone JS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, DOJO  Tools & Framework  Struts, spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, JSF, Log4J, JUnit, Jasper reports, SOAP UI, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security  Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, Apache CXF, AWS, Micro Services  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, TOAD, Couch Base  Development Tools Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite STS, Net Beans  O-R mapping Hibernate, JPA  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, SoapUI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, LoadUI  Version Control CVS, SVN, GIT, Rational Clear Case  OS & Environment Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, Win 2k Server, Sun Solaris, UNIX  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  Cloud Technologies AWS EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, Lambda.