Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Data Analyst Irving, TX • A dynamic and goal-oriented IT Professional with 7 years of experience in requirement gathering, estimation, analysis, design, development & testing of web-based applications using Java/J2EE  • Strong experience in development under Agile Methodology  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis, Design, and Programming of distributed web-based applications  • Experience in creating Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose during the design phase of Software Development Lifecycle  • Expertise in Core Java and Enterprise applications  • Worked with databases for data extraction  • Demonstrated technical expertise, organization and client service skills in various projects undertaken Work Experience Developer Infosys - Plano, TX February 2017 to April 2018 Project: Loan Servicing UI  Loan Servicing UI is an application to do search on customer based on certain criteria such as Last Name, Tax ID Number or Customer Number. The Search could result in a single record or a set of records. It was a resemblance of the legacy system built in a different platform but now would be developed with the latest version of Angular (Angular 4). Java Developer Accenture - Plano, TX September 2016 to October 2016 Project: Commercial Mortgage Loan  Commercial Mortgage Loan application was developed for a Fortune 500 Financial client based in Plano, Texas. I specifically worked on developing the new screens and implementing the business logic for the application. This application takes the information and history of the business entity and calculates the loan amount that could be approved. Senior Java Developer United Services Automobile Association - San Antonio, TX November 2015 to May 2016 Project: Add External Insurance  Worked on a project "Add External Insurance" as a Senior Java Developer. This application allows USAA members to add external insurance product to their account. Any customer can view, modify and delete his/her external insurance account details with easy to use interface with this application. Application Support Lead HCL America - Cary, NC November 2014 to June 2015 Project: Wealth Management System  Developed wealth management application for the end-client UBS Bank. This application would allow the customers to manage their wealth based on their property, income and other relevant information. It would calculate how much money a customer might be able to invest based on the current market situation and individual choices. Java Developer Division of Criminal Justice Services - Albany, NY August 2012 to August 2014 Project: F2J  Created Portlets for Search and Inquiry processes of searching suspects of criminal background based on different data and sources. Actively involved in creating Support guide, Deployment plans and other related documentations. Java/J2EE Developer Mercedes-Benz Financial Services - Farmington Hills, MI April 2012 to July 2012 Project: Canada WebAMS  Developed, tested and deployed Asset Management System (AMS). It is a lease management system with which dealer or customer can calculate the amount due for the used vehicles that customers are using which they want to return to the dealer before the account is terminated. Java/J2EE Developer Travel Syndication Technology - Alpharetta, GA August 2011 to January 2012 Project: AIR  Involved in the development of a flight application related to Air Canada and Travelport. As a developer, I was responsible for developing the AIR product related to the flight reservation, specifically the UI development, client-side validation, server-side validation and testing of the application. Java/J2EE Developer Wells Fargo - Des Moines, IA December 2010 to June 2011 Project: CORE  Involved in the development of a CORE project, which was a Home Mortgage application. As a developer, I was responsible for creating new functionality, fixing the defects related to application, implementing database queries to see the data persistence, modifying and creating new GUI fields for the application. The Home Mortgage application was supposed to take all the necessary information from the customers/homebuyers such as residence, education, family, property, assets & liabilities and needed to successfully pass decision request for submission/approval of loan for Homebuyers. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of South Alabama - Mobile, AL Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Nepal Engineering College - Kathmandu, NP