Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - AT&T Dallas, TX 10+Years professional experience in Requirements Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Java, J2EE and client-server technologies.Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in large scale enterprise software using Object Oriented Analysis and Design. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed applications by Java/J2EE technologies in Agile Methodology and used to work with multiple teams.  • Used Camunda BPMN as a workflow automation and created multiple workflow engines, model diagrams based on the required task using the Modeler.  • Implemented user tasks and service tasks using restful and SOAP services with in the Camunda BPMN.  • Used JBossWildfly 10.3 and Tomcat in built servers of Camunda for development and testing environments.  • Used the Microsoft SQL Server management studio for the different schemas of the database by using windows authentication/sql server authentication.  • Created Node.jsEXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVCframework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MYSQL  • Worked in wide-area network to maintain all the device related data onto MYSQL database.  • Developed views using HTML, CSS and JS components of Bootstrap framework.  • Used IntelliJ as Integrated Development Environment IDE.  • Used GIT for version control tool and IntelliJ for IDE.  • Involved in CICD process using GIT, Jenkinsjobcreation, Mavenbuild  • Developed the restful web services using XML and JSON and created some Restful API methods to create, get and update, etc.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Used scrape the data from Excel spread sheets with basic authentication and update it to another service.  • Used to give support for the production environment has scheduled deployments and resolved the quick time issues.  • Created entities and large data sets with using native and named queries (JPA).  • Used SOAPUI for testing the restful web services.  Environment: Eclipse, Camunda BPMN, Camunda Modeler, JBOSS Wildfly 10.3, Tomcat 8.0, SOAP, Restful API, SOAP UI, Microsoft Server Management studio. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Ericsson - Piscataway Township, NJ October 2017 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  * Developed the application using agile methodology and used Scrum method of project management.  * Involved in front end development using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  * Analyzing and developing the front end of the application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  * Created AngularJS custom directive for reusable components.  * Created AngularJS models, services and controllers for respective views.  * Designed, developed and implemented Single Page Application (SPA) in AngularJS by consuming JSON.  * Called the restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  * Implemented Spring Modules like IOC (Dependency Injection), Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Spring MVC and Spring ORM.  * Used iBATIS 2.x in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  * Used core java design patterns like Abstract factory, Factory, Singleton and Façade for assuring quality coding and development of the application.  * Responsible for the oracle schema design and created SQL maps for iBATIS.  * Developed Restful Web services using Apache CXF and exposed restful CXF client.  * Developed business validation using Smooks MVEL and document level validations using XSD  * Used Core- Java concepts like multi-threaded Java-Collections and JDBC.  * Created Persistence classes using JPA/Hibernate annotations.  * Processed 834 form using spring integration by using splitters, aggregators and routers.  * Implemented spring batch for pooling the xml documents from a specific directory location on the server.  * Created error handling framework and persisted all the business validation errors and application error in to IFP error table.  * Implemented various J2EE design patterns in the project such as Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Data Access Object.  * Used SQL and PL-SQL to create views, stored procedures, triggers, cursors for IFP relational database models  * Front end debugging using Fire bug tool.  * Develop and execute unit test cases using TestNG.  * Used Clear Case for version control.  * Used MAVEN 3 for building the application and deployed on WebSphere 6.1 Application Server.    Environment: core java, Java 6, J2EE, Spring Web Framework, Messaging System,iBATIS 2.x, Spring Integration 2.x, XML, JSON , AngularJS , Bootstrap, Mule ESB 3.1, Java script, Spring Source Tool Suite 2.9(STS), Clear case , SOA, Oracle 10g, Log4j, Tomcat server , Sql, Sql developer, Apache CXF , Junit 3.0, TestNG, Restful Web services, SOAP, WSDL, Agile, Rally, Maven 3.x, UML (Rational Rose), HTML 4.0, CSS and Windows XP Sr. Java Developer Home Depot - Austin, TX July 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  * Developed the application using agile methodology.  * Used Mate MVC framework to handle the events and to retrieve the data from the server.  * Implemented Manager Classes, Event Map and Model classes for Mate architecture.  * Developed Action Script functions for event handling, response handling and error handling.  * Strong Designing of Flex UI components as well as creating custom flex components searchable Data grids and extended Combo Box.  * Implemented Modules for Cadence, OOT Parameter and RDC bypass processes.  * Using a Module Loader to load/unload Flex modules into the application at run time.  * Extensively used HTTP Service calls to get the data from back end BPM Services.  * Involved in creating Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade.  * All the BPM services are exposed using Rest API which returns XML/JSON data from the BPM Services.  * Implemented Multithread concepts in Java classes to avoid deadlocking.  * Used JSON to exchange data between Flex user interface and the back end BPM services.  * Extensively used JSON encoding and decoding techniques to convert complex objects to string and vice versa.  * Used Spring Inversion of Control (IOC), Spring AOP, Spring ORM,Hibernate, JPA annotation, and Tomcat Web app server 7.x  * Developed Flex Custom Events for communication between various components and for Event Bubbling  * Messaging Engine used to handle trade status coming from various Exchanges through vendor applications.  * PDF Forms and Digital Stamp labels. Utilized JavaScript to automate a PDF form. Utilized JavaScript to present a data entry form that when submitted transferred form information to the digital stamp placed on the PDF form.  * Used Clear Case for version control.  * Responsible for tuning complex SQL queries and Stored Procedures to increase performance.  * Developed and deployed the application on THD Tomcat grid server.  * Involved in tracking the production issues and fixing the issues.    Environment: Core Java, Java 5.0, J2EE, JSON, Rest API, Java script, THD Eclipse, Messaging, WebSphere 6.1, Clear Case, Oracle 10g, Log4j, THD Tomcat grid server,JPA, Sql, Toad, Clear Quest, HTML 4.0, CSS. Java Developer Intel - Chandler, AZ March 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design and requirements gathering for project for further improvements and enhancements as per business requirements.  ? Designed and Built Storage Systems as needed by the customers for their applications.  ? Followed Agile methodology and SCRUM meetings to track, optimize and developed sequence diagrams depicting method interactions.  ? Development of application using J2EE,Spring, MVC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP & REST), jQuery, JSTL 2, Oracle, Maven technologies.  ? Developed Spring Configuration files & used annotations to auto wire Java Components using Spring Dependency.  ? Coded presentation layer components using JSPs, Spring Controllers, Spring& JSTL Tags.  ? Hands on experience with data persistence using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  ? Used WSDL and SOAP protocol for Web Services implementation. Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP.  ? Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services using SOAP, and REST with Spring Controllers.  ? Responsible for maintaining Content Management system on daily basis.  ? Involved in setting up Maven configuration and helping Continuous Integration (CI) Issues Configured and created application log files using Log4J.  ? Involved in debugging the defects, code review and analysis of Performance issues Generated JUnit test cases for testing various Java components    Environment: Java, Agile, Rally, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, Web services, WSDL, SOAP, REST, SOA, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, jQuery, ANT, MAVEN, Jenkin, UNIX, WebSphere, Oracle, SVN Java Developer Siemens - Minneapolis, MN December 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Requirement gather, by gathering client's requirements several times  ? Implemented spring MVC for developing web based application.  ? Get involved with the design, implementation, testing, and deployment phase  ? Maintain and develop application using Core Java  ? Use the presentation layer available in Swing framework  ? Get performed object relational mapping between the tables and java objects.  ? Performed unit testing using Junit  ? Involve in training on how to use the developed system  ? Responsible to develop interfaces using web page like Manage Logins and allows register access control to users depending on logins using HTML, CSS, jQuery  ? Use validation from the server using DAO.  ? Extensively used Hibernate in Dao Layer to communicate with database and perform DB operations.  ? Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements.  ? Used ANT Scripts to Build war and ear files to deploy on WebLogic    Environment: Java, J2EE, WebLogic 8, RAD, Spring, EJB, JSP, JavaScript, XML, UML, ANT, VSS, Oracle 8i, MS SQL SERVER, SVN, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, Apache Webserver Education Bachelor's Skills Blaze, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Servlets, Struts Additional Information SKILLS INVENTORY:  • Sound knowledge of J2EE architecture, design patterns, objects modeling using various J2EE technologies and frameworks.  • Experience in all the phases of software development life cycle that includes Requirement Study & Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, maintenance, implementation and testing of various client/server and N-tier web applications.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, Angular JS, Responsive design/Bootstrap, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, JSTL, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI, SQL, AJAX, JavaScript and XML.  • Experienced in using Agile methodologies including extreme programming, SCRUM and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Solid understanding of all aspects of AIX administration and system operations.  • Experience with many versions of Python as well as their differences and features.  • Strong experience in developing font end of the system using emerging technologies like Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, JSP, DHTML, JSTL.  • Experienced in J2EE Programming such as EJB, JDBC, and JNDI.  • Developed web applications based on different Design Patterns including Model-View-Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator etc.  • Proficient in integrating and configuring the Object-relation mapping tool, Hibernate in J2EE applications and other open source frameworks like Spring and Struts.  • Configured and developed web applications in Spring, employed spring MVC architecture and inversion of control.  • Experience in building and deploying web applications in multiple applications servers and middleware platforms. Including, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, GlassFishand Web logic.  • Good knowledge in Web Services, SOAP programming, WSDL, and XML parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, and Triggers in Oracle 9i/10g/11g, SQL Server and MySQL4.x and 5.x.  • Experience in writing test cases in Java Environment using JUnit.  • Hands on experience in development of logging standards and mechanism based on Log4J.  • Involved in generating reports using Jasper Reports.  • Experience in building, deploying and integrating applications with ANT, Maven, Hudson and Cruise Control.    TECHNICAL SKILL    J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, Struts, JDBC, JSP Custom Tag Libraries, XML (SAX & DOM), JNDI, JMS, Applets, Log4J, JSTL, Junit, Mockito.  Middleware: ODBC, JDBC, RMI, Blaze DS.  Web/App Servers: IBM WebSphere 6.x/5.x, Tomcat, JBoss, Apache, Resin, Apache Axis.  IDE Tools: Edit Plus, Text Pad, Eclipse 3.x, WSAD, RAD 6/7  Databases: Oracle 9i/10i, DB2/UDB, SQL Server, MySQL, Postgre  Languages: Java 7, JavaScript, Perl, PL/SQL, XML  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX (Sun Solaris), Linux, AIX, HP-UX.  Frameworks:  Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Mate, Adobe Flex 2/3, MXML, Action Script 2/3 Rational Rose, UML, JUnit, Ant, Struts, Ajax, DOJO, iBATIS.    Methodologies: Agile, SCRUM, TDD, Design Patterns, Continuous Integration using Cruise Control  Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, CS3, AJAX, Webservices JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SOAP UI, Rest Client  Network Protocols: TCP/IP, UDP, FTP, HTTP, SOAP  Source Control: Rational ClearCase, CVS  OOAD Tools: MS Visio, IBM RSA 6.x  Build Tools: ANT, Maven  Job Scheduler: Autosys  Miscellaneous:  MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Word, Database Modeling, SQL Tuning, Object Oriented Modeling using Rational Rose, Version One, TOAD and PDF.    Design Patterns: MVC, View Dispatcher, Data Access Objects, Data Transfer Objects, Singleton, Observer, Factory and Session Façade.