JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - Verizon wireless Irving, TX • 4+ years of experience as a Java Full stack developer and Java/J2EE Developer in full software development lifecycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using JAVA, JEE, JDBC, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS and Webservices.  • Extensive experience in developing Web interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and BackboneJS.  • Experience in implementing Java/J2EE technologies for application development in various layers of projects i.e. requirement gathering, analysis, design, implementation, Unit testing and deployment from UAT to Prod.  • Proficient working on Java Frameworks like 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF, and Spring Framework 4.x.  • Experience in developing Full stack applications using Angular-JS, Node-JS, Mongo-dB, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Java, EXT-JS, and JSF etc.  • Experience in designing and development enterprise applications using Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JavaScript, XML, REST Web services, JMS, Java Mail, WSDL, SOAP 1.1, and Hibernate.  • Hands on experience in various agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, and Pair Programming.  • Experience in working with Web/Application Servers like Web logic, JBoss and Tomcat Servers, databases such as Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 6.5/7.0.  • Experienced in developing Micro services with Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Cloud, Eureka, API-Gateway etc.  • Experienced in other front-end technologies such as SASS, LESS, Typescript, Bootstrap, Angular1, Angular1.5, Angular2, Ajax, JSON, Node.js etc.  • Experience with Spring Boot and micro-services design and development.  • Hands on experience with Core Java with multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  • Experience in working with J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, Java Beans, JMS, Object-Oriented (OOP) and Client & Server-side technologies.  • Expertise in developing GUI using Swing, HTML, DHTML, DOJO, JavaScript, CSS, Angular JS, React-JS, SASS, Bootstrap, Apache Cassandra, Full Stack JSF, XML, REST, jQuery and AJAX scripting.  • Features for Core API project. (Using REST API, JSON, REST Client, Eclipse PDT, Git).  • Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) implementing Waterfall, V-Model, & Agile methodologies.  • Good understanding of No SQL Database and work experience in writing hands-on an application on No SQL database which is Mongo DB.  • Experience in developing Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle and comfortable using databases SQL Server, DB2, MySQL and MS Access.  • Experience in working with Version Control Tools like Rational Team Concert, Harvest, Clear case, SVN, and Git-hub. Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER Verizon wireless - Irving, TX January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Developer, Participated in Technical and Functional discussion with Client-Side Architectures and Client-Side Business Analysts. Provided technical solutions to Architecture issues.  • Involved in developing the entire enterprise application using Java/J2EE, Spring and JPA to satisfy the customer needs and able to deploy on Production. Involved in closing of the defects which were raised in HP QC.  • AWS EC2 instances were configured in developing and QA environments with Node.JS.  • Implementing AOP module in spring for Role based application and MVN module in Spring for User Access and made all the services as RESTFUL Web Services.  • Created fully functional REST web services supporting JSON message transformation. Built on Spring 3.0 technology.  • Involved in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading and exception handling.  • Created Rest API's and Soap API's by using spring controllers and JAX-WS.  • Developed the application using SOA based on Java and JMS.  • Designed and Developed Data pipeline architecture using Spring Cloud Data Flow with both streaming and batch processing capability.  • Interpret IOT Integration flow development and life cycle management tools.  • Installed application on AWSEC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Configured JDBC resources, data sources and bounded to the J2EE applications, configured the connection pools for the data sources. Created the Oracle Application server, JMS Server, JMS Connection Factories, Queues, Topics, Database Store and Message Bridges and monitored.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular.JS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Used AWS code pipeline for moving the code across different environments.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using both Hibernate xml mapping and Annotations.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Express JS and Node.JS.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI technologies used were Angular JS 2, CSS, Node.JS, Express JS and AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Excellent in designing the front-end pages using scripting languages like Angular JS, JSP, HTML, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and its libraries.  • Used Design Pattern: Singleton Pattern, Factory pattern, DAO, Façade Pattern (Session Façade Pattern), MVC Pattern, Business delegate Pattern, and Service Locator Pattern.  • Developed reusable Backbone.JS directives and worked on Backbone.JS Controllers which Isolates scope to perform operations in UI.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Developed User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications and Web Service Applications using HTML 4, XHTML, CSS 2, XML, XSD, SOA, JAXB, AJAX, Object Oriented Java Script, ANGULARJS, REACTJS, BOOTSTRAP Framework, RESTful services, JAVA, JSP, jQuery, Backbone .JS, Node.JS Ext.JS. JAVA DEVELOPER New York, NY January 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Design and development of system based on J2EE specifications using Java.  • Involved in the application development using Spring MVC modules.  • Application development using Java web-based technologies such as Servlets, JSP, Java Web Service (REST based), WSDL.  • Developed the presentation tier using Spring Framework that ensures MVC rapid application development.  • Developed account transfer system using Spring beans and developed persistence layer in Hibernate for data access.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the JSF Frame work and Hibernate.  • Designed and implemented the MongoDB schema.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Used Mongoose API to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Implemented and configuring Spring MVC components Dispatch Servlet, Controllers and View resolvers.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React. Js and Node. Js in effective web design.  • Developed the UI Screens using HTML5, DHTML, XML, Java Scripts, Ajax, jQuery Custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS3.  • Used various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery, jQuery UI, Angular.js, Ext JS, and Node.js.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXB in the web service's request/response data for marshaling and un-marshaling.  • Developed SOAP Web Services by using JAX-WS and Restful web services by using (JAX-RS) Jersey framework.  • Developed Web Services to provide the list of transactions for an account as a SOAP endpoint service.  • Conversion of major Openwork's components in to Eclipse RCP/SWT platform along with support of Swing-SWT components.  • Worked with Swing and RCP using Oracle ADF to develop a search application which is a migration project.  • Used XSLT to transform the response data in a readable form to be presented to the user.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJO classes to represent the persistence database tables. These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes.  • Implemented Hibernate utility classes, session factory methods, and different annotations to work with back end data base tables.  • Implemented Hibernate second level caching to improve read performance. JAVA DEVELOPER Bloomberg - Manhattan, NY October 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed the frontend applications, user interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT and CSS3.  • Performed Machine Learning Algorithms using NumPy Pandas Matplotlib and Implementation of the application.  • Involved in Installing, Configuring Hadoop Eco System, Cloudera Manager using CDH4 Distribution  • Using C and C++ designed and implemented enhancements related to both Table service and Quick service modules of point of sale systems.  • Worked with application teams to install Hadoop updates, patches, version upgrades as required  • Installed and configured various components of Hadoop Ecosystem and maintained their integrity  • Expertise in using tools Hadoop, Apache Storm and Hive for deep machine learning and detecting security-based solution requirement.  • Did Static analysis of android malware use JAVA and machine learning libraries in Spark  • Designed and implemented application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, Oracle.  • Worked with Business in Developing Unique Query and Analysis in Netezza Data Warehouse involving millions of rows of data.  • Built main application in leveraging technologies such as Angular js, Used Ajax, JavaScript Libraries to do client-side validations.  • Involved in focussed on developing intelligent enterprise solutions and machine learning algorithms and applications for telecom and other industries.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git.  • Working experience in Web Services using SOAP and WSDL, JSF, JSON, jQuery, JMS and Oracle Coherence.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • REST web service was used as interface between .Net application that are used for Front end User Interface to interact with back end services that are developed mainly using Java.  • Familiar with JSON based also Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Writing the UNIX/Shell Scripting scripts to support the java application executed.  • Used Maven scripts to build and deploy war files to QA environment.  • Worked on Java Script libraries like jQuery and JSON as well as Wrote JUnit test cases to test the server-side Modules.  • Used Axis Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount from an application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Used Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor AWS services and Amazon Cloud Watch logs to monitor application. Software engineer Wipro-Hyderabad June 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  • Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Involved in developing test plan and procedures.  • Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forgot password, Email, Filters using JavaScript, jQuery and HTML.  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Debugging Web Pages with firebug and fixing issues.  • Testing browser compatibility and addressing browser compatibility issues.  • Optimizing SQL queries and stored procedures. Education Bachelor's Skills Awt, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Angular, Javascript, Core Java, Rest, Java J2Ee, JEE, Soap, Spring, Angularjs, AWS, MVC, JSP Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Programming Languages: - Java, J2EE, HTML5, PL/SQL.  • Java Technologies: - Collections, Multithreading, AWT, Exception Handling  • J2EE Technologies: - JSP, Servlets, Applet, JDBC, Java Beans, Tag Libraries, Groovy  • Web Servers: - Apache-Tomcat 5.x/6.x, n JBuilder  • Application Servers: - Web Logic, Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere.  • Markup & Scripting Lang: - Java Script, HTML 5.  • Framework: - Spring 3.2.2, Struts 2.3.12, Spring MVC, Spring Core, JMS  • GUI and Proto type Tools: - AWT, JSP, CSS  • IDE/Tools: - Eclipse, RAD, Net Beans, Visual Studio, ANT, JIRA.  • XML Technologies: - XML, XSL, DTD/Schema, DOM/SAX API, JAXB.  • Databases and Tools: -Oracle MYSQL, SQL Server, MS Access, ORM Tool Hibernate 3.0, Cassandra.  • Web Service Technologies: - Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Apache CXF, SOAP, RESTful.  • Testing / Bug Fix Tools: - JUNIT, Clear Quest.  • Design Methodology/Tools: - UML, Object Oriented Analysis and Design, J2EE Design Patterns.  • Deployment & Build Tool: - Apache Ant 1.9, Apache Maven 2.2.1  • Source/Version: - Control Dimensions, ClearCase, SVN, GIT, VSS.  • Documentation Tool: - Microsoft Word 2007, Microsoft Visio, Open Office.  • Cloud Technologies: - AWS, EC2, S3.  • Automation testing: - Cucumber, Selenium  • Operating Systems: - Windows, UNIX, Linux.