Senior Java Full-Stack Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Full-Stack Developer - Boeing- Seattle Washington Seattle, WA More than 6+ years of experience in software development, including analysis, design, development, implementation & support of high-end applications and QA for standalone applications and Web-based applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies. Experienced with microservices architecture, with Cloud Foundry (pivotal) Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of RESTful and RabbitMQ or Apache Kafka message brokers Work Experience Senior Java Full-Stack Developer Boeing- Seattle Washington - Seattle, WA June 2018 to Present Key Accomplishments  • Designed and Developed a Web Application based on Multi-Tier Architecture using the current most popular web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and RESTful Web Services.  • Configured the web.xml file for REST server injection to enable the REST web services by using JAXB API and implemented both server-side code and DHTML web pages and implemented Angular 5 advanced features like routing, directives, services and components.  • Implemented Grails Pagination to display data using Grails Templates and views.  • Used Cloud environment for deploying the applications and involved with Elasticsearch for logging as well as worked on Elasticsearch, Kafka, MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Spring Cloud Foundry Also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry.  • Implemented microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Microservices, and enabled discovery.  • Expertise in managing AWS cloud resources EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, RDS, Elastic beanstalk, Cloud Watch and IAM.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry for injecting the connection/service binding details from the deployed cloudplatform itself.  • Used Load Balancer in Pivotal Cloud Foundry to improve the performance and reliability of the server and deployed a single instance of HAProxy for test environments in pivotal cloud Foundry.  • Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL for faster testing and data processing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using java with Web Frameworks using Git and worked with testing frameworks like Junit and participated in debugging.  • Testing and production support of core java based multithreading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into MySQL database using JPA/Hibernate and created usability prototypes for the UI screens using Angular 2, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used features of Java 8, like Lambda to facilitate functional programming and simplify the problem as well as stream feature of Java 8 for aggregate operation and pipelining.  • Involved in Data /dimensional Modelling, Data Extraction/ Transformation/ Loading (ETL) and Data mapping.  • Developed International Error Correction Screens using custom front end forms using XML, XSLT, Angular JS 1.5 and jQuery.  • Defined resource URI structure and a message format to interact Ext.js client application with Play Framework server application using REST and JSON.  • Worked in continuous integration using Jenkins for timely builds, code coverage, running test.  • Developed a batch processing system with REST based APIs, using Spring Batch 3.0, integrated with Quartz scheduling.  • Converted all legacy applications to cloud native by Spring BOOT, Soring Cloud in to PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry).  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS3 for better appearance and feel.  • Web application is redesigned by using Angular4. Web API are used to send and receive data to/from back end, recently started updating from Angular4 to Angular5.  • Used Microservices with Spring Boot predicted service interacting through amalgamation of REST and MQ message broke.  • Developed Web pages using Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSF and XML that interact based on events and developed the application using J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton and Factory pattern.  • Developed efficient enterprise applications using Grails Framework making the implementation faster and easier.  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of valuable information between multiple business applications as well as developed cloud pub/sub for streaming data from various data sources using spring cloud GCP API.  • Worked with Subversion SVN, CVS, GIT and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.  • Created RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Worked on Single node/Multicluster setup using technology NoSQL and MongoDB while using CVS as version control system.  • Designed and implemented data integration modules for Extract/Transform/Load (ETL) functions.  • Support activities involving the use of virtualization management software products that provide management, administration, provisioning and automation of Linux virtual servers.  • Developed test driven development code using JUnit and Mockito framework and worked on troubleshooting the issues and resolving bugs.  • Integrated Pivtol cloud foundry and SonarQube functionalities using REST API's  • Developed a GUI to help to read the logs generated by the scripts, the logs were saved in MongoDB, the GUI was created using flask, D3, jQuery table sorter.  • Migrated all the webservices from Play Framework to use Spring and Hibernate and Used XML Beans for parsing the XML documents and migrated the old UMM application using new play framework and jQuery, jqgrid technology.  • Enabled homepage application to CI/CT process compliance by migrating to Stack Jenkins, Stash/Bitbucket and JIRA tools.  • Used Apache Camel and CXF in the JBoss Fuse ESB as the integration platform for SOA Services and Implemented Apache Camel routes using Camel-Spring XML and Camel-Spring processor beans.  • Created and managed microservices. Microservices were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features.  • Performed AWS Cloud administration managing EC2 instances, S3, Cloud Formation, SES and SNS services.  • Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs and involved in development of presentation layer using JSP and Servlets.  • Implemented Spring MVC, IOC, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC template, Spring MyBatis, JSON features.  • Extensively interacted with data analysts during the ETL operations in identifying the source.  • Used Maven to manage dependencies and developed test cases and performed unit testing and deployed the J2EE applications to Application Servers using Ant, Maven & Shell Scripts for creating Build Scripts.  • Spring Data MongoDB was used to integrate MongoDB document database with application.  • Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL/Streaming for faster processing of data and Involved in design and development using Java/ J2EE, Collection frameworks.  • Experience with function block logic controls design software development using MATLAB  Simulink and State flow diagrams.  • Created a Call Centre data entry application in Grails to generate management statistics.  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, Servlets, DHTML, AngularJS, XSL/XSLT bootstrap to build this SPA (Single Page Application).  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation-based Spring MVC, Hibernate, and JQuery.  • Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, React JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices and used Mongoose API to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch and responsible in testing the classes and methods using JUnit test case.  • Created RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API and RAML utilizing Spring Boot with Microservices.  • Wrote controllers with Groovy to connect front-end interfaces with java services on Grails framework.  • Created and manipulated DHTML components such as hover menus and hide/show capabilities.  • Implemented data access layer i.e. DAO Classes using Hibernate as an ORM tool and configured xml files according to hibernate framework and Developed data through a network of servers to eventually display the data to web users using D3.js.  • Used JBPM which provides workflow support when multiple applications are working on a source.  • Implemented Spark using Scala and Spark SQL for faster testing and processing of data. Java Developer CITI GROUP - Atlanta, GA February 2016 to May 2018 Key Accomplishments  • Designed and developed customer registration and login screens using HTML, Bootstrap, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Simplified client-side scripting of HTML 5 using JQuery, a cross-browser JavaScript library.  • Developed various APIs to be consumed by other modules of the application using RESTful web services and Used Junit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the logs.  • Developed Spark programs using Scala to convert the complex hive queries.  • Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch and responsible in testing the classes and methods using JUnit test case as well as designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot with JPA.  • Develop dashboard for client health and performance (Node.js/Express backend / D3 frontend).  • Involved in setting up Grails project and its configuration and Implemented Grails Services and controllers to perform actions.  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures and triggers) using Cassandra, SQL/PLSQL.  • Develop integration techniques using the Apache camel and Apache ActiveMQ technologies and experience using Fuse/Apache Kafka as integration platform and Apache ActiveMQ as messaging platform.  • Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, Struts View Tags, Bootstrap, JSTL, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Developed high-performance web applications using Struts & JQuery and XML HTTP Request.  • Designed the Cassandra ring on a multi-node cluster and then moved the entire Cassandra setup into AWS, involving Cassandra migration to EC2.  • Bash scripting supporting Linux and Solaris servers. Valuable experience working with Java and C programming languages.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure with AWS configuration management  • Used MongoDB and the Play 2.5 Framework in application-server implementation.  • Developed application using Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, HTML5, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Node.JS, Rest, SQL and CSS on AWS.  • Written client-side code using Web Services- JAX-WS based on SOA microservice architecture.  • Designed and developed Groovy Grails applications for end users.  • Deployed projects into Heroku using GIT version control system and implemented Action classes (Action Servlet, Action) and Form beans (Action Form) using Struts Framework.  • Experienced in deploying J2EE applications over servers like Apache Tomcat 4.x, and WebLogic, WebSphere servers.  • Created dynamic and interactive Data visualizations with D3 charts and AngularJS.  • Developed helper classes using Core Java multi-threaded programming and collection classes.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server.  • Used Maven Scripts to build and deploy applications and helped to deployment for Continuous Integration using Jenkin and Maven.  • Involved in the coding of Distributed Multi-threaded Enterprise applications using J2EE technologies Servlets, EJB, RMI, JDBC and JMS.  • Used microservice architecture using Spring Boot to develop Restful Web service.  • Used Amazon web services to extract the data from cloud. Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets to store and retrieve the files.  • Implemented an automated functional testing suite by using JUnit for tests and Jenkins for CI, made builds using Jenkins.  • Hands on experience in creating reports using reporting tools like Jasper Reports, D3.  • Deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using STRUTS and defined Navigation Rules. Java/J2EE Developer Crown Castle - Pittsburgh, PA May 2013 to June 2015 Key Accomplishments  • Developed a JavaScript UI for a credit-reporting application using Angular.js, Marionette.js, Backbone.js, Node.js and CSS.  • Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Struts Framework which involved writing Action Classes/Forms/Custom Tag Libraries JSP pages.  • Implemented Design Patterns, such as Singleton Factory, to add definition. Developed action forms and controllers in Struts 2 framework.  • Used MongoDB as a persistent store and Apache Kafka as a messaging layer for custom.  • Coded controller classes to expose spring RESTful web services and service Implementation classes as well as responsible for Coding using JSP, Java Servlets, Struts and XML.  • Used core Java/J2EE components for tuning the application compatible with the new application server configuration and used Maven tool to build project and JUnit to develop unit test cases.  • Researched JBPM process- engine, toward implementation of personnel flow-control system.  • Involved in developing front-end screens using JSP, Struts View Tags, Bootstrap, JSTL, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Enhanced and supported existing MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications.  • Implemented RESTFUL web services for real-time transactions using Struts Validation framework and JavaScript for server-side and front-end validation.  • Used JDBC template in spring-batch project to interact with the DB while using Eclipse as Java IDE in application development.  • Designed and implemented UI for General Information pages and Administrator functionality.  • Programmed data management, security and communication framework modules using Java, HTML, JavaScript /DHTML, Bootstrap, JSP, Servlets, XML/XSLT, XPath, and SQL  • Combined multiple existing batch applications into a single Spring Batch application to promote code reusability and maintainability.  • Worked on the Web Services using SOAP and RESTful web services  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases also installed and configured JBOSS/Drools server with MySQL.  • Used GIT along with Stash to maintain separate repositories for different stories in JIRA  • Produced/consumed WSDL-based web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, AXIS, and others  • Developed web services using RESTful technology to support JSON and XML using JAX-RS.  • Designed frontend using JSP and business logic in Servlets, also used HTML, JSP, JSP Tag Libraries, and Struts Tiles develop presentation tier.  • Used CVS as a documentation repository and version controlling tool. Education Masters in Computer & Information science Wayne state university 2017 Skills Spring Integration, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate Mockito, EasyMock,Scrum, Kanban,Agile,TDD,Openshift,Azure,GCP,Tag Libraries,Bootstrap, JSP, Servlets, XML/XSLT, XPath MEAN,STRUTS,EJB, RMI, JDBC ,Apache Tomcat 4.x,DHTML,AWS Cloud Camel-Spring ,D3, jQuery table sorter. AJAX,MySQL EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, RDS, Elastic beanstalk, Cloud Watch and IAM.,Javascript, Spring cloud, docker, CI/CD, GCP, GIT,Scala, Iaas, JSON, JQUERY, HIVE, PIG, RESTFUL API, KUBERNETES, MongoDB,JSP,SQL, NOSQL,UNIT TEST, SELENIUM, KAFKA, APACHE, RABBITMQ, ACTIVEMQ, ELASTIC SEARCH,OAuth,jenkins, elastic search, emberjs,Angular7, nodejs, reactjs ,react native,JAVA/J2EE, cloud Foundry ,JavaScript/jQuery ,AWS: RDS, EC2, Redshift,SQS, SNS ,hibernate,spring , springboot, maven,