Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Dell Technologies Austin, TX • Around 7 years' experience in analyzing system issues, designing and developing dynamic solutions using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experienced in all stages of software development life cycle (SDLC) starting from gathering Business specifications, analysis, design, development, testing, and implementation of projects  • Experience in architecting multiple Highly Scalable/Available Fault Tolerant applications setup in an AGILE/SCRUM & Waterfall environment.  • Experience designing and developing Enterprise Applications using include Servlets, JSP, EJB, Services, RPC, RMI, and JDBC, GWT.  • Experience in AWS Cloud services such as EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, Route53, Cloud Watch, Security Groups, Cloud Trail, IAM, Cloud Front, Snowball, RDS and Glacier.  • Experience in the application servers Web logic, Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Extensively experience in architectural issues and their solutions using various design patterns such as MVC (Model - View-Controller), Singleton, Facade, Factory.  • Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Struts Framework, Java Server Faces, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework.  • Hands on Experience on NoSQL Document Store databases such as MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience in Mean Stack (Mongo DB, Express JS, Angular JS, Node JS, React JS).  • Well versed in developing MongoDB, Micro Services web application using test driven methodologies (TDD) and Junit as a testing framework.  • Hands on experience working in a continuous integration environment on Cisco Spark call as it is a cloud based product.  • Sound Relational Database Concepts and extensively worked with DB2, ORACLE. Very good in writing complex SQL's and PL/SQL procedures.  • Implemented Spring framework, Spring-AOP, Spring-ORM, Spring-JDBC modules.  • Strong experience in the Web Application GUI Development using Beans and Custom Tag Libraries, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML and AJAX.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL).  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  • Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  • Extensive use of Node JS, Express JS, and Mongo DB along with Mongoose.JS to create server-side applications.  • Utilized custom built database to enter information, retrieve information, and process Financial- mortgage applications.  • Integrated Struts and Hibernate ORM framework for persistence and used Hibernate DAO Support with Hibernate Template to access the data.  • Working knowledge of Ant/Maven for project build/test/deployment, Log4j for error logging and Debugging, JUnit for unit and integration.  • Worked on the Configuration management tool Subversion and on a continuous integration tool like Jenkins.  • Experience in modelling applications with UML, Rational Rose and Rational Unified Process (RUP) and Microsoft Visio and source control applications like Microsoft, CVS and Rational ClearCase.  • Experience in Setup hosting on AWS EC2 instance and used Amazon SES for email delivery and hands-on experience on SCM tools like GIT, containers like Docker etc.  • Experience in executing various project assignments in different teams including business modeling and analysis, framework, development, production support and off-shore co-ordination.  • Expertise in Unit Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing and experience in preparing the Test Cases, Test Scenarios and Test Modules and Test plans.  • Experience in developing utility and enterprise-based application using core data for iOS Apps to improve memory overhead of the app and increase responsiveness.  • Very good understanding of frameworks such as Custom In-memory DB concepts, Spring Web, Batch, Spring Security, Activiti BPMN 2.0, Hibernate, Struts and SOA based Web Services (both SOAP and RESTful), Test Driven Development, Agile and Sprint Development approach, with hands on implementation experience.  • Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD), using Spring JUnit Runner, Mockito and Easy Mock. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Dell Technologies - Austin, TX July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile methodology.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing applications.  • Application s are implemented using Agile methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues.  • Development using Java 8, JavaScript, JQuery, Spring Integration, Spring boot, Spring Cloud, Akka, Hibernate, Kafka and Kerberos authentication, MQ Integration, Junit 4.0, JMock, Cucumber, Cassandra, Bitbucket, Intellij, SSL and token enabled RESTful webservices, JAXB, Swagger API, Jenkins and Maven for Continuous build and Integration, Splunk, Pivotal Cloud foundry, UNIX and AIM scripting for deployment jobs.  • Developed the view-controller components using HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery and AngularJS, Bootstrap.  • Used Angular JS to create maintainable and testable single page application and Implemented two-way data binding and used ng-filters across the applications.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTful Services.  • Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with Spring Framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  • Used Spring MVC Design Pattern to hold the UI data and serve the request and to send the response.  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of Spring Framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging.  • Used Ajax for intensive utilizer operations, Web object-oriented programming and client-side validations, Utilizing JavaScript for client side validation.  • Developed applications using Application Lifecycle Management to deliver reliable applications.  • Developed persistence Layer using Hibernate to persist the data and to manage the data.  • Worked on Hibernate for mapping the Java objects to relational database and SQL queries to fetch the data, insert and update the data from the database.  • Developed Hibernate configuration files and queries and Implemented DAO classes.  • Created Stored Procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Developed Graphical User Interface (GUI) to display report data using JQuery in Cross-browser compatibility and Web Application Scaling.  • Used Ansible as the Configuration Management tool and written Ansible Playbooks to automate the process of creating the Master and Worker nodes in Kubernetes Environment.  • Implemented Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision slaves to Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Created RedHat Enterprise Linux VM's in Azure and installed Kubernetes on each VM using Kubespray.  • Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit.  • Used Jenkins and Maven for automated builds and deployments.  • To keep track of issues and tasks on individuals used JIRA ticketing system.  • Used Spring Tool Suite (STS) for application development.  • Improved the UI logging of suggest edits interface with Flux and React.js and also Involved in creating navigation bar using React.JS for menus.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Hibernate, Apache Camel, REST, SOAP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, Oracle, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, Web Logic Application Server and STS IDE, Kubernetes. Full Stack Java Developer Apple - Cupertino, CA July 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of user interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Created responsive web pages using Bootstrap and wrote client side application in a clean MVC model using Angular JS.  • Responsible for working with Virtual DOM using NodeJS.  • Consumed RESTful Services with Angular JS $http Services.  • Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions for collection evaluation and comparing the data, Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application, Parallel operations on collections for effective sorting mechanisms and to change the sequential stream flow of threads while session establishment.  • Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS used in sending bulk emails.  • Implemented build stage-to build the Micro Service and push the Docker Container image to the private Docker registry.  • Containerized and Deployed the ETL and REST services on AWS ECS through the CI/CD Jenkins pipe  • Developed RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Services Architecture.  • Worked on testing the RESTful APIs using tools like POSTMAN.  • Designed and developed application using various Spring framework modules like Spring IOC, Developed Controller Classes using Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Data modules and handled security using Spring Security.  • Implemented the authentication and authorization of the application using Spring Security and Oauth2.  • Used Spring IOC framework for Dependency Injection and Spring AOP for logging purposes.  • Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  • Implemented Restful Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Service Architecture.  • Developed RESTful web services to retrieve JSON documents related to customer and consumed SOAP based Web Services.  • Used React.js to render changing currency spreads and to dynamically update the DOM.  • Used NodeJS for the services that computed and provided data to the applications after retrieving data from a MongoDB database.  • Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication and schema design etc.  • Designed Cassandra and Oracle data model for microservices components. Analyzed partitioning and clustering keys for data models used across components.  • Designed services to store and retrieve user data using MongoDB database and communicated with remote servers using REST enabled Web Services on Jersey framework.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate, created POJOs and mapped to databases Annotations.  • Spring beans were used for controlling the flow between UI and Hibernate.  • Implemented the application using various design patterns such as Singleton, DAO, Factory and Service Locator.  • Developed Micro-Services based architecture to enable the application to be deployed on AWS.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Developed test cases for unit testing in the integration layer using Mockito framework.  • Used Gradle as build automation tool and responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins.  • Deployed and tested the application on Web Sphere Application Server.  • Used UNIX shell scripts to search/modify files.  • Used GIT for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Monitored the error logs using log4j and fixed the problems.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  • Used Intellij as an IDE for the Application development.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3,Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Data, Hibernate, Active MQ, RESTful, SOAP, Micro Service Architecture, AWS, EC2, Docker, SQS, MongoDB, Oracle DB, CI/CD, Gradle, Intellij, WebSphere Application Server, Mockito, JMS, UNIX, Jenkins, Postman, JIRA, log4j and GIT. Java Developer Berkshire Hathaway - Omaha, NE July 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Involved in the front end using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSP, Spring, Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.  • Involved in development of Agent Verification System using Spring MVC framework.  • Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  • Used Spring AOP for logging, auditing and transaction management to distinguish business logic from the cross-cutting concerns.  • Worked on creating and documenting POC for helping migrate the current application to micro service architecture. The architecture included Docker as the container technology with Kubernetes and worked on with REST API.  • •Installed Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  • Interfaced with the MySQL back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  • Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.  • Developed Unit /Integration test cases using JUnit.  • Used Gradle tool for building and deploying the Web applications in Web Logic Server.  • Used JIRA tool for tracking stories progress and follow agile methodology.  • Used logging techniques provided by Log4J tool for efficient logging and debugging.  • Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (SVN).  • Involved in Maintenance and Enhancements for the project.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Struts, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, JDBC, Hibernate, My SQL, HQL, SQL, JUnit, Gradle, JIRA, Log4J, Eclipse, SVN and Web Logic Server. Java Developer Caterpillar - Deerfield, IL August 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and implemented the application in a MVC (Model View Controller) Architecture.  • Developed the application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets and JDBC.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Involved in Documentation and use case design using UML modeling include development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and use case Transaction diagrams.  • Developed activity, sequence and class diagrams using Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Rose.  • Involved in the complete end-to-end CI/CD process, building and deploying the application on Apache servers using Jenkins, Deploy and Release.  • Responsible for performance tuning of the product and eliminating memory leakages in the product.  • Used JDBC to connect to the My SQL database and written complex SQL queries to retrieve data from the database.  • Worked with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes  • Deployed the application in Apache Tomcat Server.  • Used JUnit to perform unit testing.  • Used Eclipse tool for application development.  • Used Configuration Management Tools for version control which is built on CVS.  • Participated in design and code review meetings with developers.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, Model View Controller Architecture, JDBC, My SQL, UML, SQL, Junit, Eclipse, Maven, CVS and Apache Tomcat Server. Java Developer Mckesson - Irving, TX September 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, development, testing and production of the application using Waterfall methodology.  • Involved in development of the UI with JSP, JSTL tag libraries, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Implemented the application using Struts framework in Model View Controller Architecture.  • Developed the Action Controller components and configured in xml file.  • Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and also implemented login functionality on the client side.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services with JAX-WS and Consumed Restful Services.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complicated queries for IBM DB2.  • Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Extensively use of Core Java features including collection, exception handling and generics.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Used JDBC in the persistence layer to interact with the database.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for DB2 database.  • Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in JBOSS.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking components.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and Clear Quest for bug tracking.  • Performed deployment of applications on JBOSS Application Server.  • Worked on UNIX environment for development.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Struts, EJB, JDBC, Web Services, REST, SOAP, JAX-WS, DB2, JUnit, Log4j, SQL, XML, Rational Clear Case, ANT, JBOSS, Eclipse and UNIX. Education Master's in Information Technology Stratford University - Stratford, NJ September 2010 to December 2012 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jsf, Jsp, Struts, Jdbc, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Visual studio, C++, Javascript, Reactjs, Jenkins, Json Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Technologies: JDBC, JSF, XML, Web Services, JMS, JavaMail, JSP.  Programming Languages: Core JAVA, Python, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL.  RDBMS: Oracle, SQL Server, Mongo DB, Cassandra  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Selenium, Laravel  UI: JavaScript, JSP, HTML5, JSON, CSS, SCSS, AngularJs, ReactJs  App/Web Servers: TOMCAT, JBOSS, Web Logic, Web Sphere, Lamp, Wamp  IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual studio code.  Development Tools: Toad, SQL Developer, HP Quality Center, SOAP UI.  Build Tools: Maven, Jenkins, Ant.  Testing Tools: Quality Centre, Clear Quest  Version Control: GitHub, GitLab, BitBucket  Operating System: Windows, Linux, UNIX