Sales force Admin/ Developer Sales force Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Sales force Admin/ Developer - Infosys- End Client Google San Jose, CA • 5 years of professional experience in the field of Information Technology and sales force platform.  • Experience in the complete life cycle of project development (SDLC) including System Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, validation rules, reports, dashboards, tasks and actions.  • Business Analyst with extensive experience with solid understanding of business requirement gathering, documentation, business process flow and business process modeling.  • Extensive experience in gathering Business/Functional user requirements, creating Use Cases as per user requirements, developing/designing UML diagrams such as Activity, Class, and Sequence diagrams in addition to creating Business Requirements Document.  • Extensive experience in data migration from traditional applications to Salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader Utility.  • Proficient in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which involves requirement gathering, requirement analysis, agile, functional design, implementation and enhancement of projects in SalesForce.com.  • Hands on experience implementing Security/Sharing rules, Configured permission sets, Field level Security, Record level Security, Profiles, Roles and resource monitoring at different hierarchical level of Organization.  • Expertise in Salesforce Data Validation, Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Support Administration.  • Strong knowledge in customized Case Management with Escalation Rules, Workflow, Approval Process, Validation Rules,  • Experienced at building various custom reports, Report types with Multiple objects and daily day to day Reports and Dashboards for Management.  • Highly experienced in writing Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, developing Visual Force pages using standard and custom controllers.  • Proficiency in Territory management such as Lead Routing and ownership, Account Assignment, Opportunity Ownership.  • Experienced working in Cross-functional teams, identifying business requirements and supporting sales/marketing.  • Involved in project to understand the business needs and objectives of the system and interacted with the end client/ users and stakeholders, involved and gathered requirements for the integrated system.  • Lead planning meetings, analysis development, test inspections, and other project meetings throughout project life cycle.  • Working with user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation.  • Great interpersonal and communication skills, focused, self-motivated, organized, quick learner and team oriented.  • Developed dynamic web apps for desktop device and mobile using lightning Framework.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce Using Data Loader Utility and Informatica on Demand.  • Extensive experience in analytical, problem solving and organizational skills and PC software skills including Microsoft office suite of products such as word, power point, Excel, MS Project, etc.  • Experience designing and developing integrations from Force.com to upstream and downstream applications using Force.com API(s).  • Executed various levels of Unit, Integration, Regression and User Acceptance (UAT) using test cases to prove that system conform to specifications of business and quality requirements.  • Experienced working in Agile methodology and implementing sprint planning.  • Strong knowledge of Salesforce configuration, data migration, system integration and familiarity with Visualforce (Pages, Components, Controllers) and Apex (Classes, Controllers & Triggers). Work Experience Sales force Admin/ Developer Infosys- End Client Google - Sunnyvale, CA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyze complex user requirements, procedures, and problems to improve existing System design.  • Work effectively individually and with team members to achieve customer satisfaction and success.  • Completed bulk imports of data using Apex Data Loader and also by writing scripts to based on the level of complexity.  • Deploy the code developed in the Dev Sandbox to the Test Sandbox and the Production sandbox.  • Written Apex classes, Controller, Extension Controllers and Apex Triggers in the application for various Business/functional requirements.  • Written SOQL, SOSL, Aggregate queries required for the application in Apex classes, Triggers and Batch class.  • Worked on Case management and implemented Email-to-Case and configured email agent in the organization network, written Auto-response, Escalation and Assignment rules.  • Configured Service console and enabled for service users in the organizations.  • Developed Workflow rules, Actions (Email, Field update, Task) and Email templates to implement the declarative business logic.  • Used the various sandbox's like DEV, STAGE, UAT for development.  • Written Apex Test classes to meet Unit testing before migrating from Sandbox to Production environment.  • Deployed code across various sandbox using Change Set.  • Created of custom fields, field dependencies, tabs, application and Making the fields "Read only" and "Mandatory" as required in the process.  • Created custom objects, links, formulas, Layouts, workflow and approvals. Set both object-level and record level security.  • Assisted with Data migration and updates through the Apex DataLoader in Salesforce.com.  • Performed Bulk Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Dataloader.io, Workbench. Salesforce Developer ReachLocal, CA May 2018 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designing, developing and Unit testing the application using the Salesforce Platform.  • Developing Apex Triggers, Apex classes, Visual force Pages, App Exchange Package & Custom Application, Sandbox data loading and Web services API for implementing web services in the application for access to data from different users.  • Developing out of the box functionalities and Integrating the SOAP and REST based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Working extensively in aura framework, Lightning Components and Salesforce Lightning Design System.  • Worked on writing Ant scripts for Jenkins to automate the process of Continuous integration for salesforce applications.  • Worked extensively on sales and service cloud.  • Setup Live Agent as part of case management implementation inside service cloud.  • Extensively worked on customizing case management by creating Assignment rules, Auto response and escalation rules.  • Detailed understanding of declarative functionality, workflows, triggers, visualforce, migration tools and SDLC.  • Experience working in Agile/Scrum environment.  • Web Services development OR experience with the Salesforce API (REST, SOAP, Metadata, XML, etc.)  • Experience in HTML, XML, JavaScript, and SQL.  • Experience deploying and performing advanced configuration of Salesforce Service Cloud.  • Quering Salesforce Database with SOQL & SOSL queries available in Force.Com platform.  Using ( Java-Ant based) Force.com migration tool to deploy metadata between local Sandbox  environment, Production and other Salesforce organization.  • Moving Code from Sandbox to Production using eclipse IDE and Change Sets.  Presentation on setting up Salesforce DX to creating scratch orgs and retrieving metadata API from package.xml.  • Documented salesforce Dx.  • Used Jitter bit for heavy API Integrations and Data Migration from platform to salesforce.  • Worked on setting up Continuous Integration environment for continuous deployments from developer org to production org and also for spinning up of new orgs for development and testing purposes.  • Utilizing Salesforce Lightning Experience Process Flows to automate Business process.  • Working on creating released and beta managed packages.  • Experience with supporting Service Cloud.  • The Case Management process was migrated from Oracle to Salesforce.  • Actively involved in business process analysis for Case Management and flow of case to different tiers.  • Created Environment setup plan, Migration document and checklist  • Planned testing strategy, created and signed off test-script, executed User Acceptance Test  • Created new custom objects, assigned fields, designed page layouts, custom tabs and components.  • Configured out of the box reports and dashboards as well as custom reports  • Implemented Web-to-case and Email-to-case functionalities.  • Experienced with installing, integrating and troubleshooting various managed packages into Salesforce.  • Created and managed various Lead assignment rules for more than 50 countries.  • Worked on creating various workflow rules, process builders, validation rules, duplicate rules, matching rules and Omni-routing configurations.  • Set up the integration between Google Analytics and Salesforce Sales Cloud.  • Implemented APEX Rest services and HTTP Rest Callouts.  • Implemented Batch classes and Schedulable classes to schedule the batch classes.  • Performed data export and import (ETL) for data migration into Salesforce.  • Responsible for packaging the Change Sets and deployments to various environments.  • Involved in Post-Production support activities. SFDC Developer/Admin OppenheimerFunds - New York, NY October 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developing business logic, advanced CRM capabilities and user experience on the Salesforce.com platform.  • Develop real-time and batch integrations between Salesforce.com and internal/external systems.  • Implement, enhance and support customizable third party applications for Salesforce.com platform, such as Calendar Anything, Map Anything, RIVA, and others.  • Improve and evolve existing technical processes and Propose technical solutions to business problems leveraging industry knowledge, and partner product knowledge, and thought leadership.  • Handle day to day operational questions/issues from internal clients as well as perform production support duties.  • Collaborate with the team(s) to architect and design capabilities that align with the project roadmap.  • Collaborate with delivery manager and business partners to ensure technology roadmap is in alignment with business goals.  • Play any role on the delivery team as needed to support the high performing Agile delivery model  • Defects from PROD Environment are fixed promptly within the deadlines and tested thoroughly before deployments for error free Code.  • Maintained Test Class Code Coverage above 85%.  • Worked extensively with the QA team for designing Test Plan and Test Cases for the User Acceptance testing (UAT).  • SFDC Development in implementing Apex Classes, Triggers, Visual force pages, SOQL and SOSL.  • Several function-specific modules were successfully implemented, deployed, and tested on schedule and are currently in use by a pilot group of end users.  • Maximum, error-free code coverage was achieved despite migration of code from multiple environments.  • Production issues were fixed in a timely fashion resulting in minimal business impact.  • Solutions developed are accessed via both mobile and desktop.  • Extensively used Salesforce Lightning Design Systems (SLDS) components in the Lightning Application.  • Created External data sources using Lightning connect to connect to SAP end point.  • Created Lightning Component Tabs and Visualforce Tabs.  • Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governors and Limits.  • Used SLDS and Bootstrap for the design of Lightning components.  • Created VisualForce pages that uses the lightning components.  • Technical processes used by development team have been streamlined.  • Responsible for set up of field service features according to their unique business needs. This includes installing the Field Service Lightning managed package and Field Service Lightning mobile app.  • Overcame significant complexities in data availability, consistency, and structure to produce mission-critical modules.  • Responsible for scheduling optimization for a managed package.  • Worked on core field service lightning to set Operating hours, standard appointments required for organization.  • Worked on managed package installation to integrate, maintain scheduling policies, global actions, sharing rules and optimization rules with the app.  • I helped maintain Salesforce system by consolidating requests and requirements from our different departments to configure the system.  • I assist users with the creation of reports and dashboards so that our successes and needed improvements are easily viewed and available. In addition, it is my responsibility to analyze the data from reports, interpret the results, and present it to leadership.  • My ultimate goal is to reduce errors and better the user's experience by improving processes and resolving system functionality/configuration complaints, as well as provide leadership with information they need to make strategic decisions. SFDC Developer American Express - Somerset, NJ December 2014 to August 2016 The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Manhattan's Three World Financial Center in New York City, United States  Responsibilities:    • Interacted with Business users for requirements gathering, analysis and development.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects including Accounts, Contacts, Reports, Dashboards, Events and Tasks.  • Deployed the code over sandboxes using Change set.  • Written Test Cases to check code coverage in Apex Classes and Apex triggers.  • Developed various Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, and Page Layouts and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Involved in project activities including QA, migrating to production and also improve and maintain data quality in SFDC system.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Responsible for evaluating new Salesforce releases and developing plans for their implementation.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual Force for clients and customers.  • Enabled Chatter for the Organization and effectively communicate with the users in the Organization.  • Implementation of Data Loader for loading the data.  • Developed business documents for Salesforce.com Custom objects and also maintained business and technical knowledge of Sales force and associated applications.  • Worked on different portals like Self Service Portal, Partner Portal and Customer Portal.  • Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Sales force web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Work with Business Analyst team to provide the Level of efforts for the Enhancement requests.  • Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards to better assist managers and report folder to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel.  • Involved in Agile methodology, Scrum that dramatically improved productivity and reduced errors.  • Provided training to Business user's about the system.  • Worked with Integration and web services. Integrated Salesforce with legacy systems using Apex Web services and outbound messaging.  • Participating in the full application life cycle from technical design to development, testing and deployment.  • Experience in SFDC implementations with strong expertise in Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, marketing Cloud, CPQ Tools (Apttus, Cameleon).  • Working experience in AppExchange App Development and Package Creation Experience with custom integration, Salesforce Sites, API Calls.  • Key Player in SFDC release management including Sandbox management and change set tracking.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.  • Worked extensively with the QA team for designing Test Plan and Test Cases for the User Acceptance testing (UAT).  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Provided ongoing salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow.    • Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, CPQ packages (Apptus, Cameleon), HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP, Middleware. Jr.Salesforce Admin/ Java Developer 3i Infotech Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to April 2014 3i Infotech Ltd is an IT global Information technology based in India. It was ranked 10 in the list of top Indian IT companies. It provides software products, IT services and business process outsourcing for variety of industries like insurance, banking, retail and manufacturing.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the requirements based on business data and user requirements.  • Worked on developing a web application based on Java.  • Actively involved in writing Test scripts and doing System testing for JRE and IE8 browser compatibility for my applications.  • Developed SOAP web services using Apache CXF and Axis2 framework and deployed on Tomcat.  • Developed JAX-WS web services and deployed on Web sphere Application Server  • Creating programs to use JMS and message queuing to process requests.  • Generated deployment descriptors for EJBs using XML.  • Developed GUI related changes using JSP, HTML, AJAX, JQUERY and client validations using Java script.  • Used JDBC, Hibernate to communicate with database.  • Responsible for developing the functionalities as peruse case documents.  • Responsible for writing navigation-rules and configuring managed beans in Faces-config.xml file.  • Implemented Java documentation for complete application  • Deployed the application on Tomcat server at client locations.  • Used SVN as version control system source code and other documents.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Interacted with various business team members (JAD Sessions) to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, Dashboards  • Create and Customize Custom Objects, Formula Fields, Cross Object Formulas, roll up summary fields, validation rules, dependent pick lists and complex page layouts.  • Responsible for documenting the user requirements and system design specifications.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Developed JSP, HTML, CSS and a part of presentation layer using JavaScript.  • Create complex workflows and Approval processes.  • Implemented Data segregation through Record Types and Field level security.  • Developed and maintained validation rules and custom workflow.  • Used eclipse Force.com toolkit for creating Apex Classes and Apex Triggers to develop custom logic and objects.  • Audited, uncovered and resolved data integrity issues with legacy systems.  • Complete bulk imports of data using Apex Dataloader.  • Handled large and complex data migrations from SQL and Oracle databases to SFDC using Jitterbit  • Batch reassignment of accounts and opportunities based on organizational changes.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows, Java 1.4, JSP, HTML, JSON, Java Script, AJAX, JQUERY, Struts, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse. Education Bachelor of Aeronautical Engineering in Aeronautical Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Masters in Industrial Engineering in Industrial Engineering Texas A & M Univerity Skills Apex (4 years), Html (2 years), Java (2 years), Loader (2 years), Workflow (3 years), Salesforce Admin (3 years), Salesforce, Soql, Visualforce Certifications/Licenses Salesforce.com Certified Administrator January 2017 to June 2018 Salesforce.com certified developer January 2019 to December 2019 Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce Admin  Profiles, Roles, Validation Rules, Workflow & Approvals, Visual flows, Dashboards, Reports, Chatter, Data Modeling. , Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Force.com, Eclipse IDE Plug-in    Programming/Deployment Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Linux, Changesets  Salesforce Developer  Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual force(Pages, Components & Controllers), Lightning Components, AppExchange, Communities, DocuSign, Knowledge, Force.com Sites, Integration, Apex Web Services (SOAP, REST), Force.com IDE Plug-in.    Languages C, Java, Apex, JavaScript, SQL, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JQuery library, Bootstrap, Java, C  Database Microsoft SQL Server, MS Access  Web HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, SOAP,REST  Platforms Windows, Windows Server.  Tools  Data Loader, Workbench, Eclipse IDE, Apex Data Loader, Workbench, Salesforce Import/Export Wizard, Git, GitHub, Visual Studio Code, Salesforce Dx.    Operating Systems 2003/XP/2000/NT/98/95, MS-DOS, UNIX