Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Symantec Roseland, NJ ? 8+ years of experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) phases of design, development, implementation, deployment, testing and maintenance as per quality standards using Agile, Scrum and waterfall methodologies.  ? Good Experience in Application Software Development and Design, Object Oriented, Technical Documentation, Software Testing and Debugging.  ? Excellent implementation knowledge of JDK 1.6/1.7 and 1.8, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, RESTFUL Web Services, AOP, Struts, JDBC.  ? Consumed and Exposed both REST and SOAP based webservices very good experience with SOA model.  ? Experience in RDBMS using MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL.  ? Involved in configuring, deploying applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server, BEA WebLogic Application Server, Apache Tomcat on UNIX, Linux and Windows platforms.  ? Extensive experience in Design, Development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) using Spring and Spring Boot.  ? Good experience in Database Design, writing stored procedure, functions, triggers, SQL queries.  ? Developed the code for front end using EXTJS, AngularJS, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS and JSON.  ? Good knowledge on TCP/IP tunneling and port management on cloud environments, installation of servers on cloud Unix.  ? Good experience on production support and client interaction.  ? Experience in creating build scripts using Ant and Maven also have experience in Jenkins.  ? Strong TDD (test driven development) and continuous integration experience using Selenium,JUnit, Mock Framework. Worked on Cucumber framework  ? Strong experience in developing the Restful applications on top of Spring Framework.  ? Experience leading offshore team remotely and updating status to client accordingly  ? Have good experience working with Cloud based servers and also AWS- Amazon web services  ? Experienced in remodeling and improving the performance of the applications.  ? Knowledge on Spring integration and batch file and hand on experience with Oracle SOA.  ? Strengths include good team player, self-motivated, quick learner, open to work with new technologies in a dynamic, fast-paced and deadline driven environment, excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Symantec - Mountain View, CA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications, we use SharePoint to maintain all of our design docs.  ? Followed agile software methodology for software development (3 week Sprint).  ? Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating RESTFul web services by giving JSON output to UI and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  ? Worked on Spring Security feature by securing the application by security interceptors and also worked with external entitlement services to authenticate user to access the data.  ? Understanding user stories to design and propose solution to the problems in Micro services architecture.  ? Development of Spring Microservices and Converting user stories into backend logic in service classes.  ? Worked with RedHatjBPM engine in embedded mode by creating multiple BPMN workflows and handled user tasks  ? Worked on deployments with CI/CT with Jenkins and UDeploy to build to higher environments  ? Applied AOP logic to all the Process instances and user tasks.  ? Developed email notifications batch job service using CRON scheduler by interacting with SMTP server to run nightly batches.  ? Developed multiple Controllers, Services & DAO layers to interact with data layer and developed Entity classes based on the table structure.  ? Involved in core integration to pick the file from FTP location and bring them into our staging tables and did all the validation on the java side  ? Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and also worked on applying security systems.  ? Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  ? Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience on implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  ? Leading on-shore offshore model Coordinating with Offshore team in being flexible on gathering updated from team. Work closely with Database team and testing team.  ? Worked on Jasper reports using iReport tool and integrated that JRXML into spring frame work.  ? Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database. Worked to plug this procedure in Java classes.  ? Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  ? We are using crucible while we commit code into SVN for reviewing the code.  ? Written JUnit test cases during the development phase and used assert functions to compare two objects.  ? Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more on look and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. Chase standards and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXTJS and AngularJSis being used intensively.  ? Good experience in documentation of designs and flow charts. Also worked on designing DATA Models and maintain the existing documents in share-point.    Environment: Java (JDK1.7 & 1.8), SOAP and RESTFul web services, Hibernate, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, Tomcat 7 and 8, HTML, CSS, Sencha, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, Jenkins, SVN, Maven and ANT, iReport, Crucible, Spring MVC, Micro Services,Unix, XML, TDD, PUTTY, WinSCP, Eclipse Neon1, NaviCat, SQL Developer, Toad, Cloud-Servers Sr. Java Developer Cisco, CA November 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  ? Worked with Core Java for business logic.  ? Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework.  ? Implemented JDBC for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database.  ? Created Stored Procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic according to the user's specifications.  ? Involved in analyzing, designing, implementing and testing of the project.  ? Developed UML diagrams like Use cases and Sequence diagrams as per requirement.  ? Developed the Generic Classes, which includes the frequently used functionality, for reusability.  ? Exception Management mechanism using Exception Handling Application Blocks to handle the exceptions.  ? Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, Java script, HTML and Struts framework.  ? Involved in Database design and developing SQL Queries, stored procedures on MySQL.  ? Developed Action Forms and Action Classes in Struts frame work.  ? Programmed session and entity EJBs to handle user info track and profile-based transactions.  ? Involved in writing JUnit test cases, unit and integration testing of the application.  ? Developed user and technical documentation.  ? Provide on-call support to production systems and provide analysis, troubleshooting and problem resolution  ? Involved with knowledge transfers and trainings to bring additional resources onboard.    Environment: Java, Java Script, Core Java, Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, EJB, MySQL, Junit, HTML, JSP, JDBC Drivers, UNIX, Shell scripting, SQL Server. Java Developer General Motors -MI October 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Used agile methodology to develop the application.  ? Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews.  ? Designed and developed shared library for commonly used services in the application.  ? Developed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  ? Created RESTFULL APIs using Spring MVC.  ? Worked on daemon and user threads in order to accessing multiple tasks.  ? Involved in handling the dead lock situations by using Thread Dumps  ? Used JavaScript and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and spring validation framework for backend validation for the User Interface.  ? Used both annotation based configuration and XML based  ? Implemented the design patterns like DAO, Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  ? Involved in writing service class objects that depend on the data access objects.  ? Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  ? Developed application service components and configured beans using (applicationContext.xml) Spring IOC.  ? Used Oracle Database for persisting the data.  ? Implemented persistence mechanism using Hibernate (ORM Mapping). Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects using Hibernate Annotations.  ? Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate Template support.  ? Developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate Criteria.  ? Used WebLogic workshop, Eclipse IDE to develop the application.  ? Used the SOAP Message Broker protocol to get the communication between incompatible systems  ? Performed the code build and deployment using Maven.  ? Used log4j properties for logging.  ? Involved in System and Integration Testing using JUnit.  ? Used SVN version controller to maintain the code versions.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSP, Servlets 3.0, JDBC, EJB 3.0, SOAP, AJAX, HTML, JavaScript, Multithreading, CSS 2.0, XML, XSLT, XHTML, Oracle 10g, WebLogic Portal 10.3, SQL, Oracle workshop 10.3, Eclipse 3.1, Maven, Struts 1.2, Spring 2.0, Hibernate 3.2, JUnit, log4j 1.2, SVN version Manager. Java Developer Spark Solutions PVT Ltd April 2010 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering business and functional requirements from the users.  ? Actively participated in design and technical discussions.  ? Responsibilities include analysis of these various applications, designing of the enterprise applications, co-ordination with client and offshore team, meetings with business users, functional and technical guide to the offshore team, project management.  ? Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture for an efficient implementation of the view level customizations and interfaced with the application logic.  ? Worked with the team members to create High Level design, detailed design to be implemented in Java/J2EE environment and estimate the level of effort.  ? Used Spring Framework in the application which is based on MVC design pattern and Spring Validator framework to validate the form data.  ? Worked on Data Driven Framework and MVC for Automation Test Scripts, and Extended TestNG framework by adding some helper classes and methods.  ? Used JUnit for unit testing in order to validate and run the tests.  ? Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework build using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Maven technologies under Java platform utilizing industry leading harness design patterns and approaches  ? Developed Action classes and Form beans and configured the spring-config.xml.  ? Developed JSP's, HTML that presents data to the client using JSTL and Tag Libraries.  ? Had used Value Object design pattern for exchanging data between the tiers.  ? Performed methodologies like Agile.  ? Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  ? Wrote SQL queries, modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using Oracle database.  ? Used JUNIT for debugging, testing the system state.  ? Developed various UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams.  ? Played a key role in the design and development of almost all the modules of the project  ? Prepared technical reports & documentation manuals during the program development.  ? Interacting with the users in case of technical problems & mentoring the business users.    Environment: Java 1.8, JavaScript, Hibernate, Spring, RabbitMQ, AGILE Methodology, SCRUM, JSP, Servlet, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Java Beans, JBOSS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Backbone, Design Patterns, Log4J, JUnit, SVN, Selenium IDE, Web Driver, MS Sql. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (8 years), SPRING (8 years), HTML (8 years), SQL (8 years), JUNIT (8 years), Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Rest, Hibernate, Angular Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Java (JDK [ ] C/C++, UNIX Shell Scripting, Visual Basic 6, PL/SQL, C#  Project Methodologies: SDLC, Waterfall and Agile  Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Sun Solaris, Linux (Fedora/Ubuntu), Mac OSX  Web Technologies: HTML, EXTJS, AngularJS, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, XML, XSLT, XPATH, XSL, CSS, JSON  J2EE Technologies: JSP, JDBC, XSD, JAXB, JAX-WS, SOA, SOAP, WSDL  Web/Application Servers: Web Logic Server, Web Sphere Application Server, Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP Server, IBM HTTP Server, JBoss  RDBMS: Oracle (8i/9i/10g), SQL Server 4.8, DB2 8.1, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, iBatis, EXTjs, AngularJS and Struts, Mockito for unit testing, jBPM  Web Services: SOAP, RESTful, Oracle SOA  DB Tools: MySQLWorkbench, TOAD, SQL Developer 3.x, Naci CAT, PuTTY  IDEs: Eclipse Neon1, RAD, NetBeans, RSA  Design Tools: Photoshop, BPMN  Testing Tools: JUnit, Log4J,Mock Framework, Cucumber  Build Scripts: Maven, Ant and Jenkins  Version Controllers: SVN, CVS, ClearCase and GIT