Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer - Nielsen Arlington, TX ? Having almost 3+ years of IT experience and technical proficiency in Java/J2EE technologies, Micro services, AWS, CI/CD and Junit.  ? Expertise in Core java concepts including Collections, Exception Handling, Multi- Threading, Generics, data structures and algorithms.  ? Expertise in cloud and developing Restful microservices and deployment in the AWS Cloud using spring boot and spring cloud.  ? Designed and developed application using Spring Frameworks (Spring IOC), Spring DAO.  ? Experience in working on agile methodology and used Jira as agile tool, actively participated in scrum meetings.  ? Experience in end-to-end development and migrating the application to Cloud using the Amazon web services (AWS) availing various services of AWS like EC2, S3.  ? Good knowledge on javascripts like node.js, react.js.  ? Good understanding of front end technologies of angular 4.  ? Extensive knowledge with SQL working with Oracle, My-SQL, Postgres and PLSQL.  ? Having good understanding on network protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS and JMS Messaging Services.  ? Proficient in using J2EE Frame-works: Hibernate, Spring Boot Technologies.  ? Experience in web front-end development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and client-side MVC frameworks.  ? Experience in database development and writing SQL/PL-SQL scripts for the scheduler jobs and JSON.  ? Familiarity with Jira, Confluence, Bitbucket, GitHub and GIT clients.  ? Expertise in writing and executing Unit Test cases using JUNIT testing framework.  ? Experience working with MAVEN as Build tool, log4j for logging and Eclipse for IDE.  ? Experience in deploying and configuring application servers such as Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  ? Good experience in Big-Data Hbase API and CRUD on NoSQL Hbase tables and testing the applications.  ? Strong analytical skills with good interpersonal and communication skills.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the new emerging technologies. Work Experience Java developer Nielsen - Arlington, TX June 2017 to Present Project: SSR  SSR is a syndicated content rating for the media and deals with providing the best quality media asset through the Qualification Process. This Process involves in capturing the media events from the clients and start processing the Streaming of the Media.  Responsibilities:  ? Determine operational feasibility by evaluating analysis, problem definition, requirements, solution development, and proposed solutions.  ? Prepares and install solutions by determining and designing system specifications, standards and programming.  ? Design, develop, and support of high-volume applications using Java/J2EE, JSON, Spring Boot, Hibernate and XML technologies.  ? Work on API'S, messaging, middleware, Restful microservices using Spring boot (SOAP, REST).  ? Developed and migrate the microservices to the Amazon Web Services cloud computing.  ? Supports the Integration and User Acceptance testing phases, debug and provide fixes on time to the bugs raised by testing team and write test cases using JUNIT frame work.  ? Develops automated deployment using ansible and integrating YAML with the Jenkins job.  ? Work on Hadoop technologies using the Hbase DB as a persistent layer  ? Developing micro-services using spring boot and spring cloud technologies.  ? Worked on Test Driven Development (TDD) using Junit for writing test cases.  ? Accomplish engineering and organization mission by completing related results as needed.  ? Engaged in gathering and analyzing, understanding requirements identifying various individual logical components, expressing the system design through UML diagrams.  ? Customized RESTful Web Service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  ? Actively participated in SCRUM to discuss about the status of the tasks and project in Agile Methodology.    Environment: Java8, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, Angular JS, JQuery, JavaScript, JSF, Servlet, XML, JUnit, REST API, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring IO, Spring Security, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, Web logics, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, Log4j, Junit and Agile. AWS migration Java Developer Lnt Infotech - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2016 to December 2016 Project: Johnson Controls  JCI creates most productive data in securable platform and more reliable for design, implement and tests an enterprise cloud application. JCI enhances customer convenience through anywhere with advanced Javascript concepts and updated testing tools.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development, design and implementation of front-end part widget-based application.  ? Involved in client-side tooling and testing & development with Bootstrap, HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Developed Application in Spring Framework using MVC architecture.  ? Used Java Messaging Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  ? Implemented AWS IAM for managing the credentials of applications that run on EC2 instances.  ? Used Spring boot for developing the Restful Microservices in JSON format and deployed in the AWS Cloud.  ? Migrating the application to Cloud environment using the Amazon web services- EC2, S3 and various services of AWS.  ? Designed and Developed SOAP and Rest clients to interact with third party applications.  ? Developed Hibernate Mapping files and DAO components for interacting with DB components  ? Created and Implemented Restful Web Services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and Non- Java applications.  ? Implementation using JBOSS ESB, Java 8, Spring, JAXB, Hibernate, Oracle Database Maven.    Environment: JDK1.8, Spring MVC 3.2, JSF2.0, Hibernate 4.2, Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, HTML 5, CSS 3, XSLT, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS2, Web Services (REST, SOAP), Unix, LINUX, Node.js, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, SQL Server 2008/20120, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, XML, JBOSS 6.3, Eclipse, Maven. Java developer Lnt Infotech - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2015 to April 2016 Project: Electronic medical Record System  Electronic medical records system (EMS) is basically a digital record storing system comprises of a person's individual medical datum. This system supervises how patients measure up to certain parameters, such as vaccinations and blood pressure readings, preventive visits and screenings.  I had involved in complete automatization process of administrative process, such as scheduling systems. I had also worked on Patient module in which patient can have the access to his/her health records along with the family members of the concerned apart from the various health related links.    Responsibilities: Education Master's in computer science in computer science University of Mary Hardin Baylor December 2018 Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Git, Javascript, Jenkins, Tomcat, Web server, Web services, Weblogic, Database, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql, Pl/sql