Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack java developer Maryland City, MD ? Worked on Java applications using Spring Boot.  ? Worked with Oracle and Sql DB  ? Exposure to AWS for deployment with CI/CD pipeline  ? Used Spring Boot for production ready applications  ? Used Maven as build tool.  ? Exposure on Angular 4 for couple of months  ? Excellent Analytical, Communication and Interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer DHS - Maryland City, MD January 2018 to Present Project:  The Long term care project for the public and case workers is being put into online system -to avoid duplication.  So the data collected from the public is written as Consumer Portal using Angular and Services is written using Spring framework and Hibernate and data is being moved from Sql to ETL Big data. Worker Portal is created similarly for the case workers to decide the public data and allocate the benefits. I worked in both front end and back end of the project, using Angular, Spring and Hibernate and Rest Web Services.    Responsibilities:  • Coordinate with Development/programing new functionality and features in line with functional specifications and business requirements.  • Develop core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using Spring framework  • Designed and developed REST service interface using Spring Boot to the underlying customer event API.  • Developed Hibernate mapping files and migrated portions of data to MongoDB.  • Used AWS technology for hosting the production information system in the Cloud.  • 6 months experience in Angular 4 and Knowledge of Microservices implementation    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Framework 2.0, Spring Boot, Hibernate, REST, Hibernate, MongoDB Full Stack Java Developer Wells Fargo Inc April 2015 to January 2017 1.5 years)    Project:  There was a self service portal for the internal Employees for their details and also the list of cache used by each department .IBM cache was used and Tibco Solace Migration was being done.Qlikview was also involved for reporting.I was involved in the development part involving the Java and Spring framework to develop the website.  And in the migration of website from Javascript to Angular .and in the rest web services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers.  • Involved in developing stored procedures and Triggers on Oracle 10g.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  • Handled production support of the application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring MVC, JDBC, Oracle 10g Java Developer Porometer Services, NY February 2014 to April 2015 Project  The mechanical instruments were being controlled by micro controller and the software programming. I was involved in developing the software which controlled the instruments. The software was developed using JavaSwing and Javascript and back end was in Spring connected to internal database.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Service client interface with files for invoking the methods using REST.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Developed Maven Profiles for the build process and deployed in the server.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Prepared technical reports & documentation manuals during the program development.  • Used GitHub for version control.    Environment: JDK 1.6, Spring, Oracle 10g, Maven, Log4j, Web Services Programmer Analyst Cognizant Technology Solutions - IN February 2010 to August 2011 1.5 years)    Project:  The PayPal was the client and I was involved in PayPal 2.0 release, which involved the buyer protection by giving them 14 days to pay and it covered the seller side. This feature was part of the release in Aug 2011.I was involved in developing modules/pages when the user logs in and then deciding if user is eligible for the feature and then showing him the benefit and taking to a separate module where the user signs up for the feature and updating the user with this feature in the consequent transactions.It was developed using Java/J2EE and the SQL database and JDBC connections was involved.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using Java technology.  • Involved in developing stored procedures and Triggers on Oracle 10g.  • Handled production support of the application.    Environment: JAVA 1.6, J2EE, Spring, PL/Sql, Oracle. Education MS in Computer Science State University of NewYork August 2011 to December 2013 BE Anna University 2005 to 2009 Skills J2EE (3 years), Java (5 years), MongoDB. (1 year), Oracle (3 years), Sql (2 years), Hibernate, Spring, Angular2 (Less than 1 year), MVC, Java J2Ee, JSP, JEE, Angularjs, Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills:  Java Technologies Java, J2EE  IDE Eclipse, IdeaJ  Build Tools Maven    Methodologies Agile, Scrum  Protocols HTTP/HTTPS  Databases Oracle, Sql, MongoDB  Application Servers Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0  Platforms Windows, Unix/ Linux