Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Boston, MA • Expertise in front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript (ES5 & ES6), Typescript,  Angular 2/4/6, NgRx, React, Redux, JQuery, C3 JS and NodeJS.  • Professional understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), as well as various phases  such as Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Planning, Documentation, Development and  Testing.  • Hands on experience with Responsive Web Application design for different devices like tablets  and mobiles using Bootstrap and CSS Media Queries.  • Expertise in JavaScript coding and concepts like closures, promises and prototypal inheritance.  • Hands on experience in designing and developing Single Page Applications using Angular 2/4.  • Expertise in creating Angular 4 Components, Services, Modules, Templates, Data Binding, Routing  and navigation.  • Having good proficiency on NgRx, RxJS powered state management for Angular application  inspired by Redux to achieve consistency with simplicity.  • Expertise in building events, controllers and custom directives in AngularJS making use of  Modules and Filters according to the application requirement.  • Working knowledge on dynamic data visualization using C3 JS.  • Good knowledge of using JavaScript testing frameworks like Protractor, Jasmine and Karma for  E2E and Unit testing.  • Used NPM package manager, Webpack module bundler and TSLint to ensure code quality.  • Experience working with Hugo a static site generator, to develop multiple static html pages  quickly.  • Experience working Scrum environment of Agile Methodology for development.  • Expertise in using source code control system GIT and project management tool JIRA.  • Worked with diverse team of product owners and UX designers in fast paced environment, with  quick iterative cycles.  • Ability to learn and evaluate new tools, concepts, and challenges quickly.  • Self-motivated team player with excellent interpersonal and communicational skills. Work Experience Java Developer ThingSpace, Verizon, Waltham - MA - Waltham, MA August 2017 to Present Description: ThingSpace IoT Platform Portal, allows developer community and entrepreneurs to access    Cell# 732-790-5581     and embed ThingSpace APIs into the application they develop. This end-to-end platform simplifies the model for IoT - making it easier, faster and more accessible to develop IoT apps. The project involves  various modules like Device Management, Application Management, Resource Management, Multi- Tenant Module, Device Models, Device Certificates, ODS Module etc. The modules I have worked on are  Multi-Tenant, Operational-Device Security and currently I am working on Migration of user from WSO2 to IDM SSO.    Challenges/ Highlights:  • Got opportunity to work on two different projects with two most popular JS libraries/  frameworks i.e. Angular and React with NodeJS on the backend.  • Architected and built 'Down Time' application using NodeJS to move PORTAL application to maintenance mode to handle any planned/ unplanned outages efficiently.  • Built automation test scripts using Jasmine, Karma and Protractor frameworks.    Responsibilities:  • Developed ThingSpace IoT Platform Portal, which is a web application that allows developer  community and entrepreneurs to access and embed ThingSpace APIs into the application they  develop.  • Worked on various portals under ThingSpace account like ThingSpace V2 Portal, Admin Portal, Support Portal and Unified Portal.  • Designed and developed Single Page Application for ThingSpace portal using JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular4, HTML5, CSS3 and SCSS, Bootstrap, C3 JS.  • Worked on Admin and Support portals using React JS, Redux and NodeJS, ExpressJs.  • Used ES6 and JSX with react for component development. Used Babel to compile JSX and ES6  into JavaScript.  • Used React Router to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific  views and synchronize data with server.  • Utilized React-Redux Action Creators, create Store from redux library to connect reducers and containers, to update the state and virtual DOM and wrote store unit tests.  • Worked on Unified portal using Hugo, static site generator to generate multiple HTML pages and integrated with Angular components to generate dynamic features (like Sign In/Sign Up, update  Profile, Change Password etc.).  • Involved in creating responsive web pages based on Business Requirements using Bootstrap and styling using CSS3 for enhancing the look and feel of webpages.  • Used CSS preprocessor SASS to make CSS more efficient.  • Implemented Session Management, using ng-idle to handle user's idle state and respond based  on user's activity using GO as backend.  • Led the design and development of the Account Management module, implemented features  like user invitation, role/attribute-based access control, single/multi-tenant support, etc.  • Worked on ODS - Operational Device Security, to enhance device security using profiles and groups.  • Used C3 JS for data visualizations of number of devices with security alerts, firewall activation  and firewall violations.  • Worked on E2E testing using Protractor framework.  • Greatly involved in writing unit tests for this application using Jasmine-Karma framework.  • Worked with Bamboo to run tests and deploy to production.  • Extensively used TSLint to ensure that the project adheres to a coding standard.  • Worked closely with business system analysts understand the requirements to ensure that right  set of UI modules been built.  • Played key role in Agile environment. Participated in daily Scrum standup meeting and bi-weekly  agile iteration planning meeting (IPM).  • Used Bitbucket for version control, Jira for project management, Confluence for document  sharing and Bamboo for CI/CD. Java Developer Hotel Reservation Solutions, Travel Click, Piscataway - NJ - Piscataway, NJ August 2016 to July 2017 Description:  Travel Click provides innovative solutions for hotels to maximize their revenue by knowing, acquiring, converting and retaining the customers around the globe. The focus of Travel Click is to support their  customers by providing efficient business intelligence, travel marketing and reservations management  tools.  The main scope of Hotel Reservation Solutions is to redesign the entire application with Angular2. The  project involves various modules like Online Booking, Guest Management, Activities Booking, Payment  Processing, Revenue Management and Multiple Rate Plans. The modules I have worked on were Online  Booking and Activities Booking.    Challenges/ Highlights:  • Successfully delivered coupon management system module.  • Built automation test scripts using JavaScript.    Responsibilities:  • Developed fully functional responsive modules based on Business Requirements using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux, Express, NodeJS.  • Created reusable UI components to render view pages using ReactJS along with Redux.  • Worked on Lifecycle methods, State, Props, Keys, Refs and Events to create interactive and stateful react components.  • Utilized React-Redux Action Creators, create Store from redux library to connect reducers and containers, to update the state and virtual DOM.  • Implemented React-Express-Middleware for rending components and routing.  • Managed projects with Web pack and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript  latest version of libraries based on running in the NodeJS environment.  • Used ECMA script 6 with ReactJS and used BABEL to transpile the code to ECMAscript5.  • Created the schema and wrote middleware to store the data on Mongoose, MongoDB.  • Mainly responsible for developing Restful API using spring framework. Developed different  controllers that return the response both in JSON and XML based on the request type.  • Processed JSON data from RESTful web services by using Ajax to get resources from the database  and populated data to the client side.  • Used Bamboo for continuous integration and continuous deployment pipeline.  • Used GIT as version control tool to update work progress and attended daily Scrum sessions. Java Developer FlipKart - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to August 2015 Description:  FlipKart is an Indian e-commerce company that provides customers with wide range of products such as mobiles, fashion, electronics, home appliances, jewelry, books, furniture, home and sporting goods.  Developed order tracking module which helps customers to track their order precisely, also generates  automated relevant alerts and recommendations according to the customer purchases.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies  and design of the project.  • Designed and developed User Interface using CSS3, HTML4.01 and JavaScript.  • Designed user-friendly navigation to display various sections of data using jQuery.  • Used AngularJS to create maintainable and testable Single Page Application and implemented  two-way data binding and used ng-filters across the applications.  • Worked on Responsive Design to make website Responsive for Desktop and Tablets.  • Debugging webpages with firebug and fixing issues.  • Followed Agile and Scrum development methodologies. Education Master's Skills HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript (ES5 & ES6), Typescript, Angular 2/4/6, NgRx, React, Redux, JQuery, C3 JS and NodeJS. (6 years)