Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Aptiv Automotive Solutions San Francisco Bay Area, CA • Around 6 years of experience building high-quality applications for a multitude of diverse clientsin core Java and Java EE software development. Solid background with algorithm and data structure.  • Extensive IT experience in server-side development, distributed software architecture, object-oriented design, messaging middleware and relational databases.  • Experienced in the development, implementation, and maintenance of web and distributed Enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Solid Java OOP programming skills like multi-threading, class loading, generics.  • Expertise in server-side development with JDBC, Servlets, Java Beans, RMI.  • Expertise in working with Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Data Structures, Exception Handling, and Serialization.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like MongoDB  • Experience with Virtualization/containerization using Docker containers  • Experience in MVC architecture, Spring framework, J2EE Design Patterns, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Java Server Faces and Hibernate.  • Used and working with RESTful web services.  • Working knowledge of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 2 and AJAX.  • Familiar with UI components such as Popup Dialog, ViewPager, Button, TextView, ImageView, Gallery, ListView, GridView, and CardView.  • Skilled in analyzing and defining solutions to increase efficiencies and reduce redundancy  • Specialize in Enterprise Application Integration and Agile Methodologies.  • Team player with good communication, interpersonal and analytical skills Work Experience Java Developer Aptiv Automotive Solutions - Mountain View, CA March 2018 to Present Worked on Hardware-In-Loop and Software-In-Loop project for customer Audi and BMW    • Used OOAD Technology, classes are designed in UML with the help of Rational Rose.  • Used Spring MVC framework to build RESTful web services.  • Developed and deployed business logic using Session Beans and Servlets.  • Created web pages and client side validations using HTML5 and CSS3 and JavaScript, AJAX, JSP.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Implemented core Java code with data structures and algorithms to the back-end.  • Involved in debugging the application.  • Used Maven to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  • Created custom exception classes to display appropriate error messages.  • Used JUnit for white box testing of the application. Created test conditions/test data.  • Used Log4j for logging errors and publishing logging information to various destinations.  • Used Jenkins for continuous deployment.  • Developed the system interface with web services and JMS    Technologies: Java, J2EE, Spring Boot, JSP, HTML, Hibernate, JQuery, JMS, UML, JUnit, Jenkins, Unix, Git. Java Developer Aptiv Automotive Solutions - Mountain View, CA January 2017 to March 2018 Worked on Project Management Portal provides holistic views of ongoing projects.    • Used Spring MVC framework to build RESTful web services.  • Participated in various stages of the project life cycle, mainly design, implementation testing, deployment and enhancement of the application  • Developed complex RESTful web services using Spring framework for extracting product and warranty information.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets.  • Development of persistent components using Hibernate 3.0.  • Optimized the data model objects with core Java code.  • Wrote SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures and modifications to an existing database  • Combined HttpClient and JWTs implement app authentication  • Embedded an online chat in the web application with Node.js  • Developed service side Service of the mobile and web application with Node.js and Express  • Used MongoDB to store JSON format information  • Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  • Used Jenkins for CI and deployment.  • Developed content management system interface with Java API    Technologies: Java, J2EE, Spring, JSP, HTML, Hibernate, JQuery, MongoDB, JUnit, Jenkins, Unix, Git. Java Developer Honeywell Technology Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2013 to December 2016 Worked on the development of Honey Comb and Whiteboard Broadcast applications.    • Participated in various stages of the project life cycle, mainly design, implementation testing, deployment and enhancement of the application  • Developed complex RESTful web services using Spring framework for extracting product and warranty information.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets.  • Optimized the data model objects with core Java code.  • Wrote SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures and modifications to an existing database  • Combined HttpClient and JWTs implement app authentication  • Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  • Used Jenkins for CI and deployment.  • Developed content management system interface with Java API    Technologies: Java, J2EE, EJB, jQuery, JavaScript, Spring, Hibernate, Jenkins, XML, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Anna University Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, jQuery Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: Java, Javascript, SQL  Web: HTML(HTML5), CSS(CSS3), JavaScript, jQuery, Servlet  Web Service: RESTFUL, XML, JSON  Web-APP SERVER: Tomcat, Weblogic, WebSphere  Frameworks:Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate  Databases: MS SQL, Oracle, DB2  Tools: UML, Eclipse, Tomcat  Version Control: GIT  Platforms: Windows, Linux, Mac OS