Senior java developer Senior <span class="hl">java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Devops engineer Bothell, WA • 8 years of experience working with both frontend and backend based Java/J2EE enterprise application development.  • Extensively worked in Core Java coding and object-oriented design with strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading and Event/Exception handling.  • Extensive experience in application development using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JMS, Spring 4.0, Struts 1.X/2.0, Spring Boot and Microservices, Hibernate 4.0 ORM.  • Experience working with both SOAP and REST Webservices.  • Implemented REST based microservices using Spring framework, Eureka (Service discovery mechanism) and Jersey API. Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the services.  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  • Consumed SOAP services in the application using WSDL's to get data from other services of the client.  • Used Maven for dependency management and build purposes and Jenkins for continuous builds and deployments on WebSphere Application Server  • Experience working with NoSQL Database  • Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Expertise in developing single page applications using JavaScript, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3  • Hands on experience in producing/consuming web services - REST, SOAP, WSDL  • Excellent work experience with writing SQL queries, Store Procedures for major Relational Databases DB2, Oracle 10g/9i and MS SQL Server.  • Wrote configuration files to integrate hibernate with spring framework.  • Used J2EE and Enterprise design patterns like MVC, front controller, business delegate, data access object, value object etc.  • Managing production issues in terms of software deliveries and overnight activates  • Experience in Design and development of Internet/Intranet applications using JAVA/Struts/Spring/JSP/Servlets/JDBC/ Hibernate.  • Consulted and provided direct support with clients using a wide variety of applications  • Resolved a history of problematic data storage issues leading to increased productivity  • Development and maintenance of all technical documentation  • Experience writing angular.js code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules.  • Extensive experience with AngularJS, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Extensive experience on modern front-end template frameworks for JavaScript including Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS etc.  • Good experience in Core Java concepts like JavaBeans, Collections Frameworks etc.  • Familiar with Taglibs and other important directives to provide functionality to the JSP pages  • Expertise on all of the Object-Oriented Programming concepts (Inheritance, Encapsulation and Polymorphism).  • Experience working with agile methodology implementations like Daily scrum meetings, sprint planning's, resource planning, etc.  • Good Knowledge and experience in using J2EE Application Servers such as IBM WebSphere (WAS), Oracle WebLogic, WildFly (JBoss). And IDE's like Eclipse and Net Beans for Application development.  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process  • Used ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) for log metrics of the deployed Java Applications.  • Expertise in using IDE's like Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse, for development.  • Worked with various version control tools like Microsoft VSS, CVS, Rational Clear Case, SVN (Sub Version), GitHub.  • Experience in implementing web based projects using Web/Application Servers such as Web Logic 12c(12.2.1), Apache Tomcat 6/7/8, and IBM Web Sphere 7.  • Hands on experience with J2EE design patterns.  • Good experience in process like RUP, Agile Scrum and Test-driven methodologies.  • Good initiator, quick learner and excellent team-player with strong personal and group communication skills. Work Experience Senior java developer Verizon - Dallas, TX March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and Production phases of the application.  • Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based Webservices using Spring REST API.  • Setting up Angular 2 framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery 1.1.0, JSON, and Java Script.  • Developing custom HTML elements using angular js directives.  • Developed controllers, view/partials and directives for application.  • Developed the backend application using Spring Framework and with concepts of Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP and Spring REST.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Concurrency API.  • Developed unit and integration tests for spring services using Junit  • Development of Client Side Validation techniques using Web RTC and JQuery and Angular Java Script  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum.  • Developed application using UI technologies such as HTML 5, CSS 3, TypeScript, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Web pack, Angular 2.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Used ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) for log metrics and analytics of the deployed Java Applications.  • Implemented the project in agile scrum methodologies environment.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file.  • Evaluated system performance and validated NoSQL solutions.  • Created / updated Information and Virtual Tech problem tickets. Created / updated documents  • Used Maven and configured POM file in building and managing application.  • Used Jenkins as a primary tool for implementing the CI/CD during code releases.  • Worked with spring based JUnit framework for writing JUnit tests and integration tests.  • Configured and customized logs using SLF4J and Apache Commons Logging.  • Used JUNIT to perform unit testing and develop test cases.  • Maintained the code base using SVN version control system.  • Actively involved in all the status calls with management and demos with business personnel Used GitHub for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team.  • Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: Java 1.8, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, Spring 3.x, Spring Boot, Microservices, Spring MVC/JDBC, Maven, Jenkins, XML, WebLogic 10, Hibernate, AWS, GitHub, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2., Elastic search, NoSQL Senior java developer Barclays - New York, NY September 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Design, Development and System Testing.  • Worked on Apache Axis 2.0 frame to implement SOAP based web services and used SOAP UI to test the services.  • Worked heavily on concurrency API to increase the throughput of the batch application.  • Design classes in backend to process various requests from front end and to generate responses using Servlets, core java and PL/SQL.  • Assisted in updating the production incident reports and submitting a summary to management each month.  • Extensively used Core Java for writing business logic and Helper Classes.  • Worked on JUnit and SOAP UI for testing the written java classes.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to be able to integrate the software with the Oracle database backend.  • Deployed applications using WebSphere Application Server and Used IDE RAD (Rational Application Developer).  • Utilized Cassandra, NOSQL database management system for keeping user generated data by upgrading of Couch base and Cassandra cluster.  • Design UI screens using JSP, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery Angular js and HTML5.  • Developed custom directives and Services in AngularJS.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations.  • Leveraged angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Developed UI part of the application applications using Angular JS, JavaScript, Ajax and CSS, HTML 5, jQuery.  • Used Hibernate to improve the application throughput, and created the mappings to fit the existing table structure.  • Developed, deployed and maintained Single Sign On application in development and test environments.  • Transaction Management was handled by Spring Framework at the service layer.  • Developed and consumed REST Webservices. Used Postman and Advanced rest client to test web services. Developed both xml and Json request and responses using REST.  • Wrote stored procedures, Packages, Views, Cursors, Functions and triggers using SQL & PL/SQL.  • Developed Restful Web Service API's produce XML/JSON as per the business requirements.  • Extensively used Spring IOC and used Spring MVC framework to develop the application.  • Lifecycle management of Java objects, done mainly via Spring Dependency Injection.  • Sanity testing of web services using SOAP UI tool to validate request and response xml's for REST and SOAP web services.  • Worked with Maven and involved in creating JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Involved in the Maintenance and Support of the System.    Environment: J2EE 1.3, Java 1.7, Spring, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, SOAP Webservices, IBM WebSphere application server, JMS, HTML, XML, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Jenkins, Maven, JavaScript, Junit, Elastic search, NoSQL MongoDB, Angular JS java developer Capgemini - IN November 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications and Development of the Application.  • Co-ordinates the offshore team in various phases of application.  • Prepared the JUnit test cases, Integration scenarios to test the implementation.  • Performed the design review, code review and test case review.  • Used Spring IOC to get the dependencies and look up business objects.  • Created mapping files using Hibernate.  • Involved in handling Hibernate as part of DB connectivity and persistence as ORM tool and writing HQL queries.  • Written Data access logic using Hibernate.  • Widely resolved angular scope issues.  • Developed Angular factories, and used angular promise api for making async calls.  • Used angular and CSS 3 for developing UI layers  • Implemented design patterns like Data Access Objects and Value Objects/Data Transfer Objects (DTO) to transfer data between different tiers of the application to decrease the network traffic when invoking remote objects.  • Worked on setting up and integrating the registration servlet application in WebSphere 6.1 application server with the back ends.  • Developed application using Eclipse IDE and deployed in Web Sphere application server.  • Communicated between different applications using JMS.  • Responsible for main module of the Hibernate 3.0 including all the key Hibernate features such as session support, transaction management, object caching or HQL.  • Worked on developing user interfaces for member portal using JSP and JSTL, and converted the request parameters from user interfaces into XML format.  • Using Team Track tool to keep track of the application bugs as well as to coordinate with the Testing team.  • Closely worked with team members in assembling, binding and deploying J2EE components on WebSphere server and Converted business logic methods in to Apache CXF web service (SOAP).  • Written the WSDL files to implement the Web Service.  • Involved in low level designing in JTAusing Rational Rose.  • Worked with production management to identify issues and create a summary issues report each week.  • Involved in Mapping of class files with database using hibernate files.  • Created Soap Web Service using WSDL file.  • Used SOAP Web services for Consuming 3rd Parties to retrieve Customer information.  • Used Framework tool generating XSD and WSDL and validating using XMLSPY.  • Extensively used xml for communicating between external parties and for consuming the Web services using AXIS mechanism.  • Created the war file and deploying in application server.  • Experience in Maven build tool and expertise in testing tools like JUnit 4.x.  • Retrieved the xml and traversed the xml using SOAP.  • Resolved production issues while deploying the application and provided the production support while the application is in UAT.    Environment: Java 1.4, WebSphere Server, JMS, Web services, Rational Application Developer 7.0, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Oracle, Log4J, XML, CXF, Jenkins, Maven Systems Engineer TCS - IN September 2009 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Documented use cases, functional requirements based on the A&D using UML.  • Analyzed and modified existing code wherever required and Responsible for gathering, documenting and maintaining business and systems requirements, and developing designs document.  • Incorporated Design Patterns like MVC, DAO and OOP.  • Implemented Hibernate instead of traditional JDBC code.  • Designed the applications using Struts MVC for easy maintainability.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Writing front-end code like HTML, CSS, jQuery for assigned User requirements  • Coordinate with tier 2 and tier 3 java production support assistants and prepare compiled reports of issues reported through telephone and e-mail  • Developing the application using Struts and Spring based frameworks.  • Actively involved in designing and implementing the application using various design patterns  • Coordinating with clients and closing production issues relating to software development  • Identifying and Evaluate Technology Solutions, Problem Solving and Troubleshooting  • Done with Server-side validations using Struts Validation framework  • Used Struts-config.xml file for defining Mapping Definitions and Action Forward Definitions.  • Design and Development of business objects, data objects, view objects and helper classes.  • Wrote Operations and corresponding handlers to communicate with Oracle database  • Designed database schema and written queries to store and retrieve data from the databases  • Working closely with QA team and coordinating on fixes  • Used Subversion (SVN) for version control.  • Added logging and debugging capabilities using Log4j and using SVN.  • Make sure the quality of code using PMD & Find Bugs  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Worked with the Quality Assurance team in fixing the defects.  • Supported the applications through debugging, fixing and maintenance releases.  • Involved in the Maintenance and Code changes from existing code, Support of the System.  • Involved in the configuration management using SVN.  • Created several Exception classes to catch the error for a bug free environment and orderly logged the whole process using Log4j, which gives the ability to pinpoint the errors.  • Analyzed web applications, documented detail Test plans, Test cases and expected results based on the business functional requirements.  • Worked on designing and development of db2 tables & stored procedures.    Environment: Struts 1.2, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, ANT, Rational Rose, UML, Eclipse, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, EJB 2.0, SVN, Log4j., Jenkins, Maven Skills CSS (7 years), JAVA (7 years), XML (7 years), AJAX (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java (J2SE 1.8/1.7/1.6/1.5, JEE 6/5), J2EE , C, C++, UML2.0, Data structures  J2EE Technologies Servlets2.x/3.x, JSP2.1/2.0/1.2, EJB3.0/2.1, JDBC, JSTL, JSF, Web Services (SOAP, REST) SOA,  Monitoring tool Elastic search  Web Technologies HTML5/XHTML1.1, XML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, Angular 2, JavaScript,  Java Frameworks Springs, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit4.x, Log4J  Messaging Systems JMS  Application/Web Servers IBM Web Sphere8.x/7.x/6.x, Apache Tomcat7.x/6.x, Web Logic, JBoss 7.0  Databases RDMS: SQL Server, MySql5.1/4.1/, DB2 9.1/8.1/7.2, Oracle12/c/11g/10g, NoSQL  Development Tools Eclipse3.2/3.0/2.1.1, NetBeans3.3  Version Control Subversion, GIT  DevOps tools Jenkins, Maven, Ant    Operating Systems Windows, Unix and Linux