Sr. Java AWS Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java AWS Developer - Owing mills, MD Owings Hills, MD • Around 8 years of experience as Java/J2EE developer in analysis, development, implementation of web based and stand-alone applications with experience in planning, designing, developing and 1 year of college Experience.  • Implementation in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud and IT industry.  • Experience in core AWS (Amazon Web Services) services like (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, DevOps Works and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, Cloud watch and Cloud trail).  • Experience with Troubleshooting AWS EC2 instances for Status check through System Status checks and Instance Status checks alerts and maintained S3 buckets, VPC (Virtual Private Cloud), ELB (Elastic Load Balancers), and RDS (Relational Database Services).  • Strong expertise in leading local and off-shore teams. Sound knowledge on TestNG framework for Unit testing, Maven for Project building tool, Jenkins for Continuous Integration.  • Highly proficient in using frameworks like Spring Struts, JSF, Hibernate and Design Patterns such as MVC, Session Façade, Front Controller, Data Access Object (DAO), Value Object, Singleton, factory, abstract factory, Service Locator for executing multi-tier, highly scalable, component based, services driven Enterprise Java applications.  • Experience in using J2EE Application Servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere.  • Experienced using web technologies such as HTML, HTML5, XHTML, DOM, CSS, CSS3, Typescript, JavaScript, JQuery UI, Ajax, Cordova, Angular.js, React.js, and Bootstrap.js.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and Struts.  • Hands on experience on Docker and container technologies for building Micro service-based applications.  • Strong experience with CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies with Jenkins.  • Expert in deploying the code trough web application servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic/Apache Tomcat, and JBOSS.  • Expertise in Client Side Designing and Validations using various technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ECMA Script, MS FrontPage, JSP, Struts Tag Library, JSTL.  • Hands on experience with Test Driven Development (TDD) methodologies.  • Experienced in developing applications using Agile (XP, SCRUM), Test Driven methodologies and good understanding of Service oriented architecture (SOA)  • Hands on experience with Version control systems like Visual Source Safe, GIT and SVN.  • Experienced with JEE application packaging & deploying EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production servers using Maven, Ant and CI servers like Jenkins.  • Experienced with Core Java concepts such as Serialization, IO, Multithreading, Collections, Concurrency and Exception Handling.  • Experience in working with different use cases for Elasticsearch  • Experience in implementing efficient search query algorithms to implement business needs.  • Extensive experience in developing web interfaces using Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JSF, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands on experience in working on XML Suite of technologies (XML, XSD, DTD, XML Schema, DOM, SAX).  • Expertise and Hands on Development of microservices (more than 50) using Spring boot, Spring  • Good experience in setup, configuration & implementation of Mongo Database clusters.  • Designed and developed SOAP and Restful web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX_WS, JAX-RS, CXF, AXIS, JERSEY, REST Template and SOAP UI.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS for SPA development.  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring Boot.  • Implemented RESTful web services using spring boot, Spring RESTFUL template, JPA, Cloud foundry. Work Experience Sr. Java AWS Developer Owing mills, MD June 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing components on Reporting Dashboard with Spring MVC, Spring boot, Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Involved in developing JUNIT Test Cases to validate the type of data in the XML Files. Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Hands on experience on REST based web services using JAX-RS library. Customized Restful Web Service using Spring Restful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Java 8(Streams), multi-threading, and object-oriented designs.  • Hands on experience using Apache Tomcat as application servers to handle the deployments of different applications.  • Wrote Angular js frontend, which queried a custom Elasticsearch server for search terms, and hosted everything on an AWS instance with Docker containers  • Developed code in Java which creates mapping in Elasticsearch  • Core service uses the main database and the other Micro-services use their individual databases to access and store data.  • Using Docker containers for local and cloud-based development.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services.  • Experience on AWS Deploying, managing and operating scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems and managed continuous delivery systems and methodologies on AWS.  • Involved in maintaining the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53 services in AWS Cloud.  • Created Snapshots and Amazon Machine Images (AMI's) of EC2 Instance for snapshots and creating clone instances.  • AWS S3 is used to store client's monthly reports.  • Used Jenkins for building, creating snapshots and deploying on servers.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch Servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Experience on setting up and configuring AWS's EMR Clusters and used Amazon IAM to grant fine-grained access to AWS resources to users.  • Involved in Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and implemented the Error Handling in the Stored Procedures and SQL objects and Modified already existing stored procedures, triggers, views, indexes depending on the requirement.  • Configured Artifactory repository as a central build repo.  • Designed architecture of real time processing micro services workflow considering the upstream and downstream system capabilities.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (EC2, ELB, VPC, S3, CloudFront, IAM, RDS, Route 53, CloudWatch, SNS,).    Environment: Java 1.8, Angular JS, Bootstrap 3.3, Spring 4.0, Spring boot, Web Services (RESTFUL & SOAP), Oracle 11g, DB2, Hibernate 4.2, SQL, Apache CXF, MVC, Jersey, JSON, Log4j, STS, Mockito, Apache Tomcat, RAD, Jenkins, GitHub, Qual, sandbox, EC2, S3, VPC, Redshift, SQS, SNS, SWF, IAM, EMR, Cloud watch and AWS Lambda. Sr. Java AWS Developer ATOS - Salt Lake City, UT July 2017 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in software development life cycle starting from requirement gathering for the enhancements to the existing project and performed Object Oriented Analysis.  • Created Hibernate mappings using Core Java (OOPS, Class, Multi-threading, Collections) and debug issues related to data integrity.  • Used the functionalities for writing code in HTML, CSS, Angular JS, NodeJS, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  • Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Setup AWS VPC's for dev, staging and Prod environments.  • Experienced in Work load migration on AWS cloud.  • Designed and deployed AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), auto scaling groups, Data pipeline, Security groups, Cloud Formation, IAM, and Route53.  • Worked on core AWS services such as Setting up new server (EC2) instances/services in AWS, configuring security groups, and setting up Elastic IP's, auto-scaling and Cloud Formation.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Developed single page applications using Angular Js.  • Web application frontend development utilizing Angular JS, CSS and JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3.  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Deployed Web Services using REST and SOAP. Implementation of Spring Restful Web Services which produces JSON.  • Using Spring Batch and JPA and implemented services to do backend processing.  • Used Eclipse as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for debugging, compiling, and formatting.  • Used JBPM for business process management to control the business workflows in the application.  • Implemented REST Services to call jBPM Services and converting to JSON.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using, Angular JS, Ext JS, React JS, JavaScript, CSS and involved in designing the user interfaces using JSP, JSON. Used Web Logic for design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Used Spring Boot for building applications along with Spring Initializer and bootstrapping the build configuration for a Boot-based web application and develop custom solutions that act upon Jenkins information in real time.  • Design and generation of different database objects like Tables, Views, Synonyms and Sequences, Pl/SQL packages and Database Triggers  • Responsible for Installing, configuring, and supporting Apache and Tomcat servers.  • Accessed and manipulated the Oracle 11g database environment by writing SQL queries in the oracle SQL developer for testing purpose.  • Setup the Continuous Integration (CI) process for the application using the Jenkins.  • Prepared Unit test case using JUnit and used Jenkins for continuous integration testing.  • Worked on solving issues in production.  • Resolution of day to day related issues, documentation of Mongo DBA routine tasks.  • JIRA is used for bug tracking.  • Expertise in data model design & development and migrations (i.e. with South)  • Broad experience with architecting ITI solutions including virtualization, consolidation and migration projects; experience architecting Infrastructure solutions based on HP technologies is highly-desired.  • Define patterns for migration of existing Siemens software products/solutions to the cloud and for cloud-native software development.  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production.  • Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases.  • Used SVN to keep track of source code versioning.    Environment: Java, J2EE,Agile,Servlet 3.0, JDBC, Eclipse, Spring, Hibernate JSP 2.2,Webservices, JUnit, JQuery, Maven, JIRA, Angular Js, Micro services, spring boot, JDK 1.3, Jbpm, Jmeter, Spring Boot, JSF 2.0, Maven, Web Logic 12.1.1, Oracle 11g, UML, Angular JS and Ext.js. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer TMAG - Carlsbad, CA December 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring and J2EE Framework  • Designed and implemented application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Hibernate and Oracle Web Logic Server 10.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the server to fetch data on the fly.  • Involved in testing HIPAA EDI Transactions and mainly focused on Eligibility Transactions.  • Developed Restful Web services using Spring MVC Framework. JSON data is returned to JavaScript clients.  • Designed and Developed the Application using Spring MVC and Hibernate as the ORM.  • Developed HQL and Criteria queries for CRUD operations using Hibernate as ORM.  • Worked on building & deploying Java code through Jenkins, used Jenkins Amazon Web Services (AWS) Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS and worked AWS Cloud management.  • Built an Application and deployed micro services in the AWS Cloud using Dockers containers.  • Git as application repository and for deploying to AWS using code commit.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, using Oracle database  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  • Implemented various design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade and Data Transfer pattern  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolve defects.  • Used Agile methodology named SCRUM for all the work performed.  • Application developed using Mongo DB (NoSQL Database).  • Wrote scripts to massage data and feed to Sybase IQ/Oracle databases for alert generation and automated in batch cycle.  • Used AWS framework for creating background and multistep workflows.  • Developed the front-end using both Core Java as well as Java Swing and involved himself in incorporating business logic in SQL code (stored procedures) using Sybase.  • Provide Web Sphere Portal integration support to the development team.  • Web Logic Application Server 10.0 was used to make the data source configuration to connect the application to the required database to retrieve or update necessary information.  • Used Maven to build war and ear files to deploy on Web logic App Server.    Environment: Java 1.7, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate 4.0, Servlets, JSP, XML, XHTML, Agile Methodology, Jenkins, Design Patterns, Mongo DB, Sybase Toad, Eclipse, Maven, Log 4J,Jboss Fuse, Oracle 11g,WebLogic Server 10, Linux and AWS. Java/J2EE Developer Telnet-Inc - Rockville, MD October 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented MVC architecture using Struts Framework.  • Designed and developed front end using HTML, CSS, JSP, Struts (tiles and tag libraries) and validation through JavaScript.  • Used Struts tag libraries to create JSPs.  • Used AJAX libraries such as JQuery and DWR.  • Implement web service using JAX-RPC.  • Create JAX-RPC handlers for pre-and post-processing of soap messages.  • Helped improve code coverage by writing JUnit for the implemented code.  • Java Mail API was used to notify the authors about document publishing status.  • Design and implement asynchronous messaging using JMS.  • Extensively used Web Services like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI to communicate between systems.  • Developed Data Access Object (DAO) components to interact with DB2 using JDBC Driver.  • Developed Model Components Action beans, Action Form beans, and Data Transfer Objects of Struts Framework.  • Worked on Oracle development, PL/SQL, stored procedures, triggers, materialized views.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used XML Schemas (XSD) for defining XML elements and attributes, and used namespaces to avoid conflict with the XML elements.  • Developed and maintained Java/J2EE distributed applications using Struts MVC framework.  • Highly involved in the configuring Web Sphere servers and database connections and deploying applications to application servers in Testing and UAT environments.  • Designed solutions, documentation, coding, and testing.  • Developed JSP pages using STRUTS frame work, Custom tags and JSTL and involved in configuring web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the struts framework.  • Worked on using middleware like MQ Series, JMS.  • Extensively used Web Services like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI to communicate between systems.  • Create stored procedure and other SQL scripts using PL/SQL.  • Implemented solutions relying on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), using Web Services, SOAP and WSDL.  • Designed and implemented Web Services for client to retrieve Data using SOAP.  • Used Apache Subversion for source control.  • Provide technical support to production system.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.5, JSP, JQuery, Struts, CSS, HTML, Hibernate, JavaScript, Java Security, Oracle 10g, WebLogic10.x, My Eclipse, JSTL, WindowsXP, Linux, LDAP, UNIX and CVS. Java Developer Info Grab Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed J2EE application for communication between Financial Fusion and various other systems within the System.  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts MVC, Servlets, and JSP's.  • Produced extensive design documentation using UML sequence diagrams, Class Diagrams to dynamically model the system.  • Implemented a web service to provide RPC using framework-based Service.  • Implemented the J2EE core design patterns - Front Controller, DAO, Facade and MVC  • Created the tables and views in DB2-UDB to test the DAO functionality.  • Analyzed, designed and developed code to assign particular entitlements to each job role within the company.  • XML parsing using Apache Commons Digester.  • Database schema design implemented database access with Hibernate object relational tool.  • Application logging implementation based on Log4j  • Developed various test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit  • Development ANT build scripts for application build process, DDL scripts and code generation  • Used Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest for software version control and change management  • Developed, deployed and tested the application using IBM Web Sphere application server and developer.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP/HTML, XML, WSAD 5.1.2, IBM WAS 5.0/5.1, Hibernate, DB2 RDBMS, UML, Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest, ANT, Test Directory bug tracking system and Windows XP. Java Developer MAT software solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities  • Involved in preparing the Test Plans for testing to be carried out effectively.  • Analyzed the GAP documents to created Test Scenarios and Test Cases.  • Was assigned extra responsibility of Testing Lead for few weeks and ensured timely execution of the Test Cases by the team.  • Tested transactions created electronically through message injection using JMS.  • Used JSP, HTML, Taglibs and CSS to create UI pages.  • Used Java script for client side validations.  • Worked on single transactions as well as bulk transactions such as Payroll Processing using Custom MVC framework.  • Effective execution of the prepared Test Cases.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL SQL- Stored procedures & functions.  • Used IBM Optim tool for data base UI.  • Build & deployment the code using Ant.  • Involved in unit testing JUNIT and in integration testing.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, MVC framework, Tag libraries, Java Script, CSS, JDBC, JNDI, Oracle 8i, Java beans, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT, IBM Clear Case, Edit Plus, Web Sphere and IBM Optim tool. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Db2, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Application development, Git, Html Additional Information Technical Skills:    Java Technologies  Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, IBMBPM 9.0, Multi  threading, OSGI, Event Handling and SOAP Web Services, Restful. Selenium IDE/RC/Web Driver/GRID, Web Driver and Test Link.    AWS Cloud Technologies  EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, IAM, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, S3, Glacier, Route53, VPC, Lambda, Auto Scaling, Dockers, Red shift, SNS, SQS, SWS and SES.    Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, Struts, JQuery, Bootstrap, EJB, JMS, AJAX, JSTL, HTML, CSS, XML, Angular JS, Angular2, React JS and JavaScript.  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere and Jboss, Message Queue and Kafta.  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/11g, MySQL, MongoDB and DB2.  Frameworks Hibernate, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Angular JS, NodeJS-Express and Struts 1.1/2.0.  Build Tools & IDEs Maven, Ant, Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD and IntelliJ.  Operating Systems Windows (98, 2000, XP, Vista) and Linux.  Design Methodologies Rational Unified Process, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development and Rapid Application Development.  Testing tools JIRA, JUnit 4.1, J-Mock, Easy Mock, Qual, sandbox, Spring Test and Spock.  Version Control Rational Clear Case, SVN (Apache Subversion), CVS and GIT.