Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Liberty Dover, NH ? Overall around 8+ years of extensive experience in object-oriented design/analysis, Java development, web services for service-oriented architecture, and data modelling, skilled at progressing from problem statement to well-documented designs and code.  ? Experienced in RDBMS such as Oracle, MySQL and PostgreSQL and IBM DB2 databases.  ? In-depth knowledge and work experience in managing NoSQL based databases specifically like MongoDB and Cassandra managing the very high load of transactions.  ? Proficient with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies like Agile, Scrum.  ? Strong working experience in application development using JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JMS, Struts, spring, Hibernate and Web services.  ? Experience in developing web applications using technologies like HTML, Java Script, AJAX, DOJO, JSON, CSS, JSP Tag libraries and GWT.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Worked in Service Oriented Architecture to develop language independent services using Web Services, Apache CXF SOAP, WSDL and Axis 2.0 soap stack.  ? Proficient in writing ANT, Maven builds script to automate the application build and deployment.  ? Good experience in developing and updating a web page using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, React.js, Java Script, backbone.js, and JQuery across various browsers  ? Experienced in UI frameworks such as jQuery, Ajax, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), JavaScript, Node JS, React JS, Backbone JS, Angular2, AngularJS, Tag Libraries, Custom Tags.  ? Strong experience in designing and developing data models and accessing from Java applications using SQL, PL/SQL, ORM tool Hibernate and has experience with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Proficient in using Amazon Web Services AWS. Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, Amazon RDS, Elastic Cache.  ? Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  ? Deploy application updates to AWS and monitored the load balancing of different instances.  ? Experience in developing web services like (SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python and Scala.  ? Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API. Experienced in Full stack UI technologies using Grunt JS, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  ? Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies such as Spring, Hibernate, EJB, JPA, JSF, Struts framework, Servlets.  ? Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  ? Experience in implementing client-server business applications using Microservices, Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? In-depth knowledge of core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Multithreading, generics, exception handling, Thread pools, concurrent utilities, File IO and Serialization.  ? Hands on experience in XML related technologies JAXP (SAX, DOM) parsers for parsing XML into Java object.  ? Proficient in developing Web Services related technologies &frame works: WSDL, SOAP, REST, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI.  ? Experienced with JAX-RS specification like Jersey and REST Easy to Implement REST-based applications.  ? Experience in configuring and deploying the applications into Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss Servers  ? Extensively worked on UNIX shell scripts to do the batch processing.  ? Hands on experience in configuring and using Maven, Ant build tools and Jenkins to deploy automated builds in different environments.  ? Expert in using version control tools such as such as SVN, CSV and GIT.  ? Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using JUnit, Easy mock and Mockito.    TECHNOLOGY AND TOOLS:    ? Languages Java, J2EE, C, C++, PL/SQL  ? Web Technologies: HTML5, RWD, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS, NODE JS, EJB, JSON, AJAX, XML, ESAPI, JQuery, AngularJS  ? J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, JNDI, Web Services, JDBC, SOAP  ? App/Web servers: Apache Tomcat 5.x, IBM WebSphere 7.x, OC4J, AWS, Web Logic.  ? Frameworks: Jakarta Struts, spring, IBM JADE, Log4J, SLF4J, JPA, Spring IOC,  ? Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server, My SQL and IBM DB2, Mongo DB, RDBMS, PostgreSQL 8/9  ? Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux  ? Web Services: SOAP, REST, WADL, XML, JSON  ? Source Control Tools: WinCVS, Serena Dimension, SVN, Git, GitHub, Clear Case.  ? Testing Tools: HP Load Runner, SOAP UI, Mockito, JUnit, Jasmine, Karma, Selenium, Jenkins  ? Other Tools: FileZilla, BugZilla, Putty, Rapid SQL, IBM DB2 client, CISM, JIRA, SQL Developer  ? Build Tools: Maven, ANT, Grunt, Gradle. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Liberty - Dover, NH, US May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Full Life Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  ? System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, and Observer.  ? Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP using Metro.  ? Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, JNDI, Spring IOC.  ? Implemented transaction management using Spring AOP.  ? Configured JPA to use Hibernate as ORM tool.  ? Used jQuery to simplify the client-side scripting of HTML and used DOJO widgets package for handling browser incompatibilities and IO package for AJAX support.  ? Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes  ? Used AngularJS directives to extend HTML to create the foundation for rich and complex web application.  ? Used Web services - REST for getting credit card information from third party.  ? The Restful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data using Ajax.  ? Used UNIX commands and shell scripting.  ? Used Angular JS $http service to consume RESTful services.  ? Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharding and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  ? Used Jasmine, Karma for unit testing and end-to-end testing to verify Angular JS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  ? Jax-RS is the framework used and results are made to be in JSON format. Results are used for displaying on UI pages.  ? Used Maven to build application and deploy on the server  ? Used AGILE methodology and actively participated in Scrum meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  ? Implemented Spring Validators, persistence layer, and service layer components using Spring/Hibernate API and Spring/Hibernate annotations. Extensively used Hibernate QL.  ? Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices  ? Extensively used Spring IOC, configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations.  ? Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.  ? Designed RESTful web services with JSON representation for handling AJAX requests Used Advanced Rest Client plug-in to run the rest API's on localhost Tomcat Server for Unit testing  ? Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances.  ? Developed Web pages using UI frameworks, AngularJS, Html5, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  ? Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap  ? Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  ? Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux).  ? Worked in an Agile environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.  ? Used Grunt as the JavaScript task runner. Jenkins, ANT tools were used part of build management.  ? Used Maven in building and deploying the WAR and JAR files.  ? Created application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, business layer is built using spring.  ? Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring Batch, Spring Bootand Spring Core.  ? Developed REST based Web Services using XML/JSON messages that were used by the front end.  ? Consumed SOAP based web services, created stubs using Apache Axis.  ? Implemented PL/SQL queries and used oracle stored procedures.  ? Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript.  ? Deployed applications on WebSphere Application Server and performed required configuration changes.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around usage of Elastic search.  ? Worked in Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit.  ? Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.1, JMS, XML, REST, AngularJS, Grunt, WSDL, AJAX, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JQuery, CSS, GIT, Log4J, JAXB, JSF, JUnit3.8, WebLogic 10.3.5, Eclipse Indigo, Oracle 10g, Spring boot. Java / J2EE Developer Disney, FL August 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Developed application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture, and Hibernate as the ORM.  ? Developed Chart Web Services controllers, with generic interfaces, and default implementations, exposed as Java Spring RESTful Web services, with Chart Specific parameters passed as query string.  ? Developed Summarization WebServices for synchronization of Transactional data with archived data, the Java layer services used to intercept the main transactional classes were re-factored to provide a general interception layer for any kind of transactional data in the system.  ? Created custom directives utilizing AngularJS  ? Created REST based web services using JAX-RS  ? Extensively used Hibernate Criteria API in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Utilized multi-threading, concurrency, memory management and NIO and concurrent package in extensively.  ? Written complex SQL statements/Joins and procedures to fetch the data from the database  ? Designed and developed persistence layer build on ORM framework and developed it using Hibernate.  ? Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC.  ? Implemented multi input/output Spring AOP for various requirements.  ? Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  ? Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations  ? Used Spring framework AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database for few applications  ? Used HTTP methods extensively to retrieve the data from the Rest API and used that data to update the page dynamically  ? Used Spring Security for implementing authentication, authorization and access control features  ? Implemented Java 1.8 features including Lambda, Advanced for each loop, and Streams  ? Used GIT for version control & Log4J for logging and developed the pom.xml using Maven for compiling the dependencies.  ? Developed and executed unit test cases using JUnit, Mockito, and deployed application on AWS by using Elastic Bean Stalk  ? Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  ? Implemented JAXB in XML binding.  ? Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  ? Data from UI layer sent through JMS to Middle layer and from there using MDB message retrieves Messages and will be sent to MQ Series.  ? Used JSON as response type in REST services  ? Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  ? Developed Hibernate mapping files using different mapping strategies such as table per class hierarchy.  ? Integrated Hibernate with Spring by coding a Spring Configuration file.  ? Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third party service provider. This feature was implemented using REST  ? Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  ? Hands-on experienced working with version controller tools such as ClearCase and Clear Quest as issue tracking software.  ? Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  ? Used Subversion for version control and created automated build scripts.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, AJAX, Spring, JMS, HTML5, JavaScript, JSP, EJB, CVS, CSS, MVC, JDBC, J Profiler, Oracle 10g, XML, MVC, Hibernate, MQSeries, WebSphere , JUnit, Subversion, JProfiler, Ant, ClearCase, Clear Quest. Java Developer Xerox Inc - Atlanta, GA, US January 2016 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirements gathering, Designing, Coding, Unit testing and Integration Testing phases of the project.  ? Responsible for design and development of UI screens for the application using HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery.  ? Implemented RESTful webservices to make rest calls from client to server.  ? Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  ? Used Spring JDBC and Spring Hibernate to manage Data Access with DAO design pattern.  ? Used Spring Boot and developed the application as microservices.  ? Developed Spring Batch processing java application to read different file formats which feeds to the database.  ? Implemented JMS using Spring JMS module to communicate with queues.  ? Created builds using Maven and pulled the project code from GitHub repositories.  ? Used Jenkins as CI tool.  ? Wrote Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle 12g database.  ? Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  ? Consumed and built web services in SOAP, REST supporting both XML and JSON by taking advantage of Spring technologies.  ? Developed the Presentation layer using HTML 5, JavaScript, and used AJAX/ jQuery based rich UI for improved customer experience.  ? Developed single page application by using Angular JS.  ? Integrated configured Camel with Active MQ to use it as bus.  ? Deployed in Linux environment and used Tomcat as application server, UNIX shell scripts for data migration and batch processing.  ? Developed test cases using Junit, TestNG and created stubs using JMockito framework.  ? Implemented the project in Agile methodology & participated actively in daily stand up calls.  ? Served as POC for on call support in the production team on a rotation basis.    Environment: JDK 1.7/1.8, J2EE, Core Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS 2.0, jQuery 2.0, JSON, Maven 3.0, Spring 4.x, JPA, JDBC, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat 8, Apache Camel, Active MQ, Git, Eclipse IDE, Junit, Linux, Windows. Java Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX, US April 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Reviewed the functional, non-functional requirements and high level designs.  ? Worked with Agile Methodologies.  ? Used Spring Web flow for integration purpose in application development.  ? SOAP UI is used for web services testing.  ? Developed and integrated with server components using spring, Hibernate.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSF UI components, Validators, Events and Listeners.  ? Developed server side validations using JSF.  ? Extensively worked with core java like Collections, String Builder and Interfaces.  ? Developed code participating in different layers of the application such as JSPs for presentation, Servlets as controller and EJBs for holding business logic.  ? Compiled and built the application using Maven scripts and deployed the application.  ? Implemented Hash table and hash set for inserting and retrieving values.  ? Extensively used Spring and Hibernate in Spring MVC.  ? Implemented enterprise applications using WSDL, SOAP and XML schema.  ? Developed different design methodology such as MVC patterns.  ? Used Hibernate for Object mapping.  ? Developed Message Driven Beans as Queue listeners for JMS queues.  ? Worked extensively in the backend SQL Server database.  ? Used Log4J for any errors in the application  ? Analyze and fix issues related to Soap Web services and Application responses  ? Used HTML, CSS and Java Script, Bootstrap for developing user interface.  ? Used Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs.  ? Used MAVEN as build management tool.  ? Used WSDL to post the services in the UDDI.  ? Worked with XPATH when need to identify objects in the screen.  ? Developed lookup tables and views to speed up queries.  ? Provide critical support to current order management systems being used as and when required.  ? Worked in Quality analysis and testing.    Environment: Java, EJB, Hibernate, JSF, Spring, Selenium, SQL Server 2008 R2, XML, JUnit, XSLT, IDE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, JMS, SOAP, Agile, Bootstrap, Maven, Spring Batch, UDDI, JSP, Log4j. Java Developer Apollo Hospitals October 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Used Rational Rose for the Use Case, Object, Class, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams.  ? Created Servlets which route to appropriate EJB components and render retrieved information  ? Developed Session Beans to process requests and used Entity Beans to retrieve and update.  ? Implemented Executor Framework in Multithreading. Designing and implementing Multiple Process Service using Multithreading and Concurrency concepts to schedule and execute jobs.  ? Front-end is designed by using HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Ajax and Struts.  ? Used JavaScript for page validation and XML with SAX to transfer data between applications.  ? Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures, Prepared statement and used API.  ? Involved in writing and executing stored procedures, functions and triggers for Oracle.  ? Developed web application using Struts, JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.  ? Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP, and XML.  ? Designed and developed Message-driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  ? Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from the database.  ? The application was deployed on the Tomcat Server.    Environment: Java, Multithreading, EJB, Session Beans, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Servlet, Struts, JSP, Oracle, JDBC, Eclipse, Tomcat. Java Developer Axis Services May 2010 to September 2013 Worked on Mail order validation (web services) project. Technologies involved in this project are Web services (JAX-WS, SOAP and XML), Hibernate, WebSphere MQ and Mainframe (DB2-CICS)    Responsibilities:  ? Developed GUI using JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Used MS Visio for creating business process diagrams.  ? Developed Action Servlets, Action Form, Java Bean classes for implementing business logic for the Struts Framework.  ? Developed Servlets and JSP based on MVC pattern using struts Action framework.  ? Developed all the tiers of the J2EE application. Developed data objects to communicate with the database using JDBC in the database tier, implemented business logic using EJBs in the middle tier, developed Java Beans and helper classes to communicate with the presentation tier which consists of JSPs and Servlets.  ? Developed persistence layer modules using EJB Java Persistence API (JPA) annotations and Entity manager.  ? Developed Action and Form Bean classes to retrieve data and process server side validations.  ? Designed various tables required for the project in SQL server database and used Stored Procedures in the application. Used SQL Server to create, update and manipulate tables.  ? Used IntellIJ as IDE and Clear Case for version control.  ? Involved in impact analysis of Change requests and Bug fixes.  ? Used Tortoise SVN as a version controller for the source code check in and check outs.  ? Involved in development of User Interface using XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, and JSTL.  ? Developed Automated Test Scripts to perform Functional Testing, Performance Testing, Wrote JUnit Test cases which support the application. Used JIRA as the task and project management tool to assign, track, report and manage bugs on daily basis.  ? Wrote entities in Scala and Java along with named queries to interact with the desired database    Environment: Java 5, Struts, PL/SQL, SQL server, EJB, IntellIJ, Clear Case, MS Visio, Firebug, Apache Tomcat, JSP, Java Script, CSS, Bugzilla, Toad 9.0. Education Bachelor's