Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Oscar Health, Varick St, NY • Around 6 years of Software development experience in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement analysis, design, development, testing and implementation.  • Proficient in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Inheritance, Encapsulation, Abstraction, Polymorphism, Multithreading, Exception Handling etc.  • Worked on the Agile development methodologies such Waterfall Model.  • Experience in JAVA / J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Executor Framework, Data Structures, Collections, and Exception Handling concepts.  • Experience in working with various MVC architecture development such as Spring MVC.  • Proficient in working with J2EE Technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, JSTL, EJB Beans, Java Beans, Spring, Hibernate, JAX-WS, JAX-RS.  • Hands on experience in using Spring Core Annotations for DI, IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Rest, Spring MVC, Spring Boot for Micro-services, Spring Security.  • Experience on Developing Micro services.  • Experience on spring boot.  • Experience on the Batch Jobs, which automatically run on the database and provide the data file.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like RESTful, SOAP with WSDL and implemented SOA architecture with web services.  • Experience in various RDBMS databases like MySQL and IBM DB2.  • Good experience in using AWS cloud-based architecture. Used multiple AWS services like S3, EC2, Lambda, SQS.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like Squirrel.  • Proficient in unit testing the application using Junit.  • Experienced in using building tool ANT, Maven.  • Experienced in using source code version control tools GIT.  • Experience in WAS (WebSphere), Tomcat.  • Worked with various IDE tools like Eclipse, IntelliJ and RAD  • Expertise in Java Development, skilled at progressing from problem statement to well documented designs.  • Extensively worked on front end technologies like JavaScript, HTML, JSP and CSS. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Oscar Health, Varick St, NY February 2017 to Present Project Description: Oscar Health has flourished by putting physicians, specialists and services under one roof. The company focuses on the health insurance industry through telemedicine, healthcare focused technological interfaces, and transparent claims pricing systems. The result is better communication between doctors and a level of patient care that hadn't existed here before. It provides health plans to the people and helps in finding a better doctor for their customers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the Business layer using Spring IOC, AOP, MVC and JTA modules.  • Design and develop web application used Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring MVC.  • Developed Restful Micro services using Spring Rest.  • Used Spring Batch for batch processing applications.  • Designed special web apps by AngularJS framework with HTML5.  • Develop the presentation layer with JSP, HTML5, CSS, and XML on front end.  • Create interactive websites using Angular2, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used Design patterns such as Business delegate, MVC, Strategy, DAO.  • Developed application modules using Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring Beans, and Dependency Injection.  • Worked on implementation of migration module, which loads relational data and populates MongoDB documents.  • Tested code using Mockito, Testing, Sonar and Junit.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD).  • Used Maven for building and deploying applications.  • Setup and Configuration of Tomcat Server during deployment and testing.  • Used AWS services like EC2, S3, SNS and SQS.  • Deployed the code on EC2 AWS.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  • Used Eclipse for developing the application and GIT for version control.  • Used Swagger tool to document the RESTful webservices  • Successfully performed the RESTful APIs Integration using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation  • Used JIRA for story planning.  • Worked on Test Driven Development (TDD) and wrote Junit test cases to cover JUnit testing along with development.  • Used Java 8 features in streaming and advanced data structures.  • Work on Agile Methodology to develop and participate in daily SCRUM and Sprints meetings.  • Closely worked with BA and QA in assessing the true business logic.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JMS, RESTful webservices, Mango DB, Angular 2, HTML, CSS, JSON, Maven, jQuery, Mockito, JUnit, log4j, Apache Tomcat Server, Git, AGILE, EC2, Eclipse, Bootstrap, and Microservices. Java/J2EE Developer UMB financial corporation - Kansas City, MO May 2015 to December 2016 Description:  UMB Financial Corporation is an American financial bank offering services in complete banking, payment. The applicant information is maintained in a database along with the details of the loan for repayment. This data is filtered into different categories based on parameters like type of account, loan amount, due date. The filtered data is used for statistics for generating reports.    Responsibilities:  • Used Spring MVC to decouple business logic and view components.  • Developed the Business Logic using Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs)  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using HTML5 and JSP's for user interaction  • Performed client-side validations using Java Script.  • Developed a Message Driven Bean that uses JMS to manage backend transactions and approval for user loan applications using ActiveMQ.  • Created set of classes using DAO pattern to decouple the business logic and data.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection to eliminate the dependency on different classes and to inject values.  • Involved in preparing test cases using Selenium Web driver to validate all UI components, Popups, Browser navigations, Mouse Movements.  • Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the Oracle10g Database  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer.  • Large Object Tuning (JVM Tuning) to reduce risk with heap fragmentation, high memory utilization, heap consumption, pause and increase throughput and improve the stability.  • Worked in Agile methodology environment including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Interfaced with the Oracle 10g back-end database using Hibernate Framework and XML configuration files.  • Used Agile/Scrum methodology to develop the application.  • Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  • Use jQuery for creating behavioral aspects of the web page.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AngularJS to design the front end.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations. Built scripts using Ant to build the J2EE application.  • Used Spring Boot for radically faster and widely accessible Spring Development.  • AngularJS was used to parse the JSON file using the REST web services.  • Responsible for pagination for the application by integrating Spring framework with Angular JS.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets, and JSP components to be deployed on a Web Logic Application server and Apache Tomcat 6.0 servers.  • Worked with Mocking while running the Junit test cases for batch processing.  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  • Used Apache JMeter for performance tuning and profiling testing.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework  Environment: Java/J2EE 1.6, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Spring Boot, XML, Apache Tomcat 6.0, Apache Camel, JSP, Servlets, Maven, Apache JMeter, Oracle 11g, RESTFUL Web Services, Selenium, JMS, Java Script, jQuery, SOA, XML, XSLT, Eclipse3.0, AJAX, Maven, Agile, Jenkins, JavaScript, TDD, AngularJS, JUnit, Log4j, JSON. Java developer Rambo Communications Pvt. Ltd June 2014 to August 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Interacting with client for requirements, discussing the feasibility of requirements, designing the layout of web pages and participating in the development.  • Our project is mainly based on Electronic Data Transfer (EDI).  • Involved in Agile Scrum methodology, Sprint and Release Planning meetings.  • Implemented the User interface using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed Spring Action Classes for controlling logic and data transfer between UI and DB, used command pattern actions, to embed multiple actions in a single action class.  • Implemented Spring Beans using IOC, AOP features to handle the transactions and business logic.  • Implemented REST based web services using Spring Web MVC, to publish vendor Information, customer information.  • Used spring annotations for the bean configuration transaction management and AOP.  • Used Singleton, DAO.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using JPA, developed POJO's mapped to the relational tables in database using JPA annotations.  • Implemented Hibernate data source, JDBC data source and JMS connection in spring configuration files.  • Implemented SQL as the database.  • Implemented Spring Unit testing using Junit frameworks.  • Involved in System testing, and bug fixing, worked with QA Team to execute the business scenarios and fix the QA finds.  • Used GIT for version control.  Environment: Java, Servlet, JSP, JSF, Spring, REST, Apache tomcat, JPA, GIT, JavaScript, CSS, Log4j, Tomcat, Linux, Windows. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-ws, Jms, Jsp, Servlets, Design patterns, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Software development, Xml, Css, Tomcat, AWS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages JAVA, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL  Java Design Patterns Singleton, Factory, Front Controller, MVC and Session.  Development Frameworks/Libraries  Spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Context, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring with Hibernate),EJB, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JDBC.    Web services: Restful JAX-RS, SOAP JAX-WS, WSDL.  Application Servers: WAS(WebSphere), Tomcat  Databases: MySQL,DB2 and MangoDB  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, CSS, HTTP, XML Data Processing, Responsive Web Design.  Cloud Services AWS - S3, EC2, Lambda, SQS  IDE's Eclipse, intellij  Platforms Windows, Linux.  Software Development Methodology Agile, Waterfall.  Version Control Systems GIT  Messaging Technologies JMS  Logging Tools Log4j.  Build Tools Ant, Maven.