Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - COMCAST Philadelphia, PA • Around 9+ years of strong professional IT experience in Java / J2EE technologies.  • Involved in complete software development life cycle specializing in analysis, design, documentation, development, and implementation of Enterprise Application, Business Systems, Client-Server, Web applications and Deployment as per Quality Standards.  • Expertise includes J2SE, J2EE, Struts Framework, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, MQ Series, DB2, Oracle, WebLogic, WebSphere, Web Services, XML, XSL  • Developed code using various design patterns like Command Pattern, Singleton, Adapter, Business Delegate, Data Access Objects, Value Objects, and MVC etc.  • Extensive experience in administering and deploying applications on WebLogic Server, WebSphere Application Server.  • Hands-on experience with databases like DB2 UDB, SQL Server and Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c and ORM tools like Hibernate, JPA.  • Experience in producing and consuming Web Services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Implemented GUI components using JSF, JSP, Struts, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Experience in deploying the application in Cloud Foundry and scaling the instances.  • Experience in using load testing using Apache Jmeter to monitor the throughput, average and graphs.  • Experience in functional testing the Rest API using Postman and Swagger and verify the JSON response. Handling the exception with HTTP error code.  • Experience in writing and executing test cases using Cucumber Framework, Parasoft.  • Experience working in both SDLC and Agile environments.  • Domain exposure in Banking and Finance, Telecommunication. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Developer COMCAST - Philadelphia, PA May 2019 to Present Project Description:  KEB (Know Every Business)  Project Description:  The Athena project will ultimately become the source of truth for all sales and marketing related data in Comcast. This will provide for improved centralized data, predictive knowledge, and advanced targeting capabilities. This internal database will replace existing vendor Epsilon and will source a large part of Marketing with data from Radius Intelligence. In order for the internal systems in Comcast to get data using micro services. Comcast will also consume the services built by Radius and create and expose services to them.    Responsibilities:  • Identify and determine various compatible tools, frameworks, software's and plugins which are required for design, development and to test the application.  • Design the application services using UML (Unified Modeling Language) to visualize the system with graphical notation and comprehensive set of diagrams.  • Gather functional and business requirements given by client, product owner and business analysts, external teams and showcase the approach.  • Develop the services with Representational State Transfer API to expose Geospatial (geographic information) and other business functionality in JSON format (JavaScript Object Notation).  • Authorization and Authentication of the application with WebSec PingFederate and OAuth2 cryptography protocol, JWT (JSON Web Tokens) to authenticate users.  • Implement search engine with Elasticsearch Lucene to provide faster and scalable search, collect large set of data from different data sources with Logstash and make data visualization with Kibana using Lucene query.  • Modification and use of shell scripts to run the database scripts in UAT and Production environment.  • To fetch records from database used dynamic database-driven approach with PhysicalNamingStrategy, Hibernate and DAO (Data Access Object) pattern.  • To host the applications in Cloud Foundry environment deployed with different commands.  • Fix the bug or defects caused by the system resulting in unexpected or incorrect value.  • Test with Jmeter to monitor the graphs, response time, memory utilization and throughput took by the application, refactored the code to improve the performance and made sure that BAU (Business As Usual).  • Automate the system with Cucumber (Behavior Driven Development) to run the positive and negative test cases using Gherkin file and Step Definition.  • Mock the data with Mockito and Junit Framework to assert the expected value versus the actual result.  • Perform end to end functional testing and cover different business scenarios with PostMan and Swagger.  • Provide the status in daily scrum call to scrum master and team members focusing on what is accomplished yesterday and will accomplish today also if any impediments.  • Demonstrate work increment to stakeholders, product owner and team.  • Research and Development on cache mechanism with Memcache to build the Amazon Web Services Lambda functionality.    Environment:  Java, RestAPI, Hibernate, Oracle, OAuth2, Kibana, AppDynamics, Jmeter, Cucumber, Parasoft, SpringBoot, Maven, Oracle, Tomcat, Cloud Foundry, GitHub, GitDesktop, Putty, WinSCP, Postman, Swagger, Junit, Shell scripts, Unix. Sr. Java Developer Scientific Amortization and Assertion - Malvern, PA December 2015 to May 2019 Project Description:  SAA (Scientific Amortization and Assertion)  Account properties that drive SAA calculations are captured and stored as SAA profile on the account. The ability to set SAA profile attributes is available for SAA eligible accounts which includes US taxable accounts and US non-taxable accounts. SAA processing is not applicable for non-US accounts.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding of user stores and acceptance criteria for each feature. Analysis the same and giving estimates for developing and unit testing.  • Updating the status in daily scrum call.  • Developed application using EJB, EJBBean, Delegate  • And Java Service for calling the data base service.  • Developed different user interface of finance data calculation, foreign exchange, populate the data.  • Used MVC design pattern for developing the finance application.  • Experience in new features using Java 8.  • Experience in handling validations of the application  • Using Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript  • Responsible for fixing browser issues and making the application Browser computability.  • Involved and developed store procedure, writing queries using SQL Oracle.  • Developed Java service using JPA.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection and Spring JDBC Template.  • Using Spring  • Authentication and Authorization implemented Spring Security.  • Solved performance issue of UI using AJAX  • Writing Junit to mock the testing.  • Responsible in preparing BOXI report and pulling the data.  • Responsible for creating various Finance services (Asset Data Service, Trade Capture, Potential Failing Sale, Trade Execution and Settlement)  • Implemented REST service for submit and update process  • Code management using Source Tree for continuous integration of code.  • Responsible for Jenkins monitoring and fixing build failures.  • Using Control-M uploaded the csv files for testing Loaders and fixing the issues using Java  • Responsible for demos after each sprint and make Enhancement as per the Demo feedback.    Environment: Java, JPA, Struts, Spring JDBC Template, JSP, jQuery, JavaScript, Ant, Eclipse, Oracle, Weblogic12c, SOAP UI, Rest, Sour tree, FileZilla, Putty, Junit, Unix, Windows Java Developer EXOSTAR - Herndon, VA August 2010 to December 2015 MAG (Managed Access Gateway)  The Managed Access Gateway (MAG) addresses the unique requirements from customers in the Aerospace and Defense (Boeing, Raytheon, and Lockheed Martin) industries. MAG is a cloud-based authentication portal that provides access to a central identity hub, which in turn enables users to access partner or third party applications for business collaboration or supply chain solutions through web Single Sign On (SSO) access. Exostar provides Federated Identity Service (FIS), a fully-managed public key infrastructure (PKI) service for the issuance and maintenance of digital certificates.    Responsibilities:  • Developed various User Interfaces using JSF, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Responsible for developing and testing middleware and frontend.  • Responsible for analysis and development of MAG modules.  • Responsible for developing roles module involving DAO layer using Hibernate.  • Responsible for tech analysis and provide defect resolution for multiple releases.  • Responsible for writing DML using MySQL  • Responsible in developing the digital certificates renewal process for PKI-Basic and PKI-Medium level using Java.  Environment: Java, Hibernate, JSF, XHTML, jQuery, CSS, Maven, MYSQL Eclipse, JavaScript, SQL, XML. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jsf, Jsp, Struts, Cucumber, Jenkins, Scripting, Svn, Visio, Xml, Database, Db2, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2000, Sql server, Sql server 2000 Additional Information SKILLS:    • Operating Systems: Unix, Windows  • Programming Languages: Java, SQL, PLSQL, Shell scripting  • J2EE Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF.  • Web Technologies: JSP, XML.  • Web Services: SOAP, REST  • Application Servers: WebLogic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat.  • Database: Oracle, MS SQL Server 2000, IBM DB2  • IDE: Eclipse, Spring Boot, RAD.  • Defect/Bug Tracking: HP Quality Centre 10.0, ALM  • Modelling Languages: UML.  • Tools/Source Control System: Maven, Ant, Winscp, Jenkins, Putty, MS Visio, SVN, GitHub, IBM QC, Junit, Beyond Compare, Parasoft, Cucumber, Jmeter, Cloud Foundry.