AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer-Capital Group Los Angeles, CA • Overall 8 years of experience as an IT Professional in analysis, design, development, and implementation of large-scale web-based applications using Java, J2EE, CMS with strong expertise on Adobe Experience Manager (AEM)  • Hands on Experience in building and deploying enterprise level Web Content Management solutions on AEM 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3.  • Good knowledge of Adobe Marketing Cloud products and integration with Adobe AEM.  • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents.  • Expertise knowledge of Sightly. Created components using Sightly HTML Templating Language.  • Good exposure to User management and Tagging.  • Creating AEM templates and page components with custom dialogs.  • Experience in Digital Asset Management, Tag libraries customizing foundation components in CQ.  • Highly skilled in Adobe Experience Manager, WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, template development, Administration and installation of author and publish instances.  • Experienced in deploying dynamic libraries and API packages into OSGi  • Strong Knowledge in developing an application on OSGi, Apache Sling, and Apache Felix Frameworks.  • Experience in web design and development in HTML, JSP, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular, and Ext JS.  • Experience in, Digital Asset Management, Tag libraries customizing foundation components in AEM.  • Experience in Multi-Site Manager (MSM) to develop live copy from a blueprint, such that the structure and content can be used on Live Copy.  • Solid understanding of building blocks, CRX repository, Apache Sling, leveraging web content management components for customization and portion of websites.  • Development of User Interfaces for both Classic UI and Touch UI using Granite UI and Ext JS.  • Knowledge on Adobe Target, which is used to target the content based on age and geographic location.  • Worked on Adobe Analytics to business by leveraging high-performance, real-time analytics across marketing channels.  • Good understanding of all Adobe AEM building blocks and the AEM development and deployment process.  • Working experience with SVN, GIT and handled local workspace environment with build tools like Maven, Ant, and Jenkins.  • Experience in generating UML used case diagrams, class and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio.  • Experience in developing applications using waterfall, Agile (Scrum), driven methodologies and involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Work Experience AEM Developer Capital Group - Los Angeles, CA, US May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involves in gathering requirements from business and designing project accordingly.  • Configured and installation of AEM 6.3 on the various development, production, QA and pre-development servers.  • Upgraded all the current AEM 6.2 instances to AEM 6.3 using the in-place upgrade method.  • Design &Development of templates, custom components and workflows using AEM 6.3.  • Customized dialogs for all the components for providing various options to authors while creating pages.  • Wrote java classes with SCR annotations to define OSGi services and programmatically access the jcr nodes.  • Integrated Dialog and Design Dialog for all the content-based components which allow rendering the content dynamically.  • Involves in configurations such as LDAP setup, Dispatcher, Replication, Reverse Replication and dispatcher Flush agents.  • Working on Multi-Site Manager (MSM) in AEM, enforcing a common base structure and common content across the website.  • Involved in configurations such as Dispatcher, Replication, and Reverse Replication and dispatcher Flush agents.  • Troubleshoot of package zip file that holds caching issues related to Dispatcher and browsers.  • Translated design specs and developed responsive user interface mockups for components using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS & AJAX.  • Worked on Solr search configuration and crawlers (Apache NUTCH) setup, built dynamic facets based on the content, implemented suggestive search, Pagination.  • Used Jira for bug tracking and project management. Creating/modifying templates as per new requirements, custom dialogs and updating the client libraries.  • Working on defects reported by the QA team and working towards fixing them.  • Worked on creating custom OSGi services, workflows, sling servlets, and scheduler jobs.  • Working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Used Adobe Dynamic Tag Management (DTM) and integration of AEM with Adobe Analytics.  • Worked on Adobe Analytics to business by leveraging high-performance, real-time analytics across marketing channels.  • Knowledge on Adobe Target, which is used to target the content based on age and geographic location.  • Assisted QA team in testing by executing the test cases created for each component.  • Worked on AGILE methodology where we size the tasks by brain storm once in Sprint and participated in scrum stand-ups on daily basis.    Environment: AEM 6.3, HTL, Apache Sling, OSGi, Felix, Jackrabbit, CRX, AJAX, Java, HTML, CSS, SASS, Angular JS, SOLR, Apache Nutch, JavaScript, JQuery, Eclipse IDE, Brackets, Apache Maven, Apache HTTP Server, Linux, Windows. AEM Developer BCBS - Detroit, MI, US September 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in AEM systems in coordination with software development teams.  • Developed AEM building blocks including custom templates, components, dialogs and widgets using AEM 6.1 and integrated Components with Angular JS as per requirements.  • Developed UI pages using HTML 5, CSS, JAVA, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, and Adobe Creative Suite.  • Converted AEM Classic UI components to Touch UI and developed components using Touch UI.  • Implemented client libraries useful at the page, global and component level using CSS and JavaScript files.  • Implemented custom components using CQ tags, JQuery, JavaScript and JSP.  • Implemented components to utilize services through sling service calls and JSP tags.  • Configured workflows with custom steps and implemented in the project.  • Wrote URLs mapping and dispatcher rewrite rules.  • Expert in developing and deploying Java code via OSGI bundle.  • Configuring Dispatchers, Flushing Dispatcher cache, Garbage collector etc.  • Developed Servlets to handle requests from the client in an OSGi bundle.  • Worked on web services to consume the data from the application API's.  • Wrote custom code to create assets in DAM, workflows to approve/reject assets and assign tags.  • Implemented the OSGi bundles for interacting with remote web services and custom business logic in Java and deployed as jar files from the Felix System Console.  • Worked with Apache Maven for project build and deployment.  • Followed the Agile/Scrum methodology for the development of each sprint and attending the scrum meeting every day.    Environment: AEM 6.1, Apache sling, Apache Felix, JCR, Web services, JSP, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Less, JavaScript, Ext JS, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Excel, Jenkins, Maven, Linux, java, J2EE, dispatcher, JIRA, Eclipse, XPath, SQL. AEM Developer ProQuest LLC - Bethesda, MD, US June 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath.  • Developed Templates, components using JSP and Sightly.  • Configured replication and dispatcher flush.  • Generating projects using Maven builds.  • Installation and Configuration of Author and Publish environments, replication agents, cache rewrite rules for routing the calls to AEM.  • Developed web content management solutions using Java, JSP, JCR, OSGI, HTML, CSS and JavaScript and other related development technologies.  • Developed WCM concepts like translation, multisite management, tag management, JCR event handling, personalization, replication agents, workflows and knowledge on dispatcher server management, custom widgets, web analytics etc.  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment.  • Maintaining OSGI java classes for assets import, validation processes, and to fetch the data from CQ repository.  • Experienced in creating AEM clustering and Package Creation/ installations, tree activations.  • Is working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part for all the application.  • Implemented REST full and Soap based web services from scratch.  • Draw UML diagrams like Class and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Used and managed JIRA and Confluence for Bug tracking, project tracking, and teamwork.  • Worked in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  • CQ packages deployment from one environment to another environment. (Development server, Test server, Staging or Preview server and a Production server)  • Used Ajax to call JSON Objects and display in dropdowns in JSP's.    Environment: AEM 6.0, Java/J2EE, Spring, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JQuery, Servlets, Apache, WCM, CRXDE Lite, SVN, log4j, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector. Java Developer Innominds Solutions - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN November 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.  • Involved in the High-Level Design Document (HLD) preparation.  • Development of Web Layer with MVC framework using Java, JSP, Servlets.  • Design and development of Web pages using HTML 4.0, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Development of Web application using Struts framework based on MVC architecture.  • Used JavaScript1.5 for custom client-side validation.  • Used Design patterns such as Business Delegate, Service Locator, Model View Controller, Session Facade, DAO, and DTO.  • Extensively used Java Mailing Service API to create, send, receive, and read messages between application components.  • Involved in writing service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle.  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  • Worked with View State to maintain data between the pages of the application.  • Involved in team meetings with corporate Webmaster's UI team and end-user client for understanding needs in new implementation & Involved in daily team meetings & weekly scrum meetings.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Used JMS Queues and JMS Topics for one-to-one and one-to-many communication in the application.  • Involved in improving the existing design by minimizing dependencies between the layers with the help of design patterns.  • Involved in the analysis for Reporting framework, in procedures and functions modifications.    Environment: Java 1.5, CSS, firebug, Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML4.0, XML, CSS2.0, SQL, Windows Platforms, IDE- Eclipse, SVN Java Developer Magna Info Tech - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN February 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Agile Development Methodology with a Test-Driven approach.  • In case of application development to be loaded, modular approach was used.  • Depending on the business requirements, Class and Sequence diagrams were developed.  • Developed UML diagrams for analyzing the business requirements and designing the system.  • Worked on developing JSP's, Action Classes and delegating the tasks to the corresponding session parameters.  • Implemented validations for both client side and Server side using the Struts2Validator Framework.  • MVC design pattern and TDD was used in the application in order to make it more modular.  • Was responsible in generating Maven Script for faster and easier deployment.  • Configurations and Deployment was implemented using the IBM WebSphere Application using Maven Script.  • Deployed Web Services, JSP's, Servlets, and Server-side components in Web Logic Application Server.  • Worked on running integrated testing using the JUNIT and XML for building the data structures required for the Web Service.    Environment: Core Java, TDD Methodology, Agile Methodology, J2EE-JSP, Servlets, UML, Web logic Server, Tomcat, Struts2, Spring, Maven, JUnit, Log4j, EJB 2.0, XML, Eclipse, WebSphere. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (7 years), SERVLETS (7 years), JSP (7 years), AJAX (6 years), CSS (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technologies AEM 6.0, AEM 6.1, AEM 6.2, AEM 6.3, Java.  Framework Apache Sling, OSGi, Apache Felix, Spring, Struts, SOAP, REST  Web/Application Servers Web Sphere 5.x, Web logic 10.2, Tomcat 7.  Languages Sightly, JSP, Java J2EE, Servlets, Core JAVA.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, JQuery, J2EE, XML, JSON, AJAX, JSP, Sightly, Servlets, JSTL.  Databases SQL, MySQL, SQL Server, MS Access  IDE's Eclipse, CRXDE, IntelliJ, Brackets, NetBeans, Jenkins, Maven.  Development Methodologies UML (Rational Rose), J2EE Design Patterns.