Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - CFN Mortgage Capital Miami, FL • Around 5 years of experience in full life cycle (SDLC) of the software development process including requirement analysis, design, development and testing.  • Expertise in implementing web and enterprise applications using Java, JSP/Servlets, Struts, EJB, SPRING, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS, Web Services, and XML technologies.  • Good experience in Liferay portal. Worked on Portlets (JSR 168/286), Hooks, Ext plug-ins and clustering.  • Experience in Portal/Portlet Development in Liferay 6.1, 6.0  • Experience in Content Management (CMS). Knowledge in work flows for the content management.  • Experience with MVC, Singleton, Factory Method and J2EE patterns.  • Experience with user interface technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, and JSON.  • Strong experience of developing persistence layer with JDBC, Hibernate and JPA.  • Experience working with Java Multi-Threading applications.  • Experience with of IDE tools like Eclipse, RAD and NetBeans.  • Experience in designing and creating automation frameworks for web based applications using Java, Selenium WebDriver.  • Good working experiences in application servers like JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere and Tomcat  • Launching and configuring of Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring the servers for specified applications.  • Worked on various services of AWS for setting up infrastructure and used EC2 as virtual server to host Git, Jenkins and configuration management tool like Chef and Ansible.  • Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Chef and Maven in Linux environment.  • Experience in performing Unit testing using JUnit, Integration testing & System testing.  • Experience in using Ant and Maven as build tools.  • Proficient in using source control tools such as SVN, CVS and Rational Clear Case.  • Good understanding of Rational Rose for designing UML use cases, class diagram and sequence diagrams.  • Experienced in writing SQL queries.  • Experienced in working Agile Development environments (SCRUM).  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, communication skills and Interpersonal Skills, ability to work under strict deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer CFN Mortgage Capital - Miami, FL July 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Understanding of business requirements, analyzing and implementing the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, and AJAX.  • Worked on pop up screens, image sliders, and dropdown menus on web pages using JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery, and AJAX to make UI functional.  • Designed the Use Cases, class diagram and Sequence Diagrams using MS-Visio as part of design phase.  • Used the Inversion of Control module of spring framework.  • Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Utilized Spring Core for dependency injection, Spring MVC, Spring AOP; Spring ORM for integrating with Hibernate.  • Developed and consumed Web Services to allow communication between the applications using RESTful web services.  • Used TDD (Test Driven Development) approach using Junit Framework for unit testing and Mockito for object mocking.  • Implemented various J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Business Delegate, DAO, Transfer Object and SOA.  • Extensively used multi-threading; tools like samurai and TDA were used for thread dump analysis.  • Deployed the application in JBoss server.  • Developed test scripts to automate process of testing in Selenium WebDriver.  • Developed and maintained automated regression test cases in Selenium WebDriver using Java.  • Used Subversion (SVN) to implement version control System.  • Maven build tool for continuous build and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Used Soap UI for load testing; JMeter was used for performance testing and stress testing.  • Used Log4J for storing log messages and debugging.  • Used JUnit Framework for the unit testing of all the java classes.  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring MVC, Restful Services, Apache CXF, SOAP, Jackson 2.x, Hibernate 4.x, Sql Server, JQuery, log4J, Jenkins automation, Ant, Team Foundation Server. Student Worker University of Illinois - Springfield, IL May 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Application using Spring MVC Framework.  • Developed Model Objects for implementation of Persistence of objects and Caching of Data using Hibernate.  • Designed WSDL's and elaborated type definitions schemas based on corporate standards, integration and security specifications.  • Implemented the Web Services and associated business modules integration.  • Tested JSPs in Firefox and Internet Explorer browsers. Identified and fixed browser related issues.  • Used ANT script to compile and build the WAR.  • Configured the WebLogic handler for the Apache Web Server to serve static files (jsp, html, images and css).  • Developed Servlets for Document Upload, Image Streaming and Caching the data.  • Development and Integration of the Application using Eclipse IDE.  • Involved in the full system life cycle and responsible for Developing, Testing, Implementing.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing, and System Testing, used JUnit framework.  • Developed JavaScript validation for client side validations. Performed Code reviews and code fixes.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Used Log4J to store log messages.    Environment: Java 1.7, Spring3.2, Hibernate, Web services WSDL, Restlet Api, Jboss application server, Tomcat Apache Server 7.0.42, Oracle DB, SQL Server, Maven, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery 1.6, JUNIT 4.0, Log 4J, Rest Assured. Java Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN March 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analysis, Design and Implementation/translation of Business User requirements.  • Responsible for system analysis, design and development using J2EE architecture.  • Implementation of MVC2 architecture by separating the Business Logic from the presentation Logic using JSP/Servlet framework.  • Used Spring Framework at Business Tier and also Spring's Bean Factory for initializing services.  • Used JDBC for creating Data Access layer.  • Developed DAO classes for the data interaction and service classes for the business logic.  • Created web services using REST, to allow application and services to connect over the Internet.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, and Collections.  • Developed SQL Statements as well as PL/SQL Stored Procedures for searching contractors depending on Selection Criteria.  • Apache Tomcat, web server was used for deployment and administration of components.  • Used Eclipse as software development platform for developing the whole application.  • Created Servlets for developing control and business logic of the application.  • Used SVN for the version management.  • Created SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Performed Unit Testing using JUnit for the modified codes.  • Developed and deployed the applications using Tomcat.  • Used SVN version control.  • Responsible for End User Training and Application support.  • Involved in Client interaction as well as Client Demonstration.    Environment: Java 1.6, Java, Servlet 2.5, HTML, tomcat 6.x, JDBC, MySQL 5.1.x Education Bachelor of Engineer in Engineer Stanford University Skills Apache (5 years), HTML (5 years), Junit (5 years), Sql (5 years), Subversion (5 years), Java, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information Technical Skill:    J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JPA, EJB, JMS, JNDI  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, Selenium  XML/ Web Services Restful, SOAP  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MS-SQL  Application / Web Servers JBoss, Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic  Methodology / Design Pattern OOAD, UML, DAO, Singleton Pattern, Front Controller, Factory Pattern  IDEs Eclipse, NetBeans  Cloud Amazon Web Services (AWS)    Operating Systems Windows, LINUX, UNIX  Other Tools ANT, Maven, JUnit, Log4J, SVN, Jenkins, GIT