Java J2ee Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> J2ee <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2ee Developer Plano, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java J2ee Developer ATT - Richardson, TX July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in business requirements gathering and technical and functional walk-through meetings  • Actively Involved in Design and implementation phase of the project.  • Developed front end user interface using JSP HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSTL, jQuery which are integrated with Spring MVC framework.  • Performed form validation on the UI using Spring validation framework.  • Used Design Patterns like Front servlet, Adapter, Command, DAO, and DTO for processing backend business and data layer  • Used Spring IO/Spring Boot for auto generating the Spring application.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework in the presentation tier for the control flow, validations and business layer communication.  • Used Spring MVC framework for developing the application and Hibernate to map to Oracle database tables.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM, creating the Hibernate POJO objects and mapping using Hibernate annotations.  • Used Rest Controller in Spring framework to create RESTful Web services and JSON objects for communication.  • Used Postman to test the RESTful web services for HTTP requests such as GET, POST, and PUT.  • Implemented Log4j for debugging/monitoring purposes and I18N technology for a broader perspective of the project.  • Developed test classes and performed unit testing using JUnit framework.  • Worked along with DBA in DB objects creation and design. Hands on knowledge on query implementation and optimization.  • Maintain GIT branches during project development. Conduct merge and use Maven for building and deploying the application to Tomcat server.  Environment: JDK 1.8, Java EE, Spring Boot 2.0, Spring MVC 5.x, Hibernate ORM 4.3, RESTful web services, Log4j, HTML 5, JSTL, Maven 3.x, Apache Tomcat 8.x, MySQL 5.x, Unix. Java/J2EE Developer MasterCard - St. Louis, MO April 2017 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in business requirements gathering and technical and functional walk-through meetings  • Used Eclipse for coding, debugging and testing the application modules  • Developed front end user interface using JSP HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSTL, jQuery which are integrated with Spring MVC framework.  • Used Spring IO/Spring Boot for auto generating the Spring application.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM, creating the Hibernate POJO objects and mapping using Hibernate annotations.  • Used Rest Controller in Spring framework to create RESTful Web services and JSON objects for communication.  • Used Postman to test the RESTful web services for HTTP requests such as GET, POST, and PUT.  • Worked on claims processing and fraud analysis modules in the application  • Implemented the application modules using Spring Core (IOC), Spring JDBC, Spring MVC in order to develop the application  • Followed Agile Scrum development methodology while developing the application  • Developed Maven and ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in Weblogic app server  • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed  • Involved in code versioning, Check-In, Check-out and code merging using GIT hub  • Used JIRA tool for creating change tickets and handling production bugs and development tasks  • Involved in production support, resolving the production issues and maintaining the application server  Environment: JDK 1.8, Java EE, Spring Boot 2.0, Spring MVC 5.x, Hibernate ORM 4.3, RESTful web services, Log4j, HTML 5, JSTL, Maven 3.x, GitHub,Apache Tomcat 8.x, MySQL 5.x, Unix. Java/J2EE Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ September 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules  • Developed presentation layer for the application modules using XHTML, HTML5,JQuery, AJAX and CSS  • Involved in developing UI prototypes, page views and templates using JSP  • Implemented web service client program to access Affiliates web service using SOAP Web Services.  • Used XML, XSD, XPath and JAXB for message transformations and mappings  • Involved in consuming SOAP Web Services, generating WSDL and used SoapUI for API testing.  • Implemented the code for Session management, Logging mechanism, Error Handling and Application Sitemap.  • Implemented and enhanced the business rules and wrote test suits  • Extensively followed Test Driven Development to implement application business logic, work flow process and integration of application modules  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate and JPA to achieve object to database table persistency  • Developed Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files  • Used Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring ORM layer, Spring DAO support layer in order to develop the application  • Configured and used Jenkins tools for continues integration and build and deploy the applications  • Used Maven for building and deploying the web application into WebSphere and configuring the dependency plug-ins and resources  • Involved in checkpoint review and JADR reviews and have good knowledge on PGB process.  • Have a good knowledge about Secure SDLC principles, OWASP security principles and Accessibility support in the project.  • Knowledge of Xpress Scan for monitoring the performance and accessibility standard of the application.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Java EE, Spring MVC 3.x, Hibernate ORM, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, PL/SQL, XML, XSD, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, UML, Maven 2.x, WebLogic 9.x,Subversion V1.6, SSH Secure Shell V3.2 Senior Java Developer Thompson Communications - Chennai, Tamil Nadu September 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Preparing Functional Specifications, and Technical Specifications according to the client requirements.  • Utilized Agile methodology to collaborate with Development and Product Management team for effectively identifying requirements.  • Developed user interactive web pages using HTML, CSS, Struts (MVC) tag and JSTL tag libraries with Client-side validation and unit testing.  • Extensively worked on Display tag to display the data in table format and implemented page navigations  • Designed and developed Login/Logout module using JSP, and struts to authenticate the access level for the users.  • Created Web.xml, Struts-config.xml, Validation.xml files to integrate all the components in the Struts framework.  • Developed the application Resource bundle for display messages and implemented validations using Struts Validations framework  • Designed and developed business layer which includes the creation of action classes, VO/beans to handle user interactions through forms and integrated with backend functionality.  • Created Packages, Stored Procedures & Functions in Oracle 10g using PL/SQL & TOAD.  • Worked with the WebLogic application server to build, publish and deploy the application.  • Prepared a Detailed Test plan and was involved in writing several Test Cases.  • Used SVN for checking in and Checking out of files and for source code management.  • Responsible for production rollout support, validation and Warranty support  Environment: JDK 1.6, Java EE, Struts 2.x, Hibernate ORM 4.3, Log4j, HTML, JSTL, UML, Rational Rose, Apache Ant1.5, JUnit, WebLogic 9.x, SVN, Oracle 10g, Unix. Java Developer British Telecomm - Belfast August 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Initial design and creating Use case diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and class diagrams using the MS Visio Tool.  • Active involvement in UML design for the Agora - CCM compatible framework.  • Developed Web pages for the Application Using Java Struts Framework and Spring Framework.  • Design and coding of Action classes and Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Struts and Hibernate framework.  • Responsible for developing web services for Common GUI program  • Creation of XSD and WSDL files using UML models in Borland Together tool.  • Developed Webservices to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Used JUnit Test Cases to test the Webservices Clients.  • Practiced continuous integration and Engineer rigor automation in the project.  • Support general troubleshooting for issue resolution, root cause analysis, coordination and production support.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Java EE, Struts 2.x, Spring3.0, Hibernate ORM 3.x, Log4j, HTML, JSP, CSS, JSTL, Webservices, SOAP, UML, Rational Rose, Erwin, Apache Ant1.5, JUnit, WebLogic 9.x, SVN, Oracle 10g, Unix. Java Developer British Telecomm - Belfast May 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Being a Component designer had been responsible for liaising with the other component designers, E2E designers and the business.  • Implemented design Patterns like Facade/ Command /Factory / Abstract Factory.  • Configured with role base authorization policies - maker-checker control.  • XML, XSL, Writing Style Sheets with CSS processing/parsing with DOM used DOM4J and XMLSPY.  • Design templates for BT product services using Windchill PDMLink.  • Responsible for Continuous integration and deployment of source code.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JUnit for unit testing.  • Created war files & deployed on BEA WebLogic7.x using ANT deployment tool.  • Testing and production support for PMF and the interfacing components like Ordering (oneSiebel and oneView) and Billing (Geneva, Amdocs and Antilia) systems.  • Support general troubleshooting for issue resolution, root cause analysis, coordination and management meetings  • Adhered to British Telecom approved/standard change management processes  • Used StarTeam for Software configuration management and Quality Control for Bug fixing and tracking  Environment: JDK 1.5, Java EE, JSP, XML, XSL, XHTML, CSS, JSTL, JDBC, JavaScript, Servlets, LDAP, Windchill PDMLink, Log4j, UML, Apache Ant1.5, JUnit, WebLogic 9.x, StarTeam, Oracle 10g. Java Developer British Telecomm - IN June 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Implemented of Audit Trail, Authentication Layer and user login based on the roles.  • Demonstrate solid knowledge of system design principles and ability to explain detailed specs to team.  • Interacted with diverse group to create business and functional requirements.  • Developed presentation layer components like JSP, Action classes, Form Beans, Validation, Action Dispatcher and struts XML configuration files for the Struts 1.x Framework.  • Developed AJAX for asynchronous communication with server.  • Designing and coding of design patterns like Data Access Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator and data Transfer Object and wired them using Struts1. x.  • Used the iBATIS data Mapper feature as a persistence layer and to move data between Java and relational database.  • Wrote named queries to be used for IBatis mapping.  • Wrote Complex queries, joins, views to perform operation on tables & PL/SQL.  • Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements  • Unit tested the implemented modules. Used Quality Center for defect tracking and analysis.  • Used StarTeam for software configuration management and version control.  • Developed UNIX Shell Script, Debugging, Implementing, Development, Testing, Staging and Production Environment with Production support.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Java EE, Struts 2.x, Spring3.0, Hibernate ORM 3.x, Log4j, HTML, JSP, CSS, JSTL, Webservices, SOAP, UML, Rational Rose, Erwin, Apache Ant1.5, JUnit, WebLogic 9.x, SVN, Oracle 10g, Unix. Java Developer Standard Chartered Bank - IN September 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participated in sessions with business analysts and team members to analyze business Requirements and translated business requirements into working model.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse and performance of the application by making effective use of various design patterns (Business Delegate, service Locator, DAO, Value Object etc. and other Basic patterns) and wired them using Struts1.x and Spring2.0 framework.  • Developed web application utilizing open source technologies like iBatis Data Mapper and Spring Framework.  • Developed Action Form classes, Form beans, Action Classes using Struts framework.  • Wrote JavaScript validations to validate the fields of the deal information and Group details page.  • Used IBM RAD as IDE tool to develop the application and JUnit for unit testing.  • Used CVS for software configuration management and version control.  Environment: JDK 1.6, Java EE, JSP, XHTML, CSS, JDBC, JavaScript, Servlets, Struts1.1, Spring2.0, iBatis2.x, Apache Ant1.5, JUnit, Log4J, Oracle 10g. XMLSpy, POSTMAN and SOAP UI IBM RAD • Experience with implementing webservices to communicate between different distributed components using SOAP and REST Web Services and editors like XMLSpy, POSTMAN and SOAP UI.  • Hands on experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL, Joins, Stored Procedures and Database Triggers  • Experience on working with Oracle, MySQL Server and DB2 Relational Databases  • Hands on experience with AWS  • Experience in Using ANT, Maven builds tools, performing Unit test by using Junit and Integration testing.  • Experience in working with application server technologies like Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere and WebLogic  • Strongly initiative, creative and able to adapt new technologies easily  • Have excellent communication skills and ability to work within a team environment with minimal supervision Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate (4 years), Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-ws, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Ajax, Css, Dreamweaver, Security, Soa, Tomcat, Weblogic, Websphere, Apache, Java J2Ee, MVC, Angularjs, Javascript, Rest Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, UNIX  Languages Java, PL/SQL  Web Technologies  Servlets,JSP,HTML5, CSS, CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Java Script, XML, XSD, XSLT, JAXB, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring JPA, Spring Security, Spring IOC.    Frame Works Spring Framework5.0, Spring Boot 2.0, Struts 2.x, Hibernate 4.x, myBatis 2.x, Angular 4.x, Apache axis 2.0,  SOA Technologies SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JSON  IDE's Eclipse, RAD, Toad, Oracle SQL Developer  Database & Tools Oracle 11g, DB2, MySQL, SQL Server, SQL Developer  Application Server's WebLogic 11.x/12x, WebSphere 7.5, Apache Tomcat 7.x/8.x  Tools & Utilities    Deployment & Testing    SOAPUI, Postman, Log4j, JIRA, Dreamweaver, PL/SQL Developer, Visual Studio code 1.3x, MYSQL Workbench, Firebug 1.6, Web Developer 2.0, Quality Control, Remedy ticketing system, Clarity.  Maven 3.x, Ant 1.9, Junit 4.x    Version Control SVN, StarTeam, GitHub