Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Full Stack Developer - TxDOT Austin, TX • 9+ years of strong expertise in the IT Industry having sound experience in web based and client server application software analysis, design, development, implementation, testing and maintenance using Java/J2EE and SOA.  • Expertise in developing Enterprise client server web applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies - Java 8, JSP, Spring MVC, JDBC.  • Proficient with Software development methodologies like Agile Methodologies.  • Extensive development experience in object oriented analysis, design and programming (OOA/OOD/OOP) throughout complete SDLC in various models like Waterfall and Agile.  • Proficient in programming with Java/J2EE and strong experience in technologies such as JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring (IOC & AOP), Hibernate, EJBs, MDBs, Session Beans, JDBC and JNDI.  • Strong Expertise in front end technologies such HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax. Basic understanding of Ext Js  • Strong Expertise in front end technologies such JSP, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  • Worked with databases such as Oracle, SQL Server, Sybase & DB2 and writing the SQL queries & Stored Procedures.  • Extensive experience in design and implementation of MVC architecture using STRUTS, SPRING and JSF Frameworks.  • Strong knowledge of Spark for handling large data processing in streaming process along with Scala.  • Excellent Knowledge in understanding Big Data infrastructure, distributed file systems -HDFS, parallel processing - Map Reduce framework and complete Hadoop ecosystem.  • Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Scala.  • Efficient in packaging & deploying J2EE applications using ANT, Maven & Cruise Control on WebLogic, WebSphere & Jobs. Worked on the performance & load test related tools like Profiler and Meter.  • Implementation of SOA using Web Services and MQ (with Java Messaging Service (JMS) & Taco EMS).  • Had excellent knowledge in using Jasper soft API's / middle layer.  • Strong in design and development of SOAP & Restful Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, CXF, AXIS, JAX-RS, JERSEY and WS-Security.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Successfully designed and implemented various reusable components and frameworks using Design Patterns like MVC (Model View Controller), Singleton, Factory, DAO and Facade.  • Worked with Repository tools like TFS, Clear Case, CVS and SVN for check-in/check-out/Merging/Branching the code.  • Good Knowledge on HBASE NoSQL database.  • Having an experience in developing middleware services with the help of Mule ESB and Oracle OSB.  • Design and development of web-based applications using different Web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Jobs and WebLogic.  • Experience as Full stack Java developer with RDBMS skills.  • Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit and Integration testing during the projects and hands on experience on Spring Cloud.  • Experience in developing the applications which can talk to NoSQL Databases like Mongo and Couch DB.  • Extensive experience in using the AWS using spring.  • Experience in integrating spring with Elastic search.  • Experience in using different Mock Frameworks like Mock MVC, Mockito to test different layers of the application.    TEHCNICAL SKILLS:    Java and Web Technologies  Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring (IOC and AOP), Hibernate, MDBs, Jasper soft, Session Beans, JavaScript, AJAX, DOJO, ExtJs, Java Mail, Java 8, HTML, CSS, DTD, SCHEMA, XML, SAX, DOM    Database/Programming Oracle 12C/11g/10g, IBM DB2 UDB 7.x/8.x, MS SQL Server 2008R2, Sybase & MYSQL, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL,  Languages Java/8, C#, Python, Groovy, Scala, HTML, XAML, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, XSLT  Microsoft Tools  MS Word, Excel, Access, Power point, PowerShell, Expression Blend, Front page, Visio, Lync2013, Web Programming and Scripting    Tools Eclipse , MyEclipse, RAD, Net Beans, SQL, TOAD, ITAM, ITIM, SQL Developer, Clear case , Subversion, JUnit, UML Work Experience Sr. Java Full Stack Developer TxDOT - Austin, TX February 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, HTML, Spring, AngularJS, Servlets, JavaBeans, MongoDB.  • Developed multiple web Applications using Web Services(Restful) and Java 8 for multiple modules in the application.  • Extensively worked with SPRING framework and also struts Configure files.  • Worked with React JS Components, States, Forms, Events, Keys, and Lists.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Writing service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  • Understanding functional specifications and documenting technical design documents for the Project.  • Worked in Agile methodology for software development. Involved in daily scrum meetings to self-organize and complete work.  • Created dynamic and reusable components using React JS and worked with React Flux.  • Implemented client side functionality using HTML 5, Bootstrap, AngularJS and JQuery, Sencha Ext JS.  • Built web-based applications using Spring MVC 3.0 Architecture.  • Designed, developed and migrated system with Kafka, Spark, Hive, Cassandra and NiFi.  • Built the xml submission using the Spring batch with Java 8.  • Used Grid functionality like Grid filtering, Multiple Sorting, Grid Cell Editing, Grid Row Editing.  • Implemented Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular Js2.  • Designed and implemented AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, Elastic Load balancer (ELB) and VPC.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring REST support is to make the development of RESTful Web services.  • Designed, developed and deployed automation scripts for Active Directory operations with PowerShell.  • Integrated Kafka with Spark streaming for real time data processing.  • Worked on Micro services using Spring for building internal products and services.  • Used Crytoscape on the frontend to deliver the graphs and loading the Crytoscape style and JSON data using AJAX.  • Used Oracle LDAP platform in tandem with standard Oracle SQL to manage high volume backup/purge operations.  • Analyze Cassandra database and compare it with other open-source NoSQL databases to find which one of them better suites the current requirement.  • Building the AWS Infrastructure using VPC, EC2, S3, Route 53, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation.  • Involved in creation of both service and client code for JAX-WS and used SOAP UI to generate proxy code from the WSDL to consume the remote service.  • Developed new library with micro services architecture using Rest API and Spring boot.  • Actively involved in configuring and deploying on IBM WebSphere Application Server WAS.  • Designed and implemented Cassandra NoSQL based database and created REST enabled Web Services.  • Involved in JUNIT testing using Mockito.  • Developed user interface by using the React.js, Flux for development.  • Worked on Proof of Concept for developing application using Node Js and Mongo DB.  • ANT is used to create build file and does Unit testing by creating Test Suites using JUnit Framework  • Configured Log4j to handle error messages.  • Use PVCS for software configuration management and version control and deploy the application in JBOSS server.  • Developed Mule ESB and Oracle OSB as a middleware services to enterprise environment.  • Prepared test cases and provided support to QA team in UAT.  • Analyzed and fixed the bugs reported in QTP and effectively delivered the bug fixes reported with a quick turnaround time.  • Used WebSphere Application Server 7 WebSphere Portal server 7.0 to create, debug and deploy application modules.  • Attend the meetings and take the requirements from the Client, prepare TDD (Technical Design Document) and get sign-off from the Client.  • Develop the code based on the requirements, build and deploy the code in all the environments like DEV, SIT, and UAT.  Environment: Java , spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, REST, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular Js, EXT Js, Oracle 10g, Cassandra, Mule ESB, Jasper soft, Scale, Oracle OSB, Tomcat, Web Sphere 7.0, Elastic Search, ANT, TFS, Joint, Mockito Sr. Java Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL April 2016 to January 2018 Role & Responsibilities  • Diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing & building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology, AWS & open source technologies.  • Participated in the design & development of the system using Spring and Apache Camel frameworks and used REST web services to transfer data between applications.  • Responsible to enhance the UI using HTML, Java Script, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side using JQuery validations.  • Consumed Restful web services to get the JSON object (Response) and manipulated the JSON Object to display the response in the webpage.  • Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL/Streaming for faster processing of data.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Spring framework.  • Installed and configured PingFederate with the existing Siteminder environment and used LDAP authentication for the admin console. Experience in configuring SSO with and custom developed authentication schemes.  • React JS and JSON were used to facilitate an AJAX enabled application of Model-view-controller.  • Worked on complete life cycle, Design, development and testing using OOA and OOD.  • Used JSP, HTML, and CSS for content layout and presentation.  • Used JQuery for UI and AJAX for reports display  • Configured S3 to host static web content, Elastic Load Balancers with EC2Autoscaling groups and deployed Cloud Stack using AWS.  • Developed application using Angular.JS 2.0 and Node.JS, React JS connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Used micro services to build internal products.  • Created the web application using MVC pattern to manage runtime content, in the form of POIs.  • Used Web Services to extract customer related product data from machines and servers using WSDL,  • ML, SOAP using Service Oriented Architecture.  • Worked on the design and development of application in Hibernate framework  • Implemented the functionality of fetching of data from different sources and persisted the data through Hibernate, to separate DAO layer from Database layer and using core java classes.  • Involved in the transformation Oracle relational bulk data and flat files to Mongo DB and processing the Mongo DB data as well through custom accessors.  • Used JQuery plugins to develop the custom portal templates.  • Wrote Stored Procedures using SQL query language in Oracle 10g.  • Participate in technology/tools evaluation and software technical proof of concepts.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic and Jobs application servers.  • Design and developed the application using Jakarta Struts Framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern.  • Used Struts Validation to validate various form entities.  • Used XPath, XQuery, XSL, and XSLT for UI development.  • Designed and developed the Data access layer using Spring-Hibernate integration.  • Developed the service layer using the Spring IOC.  • Used Perl and shell scripting to automate the batch process and run SQL scripts.  • Developed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment.  • Designing and developing Web application to generate reports using Java-J2EE technologies.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue, such as PDF, Excel report generation.  • Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment.  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes.  • Used Maven as the build tool for the application.  • Developed Python scripts to automate the deployments to the WebSphere application server.    Environment: JDK 1.5, J2EE, Struts, Hibernate. JMS, Oracle 10g, JDBC, SOA, SOAP, Maven, WebSphere Application Server, Rational Clear Case, Python. Sr. Java Developer Kansas City Southern Railways - Kansas City, MO October 2014 to March 2016 Role & Responsibilities  • Develop, maintain and support Web or Java applications.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Worked on regenerated code, through Hibernate, and created services for existing modules and tested them through JUnit.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets and PL/SQL stored procedures  • Designed developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Struts, Application Framework.  • Introduced the OSGI service for the plugin environment.  • Developed Spring DAO templates to all type of CRUD operations.  • Used Decorator and Factory patterns.  • Assisted in executing the implementation of IAM systems and upgrade to systems as needed.  • WebLogic Installation and monitoring the status of the server.  • Creation of data sources and maintaining the logging for the deployed applications.  • Created Auto deploy jobs using Jenkins and Maven.  • Developed maven configuration files for all the existing plugins to make part of the build.  • Used Jenkins tool and made customizations according to the local build to track out the build status.  • Developed internal web applications using ruby on rails.  • Used Spring Rest Template to use the exposed REST Web Services.  • Used Spring AOP in case of logging and security.  • Experience with the implementation of authentication tokens for the integrated web service security in a SSO environment for the service provider applications.  • Exposed the application as a REST web service and implemented the authentication for that.  • Creating Base domains and managed servers as per the demand.  • Developed all the Junit test cases for all the different layer implementations.  • Used Hibernate Template and Core Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Developed custom Jason parsers to automatically discover the projects or schemas defined in the data source.  • Used JQuery plugins to develop the custom portal templates.  • Wrote Stored Procedures using SQL query language in Oracle 10g.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Used Eclipse Kepler as Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Developed JUnit test cases for Unit Testing and functional testing for various modules and prepared Code Documentation for future reference and upgrades.  • Used Subversion and TFS as a version control system.  • Used Agile pattern, Attending scrums on regular basis with onsite and offshore teams.  • Extensively used Maven to build all the plugins and verify all the test cases which are part of the build.    Environment: Java, HTML , XML , Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC Template, JSON, Eclipse , SOA, Agile, , Oracle 10g, Ant, JQuery, Ajax, Jenkins, BPEL, OSB, Python, JMX, EJB, CSS, JavaScript, Maven, TFS, SOAP, REST, Linux, Log4J, Junit. Sr. Java Developer Oracle - Minneapolis, MN April 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Core Java for business logic.  • Mentored junior team members or newly joined team members. Performed internal code review.  Technologies Used: Java/ J2EE, XML, PL/SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse.  • Designed and developed front end using HTML, JSP and Servlets  • Implemented client side validation using JavaScript  • Developed the application using Struts Framework to implement a MVC design approach  • Validated all forms using Struts validation framework  • Developed several Session Beans and Message Driven Beans  • Design Patterns were used to add flexibility while connecting to the Oracle database  • Used feature of Spring framework.  • Developed applications using Web services.  • Used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database.  • Developed framework to extract reportable positions from main tables and build the xml submission using the Spring batch and JAXB parser.  • Used Hibernate in persistence layer of the application  • Implemented web services using WSDL for authorization  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS) to exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components and legacy system.  • Involved in writing shell scripts for deploying application on UNIX.  • Involved in configuring and deploying the application using WebSphere.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server  • Performed unit testing of core functionalities through  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages    Environment: JDK 1.5, Spring framework, JDBC, Spring batch, Web services (SOAP, WSDL), RAD, XML, XSLT, JMS, Windows XP, ANT, JavaScript, HTML, JUnit, CVS, Log4J, AJAX, CSS, Eclipse IDE, and DB2. Java Developer HSBC - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Java Server Pages, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML for developing visually appealing User Interface pages of the web modules.  • Designed UI screen with JSP, Struts tag library.  • Developed presentation tier using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, and CSS for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  • Involved in Coding JavaScript code for UI validation and worked on Struts validation frameworks.  • Involved in the development of both the back end and the front end of the application using Struts, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Extensive experience in using Node JS in making the server side automations.  • Experience in using WEB 2.0 modules for web development.  • Implemented the Database queries using PL/SQL, Oracle.  • Developed web services using Apache Axis web service engine, used SOAP request response exchange pattern to exchange business XMLs.  • Responsible for Writing JSP for Online Quote for Insurance.  • Used Web Services for interacting with a remote client to access data.  • Fixed the bugs identified in test phase.  • Used Junit for testing Java classes.  • Used Ant building tool to build the application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Oracle, Jobs, Ant, CSS, HTML5, Oracle10g, Eclipse, JavaScript, JQuery, Apache Axis, SOAP web services, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills Design patterns, Git, Gradle, Svn, Mvc, Ant, Maven, Aix, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Version control, Vss, Angular, Javascript, Node, React, Java