Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Rockville, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer GLI Inc - San Antonio, TX August 2015 to April 2018 Authority:  • Designed and developed applications using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) including Requirements Collection, Analysis, Development and Customization of the Application through Agile TDD methodology.  • Extensively used Core Java API, Spring API in developing the business logic.  • Designed and Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services as part of the requirement.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, XML and XSLT.  • Developed applications using Angular 2 single page applications SPAs to improve page performance.  • Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications.  • Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS.  • Used Angular 2 framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.  • Using Spring Boot for dependency injection and batch processing.  • Implemented Microservices for loose coupling and granularity of application.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Implemented DAO layer using JPA (Hibernate framework) to interact with Oracle 11g database.  • Extensively used the J2EE design patterns like Session Facade, Business Object (BO), Service Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory.  • Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat and Web Sphere.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component projects and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Utilized Agile Scrum Methodology with JIRA to manage project and participated in daily stand up meetings.  • Developed UNIT test cases using JUnit and Mockito and configured them through Maven surefire plugins to be part of continuous integration.  • Used Log4j along with Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Used SVN for Version Control tool and Clear Quest for bug tracking tool.    Environment: Java, PL/SQL Spring API, Spring Boot, Microservices JSON, XML, JSP, JavaScript, AWS, JIRA, RESTful service, SOAP, JPA, AJAX, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, SVN, JUnit, Mockito, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS. Junior Java Developer Illumina - San Diego, CA September 2013 to July 2015 Authority:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), analysis, modeling, developing code & testing  • Developed RESTFUL web services and Microservices using Spring Boot and Spring MVC.  • Consumed various REST webservices  • Implemented persistence layer using hibernate and worked on creating Spring Data Repositories for SQL database  • Implemented the feature for the Admins to create and manage events at the global level.  • Fixed issues with email RSVP not saving in DB, sending event invites to multiple non-members, chapter not displayed for selection.  • Used spring framework to handle business logic.  • Used Jackson API's Object Mapper to map Java objects to json.  • Used criteria API to implement criteria queries that return instances of persistence objects.  • Used Log4J to capture the logs that includes application logs, system logs and performance logs.  • Used PUTTY to login to Linux servers to check logs.  • Used Git commands to push, pull, merge the branches.  • Used Rally to groom user stories, list tasks, provide estimates and track defects.  • Self-starter, fast learner and a team player with good communication and personal skills.  • Worked in Agile model and familiar with all the ceremonies - Sprint planning meetings, Daily Standups, Sprint    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Microservices, RESTFUL web services, Oracle 12, Postman, Rally, Git, Bit bucket UI Developer UBSWeehawken - Weehawken, NJ April 2011 to August 2013 Authority:  • Involved in SDLC phase of requirement analysis, design and development of the web-based intranet application tool using Java, spring, Spring Batch and Hibernate.  • Used Struts validator framework to automatically validate user input.  • Develop, implement and maintain a synchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, Value Object, Service Locator, MVC and Business Delegate.  • Developed/Customized Java Server Pages (JSP) for Customer User Interface (UI).  • Developed web tier using Struts tag libraries, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, JSP, and Servlet.  • Developed JSP custom tag libraries.  • Involved in writing test cases using JUnit.  • Developed the database tier using JDBC.  • Used SVN tools for version control.  • Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs.    Environment: Java 1.5, Struts, Spring, Spring Batch Production Support, Hibernate, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle 9i, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, SVN, JSP, HTML, WebSphere, Apache Axis, Agile Scrum, JUnit 4.2, Design patterns, Web Services. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (5 years), database (7 years), Java (7 years), Oracle (7 years), web services (7 years)