Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Thrivent Financial Minneapolis, MN • 7+ years of experience in Requirements gathering, Designing, Development, implementation and maintenance of software applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Good Working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller) Struts, Spring, Hibernate.  • Excellent in designing the front-end pages using scripting languages like Angular JS, JSP, HTML, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and its libraries.  • Experience in using Design Pattern: Singleton Pattern, Factory pattern, DAO, Façade Pattern (Session Façade Pattern), MVC Pattern, Business delegate Pattern, and Service Locator Pattern.  • Expertise in developing various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic and data manipulations from database.  • Extensive knowledge in using JDBC and ORM technologies like Hibernate for persisting data to different relational databases.  • Experience in programming SQL queries, triggers and Stored Procedures in Oracle and SQL Server.  • Experience in developing applications using Web Services like SOAP, WSDL and RESTful.  • Expertise in using JUnit in performing unit test and Log4j for logging errors.  • Good working knowledge of IDE like Eclipse, IBM RAD and NetBeans.  • Expertise in configuring and using various Web Application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Used XML, XSLT, JSON and Schemas for communication between different tiers of application.  • Hands on experience in setting up repositories in Maven and Ant.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  • Good knowledge on source control tools such as Rational Clear Case, SVN, GitHub and CVS.  • Experience in developing applications using Agile, Scrum and Waterfall methodologies.  • Possess excellent leadership qualities, good Interpersonal Skills, team-working attitude, and take initiatives with a proactive approach in problem solving and providing best solutions. Work Experience Java Developer Thrivent Financial - Minneapolis, MN March 2019 to Present Description: Thrivent Financial is a website-based application that offer financial products and services like life insurance, annuities, mutual funds, money management, brokerage services for Thrivent members.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, Analysis, Testing and Maintenance of software development life cycle.  • Developed UI modules using HTML, JSP, CSS, AJAX, Java Script and jQuery for client-side validation  • Followed waterfall methodology for the application development.  • Developed application using Spring MVC framework, Spring Boot and integrated with hibernate as data access layer to access and update information in database  • Implemented back-end functionality of the module using Hibernate framework and involved in Mapping, hibernate queries, persistence and deletion for persistence objects.  • Implemented log4j for logging and debugging purpose of the application  • Tested webservices using SOAP UI  • Built RESTFUL API to save and retrieve information using Spring MVC and spring boot  • Migrated application from mule server to tomcat server  • Involved in setting up of JMS connection factory and IBM MQ series in Apache tomcat server  • Developed batch jobs using spring batch and used JMS template for sending information to queue and listener to retrieve information from queue.  • Developed SQL Queries for performing CRUD operations in mysql server for the application.  • Used Maven to build the application and deploy it on Tomcat server and for other environments used Jenkins automated build and deploy configurations  • Used SVN as version control.  Environment: Java 7, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, Java Script, JUnit, SVN, Maven, IBM UrbanCode Deploy, Jenkins, STS, Apache Tomcat, Spring MVC, Spring Boot 1.5, Soap and Restful webservices, Spring Batch, Hibernate, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Spring Batch, Thyme leaf, IBM MQ series. Java Developer Columbus, OH October 2017 to March 2019 Description: The sales & service center is a website-based application used by firms and financial advisors in the life, Group retirement and annuity lines of business to better serve their clients who have purchased products from nationwide. Users can view their statements, client accounts and analysis the data based on it    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Participate in IPM and Three Amigo sessions to understand the requirements and to come up with estimates  • Expertise in using Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Implemented serval UI screens using Struts2, JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Used Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  • Involved in POC for developing a module using Spring Boot which improved time and efficiency of the process  • Release Support- Managing Release deployments to lower Environments in terms of software deliveries and overnight activates.  • Developed story/task by following TDD/BDD and Pair programming concepts. Providing daily status in scrum meetings with the client.  • Supporting production defects  • Experience with Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Application Deployment on PCF using CF push and Urban code deploy.  • Experience with static code analyzers like Sonar.  • Utilized Agile process to streamline development process with iterative development.  • Experience in using Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug for debugging and troubleshooting the code.  • Developed SQL queries to access data in Oracle database.  • Implemented Web services components SOAP, WSDL to interact with external systems  • Wrote Junit test cases for Java Application  • Used Liquibase with Maven and Eclipse for deployment of database.  • Extensively used the repositories like GIT and SVN.  Environment: Java 7, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, Java Script, JUnit, GIT, Maven, IBM UrbanCode Deploy, Jenkins, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Spring MVC, Soap and Restful webservices, Angular JS, Struts2, Tomcat, Oracle 11g, Mybatis, PCF, Liquibase. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Minneapolis, MN November 2016 to October 2017 Description: Customer Online Management System(COMS) you can make payments using secure online banking system, manage inventory and review detailed analytics and reports that can help guide business growth. Also with coms, access resources on how to manage inventory more effectively with real time monitoring tools.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design and development and testing Phase of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC)  • Design and Implemented the UI using HTML, JSP, CSS, AJAX and handled client-side validations using Java Script and jQuery  • Implemented application with Spring MVC framework which includes writing controller class for handling request, processing form submissions.  • Developed code for consuming various web services using JAXB, JAX-WS, SOAP and Restful  • Interacting with Business Analyst and Lead for understanding the requirement using Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Meeting to keep track the end client needs.  • Wrote unit test cases using Mockito for all the testcases to maintain code quality and stability.  • Accessed and Manipulated oracle database environment by writing SQL queries in oracle SQL developer for testing purpose  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework  • Achieved dependency injection by creating spring services and DAOs to wire objects of business class  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations  • Used various design patterns like MVC, DAO and Singleton while developing the application  • Tested web services using SOAP UI s  • Used Tortoise SVN as version control tool  • Used Maven to build the application and deploy it on Tomcat server and for other environments used Jenkins automated build and deploy configurations  • Coordinated with testing team and Fixed defects at various stages of application development. Tracked defects using HP ALM Quality Center  • Used JIRA for creating task and report hours for task that are related to the project. Raising questions for business and getting answer from them and tracking is done by JIRA  • Used Log4j to capture the log that include runtime exceptions and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues  • Involved in making release builds for deploying the application for test environments.  • Involved in application production support and maintains activity  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, Java Script, JUnit, Mockito, SVN, Maven, IBM UrbanCode Deploy, SOAP UI, Jenkins, HP ALM Quality Center, Agile, JIRA, Eclipse, Oracle SQL Developer, Windows XP, Apache Tomcat, Spring MVC, Soap and Restful webservices, Hibernate, Putty Log4j. Java Developer State of Oregon - Portland, OR March 2016 to October 2016 Description: The Oregon Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) provide Retirement benefits and Management for State of Oregon. jClarety is a Public Retirement System software which provides members and retirees web based access to manage their personal and Retirement account information    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Designing front end technologies using CSS, HTML, JSF, JSP, AJAX and handled all the client-side validations using java script and jQuery  • Coordinated with the business and functional teams to get clarity on the requirement for analysis.  • Developed the application using agile methodology.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistent data as an Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for communicating with database  • Used Spring MVC to handle the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to backend tier of the application  • Used various design patterns like MVC, DAO and Singleton While developing the application  • Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control)/ Dependency Injection to write the object dependencies across the application  • Developed RestFul Web services which consumes the HTTP request and produces the HTTP response in JSON Format  • Developed the application using RAD, Jboss Developer Studio and deployed it in websphere application server  • Used Maven and ANT as build script for application build and deployment.  • Developed SQL Queries for performing CRUD operations in SQl server for the application.  • Involved in fixing various defects assigned on the Jira.  • Used Junit for performing unit testing framework to gain confidence in the correctness of the code.  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  • Used SVN as version control.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, RAD, JBOSS, ANT, Maveen, jUnit, Log4j, SVN, JIRA, SQL Server Studio 2005, AJAX, JSF, CSS, HTML, jQuery, JSP, Hibernate, JDBC, Selenium, WebSphere Application Server, Spring, RestFul Web Service, Windows XP. Java Developer US Bank - Portland, OR April 2015 to March 2016 Description: The Know Your Customer (KYC) is a web application to approve or reject new KYC Forms online based on potential risk factors and generating the overall AML Customer Risk Rating Score.    Responsibilities:  • Develop business requirements and specifications for specialized components, which may involve identifying alternatives at the system level.  • Designing, developing and maintaining complex programs in specialty component system.  • Designing the web application layout using highly advanced user interface design and development technologies like Angular JS, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery and HTML.  • Implemented Spring MVC, which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performing validations.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes  • Designing and executing stored procedures for data migration from legacy data to SQL Server.  • Developing Web Services using SOAP as a protocol to send request and response in the form of XML messages using WSDL.  • Used Hibernate to deal with the database and wrote complex HQL to handle the persistence operations.  • Working on ANT scripts to build the application generating JAR files for application deployment.  • Developing Junit test cases for testing the functionality of the code and Involved in defect fixing and tracking using HP ALM quality center 11.  • Used Clear case as version control tool.  • Followed agile methodology for the application development.  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Angular JS, Spring 4.1, Hibernate 4.2, HTML, JavaScript, XML, Junit 4, Log4j, SQL Server 2012, Web Services, Clear Case, IBM WebSphere 8.5, IBM RAD 8.5, ANT, HP ALM quality center 11. Java developer Lincoln Financial - Greensboro, NC January 2014 to March 2015 Description: Lincoln Financial group is a financial group which operates multiple insurance and investment management businesses through subsidiary companies. Presently working as a change/support consultant where my work involves in maintaining the tickets and ensuring the delivery of the work within the SLA defined.    Responsibilities:  • Followed AGILE methodology with SCRUM meetings.  • Interacting with the other Service Teams and discuss about the requirements.  • Participated in sessions with team members to analyze business requirements.  • Application was Developed using spring frame work as web layer frame work and Hibernate 3.x for the Data Layer  • Used JSPs in the presentation tier along with various Spring tags, JSTL tags, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented Spring MVC to connect to front end UI and perform operations  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate and Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control) / Dependency Injection to write the object dependencies across the application.  • Used Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the business logic tier (Business object) and the persistent storage tier (data source).  • Involved in writing complex HQL queries to handle the persistence operations.  • Defined beans in xml for dependency injection using Spring IOC/Core.  • Used Spring-Web Services to develop Contract-First web services for various business functionalities.  • Experienced in writing jUnit test cases for unit testing and Test-Driven development.  • Configured and deployed the application in Web Logic application server.  • Built and deployed the application to various environments using Maven.  • Worked with testers in resolving defects in the application and was an integral part of the team.  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, JSTL, Spring 3, Spring IoC, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.x, HTML, JavaScript, XML, jUnit, Log4j, TOAD, Oracle10g, Web Services, SVN, Rational Clear Quest, Web Logic 10.x, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer UNCTV - Durham, NC September 2012 to December 2013 Description: UNC-TV is one of the first public television providers of online streaming content, with a multitude of original series and programs. UNC-TV's unique programs and public media services provide people of all ages with enriching, life-changing television.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend J2EE.  • Developed user interfaces using JSF, JSP, Java Script, HTML and CSS.  • Implemented the project using the Spring Framework (used Spring IOC and Dependency Injection, Spring MVC).  • Used Hibernate in the persistence tier to connect with database.  • Used JQuery for user interface validations.  • Developed EJBs for processing the Business logics and to provide data persistence in the application  • Used HTML features to develop user interfaces.  • Developed External style sheets (CSS) to bring rich look to user interface.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Developed REST based web services.  • Integrated services with user Interfaces using Ajax.  • Integrated JSON response form services with user Interfaces.  • Developed SQL queries and stored procedures for retrieving data.  • Used Log4j for logging to trace the errors.  • Responsible for unit and integration testing.  Environment: Java 5.0, J2EE 6, Servlets, JSP 2.0, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, SQL Developer, HTML, Oracle 11g, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS, Java Web Services, REST, Tomcat server, Eclipse, log4j, AJAX, HTML5, SVN, JSON, agile scrum Java developer Aetna Insurance - Hartford, CT June 2011 to August 2012 Description: Aetna Insurance Company offers health, dental, life, disability and long-term care benefits. Worked with business team to devise or modify applications to complex problems. Involved in designs, codes, tests, debugs, and supports those programs.    Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Struts Tag libraries, Java Script and Ajax.  • Implemented MVC-II Architecture, which separated the View and Business Logic Layer.  • Designed SOA implementations by Using Web Services-WSDL, UDDI and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party vendors.  • Worked on Struts framework to create the Web application.  • Developed Servlets, JSP and Java Beans using Eclipse.  • Designed and developed struts action classes for the controller responsibility  • Involved in the integration of Spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IOC)  • Responsible for Writing POJO, Hibernate-mapping XML Files, HQL  • Utilized Agile Scrum to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Used the ANT script to create the war/ear file and deployed into WebLogic.  • Used DOM for parsing the XML, XSLT Document.  • Used JAXB parser for parsing the valid XML files.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Building and Deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production servers  • Involved with the version control and configuration management using Serena  • Unit and Integration testing on development and pre-production servers  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, WebLogic, Struts, JBOSS, HTML, JDBC, Oracle, DOM, XML, PL/SQL, Ajax, JavaScript, Eclipse, JUNIT, XHTML, Hibernate, DAO Education Master's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jsp, Struts, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Svn, Xml, Mvc, Soap, Ui, Database, Java J2Ee, Rest, Core Java, Angular, JEE