Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Verizon Irving, TX ? Having 5 years on requirement analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and support using Object Oriented Methodologies and Java/J2EE technologies. Actively participated in every phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC)Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, JSP, Bootstrap.  ? Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  ? Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  ? Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server  ? Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, DynamoDB, Elastic Search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  ? Hands on experience with Amazon web services (AWS) and Amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers) and Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring).  ? Deploy application updates to AWS and monitored the load balancing of different instances.  ? Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring DAO, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  ? Extensive experience working in Spring framework, Struts framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate framework and web services.  ? Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using SOA, Web Services such as JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML over HTTP, Apache CXF, JAX-B, XSD, Axis 2 and RESTFUL web services.  ? Strong Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, IDM DB2, SQL Server and MySQL, MongoDB.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ and Apache Camel as JASMS provider.  ? Experience in developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j.  ? Experience in version control system tools like GIT, CVS and SVN.  ? Experience in unit testing the applications using JUnit, TDD Framework.  ? Worked on implementing full life cycle of software development process (SDLC) in using version control tools like Rational Clear Case, Tortoise SVN, CVS (Concurrent Version System).  ? Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  ? Significant experience in web development tools like Spring Tool Suite, RAD, Intellij, Eclipse  ? Hands on experience with Windows, UNIX and Linux Environments.  ? Having Experience on Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.  ? Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss application Servers.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, lead/work within a team environment. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Verizon - Irving, TX September 2018 to Present Description: Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, which offers wireless products and services. Verizon wireless customer can do all sorts of activities like activation of phone, downloading ringtones, changing bill cycle, paying their bill, changing mobile number, changing device, changing SIM card, device software upgrade, downloading widgets, Verizon apps, accessing NFL, TV etc. This project is deal with the inventory of Verizon data centers from different locations.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  ? Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  ? Writing code that works across different browsers and devices and integrating with sites that use front-end frameworks like angular.  ? Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using AngularJS, HTML, JSP, JS, CSS and AJAX.  ? To get AJAX functionality for the website wrote JavaScript and JQuery programming.  ? Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  ? Troubleshoot AWS EC2 Status check including System Status checks and Instance Status check alerts.  ? Experience with designing and configuring secure Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through private and public networks in AWS and create various subnets, routing table, internet gateways for servers.  ? Design and Develop Micro Services for various Activation and management activities in One Network flow.  ? Implemented Micro Service Architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST, SOAP.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Micro Services using the Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Developed costume queries using Hibernate criteria, native SQL and HQL. Developed inheritance domain objects using table per class hierarchy strategy.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate to fetch data from database and avoid redundant database access statements  ? Involved in designing and developing the JSON Objects with SQL database like Oracle.  ? Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, Oracle using TOAD tool.  ? Developed and executing unit test cases using JUnit.  ? Packaged and deployed the application in IBM WebSphere.  ? Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file deployed in application servers and used for dependency management of code in application.  ? Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions for collection evaluation and comparing the data, Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application, Parallel operations on collections for effective sorting mechanisms and to change the sequential stream flow of threads while session establishment.  ? For application logging and notification, tracing mechanisms used Log4J.  ? To keep track of issues and tasks on individuals used JIRA ticketing system.  ? As a version, control tool used GIT.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, JSP, Spring cloud, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JDBC, Amazon Web-Services (Elastic Search), SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture, REST, JAX-RS, Jersey, JUnit, JAX-B, Mongo DB, WebSphere, JIRA, Maven, GIT, RAD, Jenkins, Unix, Agile Methodology. Java/J2EE Developer Capital One - McLean, VA October 2017 to August 2018 Description: Company provides retail, commercial, and corporate banking services to individuals, businesses, and institutions. The company Community Banking segment offers checking and market rate accounts, savings and time deposits, individual retirement accounts, and remittances and lines of credit, auto floor plan lines, equity lines and loans, equipment and transportation loans, education and residential mortgage loans and credit and debit cards.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  ? Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  ? Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  ? Leveraging Angular JS resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  ? Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design HTML5 and CSS3.  ? To get AJAX functionality for the website wrote JavaScript and JQuery programming.  ? Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  ? Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth2authentication protocol respectively.  ? Involved in Batch Module and Developed Batch's using Spring Batch.  ? Design and Develop Micro Services for various Activation and management activities in One Network flow.  ? Implemented Micro Service Architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST, SOAP.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Micro Services using the Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Connected to Data sources and performed operations using Spring Data Framework features like Spring JDBC and Spring ORM.  ? Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate to fetch data from database and avoid redundant database access statements  ? Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with NoSQL database like MongoDB  ? Created Stored Procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Built NoSQL schemas and maintaining sessions by MongoDB.  ? Developed and executing unit test cases using JUnit.  ? Packaged and deployed the application in IBM WebSphere.  ? Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file deployed in application servers and used for dependency management of code in application.  ? For application logging and notification, tracing mechanisms used Log4J.  ? To keep track of issues and tasks on individuals used JIRA ticketing system.  ? As a version, control tool used GIT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, JSP, Spring cloud, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JDBC, Amazon Web-Services (Elastic Search), SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture, REST, JAX-RS, Jersey, JUnit, JAX-B, Mongo DB, WebSphere, JIRA, Maven, GIT, RAD, Jenkins, Unix, Agile Methodology. Java/J2EE Developer Health Connection - Minneapolis, MN July 2016 to September 2017 Description: Health Connection is a Minnesota non-profit that acts as an intermediary, working with government and community social service agencies to help people with very long histories of homelessness move into and prosper in supportive housing. The purpose of Pilot is to provide an automated system that enables the consistent collection, management, and reporting of information for the Supportive Housing and Managed Care Pilot.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis & application design of Extreme Programming using Agile methodology with iterative and incremental software development.  ? Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using AngularJS, HTML, JSP, JS, CSS and AJAX.  ? Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring framework to inject dependency into objects and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Used Spring framework including Spring core /IOC, Spring Web, Spring Security.  ? Developed persistence layer Data access objects using DAO pattern, JDBC, Hibernate  ? Developed costume queries using Hibernate criteria, native SQL and HQL. Developed inheritance domain objects using table per class hierarchy strategy.  ? Configured EH Cache to load the static tables into secondary storage area.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons.  ? Developed Stateless session beans to parse (parser frame work) and process the user request into domain object (DAO design pattern) to delegate the business request to the business delegate object  ? Used SOAP web services and XML data over HTTP.  ? Developed necessary parsing and XML construction logic using XML parser APIs JAXB.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, Struts published validation framework to support client side and server side validation.  ? Used built in store Procedures to reach the requirements from the Client to improve the response times of the services.  ? Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, Oracle using TOAD tool.  ? Developed an automated application using JMS for messaging and JNDI to interact with the Server.  ? Used Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the Oracle database.  ? Created Stored Procedures using PL/SQL.  ? Developed Scripts for the build process and deployed in Web Logic Server.  ? Developed customized SQL for retrieving the data from the database worked with business and client to reach the performance parameters.  ? Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process.  ? Implemented Log4J for logging errors, tracking using logger's components.  ? Developed unit test cases to test business scenarios associated with each use case sequences.  ? Used GIT for version control tool.  ? Experienced in writing unit test cases using JUNIT.  ? Worked on UNIX environment for development.    Environment: Java, JEE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Spring (dependency injection, AOP), Spring Web, Struts, Hibernate, JMS, Clear case, WebLogic Server, Web- services, SOAP, WSDL, JNDI, UDDI, JAX-RPC, JAXB, Log4j, Oracle, Rally, JUnit, Jenkins, GIT, TOAD, UNIX. Java Developer InfoTech - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to July 2015 Description: The objective of Item Management is to set-up, maintain, and share Item information in a flexible system that easily supports Unilever's growth, increases speed to market and improves data accuracy, while reducing user workload. Guided Setup is one module of the project which functions as a wizard to complete the configuration and creation of various types of items like Single Items, Multiple Items and Assortment Items.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  ? Involved in the design and development of an entire Module - Guided Set Up. Developed user interface through JSP and Servlets.  ? Developed Action classes and Action Forms using the struts framework.  ? Developed Customs tags to display dynamic contents and to avoid large amounts of java code in JSP pages  ? Connected to database through JDBC.  ? Extensive experience working with XML (DOM and SAX).  ? Used SQL-server to store the items in the database.  ? Used Session beans for navigation of steps.  ? Used Entity beans for storing the database into database. Developed Session Beans as the clients of Entity Beans to maintain the Client state.  ? Developed Ant Scripts to build and deploy EAR files on to Tomcat Server. Analyzed the EJB performance  ? in terms of scalability by various Loads, Stress tests using Bean- test tool.  ? Extensively used Eclipse while writing code as IDE. Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures,  ? functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  ? Developed test cases and used JUnit for Unit Testing.  ? Used CVS for version controlling.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, XML (DOM and SAX), JSP, EJB, JavaScript, CSS, JDBC, Struts, Ant, Web Logic Application Server, WSAD, UML, Eclipse IDE, SQL-Server, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, CVS, PVCS, Junit, Windows Junior Java Developer Singularity Software India Private Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to May 2014 Description: Marketing Automation is a system that facilitates email marketing, sales lead generation and sales lead management, other regular marketing activities and used to assist the company in implementing inbound marketing activities.    Responsibilities:  ? Technical responsibilities included high level architecture and rapid development  ? Design architecture following J2EE MVC framework  ? Developed interfaces using HTML, JSP pages and Struts -Presentation View  ? Developed and implemented Servlets running under JBoss  ? Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, developed custom tags, and used JSTL Taglib  ? Developed various java business classes for handling different functions  ? Developed controller classes using Struts and tiles API  ? Used J2EE design patterns and Data Access Object (DAO) for the business tier and integration Tier layer of the project  ? Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue  ? Implemented CMP entity beans for persistence of business logic implementation  ? Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and advanced prepared statement  ? Inspection/Review of quality deliverables such as Design Documents  ? Developed EJBs (Session and Entity Beans) for business processing and database access  ? Wrote SQL Scripts, Stored procedures and SQL Loader to load reference data.  ? Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  ? Used Maven as a build tool for deployment purpose.    Environment: Java, J2EE ( Java Servlets, JSP, Struts), HTML, EJB, MVC Framework, JDBC, Maven, JBoss, SQL, Oracle, Tortoise SVN, Apache Tomcat. Education Master's Skills Ajax. (3 years), Angularjs (3 years), Apache (3 years), Css (3 years), database (4 years), Html (2 years), J2ee (4 years), Java (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Jax (3 years), Jdbc (4 years), Jsp (4 years), Junit. (4 years), Oracle. (3 years), Soap. (3 years), Sql (4 years), Struts (3 years), testing. (2 years), Unix (3 years), Xml (3 years), Angular