Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - TD Bank Mount Laurel, NJ • Having around 8+ years of experience in the full software development life cycle involving Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation of Java/J2EE application software in web-based environments along with diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing and building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology & open source applications.  • Working experience in different domains like Banking, Insurance, Retail, Oil and Gas Domains.  • Strong development skills in Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JMS, JNDI, RMI, XSL, JavaScript technologies  • Good Working experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container module, Spring Application Context module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring IOC, Spring AOP Module, Spring ORM module Mybatis frameworks etc. in Spring Framework, along with the Hibernate and JPA as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Implemented Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate. Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and stored data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Experience in developing Web Services using - JAX-WS (SOAP), JAX-RS (Restful) and WSDL and enveloping DTDs, XSD schemas for XML as well as developing applications using Hibernate and springs MVC.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core Java concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JavaBeans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading, Data structures etc.  • Good experience in implementing web service layers and prototyping User Interfaces for intranet, web applications and websites using HTML5, XML, CSS, CSS3, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, Bootstrap, ExtJS, JSP and JSF.  • Advanced development experience with AngularJS including authoring complex directives,  services, controllers, filters also worked with animations, routing, states, and resource.  • Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  • Extensive knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server, MySQL.  • Performed ETL jobs to load the JSON data with the server side content into the MongoDB  • Used Web Sphere Application Server, Web Logic Application Server, JBoss and Apache Tomcat in all my projects and successfully deployed and compiled many of the applications on them.  • Extensive experience in using Amazon Web Services like RDS, EC2, Redshift, SQS, SNS, Cloud Watch and S3  • Expertise in using IDEs like, Spring Tool Suite, WSAD, RAD, and Eclipse, various Configuration Management tools like GIT and SVN.  • Expertise in software methodologies like Agile, Waterfall and SCRUM.  • Good Experience in developing test cases with JUnit and logging standard mechanism with Log4j in TDD/ATDD environment.  • Configuration and Version control management using CVS, VSS and SVN.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Developer TD Bank - Mount Laurel, NJ October 2017 to Present Job Description:  Caliber Home Loans, Inc. is a full-service national mortgage lender and agency direct seller/servicer. Caliber originates loans through various channels and transaction types, including a network of retail branches, wholesale lending, correspondent and emerging banker lending, and a consumer-direct centralized operation specializing in a variety of loan programs for purchase and refinance such as conforming, jumbo, and government products. Caliber also offers innovative servicing solutions for both conforming and non-conforming loans. Caliber is led by a veteran senior management team that consists of mortgage banking professionals with a history of building successful national mortgage operations. Caliber is owned by Lone Star Funds, a global private equity fund.  The Senior Software Engineer is responsible for coding/creating software programs    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the client requirements and functional areas of the existing system, client interactions, coordinating with the team members on critical problem solving, technical guidance Involved in Scrum methodology, Sprint Planning and Release Planning meetings  • Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, WebServices and UI Integration for processing the member request for the multiple modules.  • Used Spring MVC Framework, Dependency Injection for integrating various Java Components  • Worked with Spring MVC Controllers with annotations and integrating Hibernated DAO using Spring  • Implemented the Data Persistence functionality of the application by using Hibernate to persist Java data object to the relational database.  • Developed and Deployed Enterprise Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL) and Consumed and generated client using Jersey and Axis Frameworks in RAD IDE  • Designed and developed the front end using the JSP pages.  • Developed reusable Ext JS components such as Viewport, Panel and Grids and Used ExtJS 4.1 and integrate Java and spring together.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked extensively on AngularJS in creating Controllers, Client and Server side validations are done by AJAX calls using $http and JSON parse.  • Worked on creating different screen patterns using the Ext JS and worked on writing Ext JS plug-ins.  • Developed web application using JSF Framework in server side and front-end validation using JQuery and JavaScript validation.  • Made the web pages Responsive using JQuery UI and bootstrap, which can be operated in both PC's and Mobiles.  • Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database  • Developed Database Schema & populating data using SQL statements, PL/SQL Functions, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Bulk upload Monitored error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Used PL/SQL and SQL*Loader to create ETL packages for flat file loading and error capturing into log tables.  • Designed and Implemented Unit Testing using JUNIT Framework and wrote individual classes to unit test the code  • Was part of production support team to resolve the production incidents and common Issues  • Documentation of common problems prior to go-live and while actively in a Production Support role    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JAXP, JAXB, JAX-RS, XML, Apache Axis, JSTL, JMS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Ext JS, Oracle database, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, ANT, Log4j, Git, Maven, JUnit, Eclipse, WebLogic Application server. Java Developer Office Depot - Boca Raton, FL September 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete software development lifecycle tasks (design, coding, testing and documentation).  • Responsible for preparing the use cases and for designing and developing object models, class diagrams with UML Specifications.  • Developed system preferences dynamic user interfaces and created web application prototype using JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Developed spring mvc rest controllers, services for backend interactions.  • Implemented the service layer using spring with transaction and logging interceptors.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript, codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Involved in design and development of RESTful (JAX-RS) web services for other application to communicate and tested web services using SOAP UI and REST Client.  • Developed REST services using Spring and used JAXB API for XML parsing  • Consumed RestFul web service and performed data retrieval using Hibernate and integrated with Web Method via WebServices.  • Extensively used Spring MVC for servlet configurations both during application Development and Test.  • Used Maven to build the application and deployed on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework and used SVN version control to track and maintain different versions of the application.    Environment: J2EE, HTML, Spring, Spring MVC, JBoss, log4j, Hibernate, Maven, Tortoise SVN, Rest web services , maven, Eclipse, java script , XML, MySQL and Windows. Sr Java Developer Fifth Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH August 2015 to September 2016 Project Description: The Government Employees Insurance Company (GEICO) is the second largest auto insurer in the United States. IBU- Claims Integration System project deals with the creation and management of auto insurer claims. ATLAS (Accident Tracking and Loss Assignment and Scheduling) is internal webs based application used by claims adjusters and supervisors to enter the loss reports, scheduling appointments, making payments and manage all claim activities.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for development of the application.  • Involved in analyzing the requirements and participated in discussions with business analysts.  • Implemented Spring Dependency Injection and Spring Transactions in business layer.  • Worked on Spring Controllers and connecting the services using Spring annotations and dependency injection mechanism  • Involved in developing Hibernate DAO classes, mapping files for persistence layer.  • Integrated and configured Struts, Spring and Hibernate framework environment.  • Worked on multiple configuration files for mapping using ORM concepts and deployment descriptor files such as web.xml, action-servlets.xml, spring-config.xml, applicationContext.xml files.  • Configured DAOs using Hibernate annotations to interact with back end Consumed web services and using JAXB, JAXP technologies while making the requests and parsing the response from Web Services by using Xml Implemented the functionality using Spring, Hibernate and WebServices Frameworks  • Developed and Deployed SOA/Web Services using IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  • Successfully used JMS in the application for sending message to Queue  • Involved in writing HQL and SQL Queries for Oracle database.  • Developed Database Objects like PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures and Materialized Views.  • Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Extensive use of AngularJS for developing the SPAs (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool. Worked on AngularJS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Temples, Events, and Injectors also created the angular custom directives, Filters, and Services.  • Writing Asynchronous code on the server-side for fetching data and communicating with the front-end application using AJAX calls from Front-End application using JQuery.  • Developed dynamic and interactive pages with cross browser compatibility using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX.  • Developed REST WebServices using JAX-RS and Jersey to perform transactions from front end to our backend applications, response is sent in JSON or XML formats based on the use cases.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building process that created POM.xml files and created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebLogic application server.  • Used Log4j to setting up debugging and error information for production support  • Involved in writing the JUnit test cases and integration testing of the system.  • Written Maven Scripts to build generate WAR file and deploy the application.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Experience working with QA, fixing and tracking of defects and deployment in QA environment.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JAXP, JAXB, JAX-RS, XML, Apache Axis, JSTL, JMS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Ext JS, Oracle database, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, ANT, Log4j, Git, Maven, JUnit, Eclipse, WebLogic Application server, SVN. Sr Java Developer Santander Bank - Boston, MA October 2012 to July 2015 Project Description: Fifth Third Bank's Web application implements advanced Internet banking and transaction functionalities. The current application is a part of online banking that allows a customer to pay bills securely as well as enroll in monthly automatic recurring bill payment. The functionalities involved in e-bill payment are add a Payee, make a Payment, setup automatic payments, receive bills electronically, request E-mail notifications and review payments.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all project phase discussions and executed project from PDP (predefined phase) to rollout phase with post implementation activities.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Spring Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Involved in enhancing certain modules of web portal using Spring Framework  • Developed web and service layer components using Spring MVC  • Implemented various design patterns like MVC, Factory, Singleton  • Designed user interface for users to interact with system using JQuery, Java Script, HTML5, CSS3.  • Writing custom filters, directives, controller for the HTML using Angular code.  • Followed Agile Methodology in software development.  • Used Hibernate DAO Support to integrate Hibernate with Spring to access database  • Implemented RESTful WebServices and associated business module integration for getting status of claim report.  • Worked with Angular JS for creating own HTML elements for building a very companied web site which is Open Source Project.  • Developed backend business logic with Spring Framework and achieved asynchronous messaging with Java Messaging Services (JMS).  • Used Mongo DB for storing minimal data documents and used in file sharing.  • Performed Client side validation using Java Script.  • Use JSF to design web application. Including DB connection, pom.xml file for Dependency Injection, java and XHTML File, MVC model  • Designed user interfaces using JSP Standard Tag Libraries, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSF and JSP  • Validated the user inputs using Spring Validator.  • Dependency Injection was used across all the layers of application  • Developed database Schema & populating data using SQL statements, PL/SQL Functions, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Bulk Upload Monitored error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Worked on JUnit Framework for Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Worked on source code management tools such as SVN.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, Java Script, Angular JS, JQuery, HTML, CSS/CSS3 Servlet, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse IDE, XML, MVC, Factory, Singleton, RESTful Web services, SVN. Java Developer Agilent Technologies - IN June 2010 to September 2012 Project Description: Cybertech is a leading provider of next-generation geospatial, networking and enterprise IT solutions. Multiple GIS based web applications were developed to implement Arc WebServices which are hosted by ESRI by this functionality we can able to display map and actions related to the map in the form of different layers.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with business analysts and architecture group's gathering requirements and use cases.  • Involved in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using UML for designing the application.  • Developed Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and State diagrams.  • Developed the application using the Struts.  • Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Server side validation.  • Developed JSP pages for the presentation layer, used custom tag libraries, JSP Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Developed the Session Beans for handling the complex business logic.  • Developed the Hibernate for handling the database access.  • Developed a common consistent framework to show different GUI screens based on user roles mainly in the development of Commission Calculator modules - Used XML/XSD/XSLT effectively. Used Ajax for Asynchronous calls.  • Developed the front-end validations using JavaScript.  • Extensively wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Cursors, Views for data retrieval and data storage and updates in PL/Sql database.  • Wrote Apache ANT build scripts for building the application and unit test cases using JUnit for performing the unit testing.  • Designing Test Plans, Test Cases and performed System Testing.  • Coordinated the build and deployment of EARs on Webs in Test and Development environments.  • Extensively used CVS as source control and Involved in the Configuration Management software configuration/change control board    Environment: Java/J2EE, Hibernate, JSPs, EJB 2.0, UML, JMS, XML, Struts, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, DHTML, Web Sphere, SQL, JUnit, ANT. Java/J2EE Developer InfoTech IT - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to May 2010 Project Description: InfoTech IT is a part of the Cyient group subsidiary organization demonstrates a strong focus and commitment of the Cyient Group to the Retail and Supply Chain industry sectors. The organization comprises of talents with domain experience in Multi-channel retailing, Retail Information Systems, Supply Chain Management, Merchandising Systems, Customer Relationship Management and Data Warehousing.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparation of functional definition documents and Involved in the discussions with business users, testing team to finalize the technical design documents.  • Designed, developed and implemented the application as a team member.  • Implemented Business Logic of the system using Core Java API  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding and Development of custom Interfaces  • Developed many Java Interfaces to integrate the WebServices with the database transaction tables.  • Experience in developing web services for production systems using SOAP  • Hands on experience with Data persistency using Hibernate and Struts framework  • Developed the Servlets and Data Access Layer classes  • Deal with Java Beans helper classes and Servlets for interacting with the user interface written in JSP.  • Servlets and JDBC were used in retrieving data  • Used JDBC API for interaction with the Oracle Database.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations  • Maintained the existing code base developed in the Struts, hibernate framework by incorporating new features and doing bug fixes.  • XML was used to transfer the data between different layers and dealt with the database operations e.g., Calling stored procedures and stored functions.  • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updating and retrieval operations on data    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, JDBC, DAO, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JavaScript Web Services, WebLogic. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), XML (8 years), DATABASE (8 years), JSP (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Java/J2EE Technologies Java, J2EE (EJB, JDBC, JMS, JSF, Servlets), JSP, jQuery, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JNDI, RMI, AWT, Java Networking  Web/Application Servers Oracle/BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, JSF  IDEs Eclipse, IBM WebSphere Application Developer, IBM RAD  Web Technologies JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, XML, XSLT, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ext JS.  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI  XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, Waterfall  Database Servers Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g/12c, DB2, SQL Server 2005/2008, MySQL, Mongo dB  Version Control CVS, SVN, TFS, GIT  Build and Test Tools ANT, Maven, Junit, JWeb unit