Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - SEI Investments Atlanta, GA • 8+ Years of Extensive experience and demonstrated ability in Software Analysis, Design, Development,  Implementation, Testing and Debugging of Object Oriented Applications and Web based Enterprise  Applications using Java/J2EE.  • Extensive use of Build and Integration tools such as Ant, Maven, GIT, and Jenkins.  • Strong experience in developing Enterprise and Web applications on n-tier architecture using Java/J2EE based technologies such as Servlets, JSP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, EJBs, Web Services, XML, JPA, JMS and JDBC.  • Hands on professional enterprise experience in Java Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Struts, spring, JSF, Portlet, EJB, and JMS Web Services in Java EE applications.  • Experience in Front End applications in a three-tier architecture using Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, and Bootstrap.  • Familiar with MySQL and used Database utility programs like TOAD and SQL Navigator.  • Experience in Oracle SQL and PL/SQL including all database objects: Stored procedures, Stored functions, Packages, TYPE Objects, Triggers, cursors, REF cursors, Parameterized cursors, Views, Materialized Views, PL/SQL collections.  • Familiar with SQL*Loader to load data from external source like flat files into database tables.  • Experience with database tools like SQL plus, SQL developer and TOAD.  • Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Framework Technologies such as Hibernate, Spring MVC, JDBC and Web Services Restful API, SOAP API.  • Exceptional debugging and problem solving skills with good understanding of system development methodologies and techniques.  • Highly committed individual with proven ability to learn fast and work well under any kind of situation.  • Desire to take challenges, learn new technologies, ability to handle multiple tasks and meet project deadlines. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer SEI Investments - Atlanta, GA May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed complete application life cycle function (SDLC) from conception to final release to users including design & analysis, Implementation, Testing, Deployment, and Maintenance.  • Followed Agile methodology throughout the project, involve in Scrum meetings with the team members on day-to-day basis for the update on project status.  • Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections, multithreading and for effective sorting mechanisms and Streams to store and process the data.  • Used Multithreading to simultaneously process as and when a specific user data is completed in one table.  • Designed the login portal using framework AngularJS 2.0 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Implemented with XML, XSLT, XPath and Web services (REST & Soap).  • Worked with AngularJS routers, forms, modules, DOM, expressions, controllers, filters and Http Request.  • Configure and run gulp tasks in runtime and handle injection, CSS pre-processing, test-running.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Components.  • Experience in creating RESTful web services using Jersey, SPRING framework and JAX-RS.  • Good understanding of REST API's extensive experience of integrating services via Ajax using JavaScript, jQuery, and AngularJS.  • Experience in creating RESTful web services using Jersey, SPRING framework and JAX-RS.  • Used spring framework 4.3 to create the beans needed and injected dependency using Dependency Injection.  • Implemented and developed Hibernate configuration and session-per-request design pattern for making database connectivity and accessing the session for database transactions respectively.  • Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet Application.  • Implemented presentation layer using Spring Boot 1.3, J-Query and Bootstrap 4.0.  • Extensive involvement in developing Spring MVC, Spring Data and Spring Batch applications.  • Utilized spring core, Spring Boot, JPA, and Hibernate 5. Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data from Oracle.  • Wrote SQL queries to fetch data from tables and also created new columns to tables.  • Configured the Docker Containers and creating Dockers files for different environments.  • Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as Maven. Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control.  • Maven used to manage dependencies in the application and deploy it on JBoss Application server.  • Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Used GIT as a version control system and deployed the application in Production  • Extensively Worked on Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  Environment: Java 8, JSP, Spring, JSTL, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, JDBC, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular 2, Restful, jQuery, Hibernate, JPA, Micro services, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, JBoss, Docker, Log4J, Maven, Windows, Junit, JIRA. Java/J2EE Developer Mentor Graphics - Portland, OR June 2015 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  We are looking for a Senior Java Developer to join the Verizon System of Engagement Team. You will be working on the Verizon business critical application which is responsible for handling all customer channels sales and Services transactions. You will be building, enhancing and involved in migrating existing technology application into cutting edge technology stack. You will support managers and peers with analysis, development, and delivery of business requirements, by working with internal and external business stakeholders, understand high-level objectives and translate and propose solutions. You will also be responsible to drive high-quality innovative solutions and reduce time to market by working with cross-functional teams throughout the software development cycle.  • Involved in analysis, design, development and testing phases of SDLC using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in developing Order Processing module which includes Order creation, Order Tracking and Generating Invoices.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js, and jQuery for IT-Architecture projects.  • Responsible Backend development of JDA platform module using Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Web Services, EJB.  • Used framework for writing validations on server side component deployment of web applications and database templates.  • CRUD Related operations with Database are achieved using JDBC to implement backend part.  • Used SVN for software configuration management and version control.  • Actively participated in scrum meetings, Sprint/iteration planning meeting, Retrospective meeting, reviews and developed test scenarios.  • Communicates project needs to client and internal employer personnel to ensure quality and time.  • Involved in analysing Customer reported Cases and finding the root cause and Responsible for providing the deliverables to customer reported issues using Java, Spring, REST, SOAP, Java Script, CSS.  • Analysing the requirements, develop, implementing using Java, J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, HTML and SQL.  • Test Activities included Functional testing, Integration testing, System and User Acceptance Testing.  • To keep track of issues and tasks on individuals used JIRA ticketing system.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Web Services, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Junit, JIRA, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Oracle, SVN, JQuery, Bit bucket, SOAP, REST Web services. Java Developer Gridlex Services Private Limited June 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:    BBH is a technology driven financial services organization and our team of highly motivated Java Developers play a key role in developing & supporting market leading applications for diverse areas of the business. We are looking for highly skilled, team orientated individuals who can contribute in a mature and proactive way to all phases of a project lifecycle - i.e. more broadly than in just a pure development role.    • Being involved in the project life cycle including Study, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Debugging, Implementation and Production Support.  • Coordinated with the BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analysed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.  • Designed class diagrams, sequence diagrams and data flow for this project.  • Development of change requests using Java, J2EE, spring, Web Services.  • Experience in using the Collections in java like Array List, Hash Map etc.  • Used Agile methodologies to ensure the new features meet the customer requirements and acceptable quality assurance standards.  • Responsible for Design and development of Webpages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Participated in the meetings, prepared reports and other supportive documentation to contribute to establishment of standards and procedures for software development.  • Worked on several production support issues that required immediate attention and gave solutions to help the customer save time and effort.  • Developed Spring Controllers, Service Components, DAOs, Web Services and UI Integration.  • Use of Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development.  • Managed and implemented all codes changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development staging and production instances and maintained code integrity.  • Test Activities included Functional testing, Integration testing, System and User Acceptance Testing.  • Actively participated in scrum meetings, Sprint/iteration planning meeting, Retrospective meeting, reviews and developed test scenarios.  • Developed as per the business requirement documentation (BRD).  Environment: Java, Spring Framework, Hibernate Framework, RESTful service, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, Putty, SVN, Ajax, EJB, JSP, CSS, jQuery. Java Developer Capture IT Solutions - IN June 2011 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  BBH is a technology driven financial services organization and our team of highly motivated Java Developers play a key role in developing & supporting market leading applications for diverse areas of the business. We are looking for highly skilled, team orientated individuals who can contribute in a mature and proactive way to all phases of a project lifecycle - i.e. more broadly than in just a pure development role.    • Actively involved in all aspects of the system design which include requirement gathering, analysis, development, system and integration testing.  • Design, Architect & Create a solution using Java, J2EE Technologies.  • Review, monitoring and setup KPI's and alerts for various services.  • Participate in requirement gathering/Story grooming calls which translate into solutions.  • Analysis and design for products and related services, also responsible for product stability.  • Ensure high-quality standards of the deliverable by doing thorough code reviews and monitoring KPIs to ensure the Service Level Agreements are met.  • Involved in production support to address the issues that were raised.  • Responsible for software development and web development projects.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  • Modifying the existing JSP's for screen level changes and adding client side validations in JavaScript.  • Analysing the requirements, develop, implementing using Java, J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, HTML and SQL.  • Worked on design and development of UI using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework Implemented client side validations using JavaScript.  • Used core Java to develop the functionality of the modules.  • Implemented servlet to handle request and response which comprises of accepting form input and generate HTML Web pages dynamically.  • Design websites. Write code. Develop and propose technical solutions.  • Write, modify, and maintain software documentation and specifications.  • Utilized defect/bug tracking tools with team to improve communications and reduce defects in product.  Environment: Java/J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, Servlet, Xml, ECLIPSE and SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Application development, Html, Javascript, Json, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Css, Tomcat, Web services