Sr.Full Stack Developer Sr.Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Full Stack Developer - Cross River Bank • Over 8+years of experience involving all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including planning, analysis, design, implementation, testing and maintenance of Multi-Tier distributed, secure enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies inBanking, Insurance and Communication.  • Experience in application development using Software development methodologies such as Agile, Waterfall development and TDD (Test Driven Development) environments.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts of Java/J2EE like JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading, Data Structures etc.  • Experience in User Interactive (UI) Web Pages and visually appealing User Interface usingHTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript and PHP.  • Extensively worked on XML related technologies like XML, XSLT, XPATH, XSL, DTD and DOM.  • Responsible for creating a microservice system using Java 8 with Spring Boot, RESTful API, SOAP API and experience with Java 8 features like Stream, Lambda expressions and Filters.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence frameworks like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes using Hibernate Query Language (HQL), HSQL Named Queries, Criteria, and Projections.  • Experience in database modelling, design and development of PL/SQL stored procedures, packages in relational databases like Oracle 9i/10g / 11g, SQL Server 2005/2008 and MySQL.  • Experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB,Cassandra and Couch DB.  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture and Web Services such as SOAP using WDSL, JAX-WS and REST using Spring Boot, Apache CFX, JAX-RS and Jersey Frameworks.  • Hands on experience in configuration and deployment of multi-tier applications using servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss and WebLogic.  • Knowledge on Spring Framework like Spring Core, Spring DAO, Spring IoC, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring AOP, Spring Boot and Spring Web flow.  • Involved and developed various phases of security implementation using Spring Security system against all types of authentications like LDAP authentication, Basic authentication and Pre-Authentication.  • Having knowledge on (JMS) MQ's like Kafka, Rabbit MQ and Active MQ.  • Hands on experience with version control tools like SVN, GIT and CVS.  • Experience in using Jenkins for CI/CD process and creating Docker images and containers.  • Experience in using Automation tools like Selenium and Cucumber.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4j and SLF4J. Work Experience Sr.Full Stack Developer Cross River Bank - Fort Lee, NJ March 2018 to Present Description: Cross River Bank is a financial services organization that combines traditional banking services and the offerings of a technology company. Cross River combines a comprehensive suite of products into a banking-as-a-platform solution, encompassing lending, payments and risk management    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Extensively made use ofJava8features like Predicates, Functional Interfaces and Lambda Expressions, Method References and Stream API for bulk data operations on Collections.  • Involved in developing UI pages using Angular 4.0, HTML5, CSS3 and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed Microservice using synchronous protocols like HTTP, REST (JAX-RS) and SOAP (JAXB).  • Implemented Spring Framework including Spring Core/IOC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM and Spring Batch and implemented the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by making use of Spring Security.  • Used Spring Boot to develop and deploy both RESTful web services and MVC applications.  • Written shell scripts to copy output files to a different location from Spring Batch.  • Used Spring Boot to develop and deploy RESTful web services, SOAP and MVC applications.  • Implemented Swagger Configuration in Java Spring Boot for auto generating swagger JSON files for REST API calls.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring Boot for REST API, by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Used Apache Camel for processing different files, creating routes, using router for communication and integration with other microservice.  • Used Openshiftplatform to deploy applications on cloud.  • Scripted Ansible playbook to deploy applications inOpenshift clusters.  • Effectively developed and deployed Spring Boot applications for REST services on Openshiftplatform and implemented platform as service technologies.  • Added security layer for web services using Oauth, Sami integration, SHA-256 authentication and Basic Authentication.  • Used Apache Kafka with Zoo Keeper for achieving synchronous and asynchronous messaging techniques.  • Used ActiveMQ for asynchronous messaging techniques.  • Developed the Application Module using several design patterns like Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Façade, prototype and Composite View.  • Integrated with Oracle Field Service Cloud for outbound messages through SMS.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) technique for mapping data from MVC model to MySQL Relational data model with and SQL-based schema.  • Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans, mapping of Java objects to database tables using Hibernate. Extensively used Hibernate Transaction Management and Hibernate Batch Transactions.  • Created database objects like Stored Procedures, Tables, Views, Sequences, Cursors, Packages and Triggers.  • Used PostgreSQL as customer database then migrated to MongoDB, used both database in Spring Boot.  • Created Docker images and ran the Docker containers in various environments.  • Having good implementation experience with installation and configuration of Kubernetes, clustering them and managed local deployments in Kubernetes.  • Used Elastic search, Fluentdand Kibana as Log Database for microservice applications.  • Implemented GUID(Global Unique Identifier) for unique identification of logs.  • Worked with Prometheus as system monitoring tool and Grafana as graphical dashboard.  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Used Log4j for logging errors and GIT for version control.  • Deployed the application on JBOSS application server.  • Developed unit and integration tests for existing microservice using Junit andMockito.  • Integrated SOAPUI in Jenkins with Mavenenvironments for unit and Integration testing.  • Developed Cucumber tests for Behaviour Driven integration testing.  • Fixed defects identified during QA, UAT and Production.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Spring Boot, AJAX, jQuery, Angular4, Microservice, Openshift, JBOSS, Hibernate, Apache Camel, OAuth, Basic Authentication, Swagger, RESTful web services, SOAP web service, PostgreSQL, ELK,Docker, Maven, Jenkins, ActiveMQ, Kafka, Shell Scripts, Git,GitLab, Googs, JUnit, Mockito, Cucumber,Log4j. Full Stack Java Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX June 2016 to February 2018 Description: USAA, a diversified financial services group of companies, is among the leading providers of financial planning, insurance, investments and banking products to members of the U.S. military and their families. CIM is a web-service based application which deals with creating user credentials with specific password rules, that are following the USAA policy's and managing them in LDAP directory and Postgres database for Online USAA customers. It performs operations like modifying/resetting user password and username in LDAP directory.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Extensively made use of Java8 features like Predicates, Functional Interfaces and Lambda Expressions, Method References and Stream API for bulk data operations on Collections.  • Involved in developing UI pages using Angular 4.0, HTML5, CSS3 and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Developing web pages using Angular4.0 Framework and worked with various Angular JS directives and services and Filters to build the Applications.  • Designed and developed Microservice using synchronous protocols like HTTP, REST (JAX-RS).  • Implemented Spring Framework including Spring Core/IOC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM and Spring Batch and implemented the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by making use of Spring Security.  • Used Spring Boot to develop and deploy both RESTful web services and MVC applications.  • Written Shell scripts to copy output files to a different location from Spring Batch.  • Implemented Swagger Configuration in Java Spring Boot for auto generating swagger JSON files for REST API calls.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring Boot for REST API, by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to deploy applications on cloud.  • Effectively developed and deployed Spring Boot applications for REST services on Pivotal Cloud Foundry and implemented platform as service technologies.  • Added security layer for web services using OAuth and Sami integration.  • Developed the Application Module using several design patterns like Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Façade, prototype and Composite View.  • Implemented RESTful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) technique for mapping data from MVC model to MySQL Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans, mapping of Java objects to database tables using Hibernate. Extensively used Hibernate Transaction Management and Hibernate Batch Transactions.  • Created database objects like Stored Procedures, Tables, Views, Sequences, Cursors, Packages and Triggers.  • Preparing PostgreSQL queries for reporting and analysing production data for various applications.  • Created Docker images and ran the Docker containers in various environments.  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Used Log4j for logging errors and GIT for version control.  • Deployed the application on JBOSS, Nginx application server.  • Developed unit and integration tests for existing microservice using JUnit, Mockito environments for development and QA teams.  • Fixed defects identified during QA, UAT and Production.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Spring Boot, AJAX, jQuery, Angular4, Microservice, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, JBOSS, JBPM, Netflix Eureka, Hibernate, Spring Batch, OAuth, Swagger, RESTful web services, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Docker, Maven, Jenkins, Kafka, Shell Scripts, Git, GitHub, JUnit, Mockito,Log4j. Federal Home Loan Bank - Des Moines, IA August 2015 to May 2016 Des Moines, IA Aug 2015 to May 2016  Java,J2EE    Description: A primary benefit FHLB application in access to low cost secured borrowings, known as advances, which are funded by the FHL Banks in the capital markets from the issuance of discount notes or term debt, collectively known as consolidated obligations (COs).    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, design, development, testing of application using Agile methodology.  • Used AWS (Amazon Web Services) as a cloud platform to deploy the application.  • Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.  • Used Amazon IAM to grant fine-grained access to AWS resources to users. Managed roles and permissions of users to AWS account through IAM.  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services, AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Utilized S3 buckets and Glacier for file storage and backup on AWS cloud.  • Developed various helper classes necessary using Multi-Threading.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular2.  • Used NodeJS (Express) to create API which can provide or consume JSON.  • Integrated the IoC container of Spring Framework to handle the creation of beans, dependency injection and transaction management.  • Used Hibernate ORM to integrate with business application with Oracle Database where Hibernate template is used to implement business logic. Created XML configuration file for Hibernate Database connectivity.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring's REST support for development of RESTful Web services.  • Created Shell script to deploy resource bundles on different environments.  • Worked with Git Version control system to track various aspects of the project.  • Used Maven as build tool on Java projects for the development of build artefacts on the source code.  • Used Log4j logging framework to write Log messages with various levels for logging across the application.  • Execute finished output and supporting documentation for banking requirements  • Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  • Developed test cases using JUnit and jMock for unit testing as well as integration testing as part of Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application. Provided production support for the application.  • Involved in testing, debugging, bugs fixing and documentation of the system.  Environment: Java 7, J2EE, Spring MVC 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, AngularJS, Node.js, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AWS(VPC, EC2, IAM, Route53, Lambda, ELB, S3), RESTful web services, Rabbit MQ, ESB, Shell Scripts, Git, Maven, Log4j, Cassandra, Oracle 11g, Docker, JUnit, jMock. Java Developer Equifax - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to July 2015 Description: Equifax Inc. is a consumer credit reporting agency. Equifax collects and aggregates information on over 800 million individual consumers and more than 88 million businesses worldwide.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Agile methodology including team-based design and code reviews.  • Actively involved in Requirement Analysis, designing, development and testing of the entire application.  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  • Enhance and modify the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using JSP and client-side validations done using JavaScript.  • Worked on the Common UI layout for defining the Header, Footer and Menu using JSF Facelets.  • Implemented navigation using Spring MVC controllers, configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  • Implemented spring framework BeanFactory&ApplicationContext for bean initialization and configurations.  • SpringAOP is used for logging, auditing, and security and transaction management to distinguish business logic from the crosscutting concerns.  • Implemented the back-end functionality of the modules using Singleton and Session Facade design patterns.  • Configured Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 10g Database.  • Configured Hibernate objects as Spring Beans in Spring Configuration File.  • Involved in development of POJO classes and writing Hibernate Query Language (HQL) queries.  • Asynchronous messaging is done using JMS and created Queue for point to point messaging.  • Developed REST web services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from database and used SOAP UI for testing these RESTFUL API web services.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming RESTful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Designed and implemented Java Classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects to be able to modify the data received in the response.  • Implemented Core Java Concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections when needed.  • Handled Multi-Threading part in the back-end component, one thread will be running for each other.  • Worked with DB2 and wrote SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, triggers, views and integrated SQL Queries into DAO.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat Application Server.  • Used Log4j logging mechanism for logging.  • Used SVN for versioning and concurrent access to the project files.  • Resolving spring framework artefacts and code build & deployment with Maven.  • Used JIRA for defect and issue tracking.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration/continuous deployment.  • Automated regression test cases using Selenium.  • Coordinated with testing team for timely release of product.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React JS, JMS, SOAP, Axis2, Maven, Jenkins, DB2, Selenium, Log4j, SVN, JIRA, Tomcat 6.0. Java Developer Soft Tech Consulting, Inc - Chantilly, VA July 2012 to April 2014 Description: See what employees say about what it's like to work at Soft Tech Consulting. Salaries, reviews and more - all posted by employees working at Soft Tech  Responsibilities:  • Participated in all phases of the project like design, development, testing, enhancements and production support.  • Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Developed front end using JSP, HTML, CSS and client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented MVC architecture and developed form classes, action classes for the entire application using Struts Framework.  • Implemented Singleton, Service Locator design patterns in MVC framework and developed command, delegate, model action script classes to interact with the backend.  • Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  • Developed Enterprise Java Beans like Entity Beans, Session Beans (both Stateless and State Full Session beans).  • Designed and developed reusable Java utility classes for the business logic functionality using services like JDBC and JNDI.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic application server.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixing the problems.  • Designed database Tables, View, Index's and create triggers for optimized data access.  • Written JUnit test cases for unit testing of the application.  • Written Ant scripts for building application artifacts.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.  Environment: Java 6, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Struts 2.0, EJB 2.1, JDBC, JNDI, JUnit, Log4j, WebLogic 7.0, Rational Rose. Java Developer Intercontinental Exchange - Atlanta, GA September 2010 to June 2012 Description: Intercontinental Exchange is an American company that owns exchanges for financial and commodity markets, and operates 12 regulated exchanges and marketplaces  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, design and development of the application.  • Created the design using class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSP, Servlets and EJB.  • Developed web Components using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Extensively used XML documents with XSLT and CSS to translate the content into HTML to present to GUI.  • Developed EJB middleware components to implement business objects and business logic of the system.  • Used JDBC to establish connectivity to the database for performing the database operations.  • Created and modified Stored Procedures, complex SQL Commands for the application using PL/SQL.  • Deployed the application on WebSphere application server.  • Involved in enhancements of the system and worked on fixing bugs and supporting the entire system.  Environment: Java 5, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XSLT, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, WebSphere 7.0, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, jquery, Servlets, Struts, Angularjs, Bootstrap, Html5, Mvc, Soap, Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java 6/7/8, HTML, JavaScript, PHP, Apache Camel, Visual Basic  Web Technologies HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP,AJAX, jQuery, Angular 4, AngularJS, Bootstrap  Java/J2EE Technologies J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, EJB, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, SOAP, REST  Application/Web Servers IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, JBoss, GlassFish  Relational Databases Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra  Cloud Environments AWS, Openshift, Pivotal Cloud Foundry  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, Spring Tool Suite (STS),Red Hat Development Studio  Operating system Windows, Linux, Unix  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Kanban, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle, Log4J, Hudson, Jenkins  Version Control CVS, SVN, GIT, JIRA, Subversion  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-P, JAX-B