Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer Worcester, MA • A motivated proactive professional with 7 years of experience, coupled with strong analytical and adaptive skills in implementing various business applications and products using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  • Hands on experience in Web Application Development using Client Script design technologies like Angular JS, JQuery as well as HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, Java Script.  • Extensive experience in various Java/J2EE technologies including Core Java, J2EE (EJB, Servlets, JSP, JDBC), Mule (ESB), Spring (IOC, MVC, AOP, DAO), Hibernate and Java Web Framework along with Web Services (SOAP, Restful) and Database related technologies.  • Experience in designing and developing Service Oriented Architecture using SOAP.  • Proficient in Java Enterprise Technologies such as JMS, Custom Java Tag Library, JDBC.  • Experience in implementing SOA architectures with web services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI and also implemented JSON Restful web services.  • Experience in design patterns including MVC, Data Access Object and Data Transmission Objects, Factory, Singleton etc.  • Exposure to Prototype, Water Fall and Rapid Application Development (RAD) development methodologies.  • Experience in Java IDE tools like Eclipse.  • Experience in developing Data Binding logic as interface for UI &Business logic using RCP.  • Good Knowledge in building and deploying Apache ANT/ MAVEN scripts for deployment and customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications.  • Working knowledge of PL/SQL and databases like MS SQL Server, Oracle 10g/11g and tools like oracle SQL Developer.  • Expertise in JUnit Assertion to develop unit testing and debugging of application.  • Experience using Web/Application Servers like Apache Tomcat and Oracle Application Server.  • Excellent organizational and analytical abilities teamed with effective oral and communication skills and ability to work in complex environments.  • Ability to achieve immediate and long-term goals and meet operational deadlines  • Experienced in handling end users and troubleshooting real-time issues in production environment including network, operational and application problems.  • Initiated scrum team daily stand up meetings and Demo's throughout our 10 day iterations  • Responsible for facilitating scrum ceremonies (backlog grooming, sprint planning, sprint retrospectives, daily stand-ups, feature demos).  • Empowered the scrum team to self-organize and grow cross-functionality.  • Cleared impediments for the Scrum team by making sure all their needs are met and there are no obstacles hindering them from working properly Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer San Ramon, CA January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Millennium is the database server(oracle server) used for the database interactions  • Used by developing MVP (model, view, presenter) architecture for developing the application.  • Developed a Spring MVC application in connecting to database.  • Consumed services using restful web services.  • Utilized various Javascript and jquery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Created prototypes in HTML, Javascript and CSS for different UI pages  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jquery and Javascript.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS. Interacted with java controllers.  • Used Jenkins for system integration.  • Creating new billing features in JSF for internal users and Ops.  • Translating the HTML design to JSF facelets  • Worked on resolving User Interface issues using various front end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJs 1.x, Angular 2 and AJAX  • Implemented Angular Single Page Application (SPA) using State provider.  • Transforming Angular 1 to Angular 2  • Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular 2 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Involved in developing web services based middleware solutions like web events registration, health care directory search, insurance content management etc.  • Involved in produce/consume REST/SOAP web services.  • Implemented Unit testing with Junit, Cucumber and SOAP UI.  • Designed and deployed server side EJB (Session Beans and Entity Beans) components on Eclipse IDE.  • Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Used AWS SDK to connect with Amazon SQS for bulk email processing.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud  • Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS  • Analyzed data by creating simple SQL queries and identified fact and dimension tables.  • Creating reports using SQL Reporting Services (SSRS) for customized and ad-hoc Queries.  • Used SSIS to unite data from existing system and performed transformations on MS SQL 2008  • Tuned and Optimized SQL Queries using SQL Profiler and Execution Plan (metrics) results  • Worked with installing, designing and managing MS SQL Server 2008 and 2008R2.  • Used BCP command and T-SQL command to bulk copy the data from Text files to SQL Server and vice versa.  • Worked with project teams to upgraded SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2008R2.  • Worked on CCL (Cerner scripting language) to write the scripts.  • Worked on UNIX shell Scripting.  • Used JUnit for unit testing.  • Used version I for task tracking.  Environment: Java,JDK1.7,Restful/SOAPServices,HTML5,CSS3,JFACE,springs,oracle,Eclipse,,RCP,nodejs,JavaScript,TSQL,SQLSERVER2008,Jenkins,unix scripting, Struts, Scrum, Linux JSF, JSON,AWS EC2. Java Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA November 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc.  • Setting up Auto scaling of the instance group using AWS command line tools and AWS cloud environment for Dev/QA environments.  • Configured AWS Security Groups which acts as a virtual firewall that controls the traffic for one or more AWS EC2 instances.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to securely manage AWS users & groups, and use policies & roles to allow or deny access to AWS resources.  • Created AWS RDS DB instances Oracle, MySQL  • Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, Angular JS, and node JS.  • Developed claim screens for customers using angular js, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3 AND javascript  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, javascript AND angular JS,  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and jquery.  • Used Node JS, React JS, Backbone MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application (SPA).  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Implemented Angular 2 component router for navigation.  • Worked with Angular 2 directives, components, pipes, injectables.  • Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and Dom Manipulation using components in Angular 2 for updating content on DOM nodes Implemented the client side validations using JavaScript and CSS.  • Implemented the client side validations using JavaScript and CSS.  • Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application internally.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Struts/Swings to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer.  • Have integrated web services including SOAP as well as REST using Fuse ESB.  • Integrated Spring Web services with Hibernate in development of applications.  • Developed Enterprise RESTFUL Web services for generation and consumption of service using Jersey and Axis Frameworks using Eclipse/Netbeans.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose.  • Performed Unit Testing using JUnit and interacted with QA for testing.  • Implemented REST Services to call jBPM Services and converting to JSON  • Developed Restful Web services with JSON for the application.  • Tuned and Optimized SQL Queries using SQL Profiler and Execution Plan (metrics) results  • Worked with installing, designing and managing MS SQL Server 2008 and 2008R2.  • Used BCP command and T-SQL command to bulk copy the data from Text files to SQL Server and vice versa.  • Worked with project teams to upgraded SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 2008R2.  • Involved in implementing validations, exception handling.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  • Used ORM tools for converting data.  • Involved in spring and Hibernate Integration.  • Extensively used JIRA as an issue tracking and bug-reporting tool.    Environment: Windows , Java (JDK 1.6), J2EE,Struts 1.2,Spring 3.1.3, Apache 7.0,TSQL,Eclipse ,Jenkins, SQL SSIS,SSRS, scaled agile(SAFE's), HTML5,CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular 2,JDBC, Hibernate, Soap/REST services, JDBC Template, XML, XSD, XSLT, JMS, JSF,agile development, ORM Servlets2.4, JSP 2.0,HTML-5 , Oracle data , Log 4j, JUnit, Edit plus, couchbase. Java/J2EE Developer Fortune Code - IN July 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all project phase discussions and executed project from PDP (predefined phase) to rollout phase with post implementation activities.  • Good experience in implementing J2EE compliant applications using various A Design patterns, Struts framework, Tiles, Spring, MVC framework, Hibernate and Messaging Middleware using JMS  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Spring Tag libraries and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Involved in enhancing certain modules of web portal using Spring Framework  • Developed all the components as flows using spring web flow.  • Developed web and service layer components using Spring MVC  • Implemented various design patterns like , MVC, Factory, Singleton  • Designed user interface for users to interact with system using jQuery, JSON, Java Script,, HTML5, CSS3, groovy.  • Did extensive JavaScript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Involved in manipulating with Object Oriented JavaScript principles like JS object prototype and inheritance. Comfortable in using differed objects and promises to avoid callback hell.  • Handled Browser compatibility issues in HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap for IE, Firefox and Chrome browsers  • Writing custom filters, directives, controller for the HTML using Angular code.  • Source code management done using GIT.  • Used Jenkins for system integration.  • Developed several Controllers to handle the different types of user requests.  • Validated the user inputs using Spring Validator.  • Dependency Injection was used across all the layers of application  • Developed database Schema & populating data using SQL statements, PL/SQL Functions, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Bulk uploads  • Monitored error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems  • Worked on JUnit Framework for Test Driven Development.  • Worked on optimizing large complicated SQL statements to meet the client requirements.  • Created required SQL queries to be integrated to Java code to meet the requirement for generating the user defined formulary reports.  • Created large complex SQL queries such as to pull the formulary data to generate tier level data of various kinds of formulary and benefit lists.  • Worked on source code management tools such as SVN.  • Implemented Restful Web Services and associated business module integration for getting status of claim report.  • Worked on code reviews, debugging, unit testing and integration testing.    Environment: Core Java, JSP, Angular JS, Angular 2, JQuery, Servlet, spring web flow Oracle identity management, SQL,Hibernate, Spring, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse IDE 3.5.1, XML, MVC, Factory, Singleton, RESTful Web services Java Developer Bajaj Insurance - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:    • Developed GUI using JSP, Struts frame work.  • Front end using JSF  • Developed Action forms, Action classes using Struts framework to handle user requests.  • Implemented Struts Bean Tags, Logical Tags and Display Tags in JSPs.  • Used Jasper tool for reporting.  • Developed user interface components for Deal, Activity modules along with business components.  • Developed a Spring MVC application in connecting to database.  • Leveraged struts-validations, struts-beans tag libraries.  • Designed and deployed server side EJB (Session Beans and Entity Beans) components on Eclipse IDE.  • Written SQL, PL/SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction.  • Responsible for code merging modules using clear case.  • Responsible for change requests and maintenance during development of the project    Environment: Java , JDK1.5 , JSP, JSTL, EJB,JS , Eclipse3.2, Struts 1.1,J2EE JavaScript, Struts Validation frame work, Tomcat, UML, ORACLE 9i/10g, Clear Case and Clear Quest. Education Bachelor's Skills Java (6 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (6 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (6 years), MVC (6 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Core Java Collection, Multithreading, Applets and Swing  J2EE Technologies Servlets2.3/2.4/2.5,JSP1.2/2.0,EJB2.0/3.0,JMS1.1,JSON,JDBC2.0/3.0,RichFaces, JSF 1.2/2  Web Servers/application servers Apache tomcat Server5.0/6.0, IBM Web Sphere server 6.1/7.0 , primate server, Bea Web Logic server8.1/10.0,JAXWS,JAXR, RESTful.  Web tools and languages HTML, XML, CSS, DHTML, AJAX, ANT, Java Script , Angular.JS ,Angular 2, RCP,ORM, Jquery.  Framework Design Patterns, SOAP, Struts1.0/1.1/1.2/2.0, Hibernate2.0/3.0, Spring1.0/2.5,Spring Integration, Spring MVC, Spock  Databases Oracle8i/9i/10g, MS SQL Server2000/2005/2008, DB2 8.2/9.0/9.5,mongodb (NoSQL), Cassandra.  Cloud computing CI tools AWS,EC2, ELB, Dynamo DB, SNS  Languages C, C++ with OOPS, Java1.3/1.4/5.0/6.0, J2EE1.3/1.4/5.0, python. Scala    Operating Systems Windows 2003/2008/XP/Vista, Unix, RHEL 4.0/5.0/6.0/7.0  Tools Eclipse3.3/3.4, Rational Rose, Dreamweaver, RAD6.0/7.5, Net Beans ,intellij ,Jenkins    Methodologies Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile (SCRUM), UML.  Version Control Visual SourceSafe (VSS), Clear Case, Clear Quest, CVS, Sub version.  Testing Test Testing Junit, Spock