Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - AmTrust Financial New York, NY • Around 7+ years IT experience including Development & Production Support experience using Java/J2EE and Web Technologies.  • Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support.  • Proficient with Software development methodologies like Waterfall and Agile Methodologies.  • Strong experience in Client-Server systems using Object Oriented Concepts and Design Patterns.  • Excellent Core Java development skills.  • Expertise in coding business components using various API's of Java like Multithreading, Collections.  • Worked on Restful services with Spring boot.  • Proficient in programming with Java/J2EE and strong experience in technologies such as JSP Servlets, Struts, spring (IOC & AOP), Hibernate, Session Beans, JDBC and JNDI.  • Exposure to XML, DTD, SCHEMA.  • Strong Expertise in front end technologies such HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Basic understanding of Ajax  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Apache Axis web services which use SOAP, WSDL. Exposure to JAXB & JAX-WS.  • Expertise in middle tier technologies like JMS (Point-to-Point & Publish and Subscribe).  • Incorporated XML Parsers such as DOM and SAX.  • Worked on microservices with Spring Boot.  • Expertise in three-tier Client/Server development architecture.  • Good work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & Sub queries and with non-relational databases (NoSQL) like MongoDB.  • Have working experience on AngularJS.  • Build Restful API for accessing and manipulating employees, events, and alerts using NodeJS. Implemented  • Developed the front-end components of the application - order capture screens, using Angular JS proxied using the NodeJS.  • Design and development of web-based applications using different Web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, JBoss and Web Logic.  • Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit and Integration testing during the projects.  • Exposure to tools such as ANT and hands on experience on SQL Developer  • Used integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, STS and Net Beans.  • Experience in using WEB 2.0 modules for web development.  • Exposure to UNIX commands and Linux.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer AmTrust Financial - New York, NY November 2018 to Present Description: The project involves supporting and enhancing the legacy Claims system, monitoring the batches (mains and image processing) and fixing the jobs in the event of failure, developing Claims Sunset and Claims Center projects. Technical fixes were done on an ad hoc basis to the production elements to fix user issues. Enhancements were done to the system based on the business requirements. The assignment for this project is onshore and has four members at offshore. The systems are developed on Java and AS400 and have upstream and downstream mainframes and JAVA applications communicating through IBM Web sphere MQs.  Responsibilities:  • All the applications were developed in J2EE using an MVC based architecture.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, multi-threading, and object-oriented design principles.  • Writing end-to-end flow i.e. controllers classes, service classes, DAOs classes as per the Spring MVC design and writing business logics using core java API and data structures.  • Used Core Spring for setter dependency injections.  • Developed presentation layer code, using JSP, HTML, AJAX and JQuery.  • Single page architecture by using Angular JS. Node JS for server side web Applications, Real time communication.  • Developed the Business layer using Spring Boot and JTA. Spring Boot for creating REST Web Services.  • Developed the Persistence layer DAO using HIBERNATE.  • Implemented Restful web services using JSON, XML.  • Developed microservices with Spring Boot.  • Developed microservices at Business case level and tested them with Postman.  • Developed the project using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability.  • Manipulated data using CRUD (create, read, update and delete) operations of DB2 database management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL Stored procedures, Functions, triggers to interact with Oracle 11g.  • Involved in Installation, Configuration, and Administration of WebSphere server on Windows and Linux.  • Interfaced with the NoSQL MongoDB back-end database by integrating spring with Hibernate.  • Deployed application on WebSphere Application server 8.5.  • Experience in developing the web applications with web frameworks such as J2EE and Angular2.0  • Utilized JavaScript Frameworks AngularJS 2.0, NodeJS  • Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Build the responsive application using AngularJS, NodeJS. Application compatible with mobile devices and different web platforms and browser.  • Worked with NoSQL database MongoDB and worked with it to perform many different operations  • Hands on Core concepts in Multi-threading and Collection frameworks.  • Used Maven and Jenkins as build tool and deploying the application.  • Designed and implemented RESTful APIs using Spring Boot, Spring MVC and NoSQL database MongoDB that persists ADP system level configuration data.  • Used Jenkins to deploy these applications and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer.  • Involved in unit testing using JUnit, system testing and creation of various test scripts in QC.  • Tested request and response payloads with SoapUI and Postman apps  • Wrote test cases which adhere to a Test Driven Development (TDD) pattern.  Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE 1.6, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript 1.7, JSP 2.1, JBoss , Spring, Spring Batch, Spring web services, Spring Boot, RESTFUL, microservices, Hibernate, AngularJS, NodeJS, SOAP, Postman, XSD, XML , UML 2.0, JUNIT, WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Maven 2.0, DB2, MongoDB , NoSQL, JDBC, Spring JMS, Apache Active MQ, Log4j, JSON, UNIX, Putty, RAD, STS, IBM MQ Series, Linux, SVN, Hudson, Jenkins, Git Hub. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer British Telecom Inc - London June 2016 to October 2018 Description: The project involves enhancing/developing the current/new functionalities of the Telecom management systems. Enhancements were done to the system based on the business requirements. The assignment for this project was offshore and it is six members team. The applications are developed in Java J2EE.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirements review meetings and partnered with business analysts to clarify any specific scenarios.  • Analyzed the business requirements and created use cases and prepared low and high level design documents.  • Worked with J2EE design patterns in MVC architecture with spring.  • Developed Stand alone Applications using Java J2EE.  • Developed REST based services using Spring REST API and Apache Camel.  • Effectively used string classes, Collections, Exception Handlings and multi-threading for writing the core logic.  • Worked with Jackson API for parsing messages in the Json format to java objects and strings  • Worked with Spring Boot and written content XML for creating the beans at time of build.  • Created microservices for business cases with Spring Boot and tested request/response with Postman.  • Used Mongoose API in order to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Working on creating the entire product catalog data using MongoDB.  • Writing UNIX shell scripts for batch processing.  • Creation of database objects in the Unix environment  • Jenkins based Automating deployment systems. It enables one-button click to build and deploy to specified stage.  • Worked on JUnit for unit testing and Protractor tests for end to end testing in UI.  Environment: CORE JAVA, SPRING, REST, SOAP, UNIX, JSON, ORACLE, JUNIT, JENKINS, MVN, APACHE CXF, SVN REPOSITORY, MongoDB, Linux, SPRING TOOL SUITE. Java Developer Dish Network - Meridian, CO January 2015 to June 2016 Description: The project involves supporting the work management system for client Dish Network in Telecom domain, monitoring the batch jobs and fixing the jobs in the event of failure. Technical fixes were done on an ad hoc basis to the production elements to fix application issues. Enhancements and developments were deployed to the system based on the business requirements. The assignment for this project was offshore with four different bundles.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and supported various client serving Web Applications developed in Java, NodeJS, AngularJS and Mark logic in an Agile Scrum Environment.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP, AngularJS, AJAX, and Bootstrap in front end.  • Developed the application using Struts MVC framework.  • Used JSON and XML documents with Mark logic NoSQL Database extensively. REST API calls are made using NodeJS and Java API.  • Integrated Simple Queuing Service(SQS) and Simple Notification Service(SNS) using AWS SDK.  • Integrated AWS Simple Storage Service (S3) as data storage for storing Archived files.  • Developed various critical functionalities such as Filters, Auto Suggestions and Spell Suggestions, which allow end users to focus their search requests.  • Developed Action Form classes, Form beans, Action Classes using Struts.  • Utilized Core Java especially threads along with XQuery in recognizing the end user search terms.  • Developed Maven Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in Web Sphere app server.  • Used GitHub as source version control systems for code repository.  • Created and Consumed Restful Web Services.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Used Web Sphere as the application server.  • Created Web.xml, Struts-config.xml, Validation.xml files to integrate all the components in the Struts framework.  • Developed the web application using Eclipse IDE.  • Used JIRA tool to delegate development tasks and followed a full scale bug life cycle to resolve bugs on a regular basis.  • Worked actively in fixing the bugs reported in Test, UAT and Production environments.  • Provided on call support to monitor successful deployments in UAT and Production release cycles.  Environment: Java, Struts MVC, Mark logic, AWS, SNS, SQS, S3, AngularJS, NodeJS, XML, XQuery, XPath, XSLT, XSD, JSON, Log4J, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, JIRA, Restful, Unix, Shell, Web Sphere Java/J2ee Developer CNA - Chicago, IL November 2013 to November 2014 Description: The project involves enhancing supporting the Underwriting applications of Continental Casualty Company in Insurance domain, understanding Requirements, preparing Design, developing and Unit Testing the user requirements, cross testing, internal, external reviews and taking care of Final Inspection for each deliverable are the responsibilities. The assignment for this project was offshore. The applications are developed in Java.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in deployment of full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the tracking systems Requirement gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detail design, Development, System Testing, and User Acceptance.  • Defined and designed the layers and modules of the project using OOAD methodologies and standard J2EE design patterns & guidelines  • Designed and developed all the user interfaces using JSP, Servlets and Spring framework  • Developed the DAO layer using Hibernate and JDBC as well  • Designed the application to allow all users to utilize core functionality, as well as business specific functionality based on user role  • Developed Web Service provider methods (bottom up approach) using WSDL, XML and SOAP to work with the Risk Engine Applications  • Used SAX parser for reading WSDL file to work with the services that it offers  • Used JDBC for accessing database to write PL/SQL procedures, functions and triggers to work with different functionalities of applications.  • Designed various applications using multi-threading concepts, mostly used to perform time consuming tasks in the background  • Wrote JSP & Servlets classes to generate dynamic HTML pages  • Designed class and sequence diagrams for Modify and Add modules  • Adopted Spring framework for the development of the project  • Developed the user interface presentation screens using HTML  • Co-ordinated with QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code, and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects  • All the coding and testing was performed using Eclipse  • Maintained the existing code based developed in Spring and Hibernate framework by incorporating new features and fixing bugs  • Involved in fixing bugs and unit testing with test cases using JUnit framework  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Apache ANT to customize WAR and EAR files  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic using Oracle database  • Used Spring ORM module for integration with Hibernate for persistence layer  • Involved in writing Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for persistence layer  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging  • Coordinated with onshore team for requirement transition & getting the necessary inputs required for successful execution of the project  • Involved in post-production support and maintenance of the application  • Taken Query clarification meetings with clients for clear requirements  • Performed internal, external code reviews and Final Inspection for clean code maintenance  • Done cross testing for other associates in the team  • Identified existing Production defects in the applications, proposed new solutions and implemented as well  Environment: JAVA, JSP, HTML, WSDL, XML, SAX, JAVASCRIPT, SERVLETS, HIBERNATE, EJB (SESSION BEANS), SWING, LOG4J, IBM WEBSPHERE, JNDI, ORACLE, WINDOWS XP, ANT, ECLIPSE, Changeman, Remedy, SQL Developer. Java Developer Adrenalin eSystems - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2012 to October 2013 Description: The project involves creating Marks Management system that can be utilized in the small schools, and this also includes the registration of students. Developing, Unit testing and training the computer operators to utilize the system  Responsibilities:  • Performed analysis and created UML diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using MS-Visio.  • Web application is developed using the MVC framework.  • Used JSP to create login page, user profile, and account information pages.  • Developed DAO layer using JDBC and wrote several SQL queries to store and retrieve results from database.  • Used Servlets for handling the services used in applications.  • Used Tomcat server to deploy the application and used Eclipse to develop.  • Interacting with the schools and understanding the requirements.  • Analyzing the requirements and preparing design documents.  • Estimating the software development effort.  • Following project lifecycle and implementing the project  • Testing the project and preparing unit test cases for execution.  • Code review for other team members and cross testing their deliveries.  Environment: ECLIPSE, SERVLETS, JSP, JDBC, ORACLE, XML, TOMCAT, JAVA 1.5 Education Bachelor's Skills Bea, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Jboss, Jms, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Git, Html, Jenkins, Middleware, Svn, Visio, Xml, Xslt, Database