Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Los Angeles, CA • Around 6+ years of professional experience in Requirements Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Java, J2EE and client-server technologies also good experience in all phases of Software development.  • Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Waterfall and Agile (SCRUM & KANBAN) Methodologies.  • Extensive experience in JAVA/J2EE technologies like Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring IOC, Spring Transactions, Struts, Web Services, JPA, IBM MQ Series, Active MQ, JDBC, JMS, Bootstrap, MVC architecture and Design Patterns.  • Good in Core JAVA API, Multi-threading, Collections, Swing development and Application utilities.  • Extensive experience of database programming in Oracle environment using PL/SQL with tools such as TOAD, SQL Plus, Squirrel.  • Worked on MongoDB, which provides the storage for security related information.  • Having hands on experience in deploying web and JEE enterprise applications on Apache.  • Experience in implementing and deploying SOAP API Web Services JAX-WS and Restful Services JAX-RS to develop dynamic Server Side web contents.  • Extensively used the J2EE design patterns like Session Facade, Business Object (BO), Service Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory.  • Experience in developing application using TDD (Test Driven Development) &Unit testing process.  • Experience in using Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Sonar jobs for java code quality.  • Experienced in UNIX/Linux shell scripts for data-driven automatic processing.  • Experience with logging mechanisms like log4J &logback frameworks.  • Exposure to developing J2EE applications using IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans 8.2 and IntelliJ.  • Working experience on SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Performance tuning and Oracle Stored Procedures.  • Experience in database such as DB2, MYSQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Experience with Data structures & Algorithms like Stack, Queue, Linked List, Linear-search, bubble-sort and binary-search algorithms etc.  • Experienced in web development using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and AJAX technologies.  • Experience in designing, developing and implementing B2B applications using J2EE technologies in Telecom, Banking and Insurance domains.  • Strong knowledge in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions.  • Experience in using build tools such as Ant, Gradle and Maven.    Languages  J2SE (Core Java), J2EE, JSP, JDBC, JSON, Ajax, EJBs, JavaScript, JSF, Angular JS, Ext JS, HTML5, Dhtml, CSS 3, Bootstrap, JSF, XML, XSD, XSLT, XPATH, SQL, PL/SQL, WSDL, JUnit, Regular Expressions.    Frameworks/ORM Spring, Hibernate, MyBatis, Struts 1.2, JSF, Apache CXF, Apache Camel.  Web Technologies/J2EE JSP, Servlets, EJB, Jquery, JSTL, AJAX, XML, JavaScript, AngularJS, EXT JS, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, XSLT, XML, JNDI.  IDE's Eclipse, My Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, Spring Tool Suite (STS).  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2 and Cassandra, Mongo dB (NoSQL database)  Web Services RESTful web service, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-WS JMS, JAXB. UDDI, Axis2, Apache- CXF, MDB, MQ Series, AWS (Amazon Web services).  Version control/Build Tools Git, SVN, CVS, Clear Case, Jenkins, Maven, Ant.  Testing Tools JUnit, JMock, JMeter, Selenium, Mockito.  Web/Application Servers BEA WebLogic, Tomcat and JBOSS 5.1/6.0, IBM Web sphere 5.1/6.0/6.1, Glass fish. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Metlife - Los Angeles, CA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Involved in analyzing requirements, technical design, development of various modules assigned.  • Developed several User Interfaces by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and XML, configuring.  • Implemented Struts 2.0 for business layer and developed JSP files for developing UI using HTML, CSS, Ajax, JSP.  • Used Spring Framework at Business Tier and also Spring's Bean Factory for initializing services.  • Implemented the Application using Spring MVC Framework.  • Extensively used Spring IOC module to perform the bean dependency injection in various XML files that compose the entire web application.  • Developed various Custom DAOs using Spring's Hibernate DAO support to persist the records from suitable tables in the database.  • Developed SQL Statements as well as PL/SQL Stored Procedures for searching contractors depending on Selection Criteria.  • Developed Servlets for Document Upload, Image Streaming and Caching the data.  • Worked with cots to develop the educational plan with integration of web services.  • Deployment of application using Maven.  • Developed JavaScript validation for client side validations and Performed Code reviews and code fixes.  • Developed Rest services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to AngularJS front end.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Spring core Annotations for Dependency Injection and Apache Camel to integrate Spring Framework.  • Developed user interfaces using JSPs, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP Custom Tags and AJAX.  • Developed Class and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose Software.  • Developed Asynchronous means of retrieval of data from the Server and Database using AJAX features as well JavaScript.  • Used AJAX to call the REST API methods and connect to the backend. Restful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data using this AJAX.  • Tested JSPs in Firefox and Internet Explorer browsers and Identified and fixed browser related issues.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Springs, JSP, Hibernate, Struts 2.0, AJAX, CSS, JDBC, Eclipse, Web logic 10.x , Web Services, WSDL, Star Team, Oracle, ANT, Windows 2007, SOA, Design patterns, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Apache Camel. Java/J2EE Developer Verizon - Irving, TX September 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities: • Took part in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  • Worked on complete development of AGILE and SCRUM development methodologies and tested the application in each iteration.  • Developed the application using Servlets and JSP for the presentation layer along with JavaScript and jQuery for the client-side validations.  • Used the basic principles of MVC to incorporate the Angular JS to build the client-side application and Node.js for building server-side API's.  • Developed filters for user authentication and user authorization by using Servlets API.  • Toiled on Node.js providing an event-driven architecture and a non-blocking I/O API that optimizes an application's throughput and scalability.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using RESTful.  • Implemented Micro Services using Spring boot and helped in the conversion of the monolithic services to Micro Services.  • Developed Cloud Compatible Micro Services using Spring Boot, Java and related web technologies.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  • Worked with Angular 2 directives, components, pipes and injectables.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack and grunt.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop a Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Designed and Developed dashboard menu section, Homepage, Admin Home Page, User Module using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Designing, examining and execution of open confronting sites on Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Experience in utilizing and making custom scripts and applications using the AWS SDK and CLI Tools.  • Designed and Developed system used for AWS Elastic Environments including monitoring.  • A system built using Model-View-Controller(MVC) architecture and Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns like DTO (Data Transfer Object), Intercepting Filters, Singleton and DAO (Data Access Object).  • Created the Docker Containers and Docker Consoles for managing the application lifecycle.  • Involved in building Docker Container images using Gradle plugin.  • To perform direct calls from front-end JavaScript, Node.JS, and AngularJS to server-side Java methods designed and implemented java engine and API.  • Responsible for creating tables in development schema and wrote Oracle packages, Procedures and Functions using in PL/SQL.  • Designed and Developed functionality to get JSON document from MongoDB document store and send it to client using RESTful Web Services.  • Involved In multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control(IOC) and Hibernate.  • Configured and Implemented Spring AOP for transaction management, logging and performance tracking.  • Used Spring Security Framework for user-level authentication with REST API for service layer development.  • Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using Spring security.  • Used Spring DI, Spring DAO (JDBC Template) in the persistence layer for GPS, backend being Oracle12c.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, AngularJS, Angular2,Spring 4.3, Spring boot, Spring AOP, Scala, Spark, Hibernate 4, JMS, JSF, REST, log4j, JUnit, Jenkins, Sonar, Rabbit MQ, Gradle, XML, Ajax, XSD, java Script, jQuery, AngularJS, Handlebars, Linux, Tomcat, Spring Tool Suite(STS). Java/J2EE Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA December 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities: • Worked on High-level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, JSF, HTML5, CSS and client validation using JavaScript, DOM.  • Worked on High-level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Used two-way data binding features of AngularJS to implement Data binding to bind various server controls to the data from database.  • Created Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MYSQL.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Developed the project using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate, Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability.  • Developed Microservices and RESTful web services using JAX-WS.  • Worked with Spring IOC for implementing the future of DI across different layers and implemented AOP for logging and auditing.  • Involved in writing JSP and JSF components. Used JSTL Tag library to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Worked on generating the web services classes by using Service Oriented Architecture SOA, WSDL, UDDI and SOAP.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting useful plans from different module.  • Designed and integrated the full-scale Spring / Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  • Implemented Object Relational Persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model.  • Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the services.  • Worked on web services and associated business modules integration.  • Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework including JSP.  • Involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Business Delegate, and DAO.  • Worked in wide-area network to maintain all the device related data onto MYSQL database.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate template support.  • Used JMS API for communication between the components.  • Involved in writing complex PL/SQL queries using joins, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors, and indexes in Data Access Layer.  • Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications.  • Worked with JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN. Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control.  • Deployed and tested the application in Unix on IBM Web Logic Application Server.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring, JSP, Hibernate, Struts 2.0, CSS, JDBC, Eclipse, Web logic 10.x , Web Services, WSDL, Oracle, ANT, SOA, Design patterns, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML5,JUnit,MAVEN,Log4j,Unix,AngularJS,MYSQL. Java Developer Aetna - New Albany, OH May 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities: • Involved in the Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing of SoftwareDevelopment Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Assisted the analysis team in performing the feasibility analysis of the project.  • Designed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams and Object Diagrams in the detailed design phase of the project using Rational Rose 4.0.  • Developed presentation layer of the project using HTML, JSP 2.0, JSTL and JavaScript technologies.  • Developed complete Business tier using Stateless and Stateful Session beans with EJB 2.0 standards using Web Sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD 5.0) • Used various J2EE design patterns, like DTO, DAO, and Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Singleton and Factory patterns.  • Consumed Web Service for transferring data between different applications.  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate 3.0framework as the persistence layer for interacting with Oracle 9i.  • Extensively used IBM Web Sphere 5.0 while writing code and for creating Data Sources.  • Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Configured and used Log4J for logging all the debugging and error information.  • Developed Ant build scripts for compiling and building the project.  • Used IBM Web Sphere 5.0 for deploying the application.  • Used CVS Repository for Version Control.  • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  • Participated in the production support and maintenance of the project.    Environment: Java 1.4.1, JSP 2.0, HTML, JavaScript, EJB 2.0, Struts 1.1, JDBC 2.0, IBM Web Sphere 5.0, XML, XSLT, XML Schema, JUnit 3.8.1, Rational Rose 4.0, Ant 1.5, UML Oracle 9i Jr. Java Developer Cybage Software Pvt Ltd May 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities: • Involved in all the Functional requirements gathering sessions with the Business Analysts.  • Was also actively involved in setting coding standards and writing related documentation.  • Involved in writing Test Cases, Testing Application and Implementation plan.  • Involvement in the use cases, development of OOAD and modeling, which involved in class diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML.  • Implemented presentation tier on Servlets, JSP, and HTML for custom business requirements.  • Involved in communicating with clients on daily basis to ensure their requirements are being reached.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions also performed validations.  • Involved in Configuring XML Config Properties File.  • Development of custom objects with the help of Hibernate framework to access database tables.  • Deployed application in the Tomcat server environment using Maven build tool.  • Implemented Test Driven Development and Agile Methodology.  • Created tables for new requirement and have written Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Indexes, Sequences, Synonyms, views, and Triggers.  • Implemented different design patterns MVC, Singleton.  • Developed Web Services to transfer data between the pages.  • Involved in writing the SQL Queries for different database operations • Involved in implementing JUnit Test Cases.  • Implemented JavaScript Client side validation and some server side validation with java code as per the requirements.  • Involved in fixing the bugs at Development and production levels.  • Involved in code integration and shipment of the code to other environments.  • Successfully executed the entire test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Participated in the production support and maintenance of the project.    Environment: Hibernate, Spring, SQL, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, Apache TomCat Server, UML, Agile, WSDL, Maven, GitHub. Education Design Patterns HP Quality Centre (QC) Skills Java