Java/JEE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/JEE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/JEE Developer - Wells Fargo ? 7+ years of experience in full life cycle development of complex commercial applications with strong architecture, Application Design, Development and Enhancement using Object-oriented Java and J2EE and Web stacks.  ? Strong Analytical and problem-solving skills with willingness towards quality deliverables and taking ownerships.  ? Experience on complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes analysis, Design, coding, testing, Implementation and maintenance of enterprise, web based, and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and client/server applications in Waterfall and Agile Methodology.  ? Proficient in Java/J2EE design patterns including Singleton, Session Façade, Service Locator, pure Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Business Delegate, Factory, Value Object, IOC, AOP in the development of web based & distributed enterprise applications.  ? Expertise in developing End to End applications on multi-tiered using Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Java Beans, Struts 1.x, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring (AOP), Hibernate, JPA, EJB, JSF, JSTL, UI Tags, Web Services, JMS, XML JNDI, DOM/SAX parsers, JAXB.  ? Having hands on Experience on build tools (Ant, Maven) and Jenkins as well and Version control tools (SVN and GitHub).  ? Strong experience in working with scripting languages like JavaScript, angularJS and angular 4, JQuery, AJAX.  ? Strong Knowledge in XML technologies including XML, DTD, XML Schema, XSL, XPath, XSD, XSLT, JAXP (DOM, SAX, JDOM), JAXB (Castor, XMLBeans), JSON format and technologies including XMLparsing using SAX, STAX, JAXP parsers, validation of XML using XSD. XML transformation using XSLT and retrieval of information using XPath and XQuery.  ? Familiar with SOAP, REST/ Web services WSDL, Web Services using AXIS and CXF.  ? Experience in developing and deploying on application servers such as Apache Tomcat, JBoss and WebLogic.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and ObjectOriented Paradigm (OOP) from designing UML diagram using Dia and Microsoft Visio.  ? Performed unit testing using JUnit, performance testing using JMeter.  ? Integration and deployment of applications done using ANT and Maven.  ? Working experience in L2 and L3 Teams Work Experience Java/JEE Developer Wells Fargo - Des Moines, IA September 2016 to Present Project Name: CORE (Common Opportunities, Results and Experience: A Consumer Lending Technology Domain)  Brief Description: This application connects to different microservice domain integrating middleware web service layer applications to identify enterprise customers pulling data and document for a borrower's employment and income details, assets & liabilities by connecting to external system manually and in an automated fashion in different milestones in mortgage.  Roles & Responsibilities:  As a Lead developer, I have:  ? Developed applications with Agile Scrum methodology with 2 weeks sprints.  ? Developed and enhanced new microservice apps using Spring Boot, Netflix Zuul filters, Spring Web MVC and Spring Data JPA.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSP, AngularJS and angular 4 framework with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, and CSS and OCLazyLoading for UI modules.  ? Used Java Servlets, JSPs, AJAX, XML, HTML and CSS for developing the Web component of the application.  ? Worked on WebStorm, IntelliJ IDEA and Eclipse as development Integrated Development Environment.  ? Used Maven for the application build and deployments.  ? Worked on automating and integrating smoke test for net new functionalities in the platform.  ? Used Spring Data JPA to load backend model and attributes. Wrote multiple complex multi-table joins using named queries.  ? Extensively implemented Spring MVC framework creating Restful APIs for the applications.  ? Experiences in writing components, resources, services in Spring Framework. Also, I have experiences in dependency injections and auto wiring beans using spring dependency Injection.  ? Exposure to spring security, spring AOP, spring JDBC templates, Spring Context and Spring Core.  ? Performed code reviews and as well as security code reviews.  ? Partnered with Automation engineers on automating smoke tests.  ? Worked on EclEmma code coverage tool, Sonar dashboards, FindBugs and Istanbul for UI coverages.  ? Worked on consumption of existing and net new services from schema integration to implementation, testing and production support.  ? Wrote Unit test cases using Jasmine, Protractor, KARMA and Grunt for UI modules and Mockito and Power Mockito for java to improve quality of code.  ? Worked with data team and Database Administrators (DBA) including entity modelers with respect to pipeline migration and new data model attributes.  ? Experience in analyzing splunk logs for troubleshooting, Root cause analysis (RCA) and fixing issues.  ? Worked on automating build and deploy scripts for the team project.  ? Participated in Agile Scrum team in making release decisions for a story, design for implementation and production support.  ? Participated in intake sessions in design analysis and risk assessment for functional requirements and working with vendor and extended team partners along with business.  ? Addressed challenges to business from technological perspective and ensuring contingency plans to avoid risk and issues.  ? Merge changes and coordinated deployment to QA, SIT and UAT environment for release branches.  ? Participated in creating working team agreement for a smooth process of agile squad.  ? Completed peer code review and as well as security code reviews.  ? Drafted out Functional System Design (FSD) document in each release for the team.  ? Experiences in production support and post production validations and troubleshooting issues.  ? Worked with internal services teams and external vendor teams in integrating new schema and resolving issues pertaining to schema integrations.  ? Extensively migrated features from pilot environment to national environment using toggles and Managed Defined Team (MDT) users to national users.  ? Maintained data mapping artifacts for updated data elements and new data elements as well.  ? Engaged team members in adding and updating documentation in confluence and SharePoint to share references for future.  ? Gave knowledge transfer sessions to onboard new developers in the team and provided sessions on architecture and project tools and technologies stack. Java/JEE Developer Wells Fargo - Des Moines, IA April 2014 to August 2018 Project Name: Senior Solutions Team: LG Framework Team  Brief Description: This application/artifact is an intercepting framework flayer or providing context to the underlying services artifacts and logging transactions into database for auditing. It is also authentication and authorization layer for all the services in its domain.  As a developer in waterfall, I have:  ? Developed UI for services support using Jquery and spring with hibernate.  ? Developed the UNIX shell scripts to support production deployment and Provided build/deploy scripts to DevOps team for each deployment for different services.  ? Supported production install and post production validation.  ? Implemented Spring Batch to report analytics data to business partners.  ? Supported WebLogic services and Tomcat domain services.  ? Supported more than 200 services as a support engineer in provisioning context for domain and for services in the domain.  ? Managed Transaction Managers and Queue Managers for ActiveMQ message Brokers  ? Supported development, enhancement and support for Queues with Active MQ camel based channels.  ? Solutioned data driven and logical implementation for different services including error handling mechanisms.    Environment:- java 1.8, AngularJS and 4, Typescript, Spring 4 & 5, Spring (MVC, AOP, DAO, Boot), Netflix Zuul, Oracle 11g, RESTful Web Services, Hibernate, Spring Data JPA, Quartz, Bootstrap, Nodejs, JBoss, tomcat, WebLogic, Windows 10, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, SOAPUI, Log4j, Splunk, Jenkins, JIRA, WebStorm. Java/JEE Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN March 2013 to March 2014 Project Name: IVR Integration  Brief Description: This project is developing a middleware interface from Interactive Voice Response (IVR) front-end application to business middle layer application. Front end application will be sending VXML package which is voice converted into XML format and it is interfaced to middle layer business application using web services.  Roles & Responsibilities:  As a developer, I have:  ? Developed the application with Agile Scrum methodology with 2 weeks sprints.  ? Developed actions based on Struts 2 framework in testing tool to process event-based actions.  ? Involved in the understanding and designing of the complex back-end middleware framework.  ? Used Maven for the application build and deployment and Eclipse as development platform.  ? Developed backend Factory pattern action-based services integration layer to route customer calls based on URI from UI Framework.  ? Installed and configured Apache plug-ins for WebLogic server.  ? Used Spring beans for services layer and Hibernate as ORM tool.  ? Involved in writing complex multi-table joins and conditional queries from database.  ? Logged calls and routing chains to Oracle 11g database to trace the calls.  ? Enhanced existing customer identifications rule mappings to new service of middle ware. Updated on mapping customer identification using phone number and if available customer Enterprise Number.  ? Fixed SIT and UAT issues pertaining to new mapping.  ? Enhanced JMS messaging layer to send updated request to middle ware layer.  ? Worked extensively with Business Analyst to flush out requirements for data mapping and route logic.  ? Extensively worked on extensible mark-up language (XML) and XSD to generate jars from middle layer service system to integrate in Contact Us support system.  ? Implemented email notifications to be sent to customers after each call to the center. Updated Customer Service Representative and additional support specialist for FedEx.  ? Supported production install and Production post validation using splunk. Also, worked on fixing production defects. Worked with in reproducing production defects and identifying root cause and then resolved issues.  ? Provided additional support as needed for jar creation and deployment in QA environments.    Environment: Spring MVC, tomcat, Oracle11g, SOAP, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Maven, Eclipse, JUnit, XML, Oracle, Log4J, WebLogic. Java/JEE Developer Dish Network - Englewood, CO October 2012 to February 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  Project: Two factor Authentication  Brief Description: In this application the feature was to provide users with additional 2 step user authentication. A secure code would be sent to the user's email or phone number whenever they try to login using a different computer or browser.  Roles and Responsibilities  ? Analyzed the requirements and provided technical solutions and flow diagrams to supplement them  ? Developed new pages using Spring MVC, Spring security, JSP  ? Developed components to integrate the SMS and email web services  ? Provided support during System testing, Line testing and production deployment  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Hibernate, Web Services, WebSphere 8.0/ 8.5 Application server, Maven, MS SQL, DB2, SVN, Twitter Bootstrap CSS, Jenkins    Project: Batch Jobs  Brief Description: This project added new batch jobs written to send out emails to customers and agents based on their web portal selections.  Roles and Responsibilities  ? Developed batch jobs data driven from scratch and configured Cron jobs to trigger the jobs on schedules to send data to analytics group  ? Used Spring and Hibernate to query the Oracle database and send the collections of batches to downstream system.  ? Validated manually running jobs locally and producing reports export them to spreadsheet for analysis for sign off from tech leads and managers.  ? Used "execute Plan" in database to performance tune the query for batch jobs.  ? Package Batch jobs into JAR files and run them for System testers  Environment: Java, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Hibernate, WebSphere 8.0/ 8.5 Application server, Maven, MS SQL, DB2, SVN Java/JEE Developer Walmart - San Jose, CA April 2011 to September 2012 Roles and Responsibilities:  Project name: Teamwork's portal  Brief Description: This project was employee portal to search users and update users role and information. It also allowed to add new users, update existing user roles and delete existing user roles and groups based on changes in the requirements.  • Designed and developed user interface using Struts tags, JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed user specific Highlights (dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module to provide functionalities to Modify/search users, create user screens with assigning various roles using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture (Struts Framework) and Hibernate.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, spring, JavaScripts and WebLogic.  • Involved in implementing and maintaining large content driven and E-commerce based application.  • Developed Scalable applications using Stateless session EJBs.  • Used Axis Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount from an application that is remote and global to different financial institutions  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JSPs.  • Configured Hibernate, Spring and My Faces (JSF) to map the business objects to Mysql Database using XML configuration filet the required changes to the record and save the updated information back to the database.  • Involved in writing shell script to export oracle table's data into flat files and performed unit testing using JUNIT and used Log4j for logging and automatic batch jobs.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic. Java Developer Standard Chartered Bank - NP March 2007 to August 2008 Roles and Responsibilities:  Project Name: iBanking  Brief Description: This application was providing online portal to DB customers to login into their online account and view account summary, account details, transactions. It also allowed customer to update customer information.  ? Developed JSP pages and view and controller related to views using spring web MVC framework.  ? Integrated the new module to backend oracle database using Hibernate as the ORM layer.  ? Design JSON request according to Front-end requests, process JSON request according to different types of modules, action and request data and design JSON responses and send it back to UI for display.  ? Managed associations between models such as one-to-one, one-to-many and many-to-one.  ? Written SQL, HQL and Hibernate Criteria queries.  ? Developed Unit tests using Junit.  ? Built and deployed jar artifacts into test servers.  ? Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Oracle , Unix Shell Scripts, XSL, XSLT, Eclipse 3.x, HTML, UML, Java Script, JUnit, JAXP, XML, SQL, Log4J Education Bachelors in Computer Application in Computer Application Purbanchal University of Nepal 2005 to 2008 Skills Awt, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Java technologies, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Servlets, Jdbc Additional Information SKILLS  Java Technologies: java8 knowledge on lambda expressions, streams API, time API. Advanced java like java I/O, Collections, Sockets, RMI, AWT, SWING, threads, JDBC. J2EE like JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Custom Tags, JAX WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, EJB, JSF, JMS, JPA  UI stack: CSS/CSS3, bootstrap, HTML/HTML5, javascript, angularJS and angular 4, Nodejs, NPM, Karma, Protractor, Jasmine testing framework, JQuery, AJAX, XML/XLST, JSON  Application servers: tomcat, jboss, weblogic  Databases: Oracle 12c, MySql, TOAD  Frameworks: Spring Framework, Hibernate  IDEs: IntelliJ IDEA, Webstrom, Eclipse, NetBeans, Altova XMLSpy and MS VISIO  Version Control Tools: SVN, GitHub  Operating Systems: Windows 10, Linux/Unix, Apple  Methodologies: Waterfall, Scrum and Agile