Full Stack Java Consultant Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> Consultant Full Stack Java Consultant - FedEx Express ? Over 6 years of experience in object oriented programming, design and development of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Experience with Waterfall and Agile, and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  ? Experience in implementing middleware technologies like JMS and in J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, Singleton and Data Access Objects.  ? Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, Java Beans, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Apache Struts framework, Spring MVC framework, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, Spring, Hibernate, Ajax, JUnit, Test Driven Development and Oracle.  ? Experience in developing Client-Server/N-tier/ Web-Development/ Front End technologies using JSP, JSF, JSTL, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Experience in development of SOA, REST and SOAP based web services using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AJAX technologies and Jersey frameworks.  ? Experience working with APIGEE Developer Portal  ? Expertise in Back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java. Messaging Service (JMS), RabbitMQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI).  ? Excellent work experience with Database writing highly complex SQL/PLSQL queries, with major Relational Databases MS Access/Oracle/MySQL.  ? Experience in working with the NoSQL, Mongo DB, and Apache Cassandra.  ? Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3,EBS,Elastic Load Balancer, and Auto Scaling Groups.  ? Skilled at consuming and producing JSON data by building REST APIs.  ? Experience in implementation of business applications using BEA Web logic, Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere Application and Portal Server (WAS/WPS)  ? Knowledge in designing and implementing using XML technologies such as XSL, XLST, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Expertise in open source framework Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate and also used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  ? Experience in building applications using ANT, Maven and Gradle.  ? Hands on experience with using IDE's like RSA, Eclipse, WSAD, JBuilder, RAD for Java Programming.  ? Hands on experience with using Version Control Systems CVS, Rational Clear Case, Subversion, GIT.  ? Excellent Interpersonal, Communication and Presentation skills, Self-starter, Detail Oriented, Research Oriented and Customer Focused. Work Experience Full Stack Java Consultant FedEx Express - Collierville, TN August 2018 to Present Description:  FedEx Express invented express distribution and is the industry's global leader, providing rapid, reliable, time-definite delivery to more than 220 countries and territories, connecting markets that comprise more than 90 percent of the world's gross domestic product within one to three business days. Unmatched air route authorities and transportation infrastructure, combined with leading-edge information technologies, make FedEx Express the world's largest express transportation company.  Responsibilities:  • Involved actively in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the user stories and providing valuable inputs through Agile methodology. Analyzed and converted Business requirements into Technical requirements.  • Designed and Developed Microservices based applications using Spring, Springboot, Hibernate, Spring DAO, Gradle, JDBC, Oracle. Used Eureka to call other proxies Microservices.  • Used Gradle as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with GitHub, Jenkins, Jenkins pipeline Jobs  • Worked on Swagger UI to interact with the API'S. Designed and documented APIs using Swagger. Worked with JAXB parser for marshalling and Unmarshalling XML data.  • Used Spring Tool Suite (STS) for application development.  • Main development also involves working with Service Oriented Architecture applications with reporting services utilizing JMS.  • Designed and implemented task queues using RabbitMQ to handle concurrent requests from clients.    • Used CI/CD tool Jenkins CI to Build, Test, Deploy the code in the Pivotal Cloud and improved scalability of applications on cross-platforms. Configured Log4j for logging mechanism.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Nexus Repository Manager for complex web application Deployment. Used Splunk to get logs.  • Developed unit and Integration test cases using JUnit, Mockito. Provided guidance on technical issues during deployment and got a chance to do defects tracking across multiple teams with cross collaborations.  • Tested REST API (with JSON) services with GET, POST, PUT and DEL by providing input in JSON parameters using Postman tool.  • Conducted code review sessions and provided valuable feedback. Supported QA teams in fixing the defects in timely manner.  • Participated in backlog grooming sessions to prioritize user stories  • Reported software defects in Agile Manager(AGM) and collaborated with the other developers to resolve technical issues.  • Prepared the data to cover various scenarios and wrote SQL scripts to verify the database updates, inserts and deletion of the records.  • Involved in sprint planning meetings to discuss various development efforts for each story and provide the necessary status updates. Full Stack Java Developer Liberty Mutual - Portsmouth, NH January 2017 to August 2018 Description:  Liberty Mutual Insurance is an American diversified global insurer, and the fourth- largest property and casualty insurer in the United States, it employs over 50,000 people in more than 900 locations throughout the world. It offers a wide range of insurance products and services, including personal automobile, homeowners, workers, compensation, commercial multiple peril, commercial automobile, general liability, group disability, fire and surety.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as a full stack developer responsible for Web, middle tier and Databases in the development of the application.  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Involved in developing applications using Java and J2EE technologies like spring 4.0, JDBC, EJB, JSP.  • Implemented Collections Framework for fetching and appending strings from the deployed UI.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JSP, JavaScript, Angular and Bootstrap.  • Used Apache Camel in the JBoss Fuse ESB as the integration platform for SOA Services.  • Consumed WSDL provided by Web Service using SOAP protocol to communicate with external applications and vendors.  • Involved working with NoSQL with MongoDB. Performed CRUD operations on MongoDB using restful web services.  • Build Restful API by building Node JS Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end JQuery Ajax calls.  • Developed a RESTful web API using Spring Boot. Spring Data is used to communicate with the Mongo DB.  • Wrote internal and external API services using Node JS modules.  • Building modules of application in Java and integrating them into our ColdFusion application.  • Implemented OOPs concept in ColdFusion and developed code libraries and assemblies for code reusability and reduce development time.  • Implemented Database application programming for Oracle, Postgres SQL server using Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views etc.  • Implemented Java Web Services based on SOA Architecture with SOAP and WSDL.  • Integrated Spring Data Mongo Repository to retrieve and update the data from Mongo DB.  • Created Responsive Designs (iPad/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Develop UI automation for Node JS, Angular 2, Micro services have been built using spring boot, Netflix OSS, spring cloud and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Contributed as key resource of the Angular 2 Framework Team in conversion of existing (XMI) UI screens of the application to Angular 2 based UI.  • Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances. MongoDB Schema Design using DB Ref, Manual Ref, Embedded Data Model Design.  • Experienced in Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment has become one of the most common use cases of Docker, CI/CD merges development with testing which allows developers to build code from master branch of GIT repository.  • Developer and integrated RESTful web services using JAX-RPC along with Spring Boot and test cases using JMeter  • Designing and implementing the User Interface using OO JavaScript, Ember JS, HTML, CSS/CSS3, SASS and AJAX.  • Good Exposure on Web development using Java, Angular, jQuery, SOAP, REST and Microservices architecture.  • Spring Cloud integrates the Netflix components in the Spring environment in a very nice way created an XML configuration file for Hibernate for Database connectivity.  • Developed REST APIs using JavaScript to produce JSON.  • Worked on building data center with AWS. Installed SVN, GIT, Jenkins images on AWS.  • Installed Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository and Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven Repository and also used web hooks to ensure Jenkins is listening to a particular branch.  • Experience with unit testing using JUnit and writing build scripts for Maven.  • Involved working with GIT for collaboration team members in the project.    Environment: UNIX, Maven, Java8, GitHub, XML Schemas, AJAX, XML, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Angular 2.0, Angular 4, JSON, JQuery, Bootstrap, Spring 4.0, JAX-RPC, Jenkins, CI/CD, APIGEE Developer portal, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Mockito, Mongo DB, AWS Cloud, STS, Maven , Microservices, Restful services, JSP,Design Patterns, JUnit, Web Services, Windows XP, Spring Security, Karma and Jasmine. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Navistar - Chicago, IL January 2015 to December 2016 Description: Navistar is a leading manufacturer of commercial trucks, buses, defense vehicles and engines. As a developer we participated in maintaining critical infrastructures; designing innovative, scalable and integrated systems; or developing IT strategies, standards, methodologies and models.  Responsibilities:    • Designing, Developing and Deploying web based multi-tiered interfaces including user account and payment screens using Java, Hibernate and Spring with Extensive use of Java Multi-Threading concepts.  • Extensive knowledge on spring modules like Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Batch.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API, Spring Boot for Micro services and Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant Java code for application development effort which involved working with JDBC, XML, Hibernate, EJB, Spring etc.  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile Methodology(Scrum).  • Played a key role in developing the business layer and data management components of this web-based system over J2EE architecture.  • Involved in developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Jquery, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, and Node JS.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Coordinate with all the teams for functional requirements and ensure compliance to all architecture standards.  • Design, Development, and Integration of new ColdFusion Modules  • Made extensive use of ColdFusion Components and many reusable Custom tags.  • Used Spring Tool Suite (STS) for application development.  • Implemented Business processes such as User Authentication using Spring security.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tuples. These POJOs are serialized Java Classes that would not have the business processes.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Adapter, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory.  • Used GIT for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Designed use case and class diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP (SAX) and JAXB in the web services request response data marshalling as well as un-marshalling process.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JMS, JNDI, Oracle, HTML, XML, DOM, SAX, ANT, Rationale Rose, GIT, IBM Db2, Web Logic Server, Hibernate, Spring, Spring ORM, Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring DAO, LOG4J, Rest, STS, Angular JS, Node JS Java/J2EE Developer TD Bank - Cherry Hill, NJ October 2013 to December 2014 Description: TD bank is one of the 10 largest banks in US. The purpose of this project was to design a web application that allows customers to register to their online account and manage their credit cards, Current and Savings account and Loan information. It also helps users to transfer money and pay their bills.    Responsibilities:  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts.  • Identifies, recommends and pursues technology/practices to relevant to the solution of highly complex projects.  • Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using HTML, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Configured spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a context file and integrated middle tier with Hibernate.  • Developed screens based on jQuery to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side.  • Extensively used JSP tag libraries.  • Design high-quality database-driven application utilizing ColdFusion, java script  • Developed Reports using ColdFusion Report Builder in PDF and Excel formats.  • Designed and Developed UI using Angular.JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized Angular.JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models).  • Created Custom Directives in Angular.JS, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using Angular UI router.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization.  • Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, Angular JS.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring MVC Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC).  • Used Hibernate Framework for persistence onto Oracle database.  • Wrote JavaScript validations to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  • Designed a network of web pages, where the user progresses through an application by selecting links, resulting in the next page being transferred to the user and rendered for their use using REST.  • Developed high-performance web applications using spring and XML Http Request.  • Configured JDBC in the application server.  • Involved in coding of Java, JDBC and Servlets interact with client and Database.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Converted and automated builds using Maven and Make. Scheduled automated nightly builds using Jenkins.  • Developed application using My Eclipse for rapid development.  • Test automation for web application using Cucumber.  • Configured and used WebLogic content management to display content in JSP view components.  • Developed UI with AJAX, DHTML and JavaScript for more interactive web pages.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture and increased modularity by allowing the separation of cross-cutting concerns using Spring AOP.  • Implemented SOA Governance Policies.  • Deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using spring MVC and defined Navigation Rules.    Environment: Java, JEE, Servlets, JMS, Hibernate, Spring, Web services, Angular JS, REST, UML, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JSP, JMS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Node JS XML, XSD, Log4j, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, JUnit, JNDI, JIRA, Cucumber, Mongo Db, SOAP, Maven, Web Sphere, JSON, My Eclipse, GIT Java Developer Medtronic January 2012 to September 2013 Description:  It is a Clinical System (E-Commerce) which supports physicians and users in Intermountain Healthcare Facilities. It gives various details of activities done on the selected patient like Lab, Radiology, Insurance, Inpatient reports, and Demographics. Physicians and Nurses use this system to get information about Clinical Schedule, Message Log, and Discharge etc.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) starting from requirement gathering, designing functional document to implementation, delivery, test planning, execution and production support.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Experience in working with TFS.  • Used AngularJS controllers (JavaScript object) to control page data and Models to bind data in user interface with controller.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using JQUERY, JavaScript.  Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, Bootstrap and other frameworks.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used jQuery plugins for drag-drop widgets, menus, user interface and forms.  • Using AngularJS, created custom components and directives and validations which can be re-used in existing and in future applications.  • Used Custom AngularJS Filters to provide better search experience.  • Implemented AngularJS Factories and Controllers to manipulate and view employee task data.  • Used AngularJS HTTP methods and calls to retrieve the required data from the Services.  • Implemented Database-First Entity Framework to retrieve and store employee task data in entity models.  • Started using Angular 1.4 version recently, have knowledge in Angular 1.4 to build interactive web applications.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS.  • Have experience writing scripts using JavaScript and Typescript to implement the functionalities of required fields.  • Designed, developed and programmed in Java, spring, Struts.  • Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Restify to mock a Restful API.  • Used GitHub, TFS for version control and QC for defect tracking.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Development and deployment using Asp.net, vb.net, HTML, CSS and JavaScript/ JQuery.  • Applied data visualization by dynamic graphs & charts with data fetched form Restful web service.  • Used Restful web service AJAX calls to implement robust & efficient client facing application.  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Defined and developed the presentation layer of the application using HTML 5, CSS3 and Ajax.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Performed SOA / web services testing using SOAP UI, wrote adaptors to test / invoke web services.  • Developed REST APIs using JavaScript to produce JSON.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Involved in working with TDD tasks.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  • Excellent analytical and logical programming skills with a good understanding at the conceptual level and possess excellent presentation, interpersonal skills with a strong desire to achieve specified goals.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, WebLogic, Junit, IntilliJ, Struts, CVS Typescript, XML, SOAP Web services, ANT, AJAX, JSON, NodeJS, XML, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Java/J2EE, Microsoft Visual Studio. Jr. Java Developer Sonata Software Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2010 to December 2011 Description: Sonata Software Limited is a Global IT Services company, that provides services in business intelligence and analytics, application development management (ADM), mobility, cloud, social media, testing, enterprise services (ERP and CRM), and infrastructure management services. It is headquartered in Bangalore, India. Founded in 1986 as the IT division of Indian Organic Chemicals, the company spun off as an independent entity in 1994.  Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Implemented Agile Methodology for project Management.  • Involved in analysis, design and development of MAM and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Enhance the application using spring framework.  • Implemented spring dependency injection.  • Application developed with strict adherence to J2EE best practices.  • Followed Annotation driven development.  • Developed PL/SQL stored procedures and functions and actively involved in the design of views and triggers in the Oracle database.  • Created sequence diagrams to show the flow of pages using Rational Rose.  • Used Spring JDBC to integrate with Oracle DB.  • Used Spring AOP for performance monitoring of Web services.  • Developed custom validation plug-in for validation of user input in struts framework.  • Development of a generic file parsing component which can parse any flat / fixed length / excel files.  • Spring Email and velocity API modules were used for sending e-delivery to policy holders.  • Developed build Scripts using Maven to build and deploy the application.  • Generated API documentation in HTML Format using Java docs.  • Enhancing the view layer of MVC architecture using JSP, jQuery.  • Developed the application using Eclipse.  • Developed Build scripts using ANT for project deployment.  • Deployed the applications on Apache Tomcat Application Server.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Used GIT for version control and created automated build script.  Environment: Java/ J2EE, HTML, CSS, JSP, Spring, JDBC, ANT, Oracle, JavaScript, jQuery, JUnit, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Struts, SVN, SOAP, GIT, Java docs, XML. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Vishveswaraya Technological University Skills J2EE (6 years), Java (6 years), JQuery (4 years), SOAP (4 years), XML (4 years), Angular (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL.  Tools and Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP,  Spring Security, JSF, Junit, SOAP UI, JReport, Rational Rose, RabbitMQ, Spring Boot.    Build Tools ANT, Vagrant, Maven, Docker and Jenkins.  Version & Source Control Tortoise SVN, CVS and GIT.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON Restful, Angular 2.0, AJAX, NodeJS.  J2SE/J2EE Technologies Java, J2EE, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, Jakarta Struts, JSF, EJB, Spring, Hibernate, JTA, JNDI, JPA, JMS.  Methodologies Agile, Test Driven Development, Waterfall.  Databases Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, MS SQL, IBM DB2, MongoDB, NoSQL, Cassandra.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Web logic Application server, JBOSS, Camel.  XML Technologies XML, XSL, DOM, SAX, DTD, XQuery, XSD and XSLT.  IDE / Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), RAD, Adobe Dreamweaver.  Testing Tools / Others JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, SLF4J, Log4j and JIRA.  Platforms Windows, Linux and Unix.  Web Services SOAP, Microservices, JAX-RPC, WSDL, JAX-RS JAX-WS, UDDI, JAX-B, CFX, Restful.  Cloud Technologies Pivotal Cloud Foundry, S3, RDS.