Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Arlington, AZ Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Tempe, AZ August 2017 to Present Description: HSBC is one of the world's largest banking and financial services organizations. We serve around 38 million customers through four global businesses: Retail Banking and Wealth Management, Commercial Banking, Global Banking and Markets, and Global Private Banking.    Responsibilities:  • As a Full Stack Developer in Java, involved in understanding SDLC using Agile and Waterfall methodology and worked on the front- end and back- end using Angular JS, spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.x and AWS Web Services.  • Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking. Worked on issues related to business logic and UI code which is primarily built using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript and Angular 2.0.  • Design, development of Web Applications using Java/J2EE Technologies for regulatory Reporting and Data adjustments using JSP, Servlets, JSF, PrimeFaces, Angular JS, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, spring, Hibernate, HTML.  • Moving existing monolithic architecture to microservices and migrating them to AWS cloud.  • Changing the AWS infrastructure Elastic Beanstalk to Docker with Kubernetes.  • Knowledge on docker based container deployments to create shelf environments for developments and containerization of environments delivery for releases.  • Deployed application using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) CLI.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project.  • Involved in the discussions with business users, testing team to finalize the technical design documents and story point's allocation for user stories.  • Involved in development of services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Spring MVC Framework.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • Implemented spring transaction management for some database transactions.  • Transformation of Web services and messages using Mule ESB.  • Spring Dependency Injection feature was used for Bean wiring.  • Wrote and consumed web services using Restful and published it on Web Sphere application server.  • Implemented persistence layer using spring, JDBC Template to store the data in Oracle database.  • Integration with Message Routing of Web services and MQ series messing system with Mule ESB.  • Designed Restful request and response to be used in the project.  • Used Spring IOC while implementing Web services.  • Used MVC frameworks like Spring MVC along with JSF and Rich Faces.  • Used IntelliJ and Tomcat as a web server for deploying the application.  • Developed Single Page Application using AngularJS.  • Used JUnit for unit testing application and Log4J to capture the logs.  • Worked on Maven to build the application and used JRebel for code integration.  • Worked on Asynchronous Test Loops with Mocha  • Developed the application using JSF Spring framework that used MVC architecture with JSP as the view.  • AWS server provisioning using Chef Recipes.  • Addressing heavy traffic situation and migrating user-specific data off service instances and into a shared by using Micro-services  • Involved in creation of GUI using Java Swing developed client-side components  • REST Web services are written in Groovy/Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS.  • Research about of JBPM process engine for use in the implementation of Flow Control System * Worked on Hibernate and created ORM mappings.  • Involved in development of middle layer business methods which incorporate the core business functionality using singleton beans.  • Defined frameworks for Operational data system (ODS), Brokerage data warehouse (BDW)  • Created Unix Shell scripts to automate the data load processes to the target Data Warehouse.  • Involved in maintaining and updating the procedure for ETL process.  • Developed a Payment Solution to process all payment transactions straight through with interface.  • Deployed application on WebLogic application server.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for the reliable and asynchronous exchange of messages.  • Accessed database using SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform  • Created Auto deploy jobs using Jenkins and Gradle.  • Transitioned software development efforts to a test-driven development (TDD) process  • Used DB2 as the backend database and Pure XML for storing XML documents in the DB2 tables.  • Used Cassandra as a data source for all the new internal web applications and analytics purpose as well.  • Developed internal web dashboard applications using NodeJS.  • Developed Server-side automation using NodeJS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from NodeJS.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, Node JS, Angular JS, Angular 1.5, Angular 2.0, React JS, ES6, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Typescript, Ext.js GIT, Responsive Design, Web Services, Jasmine, Karma, Grunt, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, Photoshop, Windows OS, Eclipse, Web Storm. Data Scienist Developer Tempe August 2017 to Present Java Full Stack Developer State of MA - Boston, MA, US May 2016 to July 2017 Description:  The form of Massachusetts government is provided by the Constitution of the Commonwealth. The legislative power is exercised by the bicameral General Court, composed of the Senate and House of Representatives. The executive power generally is exercised by the Governor, along with other independently elected officers, the Attorney General, Secretary of the Commonwealth, and Auditor.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis and design phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Followed agile methodology (Stand up meetings, Sprint development and retrospective meetings)  • Full life cycle experience including requirements analysis, UMLs, data model design, coding, testing and creation of functional and technical design documentation.  • Development UI modules using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Implemented Angular routing using angular directives and implemented services with Ajax calls.  • Made use of Nodes for magnification, qualification and running local test runner server.  • Developed JavaScript for transparent presentation of both client- and server-side validation.  • Designed and developed application based on Spring MVC design pattern and multithreading  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Designed and Developed the UI modules using Spring MVC, JavaScript, Html and CSS.  • Extensively used JQuery selectors, events, Traversal and JQuery, AJAX with JSON Objects  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validations.  • Using it's advanced and cross browser functionality has used JQuery library for creation of powerful dynamic Web Pages and web applications.  • Configured and Integrated spring and Hibernate frameworks. Involved in client side validations using JavaScript.  • Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework. Used Hibernate as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL)  • Designed, developed and delivered RESTful Web Services, which significantly improved performance and increased customer bases utilizing Core Java Spring Beans framework.  • Developed SOAP- based Web Services that acts as an Interface using Web Services/SOAP/ WSDL engine.  • Used SOAP UI to trigger developed Web Services  • Developed Application BL modules using EJB session beans.  • Involved in development of SOAP Web Services using JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI and LDAP.  • Used AJAX to speed up application.  • Involved in developing and maintaining Struts controller, Struts Configuration files (struts-config.xml), Struts Action classes and Struts Action forms beans using Struts 1.2 version.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Involved in the JMS Connection Pool and the implementation of publish and subscribe using Spring JMS. Used JMS Template to publish and Message Driven Bean (MDB) to subscribe from the JMS provider.  • Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema. Writing service methods and SQL queries, Mark Logic, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  • Created Connection Pools in Web Sphere and configured as needed.  • Developed the application using IntelliJ IDEA as the IDE and used standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, mutator/accessory code generation, EJB template generation.  • Version Control was mandated through Git.  • Used Oracle RDBMS, Used MAVEN as build tool and developed build file for compiling the code of creating WAR files.  • Used LOG4J & JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state and Used Jira to track bugs, to keep track of the weekly sprints and to discuss team's work in full context.    Environment: JDK 1.5, Java 7, Spring MVC 2.5, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS EJB 3.0, SOAP, Struts 1.2, Web Service, JPA/Hibernate 3.0, POJO's, CSS, log4j, JAX-WS, JBoss 4.0.3, Oracle 9i, Jenkins, Subversion, ANT, AJAX, Eclipse 3.2. Java Developer DXC Technologies - Roseville, CA, US January 2015 to April 2016 Description:  DXC Technology is an end-to-end Services Company headquartered in Tysons Corner, Virginia. DXC provides information technology and consulting services to businesses and governments.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Spring, and Hibernate and Angular.js  • Documented the tech design artifacts and socialized with the key stakeholders for approval.  • Responsible for developing web pages quickly and effectively using HTML 5, CSS 3, AJAX, JSON, and jQuery.  • Using AngularJS, HTML 5 and CSS 3. All HTML and DHTML is accomplished through AngularJS directives.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • The tech stack is AngularJS, LESS, Bootstrap and cutting-edge server-side technologies.  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree.  • Used ReactJS for creating reusable UI components.  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring framework.  • Involved in the implementation of business logic in Struts Framework and Hibernate in the back-end.  • Involved developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas  • Extensively used Web Services WSDL and SOAP for getting the information of the third party.  • Created smart navbar system in typescript that would retain a client context across multiple web apps using the query string. Smart nav would automatically determine selected navigation node using the browser URL.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant code using Java for an application development effort. This involves working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML etc.  • Implemented Backbone.js and React.js to create a dynamically changing website.  • Worked with Java libraries to access AWS facilities as Simple Storage Service (S3), Simple Queue Service (SQS) and Simple DB.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases JQUERY, AJAX, and JSON.  • Created new tables, written stored procedures, triggers and some user-defined functions using SQL server.  • Created SQL scripts for tuning and scheduling with SQL server  • Extensively used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Involved in Writing jQuery based Ajax Requests.  • Provided multiple implementations using JavaScript, HTML and SQL Queries.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the document and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Tested the integrated application and reported issues to the back-end developers (JIRA)  • Involved in UI Testing with Jira which is generally testing the graphical user interfaces.  • Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to-operate and eye-catching web applications using ExtJS, Angular JS and React JS, Backbone.js, Node.js and Bootstrap with MySQL database.  • Perform web optimization on websites and web services for improved functionality over cross browsers and platforms.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Used unit testing framework Jasmine for testing JavaScript  • Used version control system GIT to maintain code repositories  • Used jQuery core libraries for the logical implementation part at the client side of the website.  • Involved in writing jQuery based Ajax requests using jQuery. Get (URL, data, success, type) and jQuery. Post (URL, data, success, type)  • Used jQuery to traverse through the DOM and access the nodes.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, DHTML, DOM, jQuery, JavaScript, SVN, Typescript, SOAP, XML, SQL, JIRA, Windows Platforms, GIT, Grunt, Jasmine, Angular JS, React JS, IDE- Eclipse, Node JS, Ajax, JSON, SQL Server and MS Office, Java, JSP, Spring and Hibernate. Java Developer TCF BANK - Herndon, VA, US May 2013 to December 2014 Description:  TCF is a Wayzata, Minnesota-based national financial holding company that offer services like banking, investment and loans. Personal Loan Processing Application offers various features like creating new accounts, managing existing accounts, processing credit card and personal loan applications.    Responsibilities:  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3 based on the W3C standards.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using the Angular framework.  • Designed Dynamic and Multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery, and JavaScript.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Ext.JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, and JSP for interactive cross-browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Designed Web Application User Interface, interaction scenarios and navigation based on analysts, interpretations of requirement and use cases.  • There is a configuration widget written in CSS 3, JavaScript, and jQuery framework in UI Layer with Tag library, an application deployed and tested on Linux.  • Developed different GUI screens using JSP and user validations using JavaScript.  • Effectively implemented AJAX in developing dynamic web pages  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery.  • Brief experience on implementing the Angular JS and MVC framework for data access.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Implemented Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of JSON data over HTTP.  • Developed Action controller, Action Forms, Tiles Structure, Validation Structure (for data validation), JSP pages, Form Beans, AJAX code, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Involved in writing application-level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Worked with Cross-Browser Compatible issues  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS. Built DAO package as well as DAO impl package to implement the data access logic, and using Hibernate Annotation to do the data mapping. Used Log4J API for logging and debugging. Developed UNIX shell scripts for performing administrative tasks.  • Developed the application using agile methodology. Worked on Java Messaging Services (JMS) for developing messaging services.  • Used JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS ( Java API for XML and RESTful Service) . Used Ant for building and deploying the war file into the application server.  • Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the application. SVN is used for version control systems and source code management.  • Created test cases using JUnit and Mockito. Created automated test cases for the web application using Selenium.  • Configured and set up JBoss Server for deployment. Used JIRA for tracking bugs. Used JENKINS for continuous integration.    Environment:  HTML 4/5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSF, JSON, JAVA, Ext.js, Web Services, JSP, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON, JSTL, ECLIPSE, SQL server, MySQL, SVN and MS Office. Java Developer Educomp Solutions - Bengaluru, KARNATAKA, IN December 2011 to April 2013 Description:  As the largest education company in India, Educomp has revolutionized the entire creating and making the best use of digital products and online solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on multiple projects simultaneously.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Grails web development in Groovy/GSP/jQuery for CSC government division. Spearheaded innovative workflow mechanism. Initiated Specs unit testing framework. Agile environment  • Using the advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Develop various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux libraries.  • Formulate and define system scope and objective based on user needs and thorough understanding of business processes  • Participated in numerous creative brainstorm sessions with strategists, storyboards, design specifications, and screen layouts that were shared with Directors and other team members  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and CSS  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers  • Designed the table fewer web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards  • Continuously provide input to project management activities throughout the project lifecycle influencing scope, risk plan, project plan, issues and status Java UI Developer Innovative Solutions February 2010 to November 2011 IN  February 2010 to November 2011  Description: LIST Innovative Solutions, Inc. provides systems integration and data management solutions to commercial and government clients. The company offers applications development services and solutions, such as systems engineering and technical assistance    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  • Created detailed design documents (UML diagrams like Use case, Class, Sequence, and Component diagrams) using Rational Rose.  • Involved in design activities that are HLD (High-Level Design) and LLD (Low-Level Design)  • Designed and developed front-end using JSP, JSTL, EL, and other custom tag libraries.  • Expertise in Web Page development using XML, XSLT.  • Involved in Web Page development using YUI Library.  • Involved in the design and prepared use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and class diagrams for various modules.  • Followed Agile methodology and Test-driven approach for project deliverables  • Developed the application using JSF Framework for the web tier and EJb3 and JPA for the backend development  • The Presentation Layer was developed using HTML, JSP, JSF, CSS, JavaScript, and JSTL.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate  • Developed test classes in JUnit for implementing unit testing.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of Spring Framework  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS) to exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components and the legacy system.  • Expose and Consume REST web services to get the data from different contracts from different clients and expose the warehouse inventory details for consumer tracking  • Used Spring MVC in the Web Layer  • Involved in configuring and deploying the application using WebSphere.  • Involved in integrating the business layer with DAO layer using Hibernate ORM.  • Transaction Management using the Hibernate configurations  • Responsible for development of configuration, mapping and Java beans for Persistent layer (Object and Relational Mapping) of Hibernate.  • Involved in Writing and reviewing unit test cases using JUnit.  • Used CVS as version control system to check in and check out the data.  • Write and modify database stored procedures, triggers, functions, and PL/SQL Scripts.  • Created Forms and Reports using Oracle.  • Involved in writing shell scripts for deploying the application on UNIX.  • Involved in build management and build resolution activities of e-commerce project.  • Involved in Smoke Testing, Testing, bug fixing and documentation of the system.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, Spring, JDBC, JSP, Web Services, REST, Oracle, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, jQuery, JUnit 4, AJAX, SVN. Education btech jntu Skills JAVA (8 years), jQuery (8 years), ECLIPSE (7 years), JSP (7 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years) Additional Information Skills  Java (8 years), jQuery (8 years), JSP (7 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), Eclipse, Java Swings, JSF, JUnit, Log4J, Ant, Maven  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, Angularjs, jQuery, ReactJS, NodeJS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, MQ Series, Apache Camel, Kafka, Spring Boot, ExpressJS    XML/Web Services XML, XSD, WSDL, SOAP, Apache Axis, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML Beans, SOAP, RESTful Web Services  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Groovy.  Application/Web Servers WebLogic 8.x/9.x/10. x. JBOSS 3.x/4.0, IBM Web Sphere 4.0/5.x/6. x.  IDE Tools Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD) and NetBeans, STS.  Databases Oracle 11g/12C, MySQL, SQL, MongoDB.  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3.  Cloud AWS.  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, Clear Case, Git.  Testing Selenium, Karma.  Messaging Tools JMS  Modelling/Wire Framing, LESS, SASS/SCSS.  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Macintosh HD.