Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Austin, TX • Over 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation, and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Development with Concepts of, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experience working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model and Iteration.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies Such as spring, Hibernate, Struts framework, EJB, Servlets 3.x.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to thedatabase and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experienced in Front End frameworks such asJQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Node JS, React JS, Backbone JS and Angular JS.  • Experience with setup and maintenance of Web Logic Server, Apache, Tomcat and LDAP.  • Experienced in Full stack front-end technologies using Grunt JS, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  • Implemented based on corresponding view components with view components JSP, Html, html5, CSS 3, XSD, XSTL.  • Proficient inJava Swing, AWT, SWT, JBoss, and Hibernate.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AWS Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, and Ansible.  • GUI development using Swing and Eclipse RCP.  • Experience in developing and a solid understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Micro services Architecture.  • Red Hat Jboss was used for Building, deploying, and hosting enterprise Java applications and services.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages using TOAD.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases - Oracle [ ] SQL Server [ ] DB2, My SQL.  • Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by leveraging Amazon Web Services, open source technologies & best engineering practices of CI/CD.  • Proficient in NoSQL DB with Apache Cassandra DB, Mongo DB.  • Performance optimization by indexing, grouping, map-reduce on No SQL DB.  • Experience with creating and workflows and Mappings, running jobs in Informatica 9.5/ETL.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and IBM Clear Case.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, Jenkins and logging tools like Log4J.  • Experienced with JUnitframeworks such as Mockito, Easy Mock.  • Expertise in using IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, and RAD for developing and debugging rapid web and enterprise Java applications.  • Good working experience in using ANT and Maven scripts for building and deploying the application in web/App servers.  • Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux and Microsoft Windows.  • Goal oriented individual with excellent analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at all levels and work independently. Experience with JUnit, Jasmine, Karma, Mockito, and Log4J in developing test cases.  • Working knowledge of version control tools like SVN, CVS, GIT, and Visual Source Safe. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Visa Inc - Austin, TX August 2018 to Present Description: We are a global payments technology company working to enable consumers, businesses, banks and governments to use digital currency. Helping to improve lives and economies around the world. From advancing financial inclusion to helping in times of crisis, we are using our products, know-how and philanthropy to bring about positive change.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in a highly dynamic AGILE environment and participated in Scrum and Sprint meetings.  • Used Java 8 Lambda expressions along with Streams for creating internal iteration and performing chain operations such as Filter, Map, Collect on a Collection Objects.  • Developed custom directives, Factories and Services in AngularJS and implemented code according to coding standards and created AngularJS Controller to isolate the scopes to perform operations and extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections.  • Developed an application were involved in design changes using HTML5, CSS3 and fraction of JavaScript.  • Worked extensively to achieve DOM Show, hide elements and Event Handling using Angular JS.  • Experienced on Spring framework applications like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot and did integration to Microservices into existing system architecture.  • Experienced in implementing Micro services, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top Down and Bottom Up approach.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • JSON being light in nature was used as the chief source of communication between the server and application.  • Experience in creating RESTful web services using Jersey, Spring framework and JAX-RS.  • Involved in developing APIs and REST API proxy using APIGEE edge and for sending mobile notifications.  • Used Apache Kafka for integration and Data Processing with spring and for Multi-Threaded Message Consumption and worked on Zookeeper to maintain services.  • Worked with SpringRibbon and Kafka broker service to handle heavy traffic.  • Worked on integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor spring micro-services using Circuit Breaker.  • Used Apache Camel routes to build customized routes and Spring XML and Camel blueprint to integrate with other Enterprise applications.  • Used Apache Camel to integrate the different applications using protocols like ActiveMQ and JMS.  • Worked with AWS cloudservice in creating EC2 instances and providing them roles and sometimes participated in writing custom policies and deployed applications on Elastic Bean Stalk and EC2.  • Performed Query operations on AWSDynamo DB and captured the modification data on Dynamo DB.  • Involved in AWS SQS to interact with queue and giving roles to it and involved in writing Custom policies.  • Writing Queries to get the information from MongoDB for adjusting the data in DB.  • Involved in the development of distributed Server-side components and deployed the various Session and Entity Bean Components in the IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Used MAVEN as a Build Process and used generating Documentation, Reporting, and adding Dependencies.  • Used Selenium Grid to execute Selenium automation suites on different platforms.  • Using JUnit test in Eclipse, developed Unit test cases and test suite. Curl was also implemented to test.  • Worked in various DevOps tools like Jenkins, Puppet, SVN, GIT, and Ansible Well knowledge in CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies with Jenkins.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  • Involved in System Testing, Integration Testing, and Production Testing on WebSphere Server.    Environment: Agile, Java, J2EE, JSON, AngularJS, Web Services, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, AWS, RESTful, Eclipse, MAVEN, JUnit, APIGEE, DevOps, Jenkins, IBM WebSphere Server, MongoDB, JMS, Zookeeper, Apache Camel, Kafka, Hystrix, CICD, GIT, PL/SQL, Docker and Log4J. Java Developer Hitachi - Waltham, MA May 2017 to July 2018 Description: We Are Hitachi Vantara DataOps is data management for the AI era, seamlessly connecting data consumers with data creators to rapidly monetize all your data. We help you place the right data in the right place at the right time. We are analytics, industrial expertise, technology and outcomes rolled into one great solution partner. We listen. We understand. We work with you. Get Your DataOps Advantage today with Hitachi Vantara.  Responsibilities:  • Developed UI Components using Angular Js, Bootstrap, HTML, Java Script and CSS.  • Developed mock-up screens in the prototype to demo the application screens to business users using HTML, Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Used Angular-JS, AJAX for asynchronous validations for the input fields of the forms with the data existed in the database.  • Extensively used Core Java collections, Generics, Exception handling, Design patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information also developed Services, Business Delegate, POJO, Controller,and DAO.  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) micro service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Created entities in Scala and Java along with named queries to interact with the database. Used Scala collection framework to store and process the complex Customer information.  • Used JMS ( Java Mailing Service) API to mail notifications upon the success or failure when the backend processes are completed and to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  • Wrote Hibernate Criteria queries for data retrievals and have performed the ORM mappings to map java entities to database tables.  • Implemented RESTFUL web services using spring boot and consumed using spring REST services. Published Rest services for performing CRUD operations from the database.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML and WS-Security for authenticating the REST messages along with encryption and decryption.  • Install KAFKA on Hadoop cluster and configure producer and consumer coding part in java. Loaded data from various data sources into HDFS using Kafka.  • Involved in setting up AWS services with EC2 instances, S3 bucket, IAM, RDS took part in deploying the application in AWS.  • Writing and retrieving files to and from AWS S3 bucket for UI to render data faster that involves complex and time-consuming server-side logic.  • Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the actual functionality.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, Struts, Spring 4.3, Spring boot, Spring AOP, Scala, Hibernate 4, JMS, JSF, MAVEN, REST, log4j, JUnit, Jenkins, Gradle, XML, Ajax, XSD, Kafka, javaScript, jQuery, Angular-JS 1.5, Mongo DB, Linux, Tomcat, Spring Tool Suite(STS), IBM RAD, Jenkins. Java Developer Citizens Bank - Burlington, VT January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Citizens Financial Group, Inc. is one of the nation's oldest and largest financial institutions, with $151.4 billion in assets as of June 30, 2017. Headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island, Citizens offers a broad range of retail and commercial banking products and services to individuals, small businesses, middle-market companies, large corporations and institutions  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete software development lifecycle (SDLC) of client's business process by using their current system and continuous client feedback.  • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) with client-side validations using JavaScript and JS framework Angular JS.  • XML parsing using DOM/SAX Parsers for displaying XML Data.  • Developed DAOs using JPA, Hibernate Criteria API for the database operations to interact with Oracle Database.  • Created database tables using Hibernate Annotations and developed business objects which use these tables.  • Configured and worked on the Application Servers such as Tomcat.  • Used Maven to build projects and provided deployment whenever necessary.  • To handle the exceptions in the application we designed and implemented customized exception handling.  • Used GIT as Source Version control management system and worked on GITHUB repository.  • Worked on various technologies like HTML, JSP and Servlets. Responsible for change requests and maintenance during the development of the project.  • Worked extensively on struts 2.0 frame working order to insert the panel data into the panel container.  • Used continuous Integration development methodology and verified the code using automated build.  • Worked on the spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBossApplication Server.    Environment: Java (JDK1.6& 1.7), Spring, Hibernate, RESTful&Soap-Based Web services Eclipse, Oracle 10g, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, Maven, SVN, Tomcat 7.0, SOAP, SVN, Scrum Methodology, Unix, XML, WSDL, Putty. Java Developer Wells Fargo Mortgage - Durham, NC March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Wells Fargo & Company is an American international banking and financial services holding company headquartered in San Francisco, California, with "hub quarters" throughout the country. It is the world's second-largest bank by market capitalization.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked on Spring/Hibernate Applications  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  • Developed JavaScript based components using Ext JS framework like a GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML, and Struts Framework., Hibernate, spring, Java Scripts and WebLogic.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Ruby on Rails, Node.js, HTML and jQuery from initial concept development to beta launch.  • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Backbone.js, and Celery  • Implemented Hibernate for the ORM layer in transacting with Oracle database  • Developed HQL queries for CRUD  • Connectivity to the database is provided using JDBC.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and background processes using Rescueand Redis.  • Worked on web services SOAP and REST technologies    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, jQuery, Hibernate, Oracle, Crud, AJAX, JDBC, Junit, UML, ILOG, Web 2.0, ITEXT, JSP, SVN, Eclipse, Mongo DB, Java Script, ExtJS, APACHE CFX, Agile, MAVEN, Jasper report, SOA, Servlet. Java Developer Anjana Software Solutions-Chennai December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Anjana Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd. Also known as Anjana soft provides top quality information technology consulting and professional contract services through our Staff of experienced computer consultants and independent contractors. At Anjana soft, we integrate the highest ethical and professional standards with continued profitability and hands-on community involvement to create a quietly successful, uniquely dynamic company.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using the agile iterative development Methodology. Interacted with the end users and participated in the SCRUM meetings.  • Developing End-User friendly GUI using JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript & CSS  • Implemented CSS Manipulation, HTML Event functions, Java script Effects and animations using JQUERY.  • Involved in development of application using struts, RAD and Oracle database.  • Developed Data Access Layer using Hibernate ORM framework.  • Have coded numerous DAO's using Hibernate Dao Support. Used Criteria, HQL and SQL as the query languages in Hibernate Mapping.  • Used Web Services for transmission of large blocks of XML data using SOAP.  • Used Log4j to implement logging facilities. Used Clear Case for version control.  • Used Ant as a build tool.  • Configured and Deployed application on Web Sphere Application Server.    Environment: Java, Java EE, Web Sphere Application Server, SOAP, Eclipse, Struts, Hibernate, Web Services, HTML, CSS, XML, Ant, UML, JavaScript, jQuery, Rational Rose, JUnit, Log4j, Clear Case, Windows XP. Java Developer PB SYSTEMS - Bengaluru , Karnataka January 2011 to November 2012 Description: The objective of this project is to implement a web based front end system which can be used by the employees, managers and higher-level management having specific role permissions for effective processing of day today business activities in the company like leave management, project management and resource management etc.  Responsibilities:  • Design and Development of the Object-Oriented applications using OOA and OOD techniques in all Business Areas using CVS.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Wrote Client-side validation scripts using JavaScript.  • Stored data in Oracle database and accessed using Oracle JDBC drivers.  • Imported Client data into the database from XML file by using the XML Parser.  • Worked on bug fixing and Production Support.    Environment: JDK, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, XML and CVS. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jax-rpc, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Docker, Dtd Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, JavaScript, SQL/PL-SQL  Java/J2EEEnterprise Technologies JDBC, Swing, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JSTL, JMS, spring, Struts, JSF, JPA, Log4j, LDAP.  J2EE Web Services SOAP, REST, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC, JAXP, JAXB.  Client-Side Programming HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, AJAX, JQUERY, JSON  JavaScript Frameworks AngularJS, node.js, Backbone.js, React.js, Requier.js, Ext JS  XML Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM.  Database Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  Web and Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Sun Glassfish, JBoss  Methodologies SDLC, OOAD, Agile  Testing Tools JUnit, Selenium, Mockito, Docker and Power Mock  Version Control Clear Case, CVS, SVN, GIT  Continuous Integration Tools Jenkins, Quick Build, Bamboo  JavaScript Unit Testing Tools Jasmine along with Karma, protractor.  ESB products Apache Camel, Mule, JBoss fuse  ORM frameworks Hibernate, JPA, IBatis, Spring JDBC Template, JDBC  Tools & IDEs Apache ANT, MAVEN, Net Beans, Eclipse, RAD, Eclipse IDE, Edit Plus, JS fiddle, Brackets, WebStorm, NPM, Bower, Grunt,and Gulp.