Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Century Link • Around 8 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC),Web Application Design, Development, Programming, Testing, Support Maintenance and End-User support using core java, java/J2EE technologies with Web Sphere and Web Logic application servers.  • Proficiency in developing secure enterprise Java applications using technologies such as JSP, SERVLETS, JAVA Beans, C++, EJB3, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, JSTL, PHP, XML.  • Worked on Object oriented design and programming in C++, Java, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Experience on core Java technologies like OOPS (Object Oriented Programming Structure), multi-threading, Collection, Interfaces, Synchronization, Exception Handling.  • Hands on experience in developing API's/micro services using open source java-based frameworks like Spring boot and Spring Data and Spring cloud.  • Experience working in spring framework, Struts framework, O/R Mapping Hibernate framework and web services.  • Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring DAO, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  • Experience in designing highly usable GUIs using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AngularJs.  • Experience in writing unit test frameworks like MOCKITO, JMOCK and Easy Mock using java proxy mechanism.  • Experience in modeling presentation tier using StrutsMVC2 (Model-View-Controller) architecture.  • Good experience in Angular.JS, built application service layer using Angular.JS Dependency Injection.  • Developed and executed Unit Test cases using JUnit framework by supporting TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Extensive development in UNIX (AIX), Red Hat Linux, Windows NT/ 2000 / XP.  • Knowledge in Agile software development process, test driven development and Object-oriented modeling UML, Object-Oriented analysis and design, developing Use Cases, Interaction Diagrams(Sequence and Activity), Class Diagrams, and Package Diagrams using Rational Rose & Visio.  • Experience with relational databases such as Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, MYSQL and No SQL databases such as Mongo DB and good knowledge on Cassandra.  • Good working knowledge in version control tools like GitLab, Bit bucket, CVS and Rational Clear Case (repositories).  • Expertise in developing the web portals using SOA, MVC frameworks using spring and Struts.  • Good experience on web servers like Apache HTTP, Apache Tomcat and application servers JBoss, Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere and configuring them.  • Expertise in writing Packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Database Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle 12c, 10g, 11g, 9i.  • Expertise in automating infrastructure or routine software development process for  increase the efficiency, reliability, performance and agility.  • Experience using Jenkins, Maven an open source continuous Integration.  • Experience in working on Pivotal Cloud foundry (PCF).  • Participated actively in production support to fix defects reported by clients and QA team.  • Comprehensive fundamental understanding of AWS Cloud technologies.  • Involved in designing and deploying applications utilizing AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud formation.  • Experienced in migrating applications to AWS and application deployment in the cloud (AWS) with CI/CD tools such as Jira, Bit Bucket, Confluence, Bamboo, Chef, S3.  • Experience in developing applications using Agile, SCRUM and water fall methodologies.  • Have excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and ability to work independently. Work Experience Software Engineer Century Link - Littleton, CO April 2018 to Present Century Link is a global technology company that provides communications, network services, security, cloud solutions, voice and managed services to customers worldwide. Its communications services include local and long-distance voice, broadband, Multi-Protocol Label Switching, private line, Ethernet, hosting (including cloud hosting and managed hosting), data integration, video, network public access, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), information technology and other ancillary services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, Maintenance, Documentation of application using Agile Methodologies and estimate the efforts required.  • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using spring.  • Experience in working with Core Java technologies like Object Orient Programming, Multithreading, Synchronization, Collections, and Event/Exception handling.  • Implemented RESTful web services with Spring REST web services and Spring integration.  • Developed Micro-Services and created API's using Java Spring Boot framework using Maven as a build tool and MongoDB as a database.  • Expertise in creating REST API's by making a call to different backend systems like Oracle DB, REST Web Services, GraphQl, SOAP Web Service, MongoDB, etc.  • Experience in developing the Spring boot Microservices from scratch.  • Worked as part of Micro services team to develop and deliver Maven projects and hosted them in kubernetes environment.  • Implemented spring configuration files for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using Spring Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate framework with Spring Framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Experience in creating and understanding the open API specification using the Swagger.  • Created fully functional REST web services supporting JSON message transformation. Built on Spring 3.0 technology.  • Involved in Unit, Integration testing for different Modules in the application, Unit and integration testing, logging and debugging using Junit.  • Performed web services and APIs (WSDL, REST, XML based protocol) developing and testing by using Soap UI.  • Involved in the Development/Enhancement, bug fixing as well as in Production Support.  • Experience in using open source platform SonarQube for continuous inspection of code quality.  • Logging framework Log4j is used for log messages. Implemented Log4j for application logging and to troubleshoot issues in debug mode.  • Participated in front-end development using Angular 2, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS 3.0 and bootstrap.  • Experience in working with Enterprise Messaging Platform (EMP) which is a home-grown product of Century Link for messaging purpose.  • Used Spring RESTful API to create RESTful Web Services, set JSON data type between front-end and the middle-tier controller.  • Experience in configuring continuous integration and continuous deployment pipeline using Gitlab-ci and GoCD.  • Implementing messaging queues for asynchronous calling betweenservices.  • Used GITLAB as version control tool.  • Used deployment & Continuous Integration (CI) tools like Maven and Jenkins.  • Worked on JUnit testing using Mockito and Power Mockito, integration testing and SOAP UI testing.  • Migrating old code into updated versions and move applications which got deployed in Pivotal Cloud Foundry to Kubernetes.  • Experience in designing and implementing AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), VPC and Cloud Formation.  • Experience in developing scripts using Restful API models for the purposes of integrating workflows with AWS.  • Participated in scrum meetings such as daily stand up, grooming, sprint planning, release and retrospective.  • Interact with other developers, users and various members of the team to discuss issues resolve defects and set priorities. Sr. JAVA Developer DTCC - Dallas, TX May 2017 to March 2018 Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (DTCC) is an American post-trade financial services company providing clearing and settlement services to the financial market. DTCC aims to simplify the existing Global Trade Repository (GTR) to enhance the customer experience, reduce the complexity of support, reduce the costs to maintain the existing application and to reduce costs when expending into new jurisdictions or new services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology and followed Scrum sessions.  • Developed the Application using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Java 8.  • Involved in designing the new architecture for existing application to latest technologies.  • Design and Implemented Spring framework, Spring-AOP, Spring-ORM, Spring-JDBC modules.  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.Js 2.xand Bootstrap.  • Developed Micro-Services and created API's using Java Spring Boot framework using Maven as a build tool and Oracle as an enterprise level database.  • Developed Micro-services using RESTful services to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Implemented Web services using apache API and tested them using SOAP UI. Integrated the SOAP Web services to RESTful Web Services.  • Implementation of JQuery and Angular.JS to build UI and its integration with Spring framework.  • Used Angular.JS 2.x to bind data into specific views and synchronize data with server.  • System was built using Spring Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Used Web services to communicate using Restful API.  • Design, develop, test and maintain the application built on J2EE, Spring and Hibernate.  • Implemented Transaction Management based on Spring AOP and Dependency Injection based on Spring IOC.  • Good working knowledge on JSF Framework.  • Used RESTful Web services and JSON objects for communication.  • Developed test classes in JUnit for unit testing.  • Used Spring AOP for the transaction management and logging.  • Used GIT to maintain source and version management and used Eclipse as IDE.  • Worked with Threads, Multithreading, Synchronization and Collection API.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring boot for REST API, by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  • Effectively handled data modeling in MongoDB 3.0. Upgraded Mongo database servers from 2.6.11 to 3.0.  • Migrated applications from internal data center to AWS.  • Worked and Performed Tuning and Query Optimization in AWS Redshift and Micro-service.  • Build and continuous integration with tools like Maven and Jenkins to build jar and war files and deployed war files to target servers.  • Analyzed data using complex SQL queries, across various databases.  • Creating tables in Oracle database to store report information.  • Experienced in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Joins, Constraints, DDL, DML and User Defined Functions to implement the business logic and created clustered and non-clustered indexes.  • Implemented Jenkins for a central build and deploy activities by configuring Jenkins in micro service apps.  • Worked on Estimations, Code reviews and 24/7 Production support.  • Experience in working with the regulations like HKMA, ESMA/EMIR.  • Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  • Used Log4j2 to log and track the application.  • Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-predicated services interacting through an amalgamation of REST, Swagger, Cassandra and MQ message brokers and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy Identity Microservices.  • Responsible for handling day-to-day technical issues, analyzed and determined root cause, facilitated resolution. Sr. JAVA Developer JP Morgan Chase - Dallas, TX May 2015 to April 2017 JPMorgan Chase is a global security, investment banking and retail banking firm. Deal manager is an enterprise level application made for corporate clients unlike most of the retail banking products. Deal manager is an interface for all the banking products chase offers for its enterprise clients. This application is used to sell products and to keep every record of it. Deal Manager is responsible for establishing a platform for enrollment of Clients, selling products, billing and supporting. It will also serve as a repository of previous sales, clients, products and requests.    Responsibilities:  • Coordinated with all the teams to maintain knowledge on all functional requirements and ensure compliance to all architecture standards.  • Expertise in developing the applications using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multi-threading, Garbage Collections and Socket Programming etc.  • Good knowledge and working experience in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object-Oriented Design (OOD).  • Experience in developing applications using Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, Spring, Java Beans.  • Worked on spring framework to design and develop the business services.  • Implemented spring ORM for integrating Hibernate ORM tool.  • Build a Web Console in PHP 5 and J Query that connected to a Restful server using JSON as the data type exchange language.  • Effective use of hibernate (ORM tool) in the business layer in communicating with the Spring DAO and developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool.  • Worked on MVC Architecture like struts by using Web portals.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component Ant projects with Nexus repositories and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Built Java applications using ANT and Maven and deployed JAVA/J2EE applications through Tomcat Application servers.  • Used IBM-DB2 to retrieve the data from and Oracle 10g has been used to safe the final results into the database.  • Developed Spring MVC app deployed on Web logic to orchestrate transactions by using micro services.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the Server database.  • ImplementedEJB3 Schedulers for automated batch processing.  • Used Hibernate as an implementation engine for JPA API.  • Implemented Swagger Configuration in Java Spring boot for auto generating swagger json files for REST API calls.  • Tested the application JUNIT and that was build using Maven.  • Involved in setting up Maven configuration and helping Continuous Integration (CI) Issues.  • Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using Angular.JS2 framework, JavaScript, and j Query in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI technologies.  • Have integrated web services including SOAP as well as REST using Apache Camel.  • Involved in developing and maintaining control files for SQL loader to load the data from SQL server to oracle database tables.  • Used Spring Boot task scheduler to load files based on specific time interval to read the data.  • Provided support to all end users and identified any issues in production.  • Used micro-framework to implement with REST API and Mongo DB (No SQL) as back end database.  • Created stored procedures for generating reports using SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using AngularJS 2.x, JSF and Spring Controller  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, and Cloud Foundry.  • Developing a product-level cloud-based architecture in AWS.  • Used JIRA for Issue and Project management activities and for Groovy Scripting.  • Created Restful web service barcode Controller for handling the WebServices request from an UI application.  • Worked on building & deploying Java code through Jenkins, used Jenkins Amazon Web Services (AWS) Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS and worked on AWS Cloud management.  • Developed the Restful web services using spring and used spring boot for Micro-services.  • Followed Agile methodology and participated in Sprints during development. JAVA Developer AIG, Inc - Greensboro, NC January 2013 to May 2015 American International Group, Inc (AIG) is an American multinational insurance corporation. The old Customer Service Website is being replaced with a modern, attractive, SOA-oriented site. It has various parts of the functionality to communicate with the backend system through web services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system. Captured requirements using Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams.  • Developed the application using Struts, Servlets and JSP for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for the client-side validations.  • Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages.  • Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  • Designed Restful, XML, XSLT and PHP web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Used spring to manage beans to use windows session state framework to persist session to the database.  • Used spring IOC and MVC for enhanced modules.  • Used Angular.JS, Node.js and Bootstrap in effective web design.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Extensively used OOA, OOD, OOP Concepts, Exceptional Handling and Collections Framework.  • Used Hibernate to do the object relational mapping between the tables and java objects.  • Implemented Persistence layer with ORM Framework using IBatis3.0, JPA which Synchronize with Oracle 10g database.  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat, Web Sphere.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from My SQL database.  • Wrote Test Cases using JUNIT as a framework.  • Used JSF 2.1 framework for building the application based on MVC design paradigm.  • Created continuous Integration builds using Maven.  • Developed GUI using Front end technologies like JSP, JSTL, AJAX, HTML, CSS and Java Script.  • Developed a code for Web services using XML, SOAP, PHP and used SOAP UI tool for testing the services proficient in testing Web Pages functionalities and raising defects.  • Participated in Code Reviews for better quality assurance and Debugged the application Module.  • Deployed the application on Web Logic server.  • Developed the Web services using SOA.  • Developed custom Angular.JS directives to build custom reusable components to use across the application pages.  • Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, Collections.  • Designed and Developed a Data Interface switch written in C/C++to convert dBase database calls into Oracle ODBC calls. This switch is used to connect to Oracle database from a dBase application.  • Used Jenkins and GIT to automate the process.  • Implemented both JAX-WS SOAP and JAX-RS RESTful services using Annotation based approach.  • Used Java Messaging artifacts using JMS (IBM MQ Series) for sending out automated notification emails to respective users of the application.  • Experience in developing scripts using Restful API models for the purposes of integrating workflows with AWS.  • Involve in Daily Meetings and Biweekly meetings with the business team and offshore team on current issues in Production and as well Releases. JAVA Developer UB Group - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with technologies like Core Java, J2EE, Hibernate and Oracle.  • Created Framework for Integration Testing (FIT) based test cases for integration testing.  • Tested application functions like handling inputs, processing data, and interaction with databas  • Implemented the Struts frame work with MVC architecture.  • Created new JSP's for the front-end using HTML, Java Script, JQuery and Ajax.  • Developing JSP pages and configuring the module in the application.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS and client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Involved in designing, creating, reviewing Technical Design Documents.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Object) using Hibernate as ORM to interact with DBMS - Oracle.  • Applied J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, DAO, Singleton etc.  • Deployed and tested the application using Tomcat web server.  • Involved in coding, code reviews, JUnit testing, Prepared and executed Unit Test Cases.  • JBOSS for application deployment and MySQL for database  • Worked with QA team in preparation and review of test cases.  • Identified bugs in the migrated application by running test cases and using Eclipse IDE.  • Provided Hibernate configuration file and mapping files, also involved in the integration of Struts with Hibernate libraries.  • Analyzed, created and proposed remediation measures to fix the bugs in the application.  • Used log4j for logging monitoring errors and exceptions across the application.  • Analyzed database table relationships to understand legacy application.  • Coordinated with Database Administrators to analyze and optimize the application load on database.  • Identified, analyzed, and re-mediated performance issues in application. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Andhra University 2011 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Struts, C++, Cucumber, Docker, Git, Gradle, Bootstrap, Node.js, Jenkins, Json, Orm, Python Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Windows, Linux/Unix  Programming Languages C, C++, Java 8, PL/SQL, UNIX, Python, Shell  Java Technologies Spring(BOOT, BATCH, CLOUD, INTGRATION, WEBSERVICES,ORM, DAO, WEB, MVC, ASPECT), Microservices, Struts, Core Java  Cloud Technologies AWS, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)  Web Services REST/RESTful (JSON), SOAP(XML)  CI/CD Tools Jenkins, Bit Bucket, GIT Hub, SonarQube, Docker, Kubernetes  Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss, Jetty  Build Tools Maven, Ant, Gradle  Messaging Platforms Active MQ, Kafka, Rabbit MQ  Databases Oracle, My SQL, No SQL-Mongo DB  Development Tools Eclipse, Intellij, Net Beans, RAD  Testing Frameworks Postman, Cucumber, Junit, Mockito, JMock, Easy Mock  ORM Frameworks Hibernate, IBatis, Spring JPA/JDBC  UI Technologies Anugular.JS, Angular 2, JSF, Node.JS, JQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, XML  Logging Frameworks Log4j, SLF4J, Log Back  Source Control CVS, SVN, GIT