Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Naura-Akrion Philadelphia, PA ? University graduate offering a strong academic background in IT  ? Experienced IT support specialist  ? Proficient in a range of computer systems, languages, tools and testing methodologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Naura-Akrion - Allentown, PA May 2018 to Present Isolate and resolve network communication issues  ? Train end users on correct operation and use of workstations to maintain optimal performance and functionality of the system.  ? Review, update and comply with the network and company policies.  ? Track entire network of applications, databases and servers.  ? Manage department budget and track expenses.  ? Perform data migration for server and workstation updates or replacements.  ? Support mobile access to network system.  ? Monitor security risks and complete updates to minimize or avoid threats.  ? Manage multiple Hyper-V (Windows Server 12 R2) machines.  ? Manage and support Windows server 2000 to 2016.  ? Administer /Create GPOS and DNS, DHCP, AD, Hyper-V, Print Sever, OAS Server and File Servers.    Physician's endoscopy System Tech - Jamison, PA May 2017 to August 2017 Provided network, desktop and mobile support  ? Maintained and serviced windows and mac workstations and servers  ? Managed workstations and servers  ? Managed and maintained Medical data  ? Manage and support Windows server 2000 to 2016.  ? Administer /Create GPOS and DNS, DHCP, AD, Hyper-V, Print Sever, OAS Server and File Servers. Network Administrator Derstine's Food Service - Sellersville, PA May 2014 to December 2015 Maintained, upgraded and troubleshot network.  ? Oversaw hardware inventory and ordered new supplies  ? Developed and implemented disaster recovery plans  ? Routinely audited system for compliance with standards and polices  ? Evaluated and improved network security measures.  ? Manage and support Windows server 2000 to 2016.  ? Administer /Create GPOS and DNS, DHCP, AD, Hyper-V, Print Sever, OAS Server and File Servers. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration Bemidji State University - Bemidji, MN May 2018 Associate Degree of Advanced Networking Technology in management Bucks County Community College - Newtown, PA May 2017 Skills Vmware, Networking, Active Directory, Windows, Technical Support