Project Author: “The Future of Passwords and Password Controversies” Project Author: “The Future of Passwords and Password Controversies” Cybersecurity and IT Windsor Mill, MD A reliable and seasoned IT professional, with a huge appetite for Cybersecurity. Always on the hunt for learning new skills and technologies that will facilitate team collaboration, work efficiency, and vendor/customer satisfaction. To be proactive in cybersecurity, and also to minimize the attack vector, I strongly believe that the learning and research curve must be a step above the adversarial attack methods used. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Author: “The Future of Passwords and Password Controversies” UMBC Master's in Cybersecurity Project - Catonsville, MD 2017 to 2018 The gateway to protected information is Identification/authentication. In this regard, this piece of research thoroughly examined existing password types and authentication mechanisms, identified adversarial attack techniques, and proposed methods to mitigate inherent password/authentication vulnerabilities.  Network Engineer CAMEROON TELECOMMUNICATIONS - CAMTEL - Yaoundé June 2013 to August 2015 Project: National Broadband Network - NBN  Department: Billing and Related Support Systems.    • Established and administered questionnaires to evaluate personnel user experiences and challenges with the legacy system.  • Partook in writing and signing off Functional Requirement Specification (FRS).  • Carried out User Acceptance Tests (UAT).  • Designed, Installed and rack mounted Servers, ASA and IDS/IPS.  • Integrated Telecommunications products and services into a unified Next Generation Business Support System (NGBSS) Platform. Worked with systems such as; Convergent Billing System (CBS), Mediation, Provisioning, Document Management System (DMS), Reporting, IPCC, and Customer Relationship Management (CRM).  • Performed End to End (E2E) systems test  • Documented NGBSS end user guide.  • Trained, and supported NGBSS users.  • Upgraded and Installed System patches.   • Installed, troubleshoot, Identified and mitigated security threats on Corporate LAN/WAN. Intern - Network Administrator GATE INC. TRAINING AND CONSULTING - CAMEROON July 2009 to December 2012 • Designed and managed small, medium and large size IP networks.  • Crimped, cabled and configured systems, switches and routers.  • Performed Hardware maintenance.  • Implemented traffic filters using standard and extended access list.  • Prepared weekly presentations and summary reports. Education Master's in Cybersecurity UMBC - Baltimore, MD 2016 to 2018 Bachelor's in Information and Communication Technology University of Dschang 2008 to 2012 Skills Telecommunication Billing (2 years), Leadership and Management (2 years), NIST family of Security Controls (2 years), Data Entry (3 years), NIST Cybersecurity framework (2 years), Cybersecurity law and policy (2 years), Telecommunications and Cisco Technologies (4 years), TCP/IP (4 years), VPN (3 years), Cisco firewalls (3 years), DNS and internet proxies (2 years), Data/Application Security (2 years), Endpoint security (3 years), Python for task automation (1 year), Basic Linux (1 year), Excellent with Microsoft Windows operating system (4 years), Splunk for log aggregation/analysis (1 year) Certifications/Licenses CCNA-R&S December 2010 to June 2021 Cisco CCNA-Routing and Switching Certified. CISCO ID: CSCO11882833 CCNA-Security November 2013 to June 2021 Cisco CCNA-Security Certified. CISCO ID: CSCO11882833 CCNP-Security 2015 to 2021 Cisco CCNP-Security (SENSS, SIMOS) Certified. CISCO ID: CSCO11882833 CCNA Cyber Ops 2018 to 2021 Cisco CCNA Cyber Operations Certified. CISCO ID: CSCO11882833