Business Analyst III Business Analyst III Business Analyst III - Teva Pharmaceutical Hallandale Beach, FL Motivated, confident, proactive, innovator and personable Professional in Information Technologies and Business Intelligence with 15+ years of experience in performance analysis, project coordination and process improvement. Stellar interpersonal skills exemplified in sometimes difficult and demanding work environments; driven and determined mindset allows for a highly focused analyst. Core competencies include:    Systems Analysis Performance Analysis Analytical Reporting Process Improvement Management Process Documentation Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Data Analysis & Reporting MS SQL Systems Training & Support Presentations & Proposals Multi-Project Coordination Visual Modeling Team Building Pivot Tables Graphs Microsoft Office Suite Tableau Dashboards Operations CCA RStudio KPI's CRM Call Center Work Experience Business Analyst III Teva Pharmaceuticals - Weston, FL October 2018 to Present • Gather, validate and analyze business requirements from different departments like Finance, Marketing, Sales, Pricing, Supply Chain, Logistic etc. and producevarious analytical reports writing SQL queries and building tableau dashboards to support the executive team. Dashboards created:   • P&L by Division/Customer  • Price Item changes  • Promotions effectiveness  • Pharmacy performance   • Tableau Server Administration  • Installation the production and DR server  • Create users   • Create extracts and publish data sources   • Create a script to copy the tableau backup file from production to DR server  • Create a script to restore the backup in the DR server automatically  • Validate the tableau services are running and validate the restore process  • Create documentation for the DR event  • Coordinate with IT a Disaster Recovery exercise  • Support the Training team to implement the speech analytic tool CallMiner  • Proactively create sessions with the training team to walkthrough the CallMiner features and support to validate the metadata.  • Build dashboard to compare total calls vs total calls mined in CallMiner to validate the accuracy.  • Proactively Support to building searches, KPI’s, Scores by categories and creating Scorecards to evaluate the Sales Agents performances and identify training opportunities.   • Customer Experience(Empathy, Politeness, Dissatisfaction)  • Collection Outcome (Payment Language, Promise to Pay etc.)  • Call handle (Greeting, Closing Remarks, Excessive Silence blocks, recording disclosure)  • Drive Sales (Benefits, Promotions)   • Inventory Issues (Out of Stock)  • Build Tableau Dashboards to link CallMiner data with other sources and delivery to the team leaders and Sales Reps.   • Conversion Rates  • Agent Performance  • Support to the training team in the CallMiner Roll Out.     Sales System Manager CRIUS ENERGY LLC - Miramar, FL October 2012 to October 2018 • Develop and analyze business objectives, producing reports from a variety of different data sources, and creating alternative solutions or proposing a course of action to process improvement measures.  • Collaborate with key stakeholders through all locations to gather, analyze, design and streamline new processes, allowing objectives to be met within the parameters of the project schedule.  • Integrate call centers in one platform, migrating 9 locations successfully and timely managing the rollout of each location and providing support with reporting, raw data files, developing dashboards and training agents and team leaders.  • Produce various analytical reports writing SQL queries and creating tableau dashboards to support the executive team.  • Gather, validate and analyze operational information using different data sources to improve business performance.  • Support QA and integrated business processes through identifying call center and CallMiner strategy and system improvements, developing new metrics and in depth reporting to combine sales, call center and CallMiner data to measure campaign and agent performance for business analysis, decision making and training.  • Support system integrations and process transitions through checks and data validation to maintain data integrity.  • Configure and manage Oracle Contact Center Anywhere - CCA - 250 users  • Create Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for department and generate training documents for enterprise wide user reference.  • Design, implement and streamline new and current processes respectively for multiple departments, creating flowcharts to document and communicate processes to project team.  • Track system performance and measure against performance indicators.  • Lead project teams, providing system and process training to on site and remote team members.  • Generate sales and collections campaigns and evaluate their effectiveness to measure the performance and impact of marketing strategies.  • Track sales performance and KPI's on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis by team, markets, etc., to analyze sales trends.  • Identify training opportunities and propose actions to improve sales performance. Network Administrator Promero Inc - Pompano Beach, FL August 2011 to October 2012 • Configuration and Administration of Oracle Contact Center Anywhere - CCA  • Create and Manage Inbound-Outbound (Predictive) Projects (over 50 Companies and 400 agents)  • Manage Agents/Supervisors/Workgroups - Overflow  • Monitor campaigns  • Create customized reports from CCA DB and SQL Statement (Development and Execution)  • Monitor CCA Application Servers, Call Center Servers  • Detect and resolve CCA issues  • CCA Training  • Manage Windows Server 2000/2003/2008.  • Configure, manage and administer over 25 servers utilizing windows server 2003 and 2008  • Working knowledge of network protocols and services (DHCP, DNS, WINS)  • Account management using Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange tools  • Manage Microsoft Exchange 2003/2010  • Working knowledge of Virtual Machine, Hyper-V  • Cisco Switch Administration  • Manage user desktop environment, consisting primarily of Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 on Dell and HP hardware. Build, manage, and maintain the standard desktop images for each hardware platform.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary with as little impact to customer as possible  • Preparation Procedure and Standard Operating System SOPs Network Infrastructure / Business Intelligent - Project Coordinator SCHERING PLOUGH C.A. PHARMACEUTICAL - Caracas, VE August 2010 to August 2010 • CRM TEAMS (CEGEDIM-DENDRITE) & SIEBEL(ORACLE) (Sales Application)  • Configuration and Implementation over 400 users  • KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) for Latin America managing to standardize the measurement of field force: Mexico, Brazil, Venezuela, Colombia, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Peru, Ecuador and Panama.  • Dashboard prototype design to be implemented in Latin America using the KPIs defined for the region.  • Latin America Training and Support Team  • Participate in the preparation of the annual sales analysis supporting information on the PMV, INTE and Rx. Just as in measuring the impact of marketing strategies during the year.  • Define sales incentive policies of a field force of 400 and 25 district managers, making the field force to focus on products that provide higher profit margin for the company.  • Ensuring the quality, reliability and delivery times of market reports with information to produce reports to support decision making.  • Implementation of new segmentation model of a database of 16,000 physicians in 5 business units providing the sales force a tool to optimize the promotional effort reports  • Identify opportunities and propose actions to increase market share.  • SQL Statements (Development and Execution)  • Prepare Procedure and Standard Operating System SOPs  • Implementation printing solution for Invoice, Debit & Credit note (Markvision) - Ricoh  • Technical Support over 150 local users and 400 remote users  • Sarbanes-Oxley Audit ( Six years without any objection Point)  • Manage user desktop environment, consisting primarily of Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 on Dell and HP hardware. Build, manage, and maintain the standard desktop images for each hardware platform.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary with as little impact to customer as possible  • VoIP Telephone System Management (Avaya)  • Implementation and Interconnection with 5 sites over 500 users  • AS/400 operations support - Emulation and printer in AS4/00 environment Education University Degree in Information Technology NUEVA ESPARTA UNIVERSITY - VENEZUELA Caracas - Caracas, VE 1994 Voice Analytic CCA Oracle contact Center Anywhere Skills Account Management, Sales, access, Excel, SQL, testing, Business Intelligence, Microsoft Office, Powerpoint, MS Office, Visio