System Administrator/ Network Engineer System <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/<span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer System Administrator/ Network Engineer - Aquafil USA Inc Cartersville, GA To obtain a full-time employment position in the Information Technology field. Areas of interest are network engineering, system administration, network security, software engineering, or project management. Work Experience System Administrator/ Network Engineer Aquafil USA Inc - Cartersville, GA April 2017 to Present Daily account management of AD, SAP (ERP), Movilizer (ERP mobile application), Google and Multiple other accounts  ? Creation of multiple PowerShell scripts for automation of every day processes  ? Maintained multiple Domain Controllers through ADAC  ? Through ADAC manage servers: to include Print, AD, DHCP, DNS, and Local servers  ? Installation of multiple access points connecting to switches in conjunction with Cisco Switch management  ? Oversee security camera and security access point network systems  ? Daily troubleshooting of user issues  ? Training for employees for familiarity and comfortability of new software  ? Management of VLANS, VM servers  ? Managed multiple types of hardware:  ? Mobile phones and tablets, some using Citrix Secure Hub  ? Cameras, to include specialty cameras for manufacturing use  ? Network devices such as switches, servers, routers, access points  ? Printers for common use, label making and stamps  ? RF and BT scanners  ? Thin Clients, desktops and laptops Internet Assessor, Lionbridge subsidiary of Google - Cartersville, GA November 2011 to March 2012 Ensures queries matched query results generating 90% match rating  ? Analyzed web page layout and content for accuracy and appeal ability ensuring better user experiences  ? Identified malicious content, preventing damaging or unwanted information for the user Avionics Systems Specialist US Air Force Reserve and United States Air Force - Charleston, SC August 1999 to May 2006 Supervised four personnel directly in the Guidance and Control systems department on C-17A Globemaster for system understanding  ? Expedited repairs on 32 aircraft in day to day operations, to include directly supervising repairs conducted by 16 personnel in the avionics systems area  ? Safety representative for entire squadron in the Iraqi Freedom war zone while maintaining other normal maintenance job functions  ? Maintained, troubleshoot and repaired Guidance and Control equipment on 32 aircraft, generating 95% departure efficiency  ? Cross trained in Communication and Navigation systems in order to maintain, troubleshoot and repair avionics related systems on 32 aircraft Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA 2013 Associates of Avionic Systems Technology in Avionic Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force - Joint Base Lewis McChord, WA 2005 Skills Cisco, Citrix, Dfs, Dhcp, Vm, Vpn, Dns, Data management, Aps, Python, Vba, Visio, Oracle, Sql, Android, Polycom, Linux, Java, Ada, Excel, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware Additional Information Skills  Computer  ? Programs used IT related systems: PuTTY for Cisco switches; MMC for AD, DHCP, DNS and DFS; Microsoft Server Manager; PowerShell; High Level Microsoft Excel and Access for data management and analysis; Neteye; Management of Citrix Thin Man Console/Director Management for Citrix Environment; vSphere for VM ware; Oracle; Android for mobile applications; Polycom for communication centers; Citrix Xenmobile; Cisco Any Connect VPN; Pulse Secure VPN; Zscaler VPN  ? Software languages used proficiently: Java, SQL, Android, VBA, Powershell and DOS Batch Language  ? Brief experience with Linux, C, Ada, Python  ? Able to create an Android application using Android development  ? Microsoft Office - Word, PowerPoint, Visio, Excel, Access  ? Installation of Access Points, Camera, Desktops, Servers, Switches, APS  Relevant Courses  -Theory of Networking and Security  -Database Design and Management  -Advance Database and Data Mining; Intro Database Structures; Operating Systems; Organization and Architecture  -Programming Principles  -Object Oriented Programming  -Software Engineering  -Data Communications Protocol  -Discrete Modeling  -Distributive Systems Development  -System Program Linux and ‘C’  Projects  ?      Using PowerShell, automated the conversion of multiple daily CSV files, that had multiple row headers, into a format in Excel in which the users could easily read so that they could track historical “tack” data in yarn manufacturing  ?      Using PowerShell, created a process to convert a single Excel file with single column data exported from an outdated machine into the appropriately formatted .qtx file required for the new equipment. The new equipment required that multiple Excel files be placed into single .qtx files.  ?      Creation of multiple MS Access databases for a 2D Matrix label, incorporating multiple data source. Multiple locations requiring serial number uniqueness. Previous Excel versions only used Code 128 barcodes.  ?      Create database that shows the connections between Switches and Devices. Information included Switch, Port, MAC, IP, VLAN and User assignments  ?      Create database that shows all devices belonging to the IT department, including all unique identifiers like MAC, IP, Serial Numbers, Part number and IP address if applicable  ?      Create database for all User accounts for multiple programs to include AD, SAP, Fast Planner, Samsung, Apple, and Movilizer  ?      Remote assist in setting up IT related components at new company locations in Phoenix, AZ and Sacramento, CA. After set up, continued remote support for both locations until present day.  ?      Used Software Engineering principles to develop a solution to the j5create Android Mirror device to be compatible with Motorola Devices.  ?      Used Android library to create a mock up “Game of Life”.  ?      Used MQTT, Google Cloud Services, Android and Pahoa libraries to develop a user-to-user cloud chess game.  ?      Used Git, JavaEE, and MySQL software to develop a gift registry website