IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - G4 Spatial Technologies Greenwood Village, CO Work Experience IT Manager G4 Spatial Technologies - Austin, TX 2016 to Present Strategize, manage, and operate IT services to maximize company's investments, accelerate digital transformation, and drive business impact. Oversee delivery of services across entire support lifecycle.  • Manage 3 IT professionals, applying servant leadership principles to lead team to high performance.  • Support 25 internal customers, overseeing customer service delivery, cloud consumption, service delivery management, incident management, and proactive remediation services.  • Monitor and manage 35 systems, including Microsoft workstations and servers and Zoho CRM.  • Decreased downtime 30% by applying ITIL standards and modernizing the infrastructure.  • Improved backup and restore capability 40% through automation.  • Optimized workflows and increased productivity 20% by deploying new solutions such as MS Office 365, SharePoint Online, and SQL Server based Point of Sale (POS) systems.  • Partner with customers to define and focus their business and IT priorities in order to set a long-term strategy for service delivery.  • Evaluate and acquire new technology to optimize processes and improve business.  • Execute upgrade of network infrastructure, including Firewalls and security, company-wide Virtual Private Network (VPN), and wireless infrastructure.  • Created support documentation for users  • Assisted with marketing by enhancing and modifying the company's internet site using HTML and CSS Service Deliver Manager Microsoft Switzerland, Zurich 2010 to 2016 Functioned as Service Delivery Manager and trusted business advisor to Microsoft's Premier Support customers. Performed a customer facing support role for Microsoft Services and championed growth, quality, and service delivery relationship.  • Supported 30+ customers, including enterprise-level accounts.  • Maintained 100% of Premier Support contracts and increased the local part of a global Premier Support contract by 20%. Grew 30% of local government Premier Support contracts by 10%.  • Communicated proactively with stakeholders, creating a trusted advisor and support relationship with customers and business leaders to enable quality service delivery.  • Focused on understanding customers' business objectives to create a service delivery plan, enabling customers to successfully utilize Microsoft products and cloud services.  • Established a long-term strategy for service delivery to assist customers' business and IT objectives.  • Understand enterprise support environment for corporate and public customer support needs.  • Served as change agent helping customers evolve their IT maturity, drive productive use of Microsoft products, and enable and support IT to make business more effective.  • Improved customers' operational health while applying Proactive Services Delivery Methodology (PSDM).  • Contributed to sustainable revenue growth for contracts valued between $50K-$3.5M, upselling proactive services to 70% of the Premier Support contracts.  • Established working relationships with Sales and other Services teams, strategizing ways to create opportunities within their accounts. GPS Reference Network Administrator Trimble Navigation - Westminster, CO 2009 to 2010 Administration of core infrastructure for nationwide GPS reference station network. Functioned as project manager for GPS reference station installation. Customer support. Provided pre-sales and marketing assistance. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Texas - Austin, TX Skills Itil, Change management, Account management, Problem-solving, Vendor management, Process improvement Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/boris-langmeier Additional Information EXPERTISE    • Problem-Solving Skills  • Customer Relationship  • Account Management  • Service Delivery    • Communication Skills  • Project Management  • Leadership  • ITIL V3 Certified    • Process Improvement  • Vendor Management  • Change Management  • Pre-Sales