Technical Analyst Technical Analyst Project management, analytics, customer centric service & relationship building. Niles, IL High performance analytical technology professional with a keen business acumen specialized in time-tested customer centric service to clients with great expectations. Thrives in deadline driven environments where rapid mastery of technologies for real-world business applications is essential. Excellent project management and relationship building skills able to elicit cooperation from others. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Analyst Loyola University Medical Center, Trinity Health - Maywood, IL May 2018 to Present Lead project teams and facilitate requirements gathering, research, workflow development, user acceptance testing and go live implementation ensuring deliverables meet target deadlines. Provide root cause analysis, support, training and documentation. Collaborate with vendors, lines of business and stakeholders to identify business needs, process improvement opportunities and solve complex system integration issues for a broad range of systems and technologies. Provide operational metrics reporting using Excel and SQL.     Accomplishments:    > Manage implementation of production operations monitoring system using Zabbix to oversee production servers running hundreds of critical tasks with automated paging systems improving incident response times up to 97 percent.    > Lead planning, design, development, marketing and implementation of technical self-service intranet SharePoint and HTML based webpage reducing inbound support request by up to 30 percent.    > Direct modernization of over 300 mobile clinical workstations increasing uptime and reliability by 70 percent using Capsa Windows 10 workstations managed by ZENworks Suite.     > Standardized over 100 workflows improving department turnaround times up to 80 percent in under a year.    > Recipient of six service awards for significant organizational contributions. IT Operations Analyst Loyola University Medical Center, Trinity Health - Maywood, IL October 2016 to May 2018 Provide tier two technical support for clients on all systems and applications related to defects, configuration and access requests. Generate reports, analyze trends and recommend solutions. Provide technical/ operational briefing to colleagues, management. Provide documentation and training to non-technical clients. Manage concurrently assigned projects.        Accomplishments:    > Lead planning, development and implementation of Epic and Windows printing functions request workflow improving turnaround times by 50 percent.      > Supervise analyst training program initiatives improving first call resolution rate by up to 60 percent.    > Oversee implementation of printer setup workflow improving new printer setup and move requests turnaround times by 80 percent.    > Top performing analyst with survey feedback averaging 4.85 out of 5.00.    > Five-time service award recipient. Office Systems Administrator Forum Pharmacy - Chicago, IL October 2015 to October 2016 Provide technical and operational support on all office systems. Generate, analyze, validate and correct pharmacy data on narcotics prescription reports. Validate hard copies of prescriptions and maintain records filing system. Communicate operational issues and recommend corrective action with operations managers. Coordinate operational tasks with pharmacists, colleagues and leads - eliciting cooperation to achieve production goals and delivery deadlines. Perform other administrative and clerical duties as required.     Accomplishments:    > Manage development and implementation of prescriptions processing reporting workflow using SQL and Excel to allow monitoring of intake processing improving FTE requirements gathering accuracy by up to 95 percent.    > Supervise development and implementation enhanced controlled substance reports workflow using LTC BO analytics cutting over 60 percent processing times.    > Develop and implement prescription reconciliation, filing and record keeping workflow improving processing times by 40 percent. Network Administrator L3 Technologies - Des Plaines, IL July 2009 to July 2014 Manage desktop engineering responsibilities for the eastern region of the Federal Aviation Administration. Respond to general second level technical support requests for the FAA Regional Office. Manage deployment of hardware and software. Administer Active Directory and Network.    Accomplishments:    > Conceptualize, develop, plan and implement desktop imaging process using Norton Ghost and AutoIT improving image load times by 40 percent.     > Supervise technical team in managing high volume on-site support requests during conference sessions and special events improving client approval ratings by 30 percent.     > Facilitate project team in planning, design, development, implementation and marketing of self-service database using HTML improving customer satisfaction feedback rates by 10 percent. Education Master's in Public Health Loyola University Chicago - Chicago, IL May 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Information Systems Technology Southern Illinois University-Carbondale - Carbondale, IL November 2012 to December 2015 Skills Microsoft, Apple, Linux Server, Workstation and Mobile OS Versions (Windows, OSX, IOS, Android) | DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP | McAfee Enterprise Suite | Microsoft Application Versions (Word, Outlook, Excel, Access, Project, SharePoint, Publisher, Visio) | SQL, CSS, HTML, VBScript, Java and JavaScript | Citrix XenApp and Desktop, VMWare | Tableau (5 years), budget, Estimating, maintenance, Scheduling, Outlook, Microsoft Project, Word, Customer Service Certifications/Licenses Master of Business Administration certificate January 2009 to July 2018 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) June 2008 to Present ITIL v3 June 2011 to Present