Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer - Mphasis, IL Chicago, IL • Around 7+ years of professional experience in Network Designing, Deployment, Configuring, Troubleshooting and testing of networking system.  • Strong hands on experience in installing, configuring, and troubleshooting of Cisco 7600, 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500 and 1800 series Routers, Cisco Catalyst 6500, 4500, 3750, 2950 and 3500XL series switches.  • Switching tasks include VTP, ISL/ 802.1q, IPsec and GRE Tunneling, VLANs, Ether Channel, Trunking, Port Security, STP and RSTP.  • Experience in layer-3 Routing and layer-2 Switching. Dealt with Nexus models like 7K, 5K, 2K series, Cisco router models like 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500, 1800 series and Cisco catalyst 6500, 4500, 3750, 3500, 2900 series switches.  • Experience in physical cabling, IP addressing and Subnetting with VLSM, configuring and supporting TCP/IP, DNS, installing and configuring proxies.  • Maintain a thorough understanding of Local Area Networking  • Good knowledge and experience in Installation, Configuration and Administration of Windows Servers 2003/2008, Active Directory, FTP, DNS, DHCP, TFTP under various LAN and WAN environments  • Enterprise Routing experience using protocols RIP v1 & 2, EIGRP, OSPF and BGP.  • Enterprise Switching with VLANs, Trunks, Spanning Tree, Port Spanning etc.  • Primary responsibility is to design and deploy various network security & High Availability products like Cisco ASA and other security products.  • Experience on PIX Firewalls, ASA (5540/5550) Firewalls. Implemented Security Policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSEC, SSL, VPN, IPS/IDS, AAA (TACACS+ & RADIUS)  • Well experienced in configuring gateway redundancy protocols like HSRP, GLBP, and VRRP.  • Experience with Load Balancers for administrating and monitoring global & local traffic using Cisco CSM, ACE Module, and F5 BIG IP LTM & GSS.  • Configuring and installing client and server network software for upgrading and maintaining network and telecommunication systems  • Good knowledge of IPv4 and IPv6 Addressing, Fixed Length and Variable Length Subnet Masking (VLSM), OSI and TCP/IP models.  • Supervising the administration of systems and servers related network to ensure availability of services to authorized users.  • Had an experience with Scripting (Python, Powershell).  • Experienced in troubleshooting various network related problems by using sniffing tools.  • Excellent qualities such as Teamwork, Negotiation, Analysis and Communication.  • Configured ASA 5520 Firewall to support Cisco VPN Client on Windows 7/XP/Vista.  • Installation, advanced configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco and F5's load balancing devices.  • Experience with designing, deploying and troubleshooting LAN, WAN, Frame-Relay, Ether-channel, IP Routing Protocols - (RIPV2, OSPF, EIGRP & BGP), ACL's, NAT, VLAN, STP, VTP  • Implemented redundancy with HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, Ether channel technology (LACP, PAgP) etc.  • Experienced in Troubleshooting for connectivity and hardware problems on Cisco and HP Networks.  • Responsible for Configuring SITE_TO_SITE VPN on Cisco Routers between Head Quarters and Branch locations  • Specialist on MS Operating Systems installations, configurations, and troubleshoot issues.  • Configuring IPSEC VPN (Site-Site to Remote Access) on sonic wall firewalls.  • Good Understanding of Python scripts for system automation, monitoring and security reporting. Maintain existing Perl scripts and migration existing Perl scripts to Python. Work Experience Senior Network Engineer Mphasis, IL May 2018 to Present USA    • Worked on auditing the firewall rules on the Cisco ASA, BSD Firewalls, and Juniper SRX Firewalls  • Drafted, installed, and provisioned ASA and Juniper firewall rules and policies.  • Configured, Maintained the Routers and Switches and Implementation of RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP routing protocols and troubleshooting.  • Implemented the firewall rules changes according to the business requirement and verification.  • Involved in meetings with external engineering teams to design and build the network connections as per the business requirement.  • Involved in migration of 500+ applications to Palo Alto 5020 Firewalls.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Site to Site as well as Remote Access VPN on Cisco ASA firewalls.  • Worked with automation tools like Tufin, Riverbed Net Profiler to discover, generate and deploy policies and rule bases.  • Data Centers Nexus (7k, 6k, 5k, 2k, 1000V) implementation & hardware change from Cisco Catalyst to Nexus  • IOS upgrade in Cisco Routers, Switches, Wireless Controllers, Nexus 7k, 5k.  • Manage deployment and testing of code updates for wireless systems, such as WCS, WiSM, and WLC.  • Experience with configuring FCOE using Cisco Nexus 5548. Installed controller and light weight access point coordination with TAC  • Involved in Data center migrations. Handled proper management, maintenance, configuration , and altered management of firewall structure.  • Troubleshooting Firewall Connectivity related issues using OmniCentre, ASDM Log viewer for Cisco, NSM for Juniper Firewalls.  • Configure and administer Cisco ASA Firewalls (5585, 5550, and 5540) and use command line CLI, Cisco CSM, ASDM for day-to-day administration.  • Performed Active/Standby and Active/Active HA configuration on Cisco ASA Firewalls.  • Verify Active Directory and Radius integration into Firepower for User Mapping and User Access.  • Configuring rules and maintaining Palo Alto firewalls, Sophos XG Firewall and analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Update Visio network diagrams, documentation (Excel, SharePoint), and before and after ICMPs.  • Responsible for resolving tickets as per business requirement; Creating and removing firewall rules as needed.  • Monitors network performance and implements performance tuning when necessary.  • Involved in Decommissioning of BSD and ASA Firewalls.  • Implemented and configured Cisco ASA 5505, 5585 , Palo Alto 220, 3020 and Fortigate 300-500 in a Lab environment.  • I have experience in designing and development of IP/MPLS network for scalability, reliability, and exceeded SLA requirements.  • Provide support for live IP/MPLS network maintenance, upgrade, service impacts, etc.  • Specific Alcatel knowledge to upgrade/configure ALU's IP/MPLS products (Nokia 7x50 routers, 7210 SAS)  • Implemented the Policy Rules, DMZ for Multiple Clients on the Cisco ASA and Juniper Firewall.  • Upgraded JUNO on juniper devices.  • Deployed Azure IaaS virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets.  • Implemented Azure Storage, Azure SQL Azure Services and developing Azure Web role.  • Deployed the initial Azure components like Azure Virtual Networks, Azure Application Gateway, Azure Storage and Affinity groups.  • Experience in configuring Juniper Layer 3 EX4200 & EX3200 switches. Design, implement and administer IPv4/IPv6 enterprise network infrastructure utilizing Juniper routers.  • Proficient with deployment and management of AWS services - including but not limited to: VPC, Route 53, ELB,EC2.  • Created a load balancing controller in a Software Defined Network (SDN) that supported multiple protocols for managing network devices, such as OpenFlow, using EC2 in AWS.  • Demonstrated proficiency in network administration in large datacenter environment - DNS/DHCP, Load Balancing (F5 Networks, AWS ELB), Firewalls (Cisco Systems, Juniper Networks), IDS/IPS, IPSEC VPN), Cisco Router Configuration.  • Experience QFX 5100, SRX 1500, 5400, MX 480, EX 4300, Nokia 7750 Series Routers and Switches and more.  • Experience with using and managing Servicenow Ticketing system to track and solve issue.  • Configured Panorama web-based management for multiple firewalls.  • Worked on Visio software to create and design the network diagrams according to the business requirement  • Configure VRRP & GLBP and VLAN Trucking 802.1Q & ISL, STP, Port Security on Catalyst 6500 switches.  • Identified the root causes of networking problems using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  • Experience performing analysis on NSX implementations.  • Install and configure proxy which includes content filtering, SSL interception, web filtering, black listing, policy management.  • Did Installation, deployment, Analysis and troubleshooting of Firewall Technologies i.e. Checkpoint, Fortinet, Sophos Palo - alto, Cisco ASA, F5 (LTM).  • Manage Palo alto, Checkpoint, Cisco ASA and Fortinet  • Worked on Load Balancer F5 LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications.  • Configuring various advance features, profiles, monitors, iRules, Redundancy, SSL Termination, SNAT, HA on F5 BigIP Appliances.  • Installing Juniper routers, Aruba and Arista switches in the Network Lab environment and testing proof of concepts for technology integration. Deploying these in production environments upon successful completion of POC.  • Configured and performed troubleshooting on link state protocols like OSPF in single area and multiple areas.  • Configure and support Private BGP Peering with transit providers.  • Configure I BGP and e BGP peering between L3 routers and core routers  • Packet capture analysis via wire shark, log analysis, report generation via bluecoat reporter, software maintenance etc.  • Contracted to support/design ACI network for Fortune 500 companies.  • Incorporated Cisco Nexus 9000 NXOS to ACI fabric to work in concert with existing Nexus 7000s and ASRs for MPLS  • Designed ACI fabric to ensure each tenant is secured and has separation from other tenants.  • Worked on Deploying, upgradation and maintenance of client Network support systems includes Bluecoat proxies, F5 load balancers, High End multi-vendor switches and Fire Walls.  • Configuration & maintenance for Bluecoat reporter services for high availability of user access logs and data Perform incident capture, verification, and diagnostics.  • Troubleshoot and engage with NSX Engineering on customer reported issues, including identifying viable workarounds.  • Utilized Infoblox DNS IPAM for Microsoft DNS/DHCP setup and management.  • Mangement of Infpblox Grid Manager to manage DNS Forward and Reverse LookUp Zones  • Responsible for technical support of CenturyLink SD-WAN network managed services.  • Troubleshoot IPSEC overlay connectivity from SD-WAN appliance to Versa SD-WAN controllers via Internet, MPLS.  • Maintain network performance by using SNMP monitoring tools such as SolarWinds, OmniCentre to perform network monitoring, analysis as well as troubleshooting network problems.  • Managed Solarwinds Network Performance Monitor configuration and operations. Network & Security Administrator Vistra Energy Corp - Irving, TX January 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Assist with the configuration of the Juniper Unified Access Control as RADIUS server.  • Experience with Supporting both Network and Security infrastructure in data center environment and Campus environment, which involved with devices such as routers, switches, firewalls and wireless access points.  • Port-channel implementation on Nexus 7k, 5k, Catalyst 6500, 4500 series for servers to get high bandwidth  • Installing and configuring new cisco equipment including Cisco catalyst switches 6500, Nexus 7010, Nexus 5548 and Nexus 2k as per the requirement of the company.  • Configuring IGP routing on the dedicated interfaces on Nexus 7K.  • Strong hands on experience on ASA (5505/5510) Firewalls. Implemented security policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSEC, SSL, VPN, IPS/IDS, AAA (TACACS+ & RADIUS).  • Responsible for designing, configuring, troubleshooting and maintaining all the enterprise's site to site VPN tunnels to external clients on Cisco ASA 5500 series firewalls.  • Configuration and Administration of Palo Alto Networks Firewall to manage large scale firewall deployments and Cisco ASA-X FirePower(FMC) Platforms 5515, 5525, 5545, 5585, Fire threat Defense 2100. 4100 series and Firepower Management centre of 1000, 2500 series.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration across our networks and support customer with the configuration and maintenance of the firewall systems.  • Hands on experience in Cisco ASA, and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Implemented many security policy rules and NAT policy rules on Palo Alto, created Zones, interface, Palo Alto IPS/IDS.  • Configuring rules and maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of Firewall logs.  • Experienced with implementation of Security profiles like Application, URL filtering, Threat Prevention, Data Filtering on Palo Alto.  • Exposure to Wildfire feature of Palo Alto.  • Experience with IDS platforms such as Cisco Firepower(FMC), Mcafee.  • Work with other internal departments and 3rd party vendors to manage FTD and Firepower platform.  • Coordinated intlltions for new hardware and modified IOS configs that supported VOIP telecommunications systems  • Responsible in troubleshooting on Cisco ISE added new devices on network-based policies on ISE  • Configured Cisco ISE for Wireless and Wired 802.1x Authentication on Cisco Wireless LAN  • Documented technical specifications and operating standards for VOIP telecommunications equipment.  • Configuring rules and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Understand the flow of traffic through the Check Point Security gateway cluster and troubleshoot connectivity issues using advanced troubleshooting from Command Line Utilities.  • Involved in VPN (IPSEC and GRE) migrations and new designs for the clients.  • Performing troubleshooting on slow network connectivity issues, routing issues that involve OSPF, BGP and identifying the root cause of the issues.  • Installation & configuration of Cisco VPN concentrator 3060 for VPN tunnel with Cisco VPN hardware & software client and PIX firewall  • Deployed the initial Azure components like Azure Virtual Networks, Azure Application Gateway, Azure Storage and Affinity groups.  • Installing the Applications Insights tool on the web services and configuring an Application Insight workspace in Azure. Configured Application Insights to perform web tests and alerts.  • Responsible for installations, testing, process, documentation, researching, and maintaining SolarWinds.  • Performed several site audits collecting device and connectivity information using SolarWinds, physical audit, and logical audit.  • Strong hands on Checkpoint 23000/15000 Next-gen Firewalls security gateways, security management server and configuring them through smart console.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Site to Site as well as Remote Access VPN on Checkpoint firewalls.  • Adding and removing Checkpoint firewall policies based on the requirements of various project requirements  • Checkpoint Firewall Log review and analysis and troubleshoot connectivity issues.  • Worked on Cisco Layer 2 switches (spanning tree, VLAN).  • Hands on experience working with security issue like applying ACL's, configuring NAT and VPN  • Responsible for Internal and external accounts and, managing LAN/WAN and checking for security.  • Experience with F5 load balancing, enabling customization of application load balancing solutions through the control and direct manipulation of the application traffic.  • Have very good hands and exposure with F5 Load Balancers LTM and ASM modules. Configuring virtual servers, NAT and troubleshooting the connectivity issues.  • Provided Load Balancing towards access layer from core layer using F5 Network Load Balancers.  • Deploying Cisco Aironet 2700, 3700 Series, Cisco Meraki Enterprise Cloud Access Points, Aruba Acees Points, and Wireless bridges for LAN Expansions.  • Design and Implementation Cisco/Meraki Enterprise Wireless solutions for corporate infrastructures.  • Installation and configuration of WLAN including APs, Cisco routers, switches, repeaters, and paging systems.  • Perform complete WLAN engineering calculations and did inter-modulation analysis using Cisco 1131, 1242, and 1510 series AP's.  • Co-ordination with Hardware vendors, software vendors and service Providers.  • Configuring Cisco and Juniper devices (Router & Switches)  • Dynamic routing protocol configuration like RIP and OSPF.  • Troubleshooting level 1 network problems.  • Configured splunk for dynamic analytics and machine data indexing. Network Engineer YBR Infotechs Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created network diagram for employees using the Microsoft Visio.  • Preparing Client Machines for users with Operating Systems, Software, antivirus and required utilities and mailing clients etc.  • Primarily responsible in designing and maintaining the budget for the whole network.  • Perform daily maintenance, troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of all network components.  • Configuration of CISCO Routers (3600, 4000 Series) and 3550, 4500 series switches.  • TCP/IP network planning, Implementation and Management with subnets.  • Enabled SNMP traps for our Cacti Monitoring tool to monitor traffic and check the regular health of Servers and Network Devices  • Implementation of Virtual LANs across Routers and Switches.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, VTP and configuring ISL trunk on Fast - Ethernet channel between switches.  • Implemented and configured LAN Protocols: Ethernet, VLANs, VTP and STP.  • Implemented and Configured IP Routing Protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, and RIPv2  • Experience in Configuring Site-to-Site and Remote Site VPNs, NAT/PAT policies  • IOS upgrades on catalyst series switches like 2900, 3560, 3750.  • Troubleshoot TCP/IP problems and connectivity issues in multi-protocol Ethernet environment.  • Implemented trunking protocols like 802.1q on 3750 switches.  • Configured ACLs to provide accessibility and restrict unauthorized users.  • Involved in maintaining STP, RSTP and PVST+ for the catalyst switches I worked on.  • Configured and maintained RIP, OSPF and routing protocols on 2600 and 3600 series Cisco routers.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting of connectivity problems using Ping, Traceroute.  • Assisted in racking and stacking.  • Performed troubleshooting for LAN problems for individual client basic software.  • Maintenance and Troubleshooting of connectivity problems using PING, trace route.  • Designing, Implementing and Troubleshooting Cisco Routers and Switches using different routing protocols like RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, ISIS & MPLS L3 VPN  • Implement LAN protocols like STP, RSTP, VTP, VLAN and WAN protocols like Frame relay, PPP, port channels protocols like LACP, PAGP.  • Experience in designing and troubleshooting of EIGRP routing issues  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, VTP and configuring ISL trunk on Fast - Ethernet channel between switches.  • Performed IOS upgrades on Catalyst 3550, 2950, 1900 switches, and 3600, 2600 and 2500 routers.  • Responsible for network evaluations, troubleshooting a variety of network problems, and implementing various software and hardware upgrades efficient and performance. Junior Network Engineer Beam Telecom - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Preparing Client Machines for users with Operating Systems, Software, antivirus and required utilities and mailing clients etc.  • Primarily responsible in designing and maintaining the budget for the whole network.  • Perform daily maintenance, troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of all network components.  • Configuration of CISCO Routers (3600, 4000 Series) and 3550, 4500 series switches.  • TCP/IP network planning, Implementation and Management with subnets.  • Enabled SNMP traps for our Cacti Monitoring tool to monitor traffic and check the regular health of Servers and Network Devices  • Implementation of Virtual LANs across Routers and Switches.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, VTP and configuring ISL trunk on Fast - Ethernet channel between switches.  • Implemented and configured LAN Protocols: Ethernet, VLANs, VTP and STP.  • Implemented and Configured IP Routing Protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, and RIPv2  • Experience in Configuring Site-to-Site and Remote Site VPNs, NAT/PAT policies  • IOS upgrades on catalyst series switches like 2900, 3560, 3750.  • Troubleshoot TCP/IP problems and connectivity issues in multi-protocol Ethernet environment.  • Implemented trunking protocols like 802.1q on 3750 switches.  • Configured ACLs to provide accessibility and restrict unauthorized users.  • Involved in maintaining STP, RSTP and PVST+ for the catalyst switches I worked on.  • Configured and maintained RIP, OSPF and routing protocols on 2600 and 3600 series Cisco routers.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting of connectivity problems using Ping, Traceroute.  • Assisted in racking and stacking.  • Maintenance and Troubleshooting of connectivity problems using PING, trace route.  • Worked with Remedy Ticketing tool in maintaining and keep a track of logs/monitor  • Performed switching related tasks such as implementing VLANS, VTP, RSTP and Port security.  • Implemented security measures using ACL and configured NAT according to the connectivity requirement.  • Provided 24/7 rotational on call supports for branch offices. Education Bachelor of Technology in K, AP, India JNTU Skills Bgp, Cisco, Eigrp, Juniper, Layer 3, Mpls, Ospf, Switching, Tacacs, Vpn, Firewalls, Nagios, Opnet, Remedy, Solarwinds, Cisco asa, Cisco fwsm, Fwsm, Hsrp, Ipsec Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Firewalls ? Cisco ASA 5585, 5550, 5540 Palo Alto 220, 5020 and J2300, J6300, SRX-100,240  Routers  ? Cisco routers (1900, 2600, 2800, 2900, 3600, 3800, 3900, 7200, 7600), Cisco L2 & L3, Juniper routers (M7i, M10i, M320),ASR Routers 1006, 2800, 3800    Switches ? Cisco switches (3560, 3750, 4500, 4900 & 6500), Nexus (2248, 5548 &7010)  Routing RIP, EIGRP, OSPF & BGP, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization, Static routing  Routing Protocols ? RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, and BGP.  Switching Protocols ? VTP, STP, RSTP, MSTP, VLANs, PAgP, and LAcP.  LAN Technologies ? Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, NAT/PAT, FDDI. Cisco  Secure Access ? TACACS+/Radius  Network Management SNMP, Cisco Works LMS, HP Open View, Solar winds, ACI, Ethereal  Layer 3 Switching CEF, Multi-Layer Switching, Ether Channel.  Redundancy Protocols HSRP, VRRP, GLBP.  Security Protocols ? IKE, IPsec, SSL, AAA, Access-lists, prefix-lists.  QOS ? CBWFQ, LLQ, WRED, Policing/Shaping  Monitoring Tools Voyence, packet tracer, Wireshark, Infloblox, Opnet, GNS3 and Solar winds.  Security Technologies Cisco FWSM/PIX/ASDM, Juniper SRX, Bluecoat.  Operating Systems Microsoft XP/Vista/7,10, UNIX, LINUX  Carrier Technologies MPLS, MPLS-VPN  Tools  HPOVI, HP Service Desk, Remedy, Thousand Eyes, Solarwinds, SMC, NAGIOS, ASDB, CA Ehealth, Network Vantage, , Spectrum, MRTG, Solar Winds, ARUBA, CISCO Prime, CISCO ISE, Cisco Anyconnect, Info box, Cisco Total care Excel, Splunk