Research Assistant Research Assistant Research Assistant - Communication Systems LAB. University Irvine, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Research Assistant Communication Systems LAB. University - Turku, FI January 2014 to Present of Turku, Finland  (http://www.utu.fi/en/research/utugs/doctoralprogrammes/matti/Pages/home.aspx)  A novel scalable and lightweight security solutions to address security and privacy issues  related to networked smart objects used in healthcare applications. The proposed solutions  is be based on effective lightweight cryptographic techniques, key management systems,  intrusion detection, and privacy marinating. The main motivation is that lightweight  cryptographic represents cryptography techniques, tailored for resource-constrained  pervasive devices, including wearable wireless sensors, actuators, and RFIDs being able to maintain a balance among security level, performance, and cost. Selected publications  can be found in the following link: (users.utu.fi/saramo) Summer Research Internship Communication Systems LAB. University of Turku April 2013 to June 2013 Finland Network Administrator Andre Meat Products Company - Tehran, IR December 2008 to August 2009 Tehran, Iran (www.andre.ir)  Maintaining Andre Meat Products Company's network that consisted of 80 machines in 3  locations. My main tasks included adding new host machines to the network,  administering network security, administering network services, name services, electronic  mail, etc, and troubleshooting network problems. Network Project Manager and Administrator Rayvarz Network Engineering Company - Tehran, IR December 2006 to December 2008 Tehran, Iran (www.rayvarz.com)  Designing, setting up, upgrading, and maintaining computer networks for different  customers of Rayvarz Network Engineering Company. The customers were ranging from steel & accessories industries, manufactures of food products, manufactures of machinery and industrial parts, municipalities, utilities, banking & insurance, universities & education centers, and IT companies just to mention a few. As a team member, in Rayvarz,  my main tasks included designing, setting up, upgrading, and maintaining some of their  customers' computer networks which comprised about 200 servers and 1K machines used by various numbers of users at different locations. Network Project Manager and Administrator Garma Gostar Corporation - Tehran, IR June 2006 to December 2006 Tehran, Iran  (www.garmagostar.com)  Designing, setting up, and maintaining Garma Gostar Corporation's network that  included 4 servers (i.e., communications server, database server, mail server and domain  server) and 120 machines used by 120 employees at 2 locations. Education Research Interest University of California - Irvine, CA December 2016 to Present Master of Sciences in Tech University of Turku September 2011 to September 2013 Master in Thesis University of Imam Reza September 2002 to September 2006 Doctoral in Thesis Doctor of Science Skills SOLUTIONS (4 years), WIRELESS (4 years), DATABASE (Less than 1 year), .NET (Less than 1 year), ASSOCIATE (Less than 1 year) Links http://users.utu.fi/saramo Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Programming Based: C/C++, C#.NET, Pascal, MATLAB, Octave, Python, Database Management and  Programming using Microsoft SQL Server, Contiki OS, and Cooja simulator.  Software and System Microsoft ISA Server, Daemon-Email Server, Surf Control Web Filter, Network  Based: Management, VMware, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Exchange, and Microsoft Office,  Linux, Windows Server, Design and Implementation of Secure Local Area Networks (LAN),  Wireless Networks, Virtual Private Networks, Voice over IP (VoIP) system, and Active  Directory and Domain Controller.    ATTENDING C OURSE AND C ERTIFICATE    08/2017 - 10/2017 Cybersecurity and the Internet of Things at University System of Georgia  05/2016 - 07/2016 The Internet of Things at King's College London  10/2012 - 02/2012 Firewall and IPS solutions bases on StoneGate software  01/2008 - 04/2008 Building Cisco Multilayer Switched Network (CCNP)  07/2007 - 10/2007 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)  02/2006 - 06/2006 Developing and Implementing Windows-Based Applications with Microsoft Visual C#  .NET and Microsoft Visual Studio .NET