Network Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Network Security Engineer California City, CA • Over 8+ years of experience as a Data Network & Security Engineer with expertise in design, development, implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance of Network & security environments with mixed vendors Routers, Switches Firewalls, Proxy, VPN's, IPsec, NAT, Load Balancer's, and Nexus Switches.  • Expertise in design, configuring, supporting and administrating Data Centers, Cisco routers, switches, Nexus switches, Load balancers (F5) and firewalls.  • Strong hands on experiences Cisco Routers 4300, 4400, 4500, 2900, 3800, Switches 3850, 4500, 9300, 9400, 9500, 6500, 6800 series.  • Hands on experience in installing, configuring and administration of Firewalls including Cisco PIX, Cisco ASA, Checkpoint, Palo Alto and Load Balancers like Big-IP F5 (LTM and GTM).  • Knowledge on Juniper SRX220, SRX240 and SRX550, Fortinet 200D series firewalls.  • Expertise in installing, configuring and troubleshooting Juniper Routers (MX-480, MX960) and Juniper EX Switches (EX2200, EX2500, EX3200, EX4200, EX4500, EX8200) series.  • Experience with design and implementation of Virtual Switching System (VSS) for both User segment and server segment using 6509 catalyst switches.  • Proficient in Cisco IOS installation, upgradation and Configuring, Troubleshooting routing protocols like RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP (E-BGP, I-BGP).  • Good knowledge and experience in Installation, Configuration and Administration of Windows Servers 2000/2003, Active Directory, FTP, DNS, DHCP, TFTP, Linux OS under various LAN and WAN environments.  • Strong hands on experience and knowledge on Software Defined WAN (SDWAN) and its architecture including the vendors SilverPeak and Cisco Viptela.  • Integrating Symantec DCS with NSX, providing server hardening.  • Expertise in configuring and troubleshooting complex layer 2 technologies such as VLANs, VTP, Ether Channels, Spanning Tree Protocol STP, RSTP and MST and redundancy protocols like HSRP, VRRP, GLBP.  • Good knowledge in configuration of Voice VLAN's (VOIP), prioritizing the voice traffic over the data traffic.  • Hands-on experience with SD WAN (MPLS/Frame Relay), routers, switches, TCP/IP, routing Protocols (BGP/OSPF), and IP addressing.  • In depth knowledge and experience working with other protocols like TCP/IP, OSI model, DHCP, DNS, SMTP, IMAP, FTP, WAN, LAN, NAT, PAT, ACL, VLANs, Trunking using 802.1Q, IPv4, IPv6, LDAP, HTTP, HTTPS, UDP, VOIP, QOS.  • Expertise with IP subnetting, VLSM, CIDR.  • Proficient in implementing and troubleshooting LAN/WAN technologies.  • Worked on the migration to new Checkpoint R7x firewalls from Cisco ASA firewalls.  • Experience configuring SDH and SONET in the WAN environment  • Strong hands on experience withlayer - 2 and layer - 3 configurations, troubleshooting and dealt with Nexus models like 7k, 5k and 2k series in data centers.  • Configuration and Maintenance of ASA 5580, 5540, 5520, 5510, PIX 535, FWSM Firewalls.  • Vast experience working with configuring and maintaining security firewalls like ASA, Checkpoint, Palo Alto, Blue coat and expertise in VPN's, SSL etc.  • Worked in data centers and proficient with configuring and supporting Nexus switches, Fabric Extenders (FEX), VPC and OTV.  • Excellent knowledge and experience on multi-vendor platforms like Cisco, Juniper, Checkpoint, F5 Big-ip LTM load balancers, Bluecoat, Riverbed, Citrix, and VMware.  • Experience in Implementing, Maintaining, and Troubleshooting L2 Switching tasks: VLANs, VTP, VLAN Trunking (ISL/802.1Q), STP, RSTP, PVST, PVST+, CST, CEF and DCEF.  • Experience in T1/E1/T3 technologies and different LAN & WAN technologies.  • Managed F5 BigIP GTM/LTM load balancer appliances to include writing iRules, SSL offload and everyday task of creating WIP and VIPs.  • Planned and worked on design with Network team to Re-architect F5 load-balancers to load-balance traffic anywhere in the company network.  • A good knowledge on operational aspects load balancing & WAF devices.  • Actively participated in upgrading Fast Ethernet, Layer 3 switched/routed LAN Infrastructure from Cisco 3640 to Cisco 2811 ISR Routers and Switches at access level to 2950, 3550.  • Well understanding of Cisco UCS and M-Series Modular servers to enable centralized management of highly scalable system and to Speed-up IT operations.  • Worked extensively in Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Checkpoint security appliance, Failover DMZ zoning & configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the firewalls per design.  • Hands on Experience on security devices and firewall infrastructure under enterprise level network.  • Extensive hands on Experience with Complex routed LAN networks, CISCO Routers and Switches.  • In-depth expertise in the Analysis, Implementation, Troubleshooting & Documentation of LAN/WAN architecture and good experience on IP services.  • Experience with Network Automation using Python.  • Basic Experience with configuring and Managing on Snort and Suricata detection systems.  • Experience through Hands-on Experience with Configuring T1.5, Gigabit Ethernet, Channelized T3 and full T3, OCX, ATM, Frame-Relay.  • Experienced working on network monitoring and analysis tools like, SOLAR WINDS, CISCO works and RIVER BED and Wireshark.  • Configured SolarWinds Orion NPM and used it to monitor traffic on a network.  • Extensive experience in Configuring and troubleshooting of protocols RIP v1/v2, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and MPLS.  • Well experienced in Configuring HSRP, GLBP, ICMP, PPP, PAP, CHAP and SNMP.  • Experience in Installing and Configuring DNS, DHCP server.  • Experience with Infoblox DNS, DHCP, IPAM and reporting server.  • Extensive experience in configuring and troubleshooting of protocols RIP v1/v2, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and MPLS.  • Well experienced in configuring HSRP, GLBP, ICMP, PPP, PAP, CHAP and SNMP.  • Excellent communication skills, enthusiastic, motivated and a team player.  • Experience in installing and configuring DNS, DHCP server.  • Experience with Change management process and Project documentation tools like Excel and VISIO. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Engineer Genfare, IL July 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Works with client engineering groups to create, document, implement, validate and manage policies, procedures and standards that ensure confidentiality, availability, integrity and privacy of information.  • Researched, designed and replaced aging Cisco ASA firewall architecture with new next generation Palo Alto appliances serving as firewalls and URL and application inspection.  • Performed site refreshes on Cisco switching and Aruba wireless infrastructure at several locations.  • Configured, implemented and troubleshooting issues on Checkpoint R77.10 Gaia, R75, Cisco ASA 5540, 5000 series firewalls for the client environment.  • Contribute to the development and overall strategy of the penetration testing program.  • Manage project task to migrate from Cisco ASA firewalls to Check Point firewalls.  • Worked on VPN configuration, routing, NAT, access-list, security contexts and failover in ASA firewalls.  • Experienced in Design and Planning with client, Vendor on Viptela SD WAN and Meraki Deployments across the field offices. High level design visio preparation on proposed approach.  • Oversaw tuning and performance monitoring for UNIX/Linux workstations, servers, and peripherals.  • Experienced provisioning SD-WAN service as automated failover solution for MPLS VPN by Cisco Meraki MX 80 Firewall.  • Balancers, redundant Internet ISPs and dual MPLS clouds. Supported virtual cloud environment consisting of UCS and Vblock 10k/40k platforms  • Provide NSX Micro-Segmentation Security for ASW Data Center.  • Palo Alto design and installation (Application and URL filtering, Threat Prevention, Data Filtering).  • Configured and maintained IPSEC and SSL VPN's on Palo Alto, Cisco ASA Firewalls.  • Configuring, Administering and troubleshooting the Checkpoint, Palo Alto and ASA firewall.  • Configured IPSec VPN (Site-Site to Remote Access) on Cisco ASA (5200) series firewalls.  • Working with the rule base and its configuration in Cisco ASA, Palo Alto, Juniper and Checkpoint firewalls.  • Provided redundancy in a multi homed Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) network by tuning AS-path.  • Rule consolidation and rule lockdown process in the ASA firewalls.  • Supported 200 Cisco ASA firewalls in configuring and maintenance.  • Deployment of Cisco ASA firewalls and migration of end of life ASA firewalls to New ASA firewalls.  • Cisco Firewalls include ASA 5585x, 5580, 5550 Series Hardware managed through CLI, ASDM as well as CSM.  • Most of my time at this position was spent fixing and re-writing scripts within Jenkins and Puppet Modules  • Worked with VMWare and Flex team for Configuring and installing Dell Power Connect switch 5548 and increasing their Bandwidth Usage.  • Responsible for maintaining availability, reporting and communication of the SIEM between it, its event-sources and the endpoints.  • Configuring & Administration of the Checkpoint Firewall that includes creating Hosts, Nodes, Networks, Static & Hide NAT's.  • Experience in creating multiple policies and pushing them into Checkpoint Firewall (Gateways) and hands-on experience in managing the Checkpoint Management Server and Gaia operating system.  • Experience working with Palo Alto firewalls managed through Panorama management platform.  • Configure High Availability on Palo Alto firewalls.  • Defining, tracking and maintaining the standard baselines and configuration sets of security devices and implementing industry best practices with regards to Firewall, IDS/IPS, IPsec VPN, SSL VPN.  • Applied security enhancement by implementing certificates and RSA keys for authentication.  • Installed and administered RSA Secure ID token authentication servers.  • Support Citrix NetScaler F5 platform, configuring, implementing, & troubleshooting Citrix NetScaler VIP configuration with health check, policy configurations Access Gateway, & content switching configuration solutions.  • Configure and troubleshoot Routing protocols such as OSPF and EIGRP for routing internally and BGP for external routing.  • Involved in F5 LTM GTM and ASM planning, designing and implementation. Actively involved in F5 ASM policy configuration and deployment. Troubleshoot and Worked with Security issues related to Cisco ASA/PIX, Checkpoint, IDS/IPS and Juniper Net screen firewalls.  • Configured High availability, User ID on Palo Alto firewall.  • Configured and utilized many different protocols such as OSPF, ISIS, BGP/MP-BGP, OER, MPLS, LDP, Multicast, IPv4/IPv6 protocols.  • Delivered actionable financial advice to clients via call center and face to face contact  • Implementing a VoIP and hoc network with SIP Proxy Server and multiple Clients, capturing the Installed and maintained Wireless Access Points throughout the building.  • Utilized knowledge of Spanning Tree Protocol, BGP, MPLS, OSI model layers 1-2 to create network layouts.  • Hands on experience and demonstrated knowledge on Software-Defined Networking (SDN) and SD-WAN.  • Cisco ACI fabric networks, including python automation.Worked on Great exposure to SDN and Network virtualization technologies like Cisco ACI.  • Stateful firewall, VLAN to VLAN routing, Link bonding / failover, 3G / 4G failover, Traffic shaping / prioritization, WAN optimization, Site-to-site VPN, Client VPN, MPLS to VPN Failover, Active Directory and LDAP integration.  • Responsible for investigating Data Loss Prevention using Symantec DLP.  • Configured EIGRP routing and BGP route maps to allow traffic from subnets out to the core to Datacenter on the ASR 1002 devices.  • Implementation and configuration of Cisco L3 switches 3750, 4500, 6500 in multi VLAN environment with the use of inter-VLAN routing, dot1Q trunk, ether channel.  • Configure and troubleshoot Routing protocols such as OSPF and EIGRP for routing internally and BGP for external routing.  • Developed PowerShell scripts for Production Ready QA/QC for Windows and Linux servers.  • Use BGP attributes such as AS-PATH prepending and communities to influence routing amongst different paths.  • Provide remote support for partners on installation and configuration problems and issues related to SDA or SD-WAN, DNAC.  • In-Depth Knowledge and experience of various wireless 802.11 standards, controllers, Access Points, Wi-Fi analytics from various vendors (Cisco Meraki, HPE /Aruba, D-Link and Netgear), SD-WAN (MX 65, MX100, MX400). Experience with Viptella SD WAN solution  • Worked and maintained various network, application monitoring tools like Solar Winds, Cisco Prime, ForeScout, Wireshark, TCP Dump.  • ForeScout CounterACT- NAC, endpoint compliance, real-time intelligence and policy-based control.  • Experience with Monitoring wireless networks and performing site surveys.  • Involved in Troubleshooting IP Addressing Issues and Updating IOS Images using TFTP.  • Used BMC Remedy tool for ticketing purpose.  • Cisco ISE implementation for Guest access with Cisco Wireless Controllers using EOIP guest wireless services.  Environment: Cisco ASA5580/5540/5520, CheckpointR70, R75, R77.20 Gaia, Palo AltoPA-5000/3000, Juniper SSG, SRX, Big IP F5 LTM/GTM, Nexus switches, Routers, TCP/IP, VPN, Bluecoat Proxy servers, IDS/IPS. SIEM and monitoring, BMC Remedy, Cisco Prime, ForeScout CounterACT, Tufin. Network Operations Engineer ( Administrator) Ruckus Wireless, CA August 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:    • LAN/WAN level 3 support (diagnose and troubleshoot layer 1, 2, 3 problems)  • VLAN design and implementation, Spanning Tree Implementation and support using PVST, R-PVST and MSTP to avoid loops in the network. Trunking and Port channels creation.  • Working with OSPF as internal routing protocol and BGP as exterior gateway routing protocol.  • Configuring static NAT, dynamic NAT, Inside Global Address Overloading, TCP overload distribution, Overlapping Address Translation on Cisco ASA Firewalls.  • Installation & Maintenance of Juniper switches routers &firewalls.  • Implemented Juniper firewall &switches.  • Implementing and maintaining WAN/LAN and WLAN networks in different diagrams  • Involved in troubleshootingL3VPN issues and updating Junos images, UTM Anti-virus and IDP.  • Configuring RIP, OSPF and Static routing on Juniper M and MX Series Routers.  • Configuring VLAN, Spanning tree, VSTP, SNMP on EX-series switches.  • Identified opportunities for implementation of network best practices, particularlyF5 load balancer implementations.  • Monitor performance of network appliances and WAN utilizing using network analyzer like Wireshark.  • Responsible for providing support for IT infrastructure in the laboratory. Surveillance activities for physical and virtual switches, OpenFlow, 802.1x and MAC authentication test.  • Deployed BIG IP Enterprise manager to cluster all the F5 LTM, GTM, ASA, Netscreen devices for easier management and common configurations.  • Involved in the migration of F5 Local traffic managers of LTM 5100 series to LTM 6800 series for higher security.  • Cloud design: Participate in Amazon AWS / Microsoft Azure network design and implementation.  • BigIP ASM Positive and Negative Policy Reinforcement, iRule, Full proxy for HTTP, Server Performance Anomaly Detection.  • Design and integration of Juniper SSG series firewalls, SA VPN Appliances, J series Routers and EX-series switches.  • I have used Pandas library in python to create inventory csv files and configure csv files to help in Network configuration Automation.  • Create a process and automation to generate a combined report and clean up the unused policy.  • Configuring Routing protocols like BGP, OSPF, MPLS, multicast and L2 protocols in ASA to check it is passing through via ASA in customer deployments.  • Maintenance and trouble-shootingof LAN, WAN, IP Routing, Multi-Layer Switching.  • Perform Packet shaper Bluecoat 75000 OS upgrade, maintenance and configurations  • Shipping Aruba bundle to work with home users  • Palo Alto/Checkpoint Firewall troubleshooting and policy change requests for new IP segments that either come on line or that may have been altered during various planned network changes on the network.  • Assisted in network engineering efforts consistent with the infrastructure of an Internet Service Provider and support of such network services. Helped in designing and implementation of VLAN for the new users.  • Plans, coordinates, implements and supports the LAN / WAN hardware, software and Internet /Intranet integration network connectivity, diagnose network failures and resolve any problems.  • Troubleshoot Frame Relay; T1, T3, IP and OSPF related router and circuit issues.  • Documenting and Log analyzing the Cisco PIX series firewall.  • Configuring and troubleshooting perimeter security devices such as Checkpoint NGX R77 Gaia, Provider-1/MDM, Secure Platform, Palo alto and ASA Firewalls.  • Installation of Palo alto (Application and URL filtering, Threat Prevention, Data Filtering)    Environment: Cisco 2990/3550/6550 switches, Cisco 7200/3845/3600/2800 routers, EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, BGP, VPN, Ether Channels, and Sniffer, Data center, Palo Alto Firewalls, Big IP F5 LTM/GTM, TCP/IP, FortiGate, Service Now. Junior Network Engineer UBS - Nashville, TN May 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:    • Configured Cisco Routers for OSPF, RIP, IGRP RIPv2, EIGRP, Static and default route.  • Performed troubleshooting, while maintaining trouble ticket tracking, following internal/external escalation procedures and customer notifications.  • Supporting Development team for the access to corporate network and outside world. Providing access to specific IP, Port filter, and port access.  • Monitoring Memory/CPU on various low-end routers in a network.  • Configured the Cisco router as IP Firewall and for NAT. Switching (Ethernet) related tasks included implementing VLANs and configuring ISL trunk on Fast-Ethernet channel between switches.  • Installing new equipment to RADIUS and worked with MPLS-VPN and TACACS configurations.  • Installing and maintaining local as well as network printers.  • Validating existing infrastructure and suggesting new network designs.  • Working on creating new load balancing policies by employing BGP attributes including Local Preference, AS-Path, and Community, MED.  • Providing technical support to LAN & WAN systems.  • Configuring all the required devices and equipment for remote vendors at various sites and plants.  • Installation and maintenance of new network connections for the customers.  • Installing and maintaining Windows NT Workstations and Windows NT Server.  • Monitor performance of network and servers to identify potential problems and bottleneck.  • Real-time monitoring and network management using Cisco Works LMS.  • Configuring routers and send it to Technical Consultants for new site activations and gives online support at the time of activation.  • Provided technical support for hardware and software related issues to remote production sites.  • Performed administrative support for RIP, OSPF routing protocol.  • Maintained redundancy on Cisco 2600, 2800 and 3600 routers with HSRP.  • Involved in Configuration and management of networks using L3 protocols like RIPv2, OSPF and EIGRP.  • Responsible for initial MPLS configurations for customers such as various interface configuration and routing protocols such as EIGRP, OSPF, & BGP, and COS.  • Experience in Configuring VLANs, Private VLANs, VTP and trunking on switches.    Environment: Cisco 2990/3550/6550 switches, Cisco 7200/3845/3600/2800 routers, EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, BGP, VPN, Ether Channels, and Sniffer, Data center Junior Network Engineer Dallas County - Dallas, TX March 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:    • Involved in configuration and management of different Layer 2 switching tasks, which includes address learning, efficient switching etc.  • Dealt with the escalation problems from Level1, Level 2 & Level 3 for routing, switching and WAN connectivity issues using ticketing system Remedy.  • Configured & maintained LAN, WAN, VPN, and WLAN on Cisco Routers.  • Managing and configuring of Wide Area Networking Protocols like HDLC, PPP.  • Configuring Routing Protocols like EIGRP and OSPF.  • Implemented the concept of Route Redistribution between different routing protocols.  • Involved in HSRP, VRRP, GLBP configuration and troubleshooting and Port channel management of the network.  • Dealt with NAT configuration and its troubleshooting issues related access lists and DNS/DHCP issues within the LAN network.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, Ether channel and configuring ISL trunk on Fast - Ethernet channel between switches.  • Configuration included VTP, STP port features, enterprise security using Cisco Port Security.  • Involved with the Systems team to Install, configure, & maintain AD, DNS, DHCP on Windows Server, and configured a FTP server.  • Analyze Log messages using Syslog server and analyze the issues related to high CPU utilization and parameters that can degrade performance of the network.    Environment: Cisco Routers 2900, 2600, 3600; Cisco Switches 1900, 2900, 3500, 3700 and 450 Series; LAN/WAN: Frame relay, NAT, DHCP, TCP/IP. Education Master's Skills Active directory, Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Dhcp