Computer Technician Computer Technician Tactical Airspace Managment and Networking Indianapolis, IN US Army Secret Clearence Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Computer Technician K 12 Tech - Indianapolis, IN December 2017 to Present Used diagnostic tools to identify hardware failures and replace  components that were not functioning. Disassembled computers to perform diagnostics and check them in for repairs. Researched and identified problems with computers and advised staff  and clients on plans of action. Updated and installed new software. Wrote reports on computer statuses and maintenance jobs. Refurbished used computers and technological equipment. Broke technical concepts down into easily understood terms.  Teach interns the process of repair and maintaining records.  Performed thorough inspections of incoming materials and outgoing  products. Helped uncover and fix production problems in order to reduce  overall defect rates. Performed data entry and ensured completion of devices. Recording  parts used, serial numbers, and ticketing orders. Network Administrator US Army - Lawton, OK August 2013 to Present Administering and maintaining networks between multiple Air Defense and other computer systems. Airspace Managment US Army Active Duty/ Army Reserve - Lawrence, IN February 2013 to Present Managing multiple networks across a variety of Airspace Control platforms. Setting up airspace control corridors. Track and manage aircraft travel through four separate radar systems. Versed in calibrating and linking networks between each system, linking their feeds and airspace information. Basic network troubleshooting. Knowledge on how to calibrate and link Air Defense Radar to previously mentioned airspace management systems to to get local area airspace information. Subcontractor/Laborer Smart Grid Solutions - Carmel, IN March 2017 to September 2017 Pick up smart meters from the ware house and drive to clients home. Read Killowathours , log them. Open electric meter box pull meter, check voltage install smartmeter. Repeat process for 60 to 70 houses a day Education Psychology Ball State University - Muncie, IN 2014 to 2015 Air Defense and Airspace Managment Airspace Management School - Lawton, OK 2013 to 2014 Skills Managing multiple networks across a variety of airspace Corridors. Track and manage aircraft travel through four separate radar systems. Versed in setting up and linking networks between each system, linking their feeds and airspace information. Basic network troubleshooting. Knowledge on how to set up calibrate and link Air Defense Radar to get local area airspace information. (6 years), Intermediate knowlege on how to configure and use of multiple radio systems. (6 years), Typist (45 wpm) (10+ years), Security (6 years), Networking (6 years), Electrical (3 years), Computer Repair (2 years), Desktop Support, Macbook and Ipad repair (1 year) Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC February 2013 to January 2019 Airspace Management Certifications/Licenses Secret Clearance February 2013 to February 2024