Engineer Engineer Engineer - IPPBX Statesboro, GA I have been in IT since 2007, 12 years on job training and experience. Built a private label Cloud, Certified in IP  based phone systems. Corporate Wi-Fi. Extensive knowledge of Spyware and Malware Removal. Hyper-V and  VMware knowledge. Cisco switching and routing. A can-do attitude that never gives up in order to get the job  done no matter what. Work Experience Engineer IPPBX February 2017 to Present - 40 Hours Per week Monday-Friday  • Build and Troubleshoot VOIP networks  • Install and maintain ShoreTel VoIP systems  • Ensure proper operations day to day with trouble ticket escalation  • Build proper client documentation  • Troubleshoot major system outages Network Engineer IT Pioneers - Savannah, GA August 2016 to February 2017 - 40 Hours Per week Monday-Friday    • Helps with major accounts  • Works Engineer and High Level problems  • Works with Hyper-V and VMware Field Engineer April 2014 to June 2016 - 40 Hours Per week Monday-Friday  ? Started Help Desk Tier-1  ? Promoted to field Engineer  ? Worked large accounts full time - Palmetto Bluff/ JCB  ? Sonicwall Certification  ? Worked with Shoretel IPBX  ? Learned administration and basic deployment of Shoretel Systems  ? Worked with Connectwise and Labtech Systems  ? Active Directory and DNS Support  ? Server 2012 R2 Support IT Director The Inn at Palmetto Bluff - Bluffton, SC June 2014 to December 2014 - 40 Hours Per week Monday-Friday  ? Acted as the contracted IT Director while working for Hargray. Managed multiple ongoing projects while providing end user support and systems support. ? Virtualized 13 servers to a physical host  ? Setup a Backup and disaster recovery system ? Learned about POS Systems  ? Learned extensively about hospitality WiFi  ? Worked with management staff to develop growth plans for IT  ? Took part in weekly conference calls with hotel corporate  ? Vmware Conversions  ? Dell AppAssure IT Director Michael G. Hostilo, LLC - Pooler, GA January 2014 to April 2014 - 40 Hours Per week Monday-Friday  ? Managed all systems throughout the law firm. This was IT systems using VMware, Needles application, and Zultys IP Phone systems. ? Opened 2 new offices  ? Configured all networking between offices for file shares, VPN's, and phone system ease of access ?  Migrated from onsite exchange to office 365 and setup SSO  ? Vmware ESXI  ? Windows 7 and 8 Engineer Seimitsu - Savannah, GA August 2012 to December 2013 - 40 Hours Per week Monday-Friday  ? Worked as multiple roles throughout this company. Primarily a Tier-2 Helpdesk administrator I was also the bench worker, field engineer, and WiFi analyst.  ? Deployed multiple Small Business Servers  ? Learned Labtech Management  ? Learned Connectwise  ? Learned Uquiti WiFi  ? Became Zultys IP Certified Network Administrator Speros, INC - Savannah, GA August 2009 to April 2012 - 40 Hours Per week Monday-Friday  ? Became Level Platforms Certified  ? Worked with Connectwise PSA  ? Built a private label cloud using Hyper-V  ? Learned extensive networking knowledge including DNS and V-lans  ? Worked in hosting, medical, and CPA environments Education Associates Of Applied Science in Computer Networking Specialist Ogeechee Technical College - Statesboro, GA Skills Ccna, Cisco, Vmware, Hyper-v, Mcp, Windows xp Additional Information SKILLS    ? Proficient in Office Suite    ? VMware ESXI, fusion, and workstation experience    ? Hyper-V experience    ? A+    ? Sonicwall CSSA    ? 2+years Cisco Experience (CCNA Pending)    ? Net+ (Currently Renewing)    ? MCP - Windows XP