Desktop & Network Support Desktop &amp; <span class="hl">Network</span> Support Jamaica, NY 5+ years of experience as a Network and System administrator, specializing in implementation, deployment, management and support of Windows and Linux based environment. Proven abilities in analyzing and delivering IT solutions with a focus on organizational needs. Work Experience Desktop & Network Support Optimist Data Solution - New York, NY June 2018 to Present Provide in person and remote support to clients that includes installing new PCs, scheduling backups, troubleshooting network and printer connectivity issues in three different locations.  • Install PC/Laptops with Windows 10 operating system and other necessary software; configure network settings and added them to the active directory domain; address day to day desktop level support requests.  • Create, support and maintain end users accounts, distribution lists, and security groups and shared mailboxes through Active Directory and O365 admin portal.  • Set up DHCP server on Windows 2012 R2 in two client locations  • Deploy Bitlocker policy to Windows 10 machines using group policy  • Scheduling and monitoring backups using QNAP and Amazon S3 bucket.  • Setup projectors and audio visual equipment for conference room  • Manage mobile devices from VMware AirWatch  • Assist and troubleshoot end user mobile devices  • Manage office supplies, computer assets, and provided feedback to managers.  • Supervise and train new hires.  • Resolve 90% of tickets assigned without escalation to a senior technician. System Administrator Abu Dhabi National Oil Company - Abu Dhabi, AE June 2014 to April 2018 My primary duties include administering backup and supporting VMware infrastructure. I was one of the project members of data center virtualization projects. Supervised and led public folder migration and Windows server upgrade project.  • Managed over 100+ VMware virtual machines of CentOS 6.8, 7.2, Windows 2008 R2 and 2012 with vSphere client 6.0.  • Performed P2V migration on over 50+ Windows server to support ongoing datacenter virtualization project.  • Windows servers were migrated from 2008 R2 to 2012 R2 to minimize security risks and outdated software vulnerabilities as well as improving productivity and efficiency.  • Performed backup, restore & archive operations for data center & disaster recovery sites using NetBackup 7.5.  • Created PowerShell script to move data to new location during public folder migration project.  • Performed administration function in Active Directory for employees, new hires, suppliers and vendors which includes creating new accounts, changes, passwords resets, create and apply group policy and permission/security changes.  • Maintain, upgrade and apply necessary security updates to servers and desktops using SCCM 2012.  • Attended users/helpdesk calls on 24/7 operations. Desktop Support Engineer Coats Bangladesh Plc February 2013 to April 2014 Quickly troubleshoot, diagnosed and resolved issues with computer hardware, operating systems and network connectivity ensuring operation efficiencies, reliability and quality performance standards for 2 facilities, based on business needs.  • Administered active directory, DHCP, DNS service on Windows 2008 R2 server.  • Performed regular sysadmin tasks such as creating new user accounts, implementing password resets, managing mail accounts, resolving network connectivity issues, etc.  • Deployment of new desktops/laptops after configuring with standard/specialized software installs based on user requirements and needs.  • Performed and led PC migrations project from Windows XP to Windows 7. Education MSc in (Eng) Telecommunications Engineering Liverpool John Moores University B.Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering International Islamic University Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Vmware, Dns, Networking, Remedy, R2, Android, Aps, Linux, Red hat, Ios, Sql, Python, Microsoft office Certifications/Licenses CCNA VCP5-DCV Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9ehhx3a5jvz-cxxw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Expertise  Platforms: VMware ESXi 5/5.5, Windows Server (2008/R2, 2012/R2, 2016), Windows Desktop (XP, 7, 8, 10), Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS 7, IOS, Android.  Hardware: Cisco (Switches, APs), Dell/HP (Server, Laptops and Desktops)  Networking: TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, VLAN.  Software: Microsoft office suite, Active Directory, SCCM 2012, Office 365, VMware AirWatch vSphere Client 5.5/6.5, VMware, VirtualBox, TeamViewer, Remedy.  Languages: PowerShell (Proficient), Python (Familiar), SQL (Familiar)