IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - First Transit Rosemead, CA Work Experience IT Manager First Transit - Los Angeles, CA October 2017 to Present Contracted by Los Angeles Department of Transportation to maintain and operate their fleet for the Downtown DASH and Dash Mid City service. For this  operation, my various duties include:  • Managing and ensuring the smooth operation of the various technology systems  on a fleet of ~110 LADOT owned DASH buses including: Automatic Vehicle  Location, Fare and TAP System, Surveillance System, On Board Wi-Fi, Automated  Passenger Counting, Overhead Media and Stop Screens, and Voice Annunciation for Stops.  • Act as a liaison between First Transit, LADOT and various vendors to ensure the  on-board bus technological projects are completed within specifications.  • Troubleshoot, repair and collaborate with various vendors, in order to repair on- board bus technologies in a timely manner to become road-worthy.  • Maintain and analyze routes, reporting, subscriptions and other aspects of operational changes in scheduling software.  • Deploy and manage all IT devices at this location including, domain connected  computers, provisioned VoIP phones, network printers, MDM managed  tablets/phones, and surveillance system.  • Act as the first line of help for all IT related issues and tutor team members for the following systems: computer, network/internet, printer, surveillance system,  tablets, and MDTs.  • Establishes system and network parameters as necessary to bring about optimal  network performance and monitors network equipment resources to ensure  sufficient resources are available for processing.  • Review, monitor and control all network activities and resource monitoring.  Manage daily operations and assist and recommend future infrastructure  upgrades. Maintain an inventory of computer equipment. Network Administrator Advanced Networks - Los Angeles, CA February 2017 to October 2017 • Managed client networks, systems in order to ensure availability/uptime.  • Provide remote and on-site support for end users of small to medium sized  businesses.  • Diagnosed and troubleshoot various software/hardware problems in order to keep company efficiency.  • Managed, installed, and configured computers to ensure compatibility with the domain.  • Adapt to certain clients concerns, with the ability to work around them.  • Consult with client on future needed upgrades, based on current systems. Electrician's Apprentice/Computer Technician Transtar Electric - Temple City, CA August 2014 to February 2017 Troubleshoot, repair or replace wiring, equipment, or fixtures, using hand tools  and power tools.  • Pull, cut, strip, and/or crimp electrical and low voltage wire (CAT6).  • Understand client/customer concern and adapt to their needs.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware and resolve  the problems.  • Work with team to disconnect and reconnect entire branches of Wells Fargo  computers and their various machines. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology California State University Skills Voip, Active directory, Networking, Tcp/ip, Tcp, Html, Javascript, Wireshark, Linux, Java, Css, Sql, Mac, Mac os, Windows xp, Lan, Vendor Management, IT Management, Excel, Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Customer Service Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS    • Operating Systems: MAC OS X, Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10; Windows Server  2008, 2012(Active Directory); Linux including CentOS, Ubuntu, Ubuntu Server  • Hardware: Troubleshooting Computers, Routers, Hubs, Switches, Syncromatics  systems, onboard bus TAP system, Hanover Screens  • Networking: Local Area Network(LAN), Wide Area Network(WAN), TCP/IP,  Wireshark  • Languages/Applications: Wireshark, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, SQL, Office 365,  Office@Hand VoIP