Information Systems Security Manager Information Systems Security Manager Virginia Beach, VA Experienced Network and Information Systems Administrator with a demonstrated history of working in the military industry. Skilled in Windows OS, Server Administration, Radio Communication, and Team Building. Currently an Undergrad at UMUC in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Systems Security Manager U.S. Navy - Virginia Beach, VA February 2018 to Present • Serveing as Information Systems Security Manager (ISSM) for unclassified and classified computers in DoD computing environments.  • Maintain day-to-day security posture and continuous monitoring of IS including security event log review and analysis.  • Ensure system security measures comply with applicable government policies. Provide configuration management and accurately assess the impact of modifications and vulnerabilities for each system.  • Provided support for maintaining appropriate operation information assurance (IA) posture for programs.  • Conduct reviews and technical inspections to identify and mitigate potential security weaknesses, and ensure that all security features applied to a system are implemented and functional.  • Monitor and resolve Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M) to mitigate system vulnerabilities on assigned Information Systems. Network Administrator U.S. Navy - Manama, Bahrain September 2016 to February 2018 • Fully supported, configured, maintained and upgraded DoD Network Servers and workstations that included multiple Operating Systems (Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows Server 2012 r2 and 2016, Red -Hat Enterprise Linux 7, Solaris 9).  • Installed and integrated new server infrastructure and management tools to create and manage virtual server computing environment using VMware products.  • Administered Host Based Security System (HBSS ) McAfee Agents and ePolicy Orchestrator (EPO).  • Ensured network security policies were set in accordance to current Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) via Vulnerability Remediation Asset Manager (VRAM) and Nessus Security Center.  • Facilitated smooth network operations for 102 on-site users, and closed trouble tickets quickly and efficiently with an average rate of 25 completed tasks per day. Communications Watch Officer U.S. Navy - Yokosuka, Japan May 2013 to September 2016 • Served as a representative of the Communication Officer during period of watch; assumed general charge of all HF, VHF, UHF, SHF, EHF voice and data communication activities of command.  • Expedited outgoing and incoming message traffic.  • Ensured delivery of messages to appropriate personnel and supervised cryptographic processing of messages.  • Served as primary source of information on message inquiries.  • Managed 4 Shift Supervisors and 25 Message Center and Facility Control Operators in providing excellent customer service to callers requiring assistance for voice and data issues.  • Enforced communication security; Investigated and corrected communications delays, failures and violations.  • Ensured compliance with existing communications directives and monitored the performance of on-watch personnel and spaces. Education Bachelor's in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity University of Maryland-University College - Virginia Beach, VA March 2018 to Present Audio Endineering West Valley College - Saratoga, CA 2010 to 2012 High school or equivalent Branham High School - San Jose, CA September 2006 to June 2010 Skills Customer Service (10+ years), Microsoft Exchange (2 years), Network Administration (6 years), Microsoft Office (7 years), Apple OS X (5 years), Linux Administration (2 years), Team Management (5 years), Windows 10 (2 years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E6 April 2012 to Present Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ April 2012 to April 2022 CompTIA Security+ April 2012 to April 2022 Heartsaver CPR AED March 2018 to March 2020