System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Spring Hill, TN IT professional with 8 years of IT experience in implementation and support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator EFC Systems - Brentwood, TN October 2015 to Present • Configure and maintain firewalls and servers for over 400 client locations.  • Maintain and support firewalls after deployment to include; opening ports, port forwarding, upgrading firmware, setting up policies for internal and external routing, virtual IP NAT routing, traffic shaping and QoS, blocking unwanted traffic, setting up VPN’s, broadcasting Wi-Fi and linking to Access Points, overall network security measures.   • Build physical servers, configure RAID 5 array, install windows server 2012/2016, Hyper V to setup virtual servers (domain controller, exchange, SQL, terminal, application, ftp) depending on client’s needs. Create cloud-based server’s using Amazon Web Services.   • Implement server backup procedure’s; Acronis or BackupExec configured with on site RDX drive or cloud-based backup.   • Plan, configure, and deploy all required hardware needed for new client go-lives including firewalls, servers, switches, access points, PC’s/Laptops, printers/scanners, VoIP phones, and credit card devices. Work closely with Project Managers to ensure deadlines are met.  • Provide hardware related support by troubleshooting and resolving any issues that arise for clients and document all information for future reference. Network Operations Center Specialist/Client Systems Technician United States Air Force - Whiteman AFB, MO January 2012 to October 2015 • Installed, upgraded, replaced, configured, and maintained systems/circuits/IP-based intrusion detection systems that access military, federal, and commercial networks.  • Primarily ensured reliability, availability, and security for LAN/WAN through the use of established back-up procedures, system administration techniques, and networking best practices.  • Provided directory services utilizing dynamically assigned IP addresses, domain name server, storage area network, and electronic messaging resources.  • Contributed to 99.8% network compliance on $65 Million in network equipment.  • Assigned user privileges and system settings using automated deployment tools such as group policy objects and system management server. Also managed user accounts and organizational client device accounts. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Park University - Kansas City, MO 2013 to 2016 Associate of Applied Science in Information Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force - Montgomery, AL 2011 to 2013 Skills Active Security Clearance - Secret (5 years), System Administrator Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E4 Veteran Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching February 2015 CompTIA A+ CompTIA Security+