Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Miami, FL Work Experience Network Engineer Jacobs Engineering Group Inc - Miami, FL June 2019 to August 2019 Administering & designing LANs, WANs internet/intranet.  ? Communicating and negotiating with users, specialists, other staff and suppliers.  ? Investigating, diagnosing and resolve all network problems.  ? Maintaining pre-packaged software applications on the LAN.  ? Network management and planning.  ? Provide On-Call or after hours support to provide expert recommendations for troubleshooting issues  ? Engineering enterprise data, voice and video networks  ? Establishing and operating network test facilities  ? Maintaining a secure transfer of data to multiple locations via internal and external networks  ? Working with vendors, the Government, carriers and technical staff on network implementation, optimization and ongoing management  ? Providing high-level support and technical expertise in networking technology, including LAN/WAN hardware, switches, bridges and routers  ? Ensure proactive engagement in Incident Management process, working with cross-functional teams to minimize the impact of network service outages  ? Build operational Operations and Maintenance (O&M) checklists to maintain the service (daily, weekly, monthly, yearly O&M checklists); build Tactics, Techniques and Processes (TTPs) and Standard Operating Processes (SOPs) associated with service checklists  ? Generating various reports as needed  ? Testing and documenting network configurations and performance  ? Managing and validating network security configurations  ? Reviewing network standards and trends to identify and recommend operational improvements  ? Briefing senior leaders on network status, issues, and recommendations  ? Mentoring and leading junior network personnel NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR VECTRUS - BAGRAM, AF May 2018 to June 2019 Managed LAN/WAN connections EIGRP, OSPF, BGP routing tables on 6 Cores, 36 Distribution switches and 1400 Layer 2 Access switches including Cisco 6500, 4500, 3850, 3750, 3560, and 2960.  ? Engineered/installed new building distribution Routing/VLAN infrastructure. Installed/configured 2 Cisco 6500 distribution, 90 3750X stackwise access switches providing network access to over 1,100 customers.  ? Identified/replaced faulty Cisco 6500 Supervisor 720 card, restored Core redundancy, remote access.  ? Implemented VLAN, IP Subnet standardization project, coordinated EIGRP, OSPF routing/subnet changes, Active Directory Object moves, DHCP Scope moves.  ? Administered/configure 14,000 Cisco VOIP phones through Cisco Unified Communications Manager CUCM. Provided end user support and troubleshooting for multiple issues within the CUCM Platform.  ? Administer Windows Server 2008 R2 manage DHCP, Sites and Services, Active Directory Computer Objects.  ? Redesign switch configurations for implementation of 802.1x, MAB authentication for over 17,000 customers.  ? Troubleshoot 802.1x authentication, Network Policy Server for Workstations, Servers, VTC, and Printers  ? Create technical documentation, network diagrams, documentation to support DIACAP accreditation process and ensure software is up to date and in compliance with USFOR-A.  ? Configure, troubleshoot and maintain access lists for switches and routers.  ? Configure and maintain over 10 TACLANE's.  Projects & Accomplishments:  • Provide with improvements in procurement policies and procedures to promote efficiency, faster services.  • Resolve wide range of customer service problems, applying diplomacy and assertiveness. DESKTOP SUPPORT VECTRUS - BAGRAM, AF May 2017 to May 2018 Installed, configures, and maintains DOD-approved communications software on government computers and configures the network to allow proper user access.  ? Created, modify, and delete user and computer objects within Active Directory.  ? Provisioned, modify, and delete over 500 Enterprise email accounts leverage the DISA Enterprise Provisioning Online (DEPO) web portal.  ? Provided enterprise level technical support and non-technical support regarding ITSM incident requests.  ? Troubleshooted Microsoft OS issues on Army Gold Master/Universal Gold Master along with setup and Microsoft Office Suites. Troubleshoots all other site authorized software with IMOs and users.  ? Configured and repairs software issues for Windows Operating systems (OS) and Microsoft Office 2013. Performs custom Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) configurations of Laptops and workstations as required.  ? Installed and maintains Windows 10 Enterprise on all operating systems for both classified and unclassified networks.  ? Joined client computers to the Microsoft Active Directory domains in their respective operating units (OU).  ? Created a MAC Authentication Bypass (MAB) for each computer object while using a VLAN and 802.1X authentication.    Projects & Accomplishments:  • Assisted over 1,000 Military Troops and contractors by providing them with user & elevated accounts. Force Protection Officer CONSTELLIS - ARIFJAN - KW January 2017 to May 2017 Utilized new/emerging technology that includes CCTV, IDS (Intrusion Detection System) and key/lock control procedures.  ? Managed ingress/egress of physical/force protection in security areas.  ? Provided over 5 software program training and assistance to peers on IDS and CCTV systems. HONORABLY DISCHARGED INFANTRYMAN UNITED STATES ARMY - Schofield Barracks, HI April 2013 to August 2016 Operated various software programs and single channel point-to-point communications systems to confirm locations and report unusual activities.  ? Proficient with propagation and single channel radios to support secure digital trunking between two major nodes of the Tri-Tac.  ? Instructed 58 subordinates in formal communications course.  ? Setup audio and visual equipment in an enterprise setting.  ? Served as a mentor to new Soldiers and trained on military discipline and to the Army standard; made key decisions under highly stressful environments utilizing a calm demeanor and natural leadership abilities. SHIFT MANAGER KIRKLAND's - Orlando, FL June 2011 to March 2013 Managed daily store and shift operations for a retail business, ensured operations were maintained that facilitated customer service and satisfaction excellence.  ? Maintained 100% accountability of $50,000 worth of assets and conducted routine checks and services.  ? Recruited, hired and trained a quality team and provided instruction on (POS) software systems that ensured accuracy and accountability.    Projects & Accomplishments:  • Increase company sale by 20% by providing phenomenal customer service. Education A.S. in Computer Science Leeward Community College Skills Active directory, Network monitoring, Network protocols, Orion, Switching, Remedy, Solarwinds, Access control, Risk management, Training, Statement of work, Quality assurance, Talent management, Cisco, firewalls, Security, Cisco, Security Additional Information KEY AREAS OF EXPERTISE    • Active Directory  • Network Protocols  • Routing & Switching  • Quality Assurance/ control  • System & Software Installation  • Local Area Network  • Identify/Resolve End User Issues  • Risk Management  • Process compliance tracking  • Statement of Work  • Taclane management  • IT & Computer System Support  • Remedy  • Training/ Talent Management  • Staff Supervision & Management  • Access Control List  • Network Monitoring Tools (SolarWinds Orion & Atlas Maps)  • Calling Manager (CUCM)  • Compliance Software