System Administrator - Contract System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Contract System Administrator - Contract Riverview, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator - Contract Robert Half Technology - Fort Lauderdale, FL March 2013 to April 2013 • IT support for individuals and small businesses  • Installation, Troubleshooting and Support for Windows Server 2008, 2012 and Windows 7  • Installation, Troubleshooting and support of Microsoft Office 2003 through to Office 2013  • Server Administrator role while performing migration of users documents and profiles  • Configuration of server features and roles including Active Directory DNS, DHCP, Group Policies  • Remote desktop through VPN and third party software (logmein and team viewer) to fix end users problems.  • Effectively trained and established professional rapport with customers and end users Tier 2 Technician Saveology/Techzilla - Margate, FL December 2012 to March 2013 - Contract  • Tier 2 Technician providing specialized in providing IT support for individuals and small businesses  • Installation, Troubleshooting and Support of Microsoft Windows Client Operating Systems  • Installation, Troubleshooting and Support of Mac OS X, Apple IOS, Android and related devices  • Remote desktop to assist end users with installation and configuration of software and hardware using third party software (logmein and team viewer)  • Removal of spam, spyware, malware and viruses via remote support and telephone System Administrator/Helpdesk Representative US Coast Guard/ESU - Miami, FL May 2011 to August 2011 - Contract  • System administrator role responsible for local, remote servers and workstations  • Creating, updating and migrating users accounts in Active Directory Creating and repairing users profiles  • Remote assistance and Remote desktop assisting and remedying end user issues  • Troubleshooting and repair of Microsoft Office.  • Backup and restoration of server data, re-imaging and deployment of workstations and laptops  • Resolving software, hardware and related peripheral issues  • Proficient with Remedy ticketing system Hardware and Software Installation Technician USSOUTHCOM / HARRIS IT - Miami, FL May 2010 to May 2011 - Contract  • Software and hardware technician to US SOUTHCOM project which consisted of the standup of a new datacenter to support 5000 plus users and military operations in the Caribbean, Central and South America.  • Installed and configured VMware ESXi 4.0 onto HP Proliant DL 460C Blade Servers in HP C7000 enclosures.  • Configured and monitored ESXi Servers using Remote Administration through VSphere Client while creating, deploying, maintaining and migrating virtual machines  • Troubleshoot and configured servers for network connectivity and communication on SIPR and NIPR networks.  • Setup and configuration of Cisco Unified Communications Manager and Cisco Unity. Configuration and maintenance of gateways which included the setup of user profiles, voicemail on VoIP, STE phones and fax. Installation and configuration of Cisco and Polycom Audio, Video Conferencing equipment  • Tier 2 helpdesk technician proficient with Unicenter ticketing system  • Deployed and configured PC's which included imaging, installing hardware components on PC and software for end users while providing hands on technical assistance and training to customers Desktop Support Technician - Contract THE COMPUTER MERCHANT - Miramar, FL October 2009 to April 2010 • Lead Technician for a PC Deployment and refresh at QUEST Diagnostics.  • Responsibilities include imaging, deploying and configuring new workstations, laptops, printers and installing related peripherals. Performed inventory and accountability for old and new PC's that streamlined the refresh and deployment process.  • Performed data migration, Backup and restoration of users' profiles, critical software, applications and documents.  • Provided customers with technical support for hardware/software issues which in turn increased site productivity by 75 percent in addition to effectively training team members and end users on the new software, hardware company's procedures, policies and guidelines. Technical Support Representative CLEARWIRE WIRELESS BROADBAND ISP - Milton, FL October 2008 to February 2009 - Permanent  • Technical Support Representative Tier 2 Helpdesk Technician via remote and telephone  • Troubleshooting and resolving customer calls associated with RF signal, WIMAX and 4G Networks.  • Advanced troubleshooting of wireless broadband modems, IP services, computers, wired and wireless routers, VoIP phones, email and web services. Installation and configuration of users webmail and associated services Computer Network Technician/Internship - Permanent STETSON UNIVERSITY - Fort Walton Beach, FL September 2006 to September 2008 • Responsibilities include refurbishing, troubleshooting and maintaining desktops, servers and network devices.  • Design, implementation, and maintenance of Microsoft Windows XP, Vista and Server 2003 while maintaining and establishing user accounts. Effectively training and mentored students which in turn increased productivity. Education Certification Course in CCNA , Network Infrastructure State College of Florida-Manatee-Sarasota - Bradenton, FL July 2019 to Present Advanced Networking UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX June 2018 Microsoft Certified IT Professional THE ACADEMY SOUTH FLORIDA - Fort Lauderdale, FL July 2012 to October 2012 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), VMWARE (1 year), IOS (Less than 1 year), DATA MIGRATION (Less than 1 year), MAINTENANCE (3 years), Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Customer Service, Windows 7, Microsoft Office Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E-3 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA: A+, Network+, Security+ Network+ Security+ Microsoft Certified IT Professional Microsoft Certified Certified IT Professional Additional Information • Professional experience in positions as an Installation Technician, Deployment and Migration Technician, Systems Administrator, Customer Service Representative on civilian and government contracts.  • Excellent leadership skills derived from military training and experience which includes the ability to effectively lead and motivate co-workers in addition to a creative problem-solving and solution-oriented work style, decisive and confident decision-making.  • Well-developed communication skills along with the ability to work independently and or as part of a team while developing effective client relations which in turn provides superior service and customer satisfaction.    SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL SKILLS  Design, implementation and maintenance of Windows Server Operating systems ranging from Server 2003 to Server 2012, Windows 7 through to 10. Configuration of services and roles needed for the effective administration of an enterprise environment including installation and configuration of Active Directory, backups, data migration. Virtualization installation and administration of VMware ESXI, VMware Workstation, VMware Fusion, Parallels and Microsoft Hyper-V. Installation and configuration of Mac OS X ranging from OS X 10.6 to 10.8 along with IOS devices.