Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Tacoma, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE - Tacoma, WA March 2018 to Present Serve as the Wireless Administrator for Madigan and its branch clinics.   Provides customer support on wireless and wired network systems. Fine-tune the wireless system, hardware, software, etc., to increase systems performance.   Plan for and install original or new releases of existing software for network management purposes. Plan for and installs hardware additions and/or upgrades.   Plan for and recommends IT equipment and/or system procurement, provide installation sequence and scheduling, select site locations and carry out projects to completion as required, meeting objectives and resolving problems encountered.   Work under general guidance of US Army NETCOM, US Army MEDCOM and MAMC policies, directives and regulations in performing most job functions. Utilizing judgment and experience to resolve unusual network,hardware and software problems. Interpret higher headquarters guidance and advises management of required actions. In situations requiring referral to the Branch Chief for final decision, furnishes complete information and makes recommendations for action. Presents controversial and precedent setting issues to the supervisor for discussion and resolution.   Responsible for developing and implementing all aspects of wireless network communications (WAN data connections, wired and wireless LAN communications, etc).   Responsible for developing and implementing WIPS (Wireless Intrusion Protection System) to monitor radio frequency traffic to improve the overall defense of the wireless network.  Work with Project managers and clients to develop, build, implement and support networks to achieve the clients requirements.   Work closely with Independent Verification and Validation Teams (IV&V) on further strengthening the network defense of organization. Desktop Support Analyst Lone Star Circle of Care - Georgetown, TX February 2017 to March 2018 Provided support to end-users on proprietary hardware and software related issues.  Responsible for upkeep and maintenance of the computer imaging process (MDT) and oversaw all imaging for the business.   Maintained and expanded on the asset tracking system (WASP) for inventory and life cycle purposes.   Work with site managers on selecting equipment and software based on their needs and worked with vendors to implement the solution.   Trained staff in daily operations of new IT equipment and software to enhance the users workflow.  Built metrics for leadership based on incident reports from users to find common issues and error trends and help establish plan of actions to reduce the impact.   Assist in design, develop and implementing intrusion prevention systems (IDS) and host based IDS's.   Supe Sergeant, Infantry United States ARMY 2008 to 2015 • Squad leader of a light infantry company  ? Developed leadership skills of other soldiers  ? Responsible for the welfare, fitness, morale, and discipline of Soldiers in squad  ? Accountable for the individual training and maintenance of soldiers' equipment  ? Responsible for the accountability and maintenance of equipment worth in excess of $750,000  • Primary instructor and advisor in the matters of tactics, and personnel management in unit  ? Chemical-Biological-Radiological-Nuclear subject matter expert  ? Company Intelligence Support Team Non-Commissioned Officer  ? Advised commanders on weather, terrain, enemy, and local population on friendly operations and aid in decision making  ? Supervised set-up, break-down and use of all electronic equipment Law Enforcement Officer Montgomery Police Dept - Montgomery, AL January 2013 to November 2013 Education Associates of Applied Sciences in Networking and Cyber Security Tacoma Community College - Tacoma, WA March 2016 Skills Networking (3 years), Computer Hardware (3 years), Servers (3 years), Troubleshooting (3 years), Security (3 years), Windows, Vmware, Technical Support, Active Directory, Customer Service Military Service Branch: U.S Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 June 2008 to October 2012 Sergeant, Infantry  • Squad leader of a light infantry company   o Developed leadership skills of other soldiers  o Responsible for the welfare, fitness, morale, and discipline of Soldiers in squad  o Accountable for the individual training and maintenance of soldiers’ equipment  o Responsible for the accountability and maintenance of equipment worth in excess of $750,000  • Primary instructor and advisor in the matters of tactics, and personnel management in unit  o Chemical-Biological-Radiological-Nuclear subject matter expert  o Company Intelligence Support Team Non-Commissioned Officer  o Advised commanders on weather, terrain, enemy, and local population on friendly operations and aid in decision making   o Supervised set-up, break-down and use of all electronic equipment Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ December 2016 to December 2019 CompTIA Network+ December 2016 to December 2019 CompTIA Security+ December 2016 to December 2019 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) January 2018 to January 2021 CCNA Security January 2018 to January 2021 Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) July 2019 to July 2022