Technical/Storage Support Engineer Technical/Storage Support Engineer Technical/Storage Support Engineer Cocoa, FL I was recently a Technical/Storage Support Engineer for a multi-million-dollar company. I consider myself a self-motivated ambitious person that requires little to no supervision in completing tasks on time. I have more than 5 years of professional/working experience in IT.  • Configuration and end to end installation of Cisco 1700 Series routers.  • Configuration and end to end installation of Cisco 1800 Series routers for DSL.  • Configuration and end to end installation of Cisco 2800 Series routers used for 128k circuits.  • Cisco 6509 interfacing for end-to-end 56k to 128k circuit upgrades for several locations.  • Cisco 1200 Series Access Point Configuration - Brief  • Cisco 7900 Series IP Phone setup and administration  • D-Link DES-3526 Installation, upgrade, and configuration  • Building and repairing Ethernet cabling using RJ-45 connectors.  • MCP working towards MCSE/security  • Currently preparing for the 640-821 Intro exam towards earning a CCNA  • Wireless troubleshooting and access point replacement.    • Port mirroring  • Port security  • Active Directory  • DHCP  • DNS  • Remote Access using VNC  • VPN  • Office 2003  • MS Dos  • Cisco IOS  • Linux Red Hat 9.0  • Microsoft Visio  • Windows XP  • Windows 9X  • Windows 2000  • AS400 Operation - Iseries  • Symantec Ghost  • Acronis - True Image  • Hyena  • MacOS X  • Cisco CallManager  • SAN  • Vantive  • NetApp  • CIFS  • NDMP  • iSCSI  • UNIX  • WAFL  • SAP  • Uniphi  • DFM  • NFS Work Experience Technical/Storage Support Engineer NetApp December 2007 to May 2009 Responsibilities:  • Troubleshooting SAN, Network, and Storage issues  • Use of WebEx to troubleshoot issues.  • Research and resolution of customer issues. Network Administrator/LAN Engineer - PC Support Technician ABC Fine Wine & Spirits - Orlando, FL July 2007 to November 2007 Achievements:  • Promoted to this position after 13 months  Responsibilities:  • Repairing and building employee workstations.  • Remote installation of software on employee workstations.  • Researching and ordering new equipment for the corporate office.  • Researching and ordering new laptops for employees.  • Direct purchasing contact for major companies such as PCMall and CDW.  • Setting up new e-mail accounts in Outlook  • Responsible for sorting through spam and forwarding e-mails when necessary/appropriate.  • Provide remote assistance to field employees for wireless connectivity. WAN Engineer - Level 2 Technical Support ABC Fine Wine & Spirits - Orlando, FL October 2005 to July 2007 Achievements:  • Promoted to this position after 7 months of employment.  • Promoted to 2nd on - call tech after 9 months.  • Most experienced with DSL upgrades with over 40 completed.  • Given a bonus for developing DSL changes that could be done remotely, this resulted in the company saving a large sum of money and resources.  • Created the training document which was used by the Level 2 Techs to install and configure Cisco 1242 Access Points.  • Able to complete all tasks without supervision    Responsibilities:  • Repairing problems and closing tickets that are escalated to level 2 or contacting and requesting dispatch for any issues level 2 cannot resolve.  • On call tech for a multi-million dollar beverage corporation with a 145 server domain with more than 500 nodes responsible for making after hours decisions on repairs physically or remotely using company VPN.  • Installation of network equipment at new or renovated stores including, registers, servers, routers, printers, switches, access points, and cabling.  • Cloning of registers and servers using Symantec Ghost.  • Assisting and training level 1 technicians.  • Maintaining a company vehicle, tools, equipment, and laptop.  • Installation and troubleshooting of Cisco, and D-Link equipment  • Troubleshooting and repairing connectivity for Symbol PPC8800 including Symbol Access Points.  • Creation of training documents for new techs.  • Making sure sales data is transferred properly and accurately from stores in the absence of the POS specialist. Help Desk Technician - Level 1 Technical Support ABC Fine Wine & Spirits - Orlando, FL March 2005 to October 2005 Achievements:  • Excelled in customer service  • Able to complete tasks without assistance within a short time.  • Displayed an early understanding of the configuration of the company network.  • Recommended for promotion by my supervisor.  Responsibilities:  • Troubleshooting network connectivity.  • Troubleshooting print devices including HP2300n.  • Retrieving and terminating jobs in the AS400 as needed.  • Determining problems based on vague details of PC users  • Troubleshooting IBM 4800 cash registers running Windows 2000  • Creating tickets for Store Systems (Level 2) PC Hardware Technician - College Work Florida Technical College - Orlando, FL October 2004 to March 2005 Study  Achievements:  • Commended for a job well done by my instructors and supervisor.  Responsibilities:  • Keeping lab computers in perfect working order  • Moving computers and equipment  • Network connectivity troubleshooting  • Setup and installation lab equipment including hardware and software  • Making sure resources were shared properly within the network  • Building computers from spare parts Education Associate of Arts in General Education University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL May 2013 Associate of Science in Network Administration/Hardware Florida Technical College - Orlando, FL March 2005 Microsoft Certified Professional Valencia College - Orlando, FL