Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Hornblower Yachts and Cruises Vallejo, CA Dedicated System Administrator able to respond to a wide range of challenges with a focused and  creative approach. Highly effective at problem solving and decision making. Fifteen years of progressive  IT experience. . Proven skill in quickly and effectively remedying issues to bring servers back to  functionality after crashes. Strong communication and interpersonal skills with ability to explain technical  concepts to non-technical audiences. Subject matter expert on troubleshooting connectivity issues on  LAN/WAN, Cisco routers and switches, server, mainframe applications, and hardware. Experience in  Telecommunication transmission T1, T3. Technically Savvy. Adept at solving networking, electrical and  computer technological problems. Effective and proficient at any given tasks. Work Experience Systems Administrator Hornblower Yachts and Cruises - San Francisco, CA July 2018 to Present Developed and provided controls, standards, process improvement recommendations, technical  guidance, leadership, awareness, and education on compliance and information security practices  Maintained/Monitored internal infrastructure requirements for multiple sites  Provided network support internet, intranet, LANs, WANs, and network segments  Managed datacenter infrastructure while performing routine/scheduled task for over 50 servers.  (physical and Virtual)  Provided level 3 support for POS, reservation ticketing system, and financial systems iSCSI network, and virtualization solutions  Gathered pertinent information to incorporate company's best practices  Liaison to third party vendors for installation, sales and troubleshooting  Forklifted physical infrastructure to AWS environment while recovering critical company data post  Ransomeware Attack  Installed Coast Guard approved badging/security system for multiple Port and Vessel entry points  Implemented corrective plans of action for network performance issues including availability, utilization, and latency  Established network specifications and analyzed workflow, access, and information  Introduced Cloud Back-up infrastructure and management tools to create and manage virtual  server computing environment  Analyzed complex project server issues and worked on large enterprise and business-critical  applications  Investigated automation equipment and systems to the degree required for isolation of malfunctions to specific hardware or software  Planning and Implementing Group Policy Developed topology, router and sever programming for  stimulated networks Systems Engineer Innovative Computing Systems - San Francisco Bay Area, CA June 2017 to May 2019 Managing/monitored all installed systems and infrastructure for various Law Firms  Installing, configuring, testing and maintaining operating systems, application software and system  management tools  Lead migration projects for Anti-Virus endpoint protection software for Server and Workstation  configurations Ensuring the highest levels of systems and infrastructure availability  Contributed to deliverables and metrics where applicable JR. Network Engineer Kemtah Inc, Sandia National Laboratories - Livermore, CA December 2014 to April 2017 Tracked all outstanding tickets, working closely with other team members and IT Functional groups to ensure any problems are resolved in timely manner  Provided technical support for high end technical application.(Matlab, National Instruments, Labtronics) Support 2500 PC, Macintosh, Linux computers  Microsoft Office 2003/2007, Windows XP, VPN, Active Directory, customer specific software  applications, basic telephony, Dell laptops and desktops, etc.) Provided advanced troubleshooting and problem resolution of complex network problems from end user to Server.  Manage the transition and migration of networks and development of network addressing schemes  Interacts with the Government regarding Network Engineering technical considerations and for associated problems, issues or conflicts  Ultimate responsibility for the technical integrity of work performed and deliverable content  associated with the Network Engineering area of responsibility  Provided technical support assistance and advice for Field Services Technicians. Information Technology Specialist United States Army - Baltimore, MD February 2009 to February 2014 Tracked all outstanding tickets, working closely with other team members and IT Functional groups to ensure any problems are resolved in timely manner  Maintained and configured Cisco Routers and Switches  Repaired and replaced defective switch circuit set and equipment.  Setup, repaired and troubleshot T-1 circuits and satellite communication.  Installing, testing and troubleshooting of transmission Facilities (T1, T3).  Configured and tested Cisco Intrusion Detection and tested the United States Army classified data and back-up servers.  Performs unit maintenance on multi-functional multi-user information processing systems, peripheral  equipment and auxiliary devices.  Performs input output data control and bulk data storage operations.  Transfers data between information processing equipment and systems.  Developed and documented technical procedures for future departmental reference; maintained  confidential information security in accordance with United States Army regulations  Conducting the initial wiring of the network including assembling cat5 cables and interconnecting  each device form satellite to pc using fiber optics and standard communication equipment. Education Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering Capitol College - Laurel, MD 2010 Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering Morgan State University - Baltimore, MD Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering Temple University - Philadelphia, PA High School Diploma WOODLAWN HIGH SCHOOL - Baltimore, MD Skills Active directory, Cisco, Juniper, Remote access, Tcp, Vmware, Ids, Encryption, Virtualization, Html, System development, Unix, Authentication, Firewall, Intrusion, Voip, Wireless, Mainframe, Data collection, Ms office Additional Information Skills  Telecommunication transmission protocol Infrastructure planning  wireless, VOIP, and POTS Hardware knowledge  AWS System Engineering Network development and administration  MS Office 365 Support Active Directory  Authentication Method, WIFI Remote Access, Troubleshooting  Risk, Testing, IDS, and forensics, Intrusion Reporting and documentation  Detection and Risk Management, TCP IP, IP Hardware and software installation  Addressing and Routing, Firewall and VPNS, Data collection and analysis  Encryption Technologies Windows XP: Virtualization(AWS, VMware)  Fundamentals, Share-point, Juniper Server System development and administration  Electrical Applications  Operating Systems: DOS, UNIX, Windows NT,  Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows  8.1, Windows 10, Mavericks, Yosemite, El  Capitan, HTML, C program  Application Support  Signals: Concrete and Discrete, Signal  Processing and Linear Systems  Automation of processes  Cisco Routers, Hardware Support, Mainframe,  Network Engineering, Researching,  Telecommunication