Operator Operator Operator - Resonance LLC Des Moines, IA Work Experience Operator Resonance LLC - Des Moines, IA February 2017 to Present Accomplishments:  Development of software projects including Barcode scanners, websites, and mobile applications.  Complete overhaul of Rees network infrastructure and server hardware.  Demonstration of code execution against current operating systems, web servers, and embedded systems.  ?Responsibilities:  Design, development, and implementation for a versatile array of software products.  Infrastructure maintenance, planning, engineering, management.  Life coaching, primary support for client perspective.  Extensive security testing of HTTPS, SSL, and SSH based products.  Management of proprietary systems integration and enhancement using Microsoft Technologies.  Site analysis reporting risk exposure, utilizing industry regulation and standards.  ?Research:  Penetration testing and techniques used to gain access into systems.  Secure implementations for development, and strategies that could be used against them. Project Engineer Networks Inc - Windsor Heights, IA February 2014 to September 2015 Accomplishments:  Completion of Des Moines Bolt datacenter migration as solution architect. Significantly altered network  flow of traffic correcting site to site vpn connections.  Oversaw replacement of all computers, servers, and network hardware at every location for Iowa Legal  Aid. Completion of site to site communication enabling main office to take over authentication for remote  sites. Completion of company wide offsite backup solution.  ?Responsibilities:  Complete server consolidation and migration procedures.  Conduct forensic licensing audits to regain compliance.  Plan contingencies for points of failure for designs.  Design Active Directory alternative with Red Hat based Samba 4.  Implement redundant high availability clusters.  o VMware Hypervisor, View/Horizon, Orchestrator for virtualization.  o SANs and fiber switching for storage. Project Engineer Internet Solver - Urbandale, IA July 2013 to August 2014 Accomplishments:  Enhanced remote monitoring solution optimizing 1200+ managed devices and servers.  Designated role of Project Manager with responsibility to utilize helpdesk staff for large scale projects.  Drafting procedures allowing staff to assist in complex issues otherwise outside of their comfort level.  Optimized processes requiring downtime saving time for implementation.  ?Responsibilities:  Oversaw helpdesk operations utilizing remote solution  Provide assistance accommodating client requests.  Provide consistent communication managing expectations while handling concerns.  Managed solutions for IT support in lieu of internal staff.  Planning out processes before disruptive solution implementation.  Transition critical infrastructure replacements requiring downtime.  Migrate Exchange, Windows Server and other unsupported software to current or supported versions. Contractor Modern Technology Solutions, DSM Area, IA September 2013 to February 2014 Accomplishments:  Guidance into alternative solutions increasing business reach while decreasing investment liability.  ?Responsibilities:  Daily operations of managed service clients  Business continuity planning and execution.  Project Management and implementation. Network Administrator Wright Tree Service - West Des Moines, IA June 2007 to May 2010 Accomplishments:  Completion of major project transitioning all critical infrastructure to offsite Involta datacenter.  Successfully guided company into adoption of VMware hypervisor virtualization platform.  Restored critical network services after emergency, advancing design for disaster recovery plan.  ?Responsibilities:  Manage all aspects of daily operations of expanding infrastructure.  Designed systems encouraging standardization of IT operations.  Drafted plans, policies and procedures all facets of operation; from acceptable use to disaster recovery.  Migrate aging infrastructure to VMware hypervisor platform.  Administrate Server 2003, 2008, Exchange, SQL server products. Systems Integration DMACC - Ankeny, IA March 2007 to June 2007 Accomplishments:  Given leadership role and responsibilities over migration project.  ?Responsibilities:  Migrate end user's PCs from Windows 2000 to Windows XP.  Inventory various media and computers along with other assets.  Operation of specialized programs to support students and faculty.  General configuration, troubleshooting and maintenance for:  ?Computer hardware ?Operating systems ?Cisco VoIP phones ?Other various devices. Education Associate in Information Technology Network Administrator DMACC - Ankeny, IA September 2005 to May 2007