Architecture Design and Standards Curator Architecture Design and Standards Curator Sayreville, NJ Highly skilled, versatile and innovative professional with the ability of working both in a team and independently, with quick-learning capacity and striving towards helping an organization optimize its maximum as showcased in my experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Architecture Design and Standards Curator Carnegie Center - Princeton, NJ November 2016 to May 2017 Responsibility for delivering EDC specifications within the scope of assigned projects to achieve project integrity, the delivery of on-time, quality data and Meet with data manager on assigned projects to discuss contractual obligations and timelines Network Engineer/ Administrator Theradex Systems Inc - Princeton, NJ October 2015 to August 2016 08540, USA  Designed MPLS VPN and QoS for the architecture using Cisco multi-layer switches. Configuring IP, RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP in routers. Experience with the connectivity of Cisco Networking Equipment with F5 Load Balancer. Configured OSPF over frame relay networks for NBMA and point to multipoint strategies.  Configuring IP, RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP in routers. Datacenter upgrade project utilizing Cisco Nexus data center switches (Nexus 7000, 5000. Configured SQL 2012 Server for SolarWinds Database Server and created the required database.   Experience in deploying EIGRP/BGP redistribution and the changing the metrics for the primary and backup Paths for the packet prioritization and EIGRP tuning. Experience in migration of Frame-relay based branches to MPLS based technology using a multi-layer stackable switch like 6500 series and 2800 series router.   Experience in deploying EIGRP/BGP redistribution and the changing the metrics for the primary and backup Paths for the packet prioritization and EIGRP tuning. Experience in migration of Frame-relay based branches to MPLS based technology using a multi-layer stackable switch like 6500 series and 2800 series router. Configured OSPF over frame relay networks for NBMA and point to multipoint strategies. Experience configuring Virtual Device Context in Nexus 7000 series switch.   Experience with the connectivity of Cisco Networking Equipment with F5 Load Balancer. Switching related tasks included implementing VLANs, VTP, STP and configuring on Fast Ethernet. Monitored all Cisco equipment's using Cisco Works.  Experience with virtualization technologies such as VMWare and Open Stack cloud platform. Application Implementation – Enhanced remote access through installation and configuration of VPN, Remote Desktop. Remotely Anywhere, PC Anywhere, VNC, and NetMeeting. Established Help Desk using MS Access Database & Produced management report of help desk activities. Provided all technical support including remote access for mobile employees and telecommuters. Network Surveillance Technician (NOC) Verizon Wireless - Cellular & More (Adecco Staffing) - Bridgewater, NJ December 2014 to September 2015 Verizon Wireless NOC (Adecco Staffing),  Testing of remote network elements in monitoring systems of the NOC. • Installed and configured Cisco routers 2800 in two different customer locations. Troubleshoot and Worked with Security issues related to Cisco ASA/PIX, Checkpoint, IDS/IPS and Juniper Netscreen firewalls, ASA/PIX, Checkpoint, VPN 3000 Concentrator.  Also, configuration includes frame relay, BGP and VPN tunnel on GRE  *Utilizing fault management tools to prepare checklist to record testing sessions. Maintain compliance with the network directive for testing standards.  *Monitored network alarms, and performed fault isolation testing on radio and switching networks and peripherals such as Juniper Netscreen firewalls, ASA/PIX, Checkpoint, VPN 3000 Concentrator, Creates and responds to work orders and trouble tickets by either conducting restoration efforts or dispatching the appropriate technician for resolution.  *Determine fault group and document reason for faults in failed tests. Escalates trouble tickets with third party vendors such as power and Telco companies.  *Route failed testing to responsible parties to responsible parties for resolution. Troubleshoot and Worked with Security issues related to Cisco ASA/PIX, Checkpoint, IDS/IPS and Juniper Netscreen firewalls.  *Utilizes telephone and trouble ticket database to notify Technicians of alarms and equipment outages. Analyzing system trouble to isofective equipment, logging issues in the trouble reporting system.  *Reporting/ escalating outages to field personal and management to restore equipment to service.  *Answers incoming telephone calls to NOC and refers appropriately. Detects and analyzes environmental alarms and escalate alarms.  *Worked on applying new technical skills to support the interdepartmental objectives including: effectively communicating and escalating alarms ensuring quick resolution; utilizing a network management system via computer terminals to detect environmental alarms; completing trouble tickets to document alarms; and answering incoming telephone calls to the NOC. Network Administrator-entry level Cmed Technology (Tech Observer) - New Providence, NJ November 2010 to November 2012 Directed IT Team supporting the firm's core business of developing diagnostic and clinical trial database software for clinical trials. Special projects and day to day responsibilities include:   • Provided all technical support for staff, including mobile access for traveling employees and telecommuters   • Researched, recommended, installed, configured and supported all data, network and voice capabilities including Ethernet LAN, Cat 6 cabling, ISDN connections, ISP services and PBX   • Installed, configured and supported NT and Exchange servers, maintained the in-house website using MS Frontend.   Worked on team that planned and created Cmed 1st LAN Structure   • Managed group responsible for corporate LAN/ WAN and desktop Hardware/Software installations as well as support of all application, database, file, print, fax, servers, including a Unix server for the payroll department Education Master's in MS Information Assurance and Cyber security Capella University - Minneapolis, MN April 2018 to Present BS degree in Information Technology Management Berkeley College - Paramus, NJ Lincoln Technical Institute - Edison, NJ Skills Advance TCP/IP Knowledge (7 years), Load Balancing (6 years), Network Management (5 years), Network Security (4 years), Application Troubleshooting (4 years), User Migration (4 years), Firewall Management (4 years), Routing Protocols (4 years), Windows Deployment (3 years), Microsoft Windows User Experience (5 years), Networking, Windows, Active Directory, Technical Support, Microsoft Office, security, access, Vmware, Windows 7, Mac Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2017 to August 2020 CompTIA Security+ Certification CCNA September 2017 to September 2020 CCNA Routing and Switching certification ITIL September 2017 to Present ITIL® Foundation Certificate in IT Service Management Additional Information Experienced with Installing and Image Deployments, Virtualization e.g. VMware, Hyper-V. Examined operating system functions and computer architecture, help desk, technical support, web technologies, Hands-on PC troubleshooting, repair and maintenance, Fortinet firewall: NGFW, Palo Alto Firewall: NGFW, Network Inspection Engine: IDS and IPS Configurations Engine, Network security policies using ACL based on network requirements. IPsec (site-to-site VPN, Remote Access VPN) in both Palo Alto and Fortinet firewall.     Networking concepts: LANs, WANs, Network protocols, topologies, transmission media, security and TCP/IP, Server: Syslog Server, VMware server, Implemented and administered DNS, DHCP, Remote Access, Network Protocols, MSC (Mobile Switching Center), NAT Configuration, call servers and media gateways, HLR (Home Location Register), BSC (Base Station Controller), LTE wireless network, EVDO, CDMA 1X, BTS (Base Transceiver Station), RNC (Radio Network Controller), Node B, wireless location services equipment, digital cross-connects, and an assortment of adjunct and peripheral systems, and transport. Worked on Load Balancer F5 LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications and their availability    Managed, monitored and optimized the desktop environment using Group Policy. Designed Microsoft Windows 2008 to 2016 Active Directory Service architecture. Studied security solutions (access control and auditing, authentication, encryption) experience with data protection software, e.g. CommVault, Symantec, EMC.   Cisco Catalyst switches (6500, 4900, 3750, 3500, 4500, 2900 series). PIX Firewall […] ASA Firewall […] Cisco ACE Load Balancers   Routing Protocols: RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, IS-IS, BGP, HSRP, VRRP & GLBP   Infrastructure services: DHCP, DNS, SMTP, FTP, TFTP   LAN technologies: Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet and 10 Gigabit Ethernet, Port-channel, VLANs, VTP, STP, RSTP, 802.1Q   WAN technologies: Frame Relay, ISDN, ATM, MPLS, leased lines & exposure to PPP,   DS1, DS3, OC3, T1 /T3 & SONET   Network Security: NAT/PAT, Ingress & Egress Firewall Design, VPN Configuration,   Dynamic, Reflexive ACL, and authentication AAA (TACACS+ & RADIUS)   Network Management: SNMP, Cisco Works, Wire Shark   Platform: Cisco IOS-XR, Cisco Cat OS, Cisco IOS (11.x, 12.x), PIX IOS (6.x, 7.x), CAT-OS UNIX, LINUX