Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Samsung SDSA Palisades Park, NJ Around 4 years of experience in network integration, deployment and troubleshooting. Extensive knowledge in configuring and troubleshooting Layer 3 Interior Gateway Routing protocols such as OSPF, EIGRP & RIP and Exterior Gateway protocols such as BGPv4 including Tier-2 ISP Routing Policies and Firewalls. Good understanding in configuring Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN) with IEEE 802.1Q, VLAN trunking protocol (VTP). Experience in managing services in a cloud environment such as VMware. Good experience in handling and assessing risks and create the best plan to mitigate the risk. Work Experience Network Engineer Samsung SDSA June 2016 to Present Manage network devices such as switches, routers, firewalls & load balancers related to the VACC Hybrid Cloud network in a multi-vendor, multi-protocol environment hosting many important services such as Samsung's E-Commerce service which handles the entire online shopping experience, Samsung SDS Korea's object storage & cloud portal services, Samsung SDSA's SAAS & Conference Room services, etc. Daily operations of virtual network appliances such as NSX edge services gateways, distributed logical routers in a micro-segmented environment built with VMware NSX. Troubleshoot all network related issues and liaise with teammates and vendors for resolution and come up with mitigation plans for the future. Participate actively in all meetings and conference calls with clients and vendors related to current or new projects. Also, involved in 24x7 on-call support as part of a scheduled rotation with other team members.  Responsibilities:  • Deploy TCP/IP networks and configure routing and switching services and provide them to tenants. Also, deploy additional services like load balancing, VPN, SSL-VPN as per the requirements.  • Configure Layer 2 and Layer 3 routing & switching protocols on different network devices comprising of Arista 7000 series switches, Cisco 3500 series switches and multi-layer virtual components such as NSX Edge appliances, distributed logical routers, virtual switches and distributed firewall.  • Provision isolated networks for customers through VMware NSX.  • Troubleshoot & support network issues in production related to the physical and virtual ends of the network.    • Administration of Secui NXG & MF2 firewalls including application and deletion of firewall rules by processing service requests from ITOSS/IT4U ticketing system, following up with security checklists for audits.  • Monitor and analyze firewall logs for troubleshooting purposes.  • Experience with installation & configuring PRTG Network Monitor for network devices, hardware, virtual machines. Also, setup monitoring & alerting using scripts in PRTG custom sensors based on the requirements.  • Implement and monitor vSphere environment including vCenter service management such as profile, network, security & storage.  • Work with team to analyze hardware, storage and networking requirements to build a VMware environment with vSAN & NSX to migrate existing services from the obsolete HP hardware & accommodate new customers.  • Configure a service and back-end network utilizing Arista DCS-7050SX and DCS-7010T switches to accommodate the new VMware environment installed with ESXi 6.5U2, NSX 6.4.1 and vSAN 6.6  • Administer and execute API calls to VMware NSX using the RESTful API on a daily basis to perform tasks such as deploying NSX Edge services, working with rules on the NSX distributed firewall, creating logical switches and security groups, etc.  • Configure an isolated L3 network for storage using Arista DCS7050SX switches to implement Dell EMC SC9000 iSCSI & Dell NAS storage to replace the existing HP LeftHand storage for higher capacity & better performance.  • Part of ongoing project to migrate servers and respective networking from production to new environment. Work closely with clients & teammates for reconfiguration of tenant isolated networks in VMware NSX and make routing & firewall in the physical network for successful migration.  • Experience with installation & use of VMware vRealize Automation, Operations, Network Insight & Log Insight for monitoring and to extract reports.  • Design and configure network to implement AWS-VMC PoC with Direct Connect using BGP to connect with AWS VPC and VMware cloud. Documented performance reports of various parameters for network & storage to compare with current production.  • Design & configure network for CommVault backup implementation for production.  • Assist in network design and configuration for multiple VMware Horizon View based VDI projects in different locations for use in the office and other customers.  • Test and implement Duo Security's MFA solution complying with security standards for customers accessing VDI environment through the internet.  • Document information of all infrastructure and client services such as physical and logical network diagrams, and also record any design or configuration changes related to the network devices, hardware and virtual machines.  • Comply with ITSM change control procedure for all simple and standard change plans.  • Provide 24x7 on-call support to help with troubleshooting of production issues. Jr. Network Administrator Marusa Technologies December 2013 to July 2014 Work closely with other network administrators and system manager to ensure stability, smooth and efficient operation of various internal and external client services running on the production network. Underwent on-the-job training for the first month to gain experience and orientation to work on the equipment and tools related to the environment following the company's policies and requirements.  Responsibilities:  • Operational experience with L2/L3 network infrastructure such as Cisco 1811, 2811 routers & Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3550 switches.  • Perform monitoring to verify the availability and integrity of the network equipment.  • Analyze & document network parameter characteristics like bandwidth usage, latency, jitter, etc on a periodic basis for performance tuning.  • Coordinate with teammates to install new equipment, perform upgrades and resolve issues.  • Maintain updated documentation of the network topology, cable plan, IP address allocation and network devices.  • Built an in-house lab environment for testing of different network protocols, services to suggest changes in existing design and for use-cases in the future. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering State University of New York at Buffalo - Buffalo, NY August 2014 to February 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering RVR&JC College of Engineering - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh August 2010 to April 2014 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Networking Devices: Cisco 1800/2800/2900 series routers, Cisco Catalyst 2900/3500/3550/3750 series switches, Arista 7000 series switches  Firewalls: SECUI NXG, SECUI MF2  VMware: vSphere, VMware NSX, VMware ESXi 6.0 & 6.5, vSAN, vRealize Operations, Log Insight, vRA  Layer 2 Protocols: IEEE 802.1q, VTP, STP, RSTP, PVST+, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP  Layer 3 Protocols: BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, IS-IS  VPN: IPsec, L2 & SSL VPN  Monitoring Tools: PRTG Network Monitor, vRealize Network Insight, PingPlotter, Wireshark, NetFlow, WhatsUp Network Monitoring  Operating Systems: Cisco IOS, Arista EOS, Windows Server 2012, Ubuntu, RedHat, CentOS  Microsoft Office: Excel, PowerPoint, Visio  API: Restful API  Ticketing System: ITOSS, IT4U, IOPS