Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Computer Information Systems Graduate Canyon, TX Currently a Computer Information Systems major seeking for the opportunity to help achieve my goals by learning all that is necessary to be the best for my employer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Cargill Meat Soultions - Friona, TX May 2019 to August 2019 Network Administrator responsibilities included managing/maintaining over 200 admin and plant PC’s, over 100 switches, over 50 HP and Cannon Printers and over 100 Kronos Time Clocks, all while also being the Sites IT Helpdesk for any admin employee issues. These issues include anything from Microsoft Office to any Plant System Applications that was needed to run the plant. Site Contact responsibilities included, being the main contact for Friona Cargill Plant. The site contact would receive calls from Headquarters in Minnesota, Protein Corporate in Wichita and any other Plants around the world, if these sites needed information or if there were any meetings regarding network upgrades all site contacts around the world would meet via Skype Meetings to discuss any issues or plans. Network Administrator Intern Networks - Amarillo, TX February 2019 to May 2019 The foundation of Internet, worked with installing and maintaining networking system applications and hardware for clients such as installing ethernet ports, switches, patch panels, access points etc. Also resolved any IT related problems that was given, including Microsoft Office, Windows 7 and 10 issues and many other software related problems. IT INTERN GOLDENSPREAD ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE June 2017 to January 2019 Using knowledge and skills of technology, ensured current employees would have no trouble with their computers. Problems that would occur in the company are first responded by the IT team. Jobs included re-imaging and upgrading from windows 7 to windows 10, basic and expert IT help desk support. Web Developer West Texas A&M University - Canyon, TX April 2017 to August 2018 Used various skills to create and maintain WT websites which included HTML, Javascript, CSS, Velocity and PHP by using Cascade Management System. Created www.wtamu.edu/it Education BBA in Computer Information Systems WEST TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY - West, TX Present Skills APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT, C#, FRONT-END, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, Windows, Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Windows 7, Customer Service, Vmware Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kfjf1mfzmz8grbmz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills & Abilities    • Web Application Development  • Front-End Web Languages  • HTML 5  • JavaScript  • WordPress  • CSS  • SQL Database Systems  • C#  • Cascade Management System    • Microsoft Office  • Troubleshooting  • IT Help Desk  • Microsoft Windows  • Communication Skills  • Organizational Skills  • Problem Solving Skills  • Native Fluency in Spanish  • Customer Satisfaction