Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - U.S. Marine Corps Fresno, CA Network engineer with 5 years of experience. CompTIA Security+ certified. Offering a comprehensive background in Cisco routing and switching solutions, network engineering, network administration, satellite communication technologies, and team management. Proficient in planning, configuring, maintaining and optimizing, small to large LAN/WAN network infrastructures. Critical thinker with proven troubleshooting skills. Capable of articulating technical information for a non-technical audience to ensure all parties reach mutually desired goals.    • Secret security clearance  • Innovative personality  • Critical thinker    • Cisco routing and switching  • Customer service  • Leadership skills    • Communication skills  • Network security  • Problem solver Work Experience Network Engineer U.S. Marine Corps April 2019 to Present • Responsible for designing, configuring, maintaining, and optimizing enterprise networks that support the purpose, lifecycle, and account for growth and expansion.  • Regularly monitored network health utilizing SNMPv3, Netflow protocols, software-based tools like SolarWinds and Wireshark and hardware-based tools such as Fluke and VIAVI T-BERD network analyzers to optimize network performance.  • Routinely provided thorough network documentation accounting for network maintenance, changes, updates, configurations, and network topology documentation using Microsoft Visio to Chief Technical Officer (CTO). Help Desk Supervisor U.S Marines Corps Deployed September 2018 to April 2019 • Selected by upper management to lead a team of 10 with SPMAGTF as the Help Desk Supervisor. My team and I maintained an enterprise level network, integrating Marine networking technologies with Army networking technologies while configuring redundancy and fail-over.  • I Oversaw 2,000 staff-hours dedicated to the creation and management of 1200 network email accounts, 600 user accounts, and the successful servicing of 700 trouble tickets. Overall my team managed domain services for a combined 1500 users, including mailboxes, shared storage solutions, and DNS.  • I led the restructuring of network topology to eliminate unnecessary equipment and update network devices to increase the networks performance and cost efficiency. Network Administrator U.S. Marine Corps December 2017 to September 2018 • Troubleshooting, and resolving complex and day-to-day problems with routers, firewalls core switches, layer 2 switches, Cisco VTC systems (video teleconferencing), Cisco CUCM in a LAN/WAN.  • Resolve all IP and voice issues quickly to avoid downtime to ensure compliance with the users Service Level Agreement and organizational goals for no less than 300 end users and at most 1500.  • Deployed a SolarWinds server, created network maps, monitored bandwidth utilization, analyzed network traffic, optimized QoS policies, implemented automated network configuration backups, assessed network vulnerabilities and generated detailed network statistics and reports for our network architects and Chief Technical Officer. Technical Controller U.S. Marine Corps December 2015 to December 2017 • Effectively communicated the status of the network to supervisors as the department representative during communications status briefs.  • Assigned to the Aviation Network Operations Center (ANOC) as a shift lead; supervised a team of five in 24-hour operations of multifaceted enterprise-level network management.  • Implemented multiple redundant links into already existing network infrastructures to provide WAN services to remote sites.  • I have established multiple fully encrypted tactical networks meeting the National Security Agency requirements for High Assurance Internet Protocol Encryption. Education Basic Electronics Course Electronics School February 2015 to December 2015 Fresno City College January 2014 to June 2014 California State University Fresno August 2012 to June 2013 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, NETWORKING, firewalls, Security, VPN, LAN Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/josevillegas-na Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sgt Certifications/Licenses Security+ October 2018 to October 2021