Cyber Security Analyst Cyber Security Analyst Network Administrator San Diego, CA Dynamic, highly technical, hands-on Cyber Security Analyst with a wealth of knowledge and experience maintaining secure networks, establishing best practices surrounding cyber security, and solving complex problems in the field. Deploy innovative hardware and software solutions that often exceed stakeholder expectations. Configure and customize computer operating systems that support all aspects of the business. Routinely analyze and recommend improvements to firewalls and other cyber security initiatives. Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst U.S. Navy - San Diego, CA July 2017 to July 2019 Routinely assessed the security posture and status of Naval Cyber Networks. Collected data and transformed relevant metrics into comprehensive reporting for the senior leadership team.  Key Achievements:  -Proactively determined ways to improve future defensive measures for the Naval Network. Deployed new products and solutions that enhanced security and efficiency across the board.  -Executed Cyber Security Posture Assessments that clearly outlined the current security status of the Naval Network. Published readiness reports that supported critical decision-making processes.  -Actively provided guidance and troubleshooting/problem-solving support to DoD customers. Slashed the average turnaround time to respond to support calls. Network Administrator U.S. Navy - Norfolk, VA August 2014 to June 2017 United States Navy/U.S.S. George H.W. Bush – Norfolk, Virginia   Directly supported the infrastructure, firewalls, databases, malware protection software, and other hardware/software for the United States Navy and the U.S.S. George H.W. Bush. Effectively and collaboratively led a team of 25 talented IT professionals.  Key Achievements:  -Constantly monitored the performance of the system and network, proactively identifying areas of concern. Quickly responded to helpdesk requests, decreasing the average turnaround time.  -Configured, troubleshot, and updated client-based computer operating systems. Optimized the functionality and availability of the network, software, and other hardware components.  -Boosted end-user satisfaction by educating and empowering the user-base with information through training and informational user guides. Education Master's in Public Administration Ashford University - San Diego, CA January 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Information Technology Managment Trident University International - Cypress, CA February 2016 to July 2018 None Skills Cyber Security, Comptia, It Security Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Certifications/Licenses Security+ July 2019 to July 2022 Linux January 2019 to Present