Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Woodstock, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Discord August 2016 to Present Responsible for administrating social media platform with 750+ active users.  ? Coordinated with many moderators, delegated responsibility, and preformed disciplinary action.  ? Required quick judgement, proactive intervention, de escalation, conflict resolution.  ? Prevented multiple data breaches and maintained security of confidential information. Pharmacy Technician Kroger May 2017 to July 2017 Became a Georgia board of pharmacy certified Pharmacy Technician.  ? Operated Rx Systems Eyecon counting machine, point of sale systems, and EPRN pharmacy software.  ? Responsible for rapid and accurate filling of prescriptions, verification of documentation, and speedy data entry. America - Eagle Scout Boy Scouts of America May 2013 to May 2013 Elected Senior Patrol Leader 3 years, responsible for organizing and instructing a group of 20 peers in weekly  meetings, construction and cleanup activities, formal ceremonies, and community service projects.  ? Required leadership, adaptability, problem solving, organization, attention to detail,  ? Designed, secured funding and labor, negotiated materials, and secured zoning permits for a 4,000 square foot  outdoor charity construction project with a 4 month deadline.  ? Completion of service project resulted in obtaining rank of Eagle Scout, only obtained by 4% of all Scouts. Education Bachelors of Science in Biochemistry Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA August 2013 to May 2018 Skills EXCEL (10+ years), MICROSOFT WORD (Less than 1 year), X-Ray crystallography (4 years), NMR spectroscopy (4 years), IR spectroscopy (4 years), UV-VIS spectroscopy (4 years), PCR (3 years), PAGE (3 years), Plasmid purification (3 years), Restriction Digests (3 years), Elisa (3 years), Chemistry, CPR Certifications/Licenses Sterile compounding Active State Board of Pharmacy Registered Technician Additional Information Skills    BASIC programming, some experience with Neural Networks and Markov Chain generation, Microsoft Word and Excel,  Laboratory analytical and computational techniques.    Highly experienced in X-Ray crystallography, PCR & RT-PCR, PAGE, NMR, IR, and UV-Vis spectroscopy. Proficient in Plasmid vector genome modification, DNA cloning, Restriction digests, Plasmid purification, Protein-Protein interaction Yeast-II hybridization. Successfully cultivated genomic library of phosphorescent E. Coli bacteria via mutagenesis. Studied in undergraduate research into experimental nucleotide combinatorial techniques known as REPSA under Dr. Michael Van Dyke.    Awards  Zell Miller Scholarship recipient.  Inducted into Phi Lambda Upsilon Honorary Chemical Society.   Founding member of Kennesaw State University chapter of American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.