Service Desk Technician Service Desk Technician Service Desk Technician | Network Administrator Tampa, FL Experienced and driven service desk technician seeking employment as a customer support administrator. Provides leadership, experience and proven effectiveness to accomplish tasks and the business vision. Actively engaged Army Veteran with 5 years of experience in DoD environments. Experienced team leader with collaboration skills working with others to resolve issues. Highly skilled in providing quality customer services and impacting the customer with drive and focus on both team and individual based tasks. Experience includes significant knowledge and expertise on network devices, computers and software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Service Desk Technician U.S. Army - Fort Carson, CO September 2018 to Present 40 hours +/week)    • Ensure all users completed mandated IA (Information Awareness) training and maintained records of training.  • As the Life Cycle Replacement manager, corresponded with other teams to integrate new computers and hardware for the U.S Army that were at the end of use and tested each systems to ensure the process of integration went smoothly.  • During CST (Cadet Summer Training) Assumed lead technician role to provide support on over 5,000 incidents, ranging from touch labor, personnel management and account creation.  • Experienced with network troubleshooting for end users.  • Maintained network infrastructure for over 30 buildings.  • Assisted tech support processes and implemented improvements to increase efficiency and customer satisfaction.  • Promptly responded to customer service emails within standard window for optimal response. Network Administrator U.S Army - Baumholder, DE July 2015 to July 2018 40Hours +/week)    • Lead Network system administrator for the 504TH Brigade signal company, Worked on six cisco switches and router, 16 VoIP's, Cisco Unified Call Manager (CUCM).  • Trained Teams on network architecture on minimal baseline knowledge on equipment.  • Administered a wide array of systems to include Video Teleconference’s (VTC), Tandberg’s, Cisco VoIP’s Phones, Dell and HP Laptop and printers.  • As lead for the communication team, developed systems operation documents for network stand ups in forward environments, to include establishing communication security with Taclan (KG175D), establishing network neighbors with Cisco 2950 routers and Cisco Catalyst Switches.   • Lead Information Management (IMO) – Directly responsible of maintenance up keep for local systems of 50+ always maintained and upheld the IA policy by ensuring all updates were up to date along with being on the network.  • ATCTS Information Assurance manager - Ensuring all training was done for the company and all paperwork were up to date within systems for user’s system and work station.  • Performed quarterly and annual audits to ensure all users were up to date and were tracking  • Developed training aids for less experience.  • Ran network cables as needed along with training others on how to make and crimp STP/UTP Ethernet cables.  • Used Active Directory to ensure users and systems were actively within verification of the status of the accounts.  • Determined and alleviated hardware, software and network issues. Education High School Diploma Gateway High School 2014 Criminal Justice Central Texas College Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CATALYST, CISCO, TCP/IP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-jimenez-2767a5186/ Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SPC Certifications/Licenses CompTia Security+ August 2017 to August 2020 Assessments Customer Focus & Orientation — Proficient June 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hqwrfvlvebjxgj8u Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  • Cisco Catalyst Switches and Routers  • VoIP's Administration  • TCP/IP Stacks  • Video Teleconferencing (VTC)  • Active Directory administration /permission management  • PKI certificate management  • Strong verbal and written communication.  • Excellent time management.    • Adobe Acrobat Reader  • PuTTY  • Windows 7/10 Familiarity  • Managed and budgeted equipment worth $7million  • Communicates complex technical issues to users in relatable terms.  • Leadership/ Management Skills  • Self-management  • Logical reasoning.