Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Newport, NC Dedicated and eager to learn Network Administrator with five years of technical expertise and development in the United Stated Marine Corps. Possesses an active Secret Security Clearance. Retained a wide range of technical skills to include designing, testing, implementing, troubleshooting, and managing large scale networks. Was identified as a networking Subject Matter Expert, Network Chief, and was recently awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal for performing above and beyond all expectations. Work Experience Network Administrator United States Marine Corps - MCAS Cherry Point, NC October 2017 to Present • Successfully established and maintained 3 large scale networks in accordance with strict demands and security requirements.  • Was identified as a subject matter expert for a team of 17 Network Administrators.  • Developed and implemented 32 Cisco router configuration templates, 2 Fortigate firewalls, and 12 encryption devices providing secure network connectivity to over 900 users for a large scale exercise.    Individual Achievements  • Generated and reported a solution to a reoccurring Network connectivity issue between Marine Corps and Air Force systems.  • Developed a CCNA level training document and walkthrough for new and future Network Administrators  • Coordinated directly with Cisco representatives and Network engineers to redesign the company router configuration standard for mesh topologies. Resulted in fully dynamic and easily scalable network architecture for future network designs. Technical Controller United States Marine Corps - MCAS Cherry Point, NC September 2014 to October 2017 • Responsible for records and maintenance management of network assets collectively worth over $3M.  • Responsible for establishing and scaling wide area networks by integrating routers, switches, and various types of transmission mediums.  • Provided media conversion, timing, and encryption for reliable and secure links.  • Was a key player in fault analysis, troubleshooting, and developing disaster recovery procedures. Education High school or equivalent Skills Microsoft, Active Directory, Cisco Routing and Switching, Firewalls, Telecommunications, Helpdesk/Technical Support, EIGRP, BGP, RIPv2, Static, IPSEC, GRE, DMVPN, VRF, Encryption, Port Security, Technical Support, Windows, Customer Service, Networking, Microsoft Office, Security Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Corporal Awards Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal 2019-05 For performing above and beyond all expectations as a Network Chief in support of Weapons and Tactics Instructor course 2-19. Assumed a billet reserved for at least two pay grades above his own, and lead a team of 17 Network Administrators providing secure, and reliable LAN and WAN network connectivity to over 800 users spanning across 12 individual locations. Letter of Appreciation 2016-02 Department of the Navy, Pentagon  Director, Strategic Spectrum Policy  "It is with great pleasure that I convey my sincere appreciation for your support in the collaboration and testing of the Marine Corps tactical radio relay (TRR).  Your technical expertise was instrumental to the overall success in the strategic effort to characterize co-channel interference between the Marine Corps TRR and Long Term Evolution (LTE) cellular operations. Your tireless efforts contributed to strategies that will lead to the best methods to employ reliable and secure communications in evolving complex electromagnetic environments.  Your diligence and keen sense of responsibility in the performance of duties reflected great credit upon yourself, and is in keeping within the highest traditions of the United States Armed Forces." Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ro-7vj9vytzlokcg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.