IT Systems, Network Administrator IT Systems, <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator, Network Administrator Reynoldsburg, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems, Network Administrator PAE APPLIED TECHNOLOGY - Biloxi, MS June 2015 to December 2018 Job Responsibilities:  Managed the IT department and several employees. Lead IT Projects Manager and coordinated several large  IT projects. Worked with the Bases Projects and Plans division on closing out several IT projects. Provided  overall group analyses on all IT projects being conducted by the teams within my department. Managed  Active Directory on 3 separate networks NIPR, Local Domain (Private ISP for Corp. Computers), and Industrial Controls System (ICS) Enclave. Perform password resets on applicable systems. Controls,  manages, and maintains US Government Management Information System (MIS) and Government provided  personal computers. Analyzes, installs and configures applications; troubleshoots network problems, and monitors and evaluates system performance. Performed Information Assurance in mitigating information  spillages. Worked with Base Com and Air Force Civil Engineer Command (AFCEC). Made configuration  decisions and responsible for the Information Assurance (IA) controls for both Platform IT Interconnections  (PIT) and (PITI) systems in accordance with DOD 8570.01-M. Reviewed, modified, and edited the Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository (EITDR). Document and track system configurations  for each CE-owned, operated, and maintained ICS throughout the system life cycle. Sent and annual ICS  Security Status Report to the MAJCOM ICS FAM. Designed ICS Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP), Incident  Response Plan (IRP), Contingency Plan (CP), System Security Plan (SSP). Configure and maintain Private  ISP for Corp. Network, and Infrastructure. Managing and maintaining the WSUS, WDS, Bitlocker, Web,  Network Share, DC and backup DC servers. Maintain the ePO, and ACAS servers for the ICS Enclave.  Controls, manages, and maintains PAE Management Information System (MIS) and Government provided  personal computers. Develops and provides documentation of the system specifications, including system  scripts, system installation procedures, system backup and recovery techniques and system test methods.  Conducts and provides cost/benefit analyses for new proposed program modifications, methods, and procedures. Establishes operational databases, software configuration controls and system interfaces for  computer system(s) assigned. Reviews proposals, recommends a course of action, and prepares  specifications for IT projects and associated efforts. Develop, implement, and maintain policies, procedures, and associated training plans for network resource administration and appropriate use. Validate users'  designation for IT Level I or II sensitive positions. Ensure that IA requirements are integrated into the  Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) for that system or DOD Component. Ensure that IA inspections,  tests, and reviews are coordinated for the CE. Participate in an IA risk assessment during the Certification and Accreditation process. Collect and maintain data needed to meet system IA reporting requirements. Education Signal School Fort Gordon GA Information Technology Specialist School - Little Rock, AR Skills CISCO (5 years), Data Integrity (10+ years), DHCP (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Security (5 years), VMWare (5 years), Active Directory (10+ years), Windows, Technical Support, Networking Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 March 2003 to August 2014 Medically Retired. Commendations: Disabled Veteran Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ April 2009 to Present Security+ June 2009 to Present Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES:  Network Systems Security, Data Integrity/Recovery, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 (R2), Active  Directory and Group Policy, PC Hardware/Software support, LANDesk support tools and service desk,  BMC's Remedy/Footprints ticket tracking software, VMware, Hyper-V, Solarwinds Dameware, DHCP,  DNS, WSUS, Bitlocker (TPM), WDS  Platforms:  Microsoft Windows OS Vista/Windows 7/8/10, Server 2003, 2008, 2012, (R2)  Networking:  TCP/IP, Routers, Switches, Firewalls (Cisco), Routing (RIP, EIGRP, OSPF), Ethernet, Fiber Optics.  Tools:  IIS, MMC and Snap-Ins, Network Monitor, Solar-Winds, DC Diagnostic tools, Microsoft System internal  tools, Flukes, Line Testers, Ohm Meters.  13+ years IT Experience with Computers/Servers/Wireless and Local Area Network Systems