Associate Technical consultant Associate Technical consultant Assistant Network Administrator Valley Stream, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Technical consultant Excellence Delivered - Faislabad January 2018 to September 2018 As a associate technical consultant , i was monitoring and maintaining the computer systems and networks within an organisation in a technical support role. If there are any issues or changes required, such as forgotten passwords, viruses or email issues, i was the first person employees will come to.    Tasks can include installing and configuring computer systems, diagnosing hardware/software faults and solving technical problems, either over the phone or face to face.    Most importantly, as businesses cannot afford to be without the whole system, or individual workstations, for more than the minimum time taken to repair or replace them, my technical support is vital to the ongoing operational efficiency of the company.  I could work for software or equipment suppliers providing after-sales support or companies that specialize in providing IT maintenance and support. Alternatively i can work in house, supporting the rest of the business with their ongoing IT requirements.    tasks which i have done.  *Virtualization ESXI  • Working with customers/employees to identify computer problems and advising on the solution  • Working with field engineers to visit customers/employees if the problem is more serious  • Testing and fixing faulty equipment Assistant Network Administrator SAP Department of Punjab Beverages Company PVT Ltd August 2014 to April 2016 My job was installing and assembling the computers and their network in LAN.    Expert Command Over:  IP Networks especially in Cisco routers 2800 and 3600 series and Cisco switches (catalyst) 3550 and 3560 and 3700 series (MLS).    • Use knowledge of WAN to design and maintain the network.  • Equipped to troubleshoot bugs in the miss-configuration of the devices.  • Routing protocols RIP/OSPF/EIGRP/BGP.  • Manage, troubleshoot, and maintain network convergence.  • NAT/PAT.    Command on Windows server 2008 R2:  • Domain controller  • Additional Domain controller  • Windows deployment service.  • Windows media service.  • Threat management Gateway (TMG).  • Outlook  • Computer hardware and software management.  • Manage Computer hardware and software installation.    Responsibilities:  • System support /Help desk functions/service desk.  • Configuration of windows server 2003.  • Configuration of windows server 2008 R2.  • Active directory management.  • Installing and configuring computer hardware, software system, networks, printer sharing and scanners.  • Talking to clients and determining the nature of problems.  • Backup user data, domain joining add user and configure user profile pst backup.  • Handle outlook problems.  • Installation of Linux open Suse operating system  • Installation of window's operating system  • Installation and maintenance of CCTV cameras  • CCTV monitoring  • Troubleshooting of computers  • Troubleshooting of Networks  • Support of Networks  • Network Cabling  • Trouble shooting of Linux systems  • Ms word, Ms Excel, Ms Power Point, Ms Visio  • The reconstruction of data center Education Bachelor in Information Technology Virtual University of Pakistan 2008 to 2013 Skills Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Active Directory, Microsoft Office, Mac