Helpdesk Technician Helpdesk Technician Helpdesk Technician - Keller Williams Realty International Austin, TX Work Experience Helpdesk Technician Keller Williams Realty International - Austin, TX May 2018 to Present 40 hrs/week)  Supervisor: Brett Decker (512) 439-8688    I currently work full-time at Keller Williams Realty International as a Helpdesk Technician while I attend college part-time. My daily duties consist of supporting 350-400 users with standard desktop support including but not limited to: application and hardware troubleshooting, managing Active Directory accounts and permissions, inventory of equipment, email troubleshooting, and other technical items as needed.  I consider myself excellent at conflict resolution and problem solving as it pertains to customer service. I interface with dozens of departments and third-party vendors and am responsible for prioritizing and solving issues in a timely manner to ensure company success.  Working in tandem the Sys Admin team, I have been the first line of user contact to troubleshoot most issues. I have gained experience administering Google and Office 365-housed mailboxes, as well as managing accounts and licenses for all software our company uses. In my first week with the company, I was able to successfully transition into my position as they began an email migration to Office 365 and phone migration to Dialpad, without any training. Using Confluence in Jira, I have created over 5 new documented processes with detailed instructions in my short stint here. My team is also responsible for inventorying and ordering new materials and equipment. I have effectively budgeted for $35,000 allowed monthly spending in the time I have been here. I have also coordinated with my co-workers on a system inventory spreadsheet, documenting order dates, warranty expirations, serial numbers and the users the systems were assigned to. This document is used to issue new laptops and equipment to users after a 3-year period and easily view warranty information. On the hardware side, I have plenty of experience in basic hardware laptop repair and troubleshooting, eliminating downtime needed to have the manufacturer do the repairs.  Regarding project management, our company has several events a year which requires proper advanced planning and execution when onsite. Working with various vendors and venue staff, I have been able to coordinate and implement audio/video/networking solutions with little, if any, issues. Systems Administrator Gruene Technology Group - New Braunfels, TX November 2015 to Present 40 hrs/week)  Supervisor: Matt Robison (325) 374-5659    While working as a Systems Administrator with Gruene Technology Group in New Braunfels, Texas; I have working knowledge in and was responsible for administering Active Directory and a network infrastructure in an organization with hundreds of users. I managed and maintained all printers, copiers, and multifunction devices connected to various client network environments. I maintained and updated standard operation procedures, network diagrams, and Office 365 SharePoint Online and Exchange Online documentation.  I am experienced in using ticketing systems, specifically the Solarwinds MSP Manager, to track my personal workload as well as record outages and various types of user support that pertain to each customer. I oversaw the installation and troubleshot new desktop and server hardware, software applications, automated policies, and peripheral devices on the Local Area Network (LAN) as they interact with servers and switches (mainly Ubiquiti but have experience with Cisco and HP), and routers, coordinating assistance from third parties and vendors when necessary. I add and maintain users on the network, assigning application access, ensuring security and maintaining their configurations and permissions are within organizational standards. I am experienced in detailed network analyzation and testing equipment to ensure timely and error-free communication links to isolate causes of network degradation and outages.  I am vastly experienced in the installation, configuration, maintenance, monitoring, and troubleshooting of network devices and application server hardware, operating system software, and peripheral network equipment such as routers, firewalls, and network interface cards. Working with a small team of technicians, I often handled complex trouble tickets by myself and am resourceful in finding timely resolutions if I cannot get assistance from my peers. Data Chief - Georgian Liaison Team United States Marine Corps - AF 2014 to 2014 Supervisor: GySgt Kevin Collins Cyber Network Operator United States Marine Corps - KW 2013 to 2013 Supervisor: SSgt Devin McGinty Cyber Network Operator 8th Communication Battalion - Camp Lejeune, NC 2011 to 2012 During my 4 years In the Marine Corps, I was tasked with 2 billets mentioned above. Below is a summary of my duties across these two billets:  Overall, I was solely responsible for the installation, configuration, maintenance, monitoring, and troubleshooting of network devices and server hardware, operating system software, and peripheral network equipment such as routers, firewalls, and modems used in Marine Corps tactical networks. I have also added and maintained users on the network, assigning application access, ensuring security and maintaining their configurations and permissions within standards.  I have conducted routine network and equipment testing of equipment and network to ensure efficacy and compliance before moving in to a production environment. On many occasions, I have performed and documented routine backups of system configuration and information stored. Routine duties included adhering to information assurance policies and procedures in accordance with federal regulations, supervising and maintaining system security, as well as guarding sensitive and classified information. I have always used excellent communication and follow-through skills while working with users by phone, email, and in person; many times, personnel supported were in different time zones, countries, and continents.  I have worked on installation and troubleshooting new desktop/server hardware, software applications, automated policies and peripheral devices on the LAN/WAN, to include switches and routers; coordinating assistance from third parties when necessary. This led me to become experienced in detailed network analyzation technology such as WireShark packet sniffing. I have also participated in both formal classroom and over-the-shoulder training on wide array of communication systems to include servers, routers, switches, as well as network concepts and network security protocols in both a production and classroom/lab environment.  From a project management perspective, I assisted in the accounting of and maintenance of over 27 million dollars of communications equipment (switches, routers, servers, satellite terminals, etc.), often located in different countries, as well as embarked on various naval vessels across the world while deployed to the Middle East; furthermore, I did the same with 35 million dollars' worth of telecommunications equipment across 4 accounts when I returned from my deployment. I have routinely safeguarded proper transportation, storage, and accountability of sensitive information.  As a supervisor, I directed daily tasks to increase productivity and improve proficiency, conduct, discipline, and work ethic; accounted for and tracked mandatory and voluntary training to increase professional development; and mentored up to 10 team members, providing guidance, knowledge, and responsible for their professional development. Education associate degree in Business Administration Austin Community College 2018 to Present High School Diploma AC Jones High School 2010 Skills Active Directory, Customer Service, Security, Windows 7, Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Vmware Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eel0wosrfbxbw5q4 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Broad knowledge base due to wide array of networks supported over the last 6 years (Military and Commercial) • Experienced in responding to trouble calls and network outages in a high-stress environment quickly  • Experienced leader with formal leadership and communication training • Successful in learning and comprehending new systems, methods, applications, and programs  • Experienced with management of Active Directory and User Management, Exchange server, cloud management systems • Self-driven and can complete assigned tasks in a timely manner  • Experienced with Office 365 tenant administration • Several years of experience with delivering excellent customer service