Network Control Technician II <span class="hl">Network</span> Control Technician II Cisco Certified Experience Network Technician Altamonte Springs, FL Organized and focused Network Analyst seeks employment as part of a dynamic IT team. Well-versed in cutting-edge technologies, as well as telcom operations and systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Control Technician II Apex Systems/Sprint - Orlando, FL March 2019 to Present Perform Tier 3 support for the Sprint Airave and eFemto devices, including hardware level troubleshooting as well as network level.  • Changed device configurations as necessary to facilitate a stable working environment for a customer’s cellular coverage and securing access to the device  • Worked with multiple teams to isolate and resolve network layer customer problems  • Enterprise Femtocell installation and maintenance support  • Configured RF output for optimal coverage and accurate scope design for the location that the device is service coverage into  • Network load balancing for multiple femtocell devices   • Performed remote software upgrades on all femtocell devices  • Customer support and consultation for proper implementation of LAN/WAN, Configuring Cisco switches for QoS, VLAN and DHCP services.  • Customer consultation for configuration & maintenance of implementation of voice routing and configuration of VOIP over 3662 &1750 routers.  • Configuration of H.323 VoIP, EIGRP, RIP1, RIP2 protocols. Troubleshooting voice, video and data based traffic on CISCO IOS 11.x and later.     Accomplishments  I was hand picked to be apart of the support team for Sprints roll out of Water Polo, voice over wifi call application used to on iOS devices.     Skills Used  Critical thinking, troubleshooting, report recreation, time management, and orginization Network Administrator Walt Disney Parks and Resorts - Kissimmee, FL May 2018 to September 2018 I use monitoring tools to investigate potential issues or respond to monitored events.    I maintain excellent communication with the Managed Services Operations Manager and supervisors on all tasks and projects. I communicate with customers, peers, team, and managers regarding an incident, request and change management. I create and maintain technical documentation.    I interact with telecommunication, hardware and software vendors and operate on the customers’ behalf to drive resolution of issues while providing regular progress updates to any incident stakeholders. Service Desk Analyst E-Support Lockheed Martin - Orlando, FL October 2017 to May 2018 Perform a variety of duties in support of end users for IT hardware and/or software break/fix support, engaged to support end user WIN 10 Migrations. Under general supervision, required collaboration with technical and managerial staff. Technical Care Specialist Bright House Networks - Orlando, FL September 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities  I was expected to be available to take calls, be productive, and engage in positive interactions. I created customer loyalty by serving as a brand spokesperson while demonstrating a variety of selling techniques resulting in sales of our products and services.  I identified customer’s needs by asking clarifying questions to effectively promote products and services. I would then articulate the features and benefits in a competitive environment through successful negotiations.  I take a variety of calls while providing a unique customer experience which exceeds their expectations and needs.  I have to be willing to adjust and adapt to all aspects of the business in an ever changing work environment. I understand goals, how they are measured, how to reach them, and work with others as necessary to achieve them.  I are able to demonstrate dependability, flexibility and sound judgment. This is achieved by adhering to schedules and meeting all productivity, quality and performance standards. In addition, I am expected to take ownership of my own actions and of the customer’s experience.  I take action to proactively learn new information, report customer impacting concerns, think outside the box on customer resolutions and share best practices with others.    Accomplishments  I was a member of network trends team, responsible for identifying outages within the network. I was added to this team in my first month on the watch floor and was the only new hire on the team.     I also received kudos from customer every month I have been with Bright House Networks, for having exceptional customer service skills and for solving there issues quickly.    Skills Used  Sales, Troubleshooting, Network knowledge, Voice over IP knowledge, Customer Service, Brand Promotion Computer Operator II ManTech International - Sierra Vista, AZ June 2014 to 2016 Responsibilities  I support Government testing and evaluation of telephone systems, data systems, video teleconferencing systems, satellite systems, and associated equipment. Assist test analysts with data analysis and reduction of raw data for inclusion into test reports. Developed daily test status and meeting notes. Incorporated comments from technical editors into documents such as Test Plans, Reports, and Certification Letters.    Skills Used  Critical Thinking, Problem Management, Technical Knowledge, Land Navigation, Time and Equipment Management, Troubleshooting, Organization, Operation Planning Network Control Technician Ericsson - Orlando, FL September 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities  Perform Tier 3 support for the Sprint Airave and eFemto devices, including hardware level troubleshooting as well as network level.  • Changed device configurations as necessary to facilitate a stable working environment for a customer’s cellular coverage and securing access to the device  • Worked with multiple teams to isolate and resolve network layer customer problems  • Enterprise Femtocell installation and maintenance support  • Configured RF output for optimal coverage and accurate scope design for the location that the device is service coverage into  • Network load balancing for multiple femtocell devices   • Performed remote software upgrades on all femtocell devices  • Customer support and consultation for proper implementation of LAN/WAN, Configuring Cisco switches for QoS, VLAN and DHCP services.  • Customer consultation for configuration & maintenance of implementation of voice routing and configuration of VOIP over 3662 &1750 routers.  • Configuration of H.323 VoIP, EIGRP, RIP1, RIP2 protocols. Troubleshooting voice, video and data based traffic on CISCO IOS 11.x and later.     Accomplishments  I was hand picked to be apart of the support team for Sprints roll out of Water Polo, voice over wifi call application used to on iOS devices.     Skills Used  Critical thinking, troubleshooting, report recreation, time management, and orginization Shipping Clerk \ IT Support Mid-Florida Freezer - Apopka, FL April 2014 to August 2014 Responsibilities  Shipping Clerk, I was responsible for insuring that the correct paperwork for each shipment was completed quickly and correct prior to the shipment leaving the facility. I was also responsible for front office break fix of all automated equipment ( Desktop Computers, Laser Printers, Terminals, telephone system and windows migration from XP to windows 7 ).    Accomplishments  Due to my versatility I was allowed to flow from dock worker to IT support to office worker with in the first two weeks of working with this company.    Skills Used  Time Management, Working Quickly, Problem Management, Critical Thinking, Technical Knowledge, Orginization Network Administrator II ESP, LLC. - Baghdad April 2009 to April 2011 I was responsible for monitoring, maintaining, and troubleshooting tactical and non-tactical defense network and servers. I was responsible for daily checks on local and distant end devices with in our network. I coordinated controlled outages with the Joint Netops Control Center–Iraq. I also assisted with inventory and accounted for all system and sensitive items. Received extensive training in Effective Communications, Logistics, Harris Network Radio operations and troubleshooting, proper installation procedures for communications equipment in tactical and non-tactical enclosures to include Quality Assurance Testing. Coordinated and conducted Fielding of Radio over Internet Protocol Routed Network (RIPRNet) equipment OCONUS. Education Associate in Computer Science Seminole State College of Florida - Sanford, FL August 2016 to June 2020 Associate in General Studies University of Maryland University College Europe - Doha 2007 to 2008 High school or equivalent in High School Cedar Hill High School - Cedar Hill, TX 1999 to 2002 Skills Network Administration (5 years), Routers (5 years), Switches (5 years), Cisco, NOC, Cabling, Networking, Telecommunication, Data Center Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 June 2005 to October 2008 Responsible for the installation, operation and maintenance of automatic switchboards.Electronic switching systems, red switches, or telephone central offices. Perform Tier1and 2 support wired and wireless users. Troubleshoot problems and thoroughly and accurately documenting problems and solutions. Also, route tickets based on support provided instructions in an accurate and timely manner. Certifications/Licenses Cisco CCENT March 2018 to March 2021 CCENT certified professionals have the knowledge and skill to install, operate, and troubleshoot a small enterprise branch network, including basic network security.