Sr. Network Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Network Administrator - Champlain College ? Experienced as Linux/Windows System Administrator in Red Hat Enterprise Linux, SUSE Linux, CentOS,windows server.  ? Linux Professional Institute Certified System Administrator.  ? SuSE Certified Linux Administrator.  ? Planning, Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Administration Linux and windows servers and day to day system admin tasks.  ? Installation of patches, Security fixes, packages on Linux Servers and windows servers.  ? Worked on Group/User administration, Startup & Shutdown Scripts, Crontabs, File System Maintenance, Backup Scripts and Automation.  ? Experience in working with VMware ESX servers for enterprise level virtualization.  ? Experience in configuring, monitoring and troubleshooting various file systems like Ext4, reiserfs, NFS,NTFS..  ? Use ILO/HMC for remote access of servers.  ? Working experience with Active Directory and exchange servers.  ? Experience with appassure backups and iaso backups.  ? Experienced in using GIT and SVN.  ? Writing shell scripts for System administration and updating them in the Cron.  ? Have strong knowledge of ITIL processes for the administration of servers.  ? Knowledge of networking (TCP/IP, Ethernet), FTP, SFTP, SUDO, NFS, DNS, DHCP and RAID levels.  ? Administered shell interfaces, groups/user accounts, login scripts, and kernel patches & updates.  ? Worked in the environment practicing agile and used tools like Rally and Jira to manage day to day tasks.  ? Good communication skills, working without supervision, working in a team environment. Work Experience Sr. Network Administrator Champlain College July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Oversee day-to-day operations of the network, including the administration, monitoring and troubleshooting of network,phone systems,virtual infrastructures and servers.  ? Implement and Support virtual environment using hyper v.  ? Patch and upgrade windows server.  ? Work with Sonicwall router to help configure PCI Compliant network and firewalls on those routers.  ? Regularly Scan and create a PCI compliance reports on various network equipment and fix any network security glitch.  ? Use Nexpose to scan the network equipments and servers and fix the security related vulnerabilities.  ? Manage and maintain Gsuite and use Bettercloud to maintain the google accounts.  ? Successfully migrated user data from one compellent device to another.  ? Active Directory(AD) administration and management.  ? Maintaining and managing AD group policy.  ? Managing office365 and Azure AD and it's cloud component.  ? Successfully implemented ADConnect to sync the users from on premise AD to Azure AD.  ? Monitored trouble ticket queue using Request Tracker ServiceDesk ticketing system.  ? Monitored and maintained logs using AD Audit plus.  ? Maintained various manage engine products like Selfservice, Password Manager Pro and Servicedesk.  ? Managed phone,phone queues and voicemail using Cisco Call Manager and Cisco Unity. Systems/ Network Engineer ClearBearing October 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Working with more than 10 businesses around vermont giving consultation and providing IT support.  ? Administration and monitoring of Centos5.x,6.x,7.x servers and windows 2008,windows SBS and windows 2012 servers.  ? Patch and upgrade linux and windows server.  ? Server monitoring and administration using nagios.  ? Exchange server and Sharepoint upgrades on windows SBS servers.  ? Active Directory(AD) administration and management.  ? Configure and maintain DHCP server and VPN servers.  ? Maintain and optimize the vmware infrastructure for maximum performance and flexbility.  ? Administer AWS cloud based Virtual Machines.  ? Administer and maintain xenservers using Citrix Xencenter.  ? Linux kernel, memory upgrades and swaps area and performed CentOS7.x Kickstart installations.  ? Create network diagram and proper data flow diagram to help customers recognize their need in terms of infrastructure.  ? Work with fortigate router and pfsense and help configure SSL VPN and firewalls on those routers.  ? Configured splunk and routed all logs to the splunk.  ? Worked with HP and Cisco switches to help troubleshoot the network related problems.  ? Configured VLANs on vmware and citrix xencenter environment.  ? Provide tier 1 support for any help desk related queries.  ? Perform backups using R1Soft.  ? Work with elastix VOIP phone system and helped configure PBX configuration.  ? Provided support by 24x7 shift rotation basis and pager support.  ? Monitor trouble ticket queue using Request Tracker RT ticketing system.  ? Experience deploying the KVM virtual machine and RHEV. System Administrator / DevOps Engineer Vivox / Mercer Road Corp May 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Working on maintaining, administering,updating and supporting the backend infrastructure and technology of voice services integrated in over 100 games with more than 80m users worldwide.  ? Administration and monitoring of Centos5.x,6.x,7.x servers.  ? Orchestrated the Upgrade of Elasticsearch1.x,Logstash1.x and Kibana3.x to Elasticsearch2.x,Logstash2.x and Kibana4.x  ? Server monitoring and administration using xymon and cacti.  ? Use the revision code source code repositories in particular SVN and trac for code review.  ? Use Jenkins for Continuous integration I and Continuous Development.  ? Use Vmware to virtualize the development environment.  ? Write puppet modules and manifests to automate the applications deployment and maintain the infrastructure consistency.  ? Linux kernel, memory upgrades and swaps area and performed CentOS7.x Kickstart installations.  ? Maintain and support MariaDB and MySQL databases.  ? Provided support by 24x7 shift rotation basis and pager support.  ? Monitor trouble ticket queue using Request Tracker RT ticketing system, attended team meetings, to update installation progress, and for upcoming production changes in environment. Platform Support Engineer Thomson Reuters September 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Provide Point of escalation Contact for 2nd level application and infrastructure troubleshooting.  ? Administration of Linux, Unix and Windows servers.  ? Perform user administration using LDAP.  ? Supported Authentication,Access and Administration part of the application.  ? Defined, designed,recommended proactive and reactive solution that effectively return measurable results.  ? Being a member of the Technical Recovery Team to resolve severe incidents and escalation to Management followed with Post Incident Review of Work Process &Instructions.  ? Analyzing & defining problems using tools like Kibana ,Hanu, Splunk and ElasticSearch for Root Cause Analysis and update entries to the Known Error Database.  ? Performed effective scoping of work, meet goals, collaborate, delegate or escalate to other team as appropriate with minimal oversight or assistance.  ? Implemented production changes such as application deployments, software upgrades and bug fixes to increase system reliability and performance using tools like nolio, jenkins and rundeck.  ? Logged tickets and kept track of incidents on service manager and jira board.  ? Writing, validation and vetting of documentations (Operation Runbook, Support Manual, Work Instructions, Check List, Known Errors and Deficiency List). System Administrator / DevOps Amplify Education September 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Directly worked with Product lines and developers; support product line releases and troubleshooting issues.  ? Administer and maintain CentOS and RedHat servers across several environments including Development, Continuous integration, Preprod and Production.  ? Administered and maintained configuration management system bcfg2 and jenkins to automate the server configurations.  ? Maintained and updated jenkins servers and slaves.  ? Used cobbler and kickstart methods to automate the server provisioning.  ? Used GIT and github to control and maintain version.  ? Used Vmware to virtualize the environment.  ? Used 3par storage to provision SAN volumes to the servers.  ? Monitored servers and applications performance using Nagios, Ganglia, Splunk, PagerDuty and Pingdom.  ? Performed the server and storage upgrades in the servers.  ? User Group administration and advanced file permissions.  ? Performed Hardware upgrades (Memory, Network interface Cards, Hard Drives .. etc).  ? Practiced Agile, participate and contribute in Scrum activities like standup, retrospective,review and planning using Rally and Jira.  ? Managed systems using remote consoles like DRAC for Dell Hardware. Unix/Linux/SLES System Administrator Centaurus Technology Partners LLC May 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Administered, maintained SLES 9,10,11, Red Hat 4.0, 5.0 CentOS 5.3/5.4 troubleshooting hardware, operating system, applications & network problems and performance issues.  ? Created users, manage user permissions, maintain User & File System quota on SuSE Linux, Red Hat Linux, CentOS.  ? Upgraded SuSE Linux from version 10 to 11.  ? Migrated the storage for various Linux servers from C X4 architecture to NS series.  ? Deployed latest patches for, Linux and Application servers us using SuSE Manager and performed Linux Kernel Tuning.  ? Implemented celerra to provide NFS mounts to different servers.  ? Installed and implemented 3 Node Cluster for Oracle RAC.  ? Implemented virtualization using VMware in Linux on HP-DL585 and vblock.  ? Linux kernel, memory upgrades and swaps area and performed Red hat Linux Kickstart installations  ? Implemented day-to-day tasks in SuSE Linux and Red Hat Linux that include upgrading rpms, kernel, HBA driver, configuring SAN Disks, multipathing and LVM file system  ? Implemented PAM LDAP on the entire environment.  ? Manage systems using remote consoles like ILO for HP Hardware.  ? Setup network printers and installed client/server applications. Defined/setup network protocols, Network File Services (NFS) in Linux systems.  ? Provided support by 24x7 shift rotation basis and pager support.  ? Monitored trouble ticket queue to attend user and system calls, attended team meetings, change control meetings to update installation progress, and for upcoming changes in environment.  ? Experienced with Incident Management and Change Management using Remedy.  ? Experience with ITIL procedure.  ? Updated data in inventory management package for Software and Hardware products.  ? Worked with DBAs on installation of RDBMS database, restoration and log generation.  ? Worked with SAP Basis team on installation of infrastructure required for different modules of SAP.  ? Participated in Data Center Migration and Disaster Recovery setup for the environment. Education Masters in Engineering Management in Engineering Management St. Cloud State University - Saint Cloud, MN December 2013 Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Tribhuvan University - Kathmandu, NP May 2009