Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Work Experience Network Administrator ARK Solvers - Miami, FL June 2018 to December 2018 Managed small to medium sized businesses in Miami-Dade and Broward using platforms such as Cisco Meraki, Unifi Switches, Windows and Mac OSx, and Auto-Task. Provided remote support to troubleshoot user issues ranging from password reset to VPN connection setup, taking notes and documenting results of said issues. Did on-sites when required to setup, troubleshoot, and/or install devices such as printers, desktops, laptops, and other related devices. I also worked on installing operating systems to company standards, preconfiguring switches and routers, and Access Points all in-house before going to sites for initial setup. Worked with vendors to do any troubleshooting or installing and configuring software/hardware for client's needs. Network Administrator Hamilton Financial Group - Hollywood, FL May 2015 to June 2018 Managing and monitoring the network infrastructure on-site that consisted of 2 Windows Servers, Sonicwall Firewall, 3 switches, with around 15-20 computers joined to a domain. Solving problems of different users who uses software's such as QuickBooks and Adobe Reader Pro as they come and responding swiftly to provide a solution. Planning and implementing the future and current needs of the network infrastructure as well as providing assistance with their phone system provided by Avaya. Helping the company to achieve their business goals and keeping costs low through I.T. IT Tech Agent IT DOCTORS - North Miami Beach, FL October 2014 to March 2015 Worked in the repair shop on client computers and when needed I would go to either to businesses or residential areas working on servers or host machines performing installations, upgrades, configuring, or troubleshooting any issues. Also worked on client computers remotely via remote access software. Commission Sales Associate /A+ Computer Technician Tiger Direct - Aventura, FL January 2013 to October 2013 Selling products, services and solutions by getting to know customers and helping solve their unique end to end needs and asking lifestyle questions to thoroughly understand customer needs, offers relevant services, solutions, and accessories so customer can make informed decision to complete their purchase. And I spent most of the time in the tech bench doing computer repairs, take-ins, and telephone troubleshooting. Geek Squad Tech Agent Best Buy - Aventura, FL November 2008 to July 2010 Working in the precinct with a team of tech agents, repairing and servicing customer's computer or technology according to the company services. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Broward College Present Associate in Science in Network Service Technology in Network Service Technology Broward College - Davie, FL