CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE ADMIN CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE ADMIN CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE ADMIN/Office 365 Alpharetta, GA I am dedicated, self-motivated, passionate IT professional who is expertly experienced in IT Network Support, Application Support, Server Administration and Storage Management. My objective is to use my skills, experience, desire to improve, and adaptability to obtain a position where I am constantly challenged. My greatest strength is my ability to walk into a new environment and be functional immediately while never letting a challenge get away. I am quick to learn and have constant drive to learn more. If I do not know something I take it upon myself to become the best at that skill by using provided resources or eLearning. I adapt to new situations, configurations and technologies quickly. My previous employers would describe me as reliable, self-motivated, strong leader, with a desire to improve my skill and become an asset for the company. I am a strong asset to any company I work for as I am dedicated and have a strong track record with customers. Since August 2014 my customer surveys were 98% satisfied with the level of service and professionalism they received from me. I am currently working towards my CCNA and certification in IT Security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE ADMIN CSI Laboratories November 2018 to March 2019 • Responsible for creating and deploying cloud-based ticketing system.  • Developed and deployed backup/archive of entire infrastructure.  • Provided Help Desk services ranging from password reset/printer add to provisioning new desktops. This led me to create a WSUS/SCOM/SCCM/Deployment server and a major AD cleanup.  • Migrated servers to Microsoft Azure Cloud and created DMZ.  • Migrated Servers to Exchange 2016 and Office 365.  • Upgraded 200+ Users to Office 365.  • Assisted CTO in hiring local staff to manage Cloud Systems and trained new staff on Office 365/Cloud. SERVER ADMINISTRATOR NORFOLK SOUTHERN RAIL ROAD January 2018 to November 2018 • Provide high-end engineering and technical support for all Voice & Fax, C-Cure 9000 (badge access software) related HPE Servers.  • Automate processes using PowerShell.  • Upgrade and Migrate the environment for Right Fax, C-Cure, and NICE.  • Heading up all hardware, firmware, and software related issue due to my experience with HPE and the ProLiant server series.  • I am responsible for maintaining all 175 physical servers (Mostly HPE ProLiant or Dell servers) and 225 virtual servers in our environment. I am the SME for Right Fax, C-Cure 9000, and NICE as well as our HPE server SME.  • My responsibilities include but are not limited to provisioning new servers, installation, configuration, troubleshooting, maintaining the servers, network devices, software, and other infrastructure related devices/software.  • On a daily basis I am monitoring the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources and performance, application health and performance.  • I am responsible for launching and deploying our latest project to stop all unexpected shutdowns, network disconnects, and unexpected reboot of servers by updating the firmware and ROM for all servers I am the SME for.  • I also launched another project to setup the ILO port and return all Avocent (remote management external device) back to our headquarters to be decommissioned. I was able to inform the management of the cost savings as well as the fact there is a better management port built right into the servers. I am currently updating all firmware and configuring all 175 servers to use the ILO port.  • Create Power Shell scripts to automate simple tasks and save time and money for Norfolk. STORAGE ENGINEER HPE January 2017 to January 2018 • Provide high-end engineering technical support to medium and large business utilizing enterprise & mission critical class Storage Area Networks (SAN) technology and iSCSI & Fibre Channel Storage Solutions.  • Common troubleshooting task includes hardware/software failure diagnosis and repair, performance analysis, and resolve connectivity issues between Linux, Windows, and VMware host, and switch fabric & storage.  • Recommend and confirm best practices and supported configurations of server O/S, HBA?s, Fibre channel switches, and disk arrays  • Elevate/Escalate cases to Level II & III engineers if needed. Remotely assist HP field engineers with troubleshooting.  • Provide high-end Storage Area Network (SAN) remote technical support for small to large business and data centers for enterprise & mission critical customers.  • Troubleshooting task includes software/hardware failure diagnosis and repair, performance analysis, connectivity between host (Linux, Windows, and VMware), also connectivity between switches and storage.  • Complete firmware upgrades; elevate cases to level II and III engineers if needed.  • Remotely assist HP field engineers with troubleshooting.  • Product specialization in HP Enterprise Virtual Arrays (EVA), Brocade and Cisco Fibre Channel Switches, 3Par StoreServ 7000 and Point of contact for IBRIX File Storage System.  • Active Directory User Setup for Windows Server 2003, 2008, and 2012.  • Reconfigured update services for servers, desktops and antivirus  • Provide network support to clients in accordance with the terms of their existing service contracts NETWORK ENGINEER CLOUD July 2015 to March 2017 • Setup and configure routers, switches, phones at numerous sites for different clients  • Deployed Cisco Switches and Routers for Cloud Environment, on premises for Customers environments.  • Responsible for monitoring and maintaining Network including Switches, Routers, and Virtual Routers.  • Used PowerShell for automation and configuration management, setup permissions, kill processes, add/remove permissions  • Configured Cisco and Avaya phones making sure employees voice mail and extensions are setup  • Support numerous applications, software and Operating Systems (SAP B1, Sage, Red Hat Enterprise, Citrix, VMware)  • Physically installing new equipment including computers, network equipment, servers, mounts, etc.  • Troubleshoot and resolved issues for all level employees/customers  • Level 3 Customer Service support for all internal/external employees/customers  • Performing installation, repairs, upgrades and backups on all devices  • Providing remote support or over the phone assistance in resolving Cloud hosting performance, configuration or consulting issues  • Reinstalling operating systems (Windows 7, 8)  • Installing software as required  • Troubleshoot various technical issues  • Remotely configure or troubleshoot desktop, laptop, server issues  • Designing, deploying and migrating and supporting critical multi-site redundant network environments  • Liaising with third party partners and suppliers to ensure that faults are resolved within the correct time frames and to agreed SLA?s  • Providing network support to complex WAN and LAN networks  • Prioritizing and troubleshooting complex network and system issues, ranging from low-level hardware right through to application level. THYSSENKRUPP ELEVATOR August 2013 to July 2015 • Remote/onsite installation and configuration of new equipment including computers, network equipment, servers, mounts, etc.  • Installed, configured, and responsible for Network Administration on Brocade Sw and Cisco Router.  • Install OS, firmware revisions, drivers, patches. (WSUS)  • Used PowerShell for automation and configuration management, setup permissions, kill processes, add/remove permissions  • Installing Cisco routers/switches  • Troubleshoot various technical issues  • Install & perform Moves/Adds/Changes to telephone/IP PBX systems  • Cabling managing all installed work  • Mount various mounts, TVs, monitors, etc. as required  • Install network cabling as necessary  • Documenting all work, time, and technical details of customer sites in our ticketing system  • Work with/at the direction of Service Desk Agents, Managed Service Engineers, and Project Managers NETWORK TECHNICIAN CREEKVIEW GROUP May 2010 to February 2013 2015  • Deployed and Cisco Routers/Switches for startup company.  • Administrator for customer and company network.  • Create documents in support database to empower my team with newly found resolutions  • Performs tasks associated with remote diagnostics, problem solving, installation assistance and system modifications  • Provided support of Printing systems - printers, fax, scanners  • Manage All Mobile devices (blackberries, android, IOS, Windows)  • Configured Outlook email accounts  • Used PowerShell for automation and configuration management, setup permissions, kill processes, add/remove permissions  • Configure Cloud Hosting environment and monitor network usage  • Troubleshoot and helped users with export software application issues  • Served as the primary support for System Administration duties and activities for Server hardware,  • Microsoft Server related products and operating systems such as Windows 2003/2008  • Provided solutions for escalated complex technical issues, configurations, administration and system performance concerns including networks, VoIP, firewalls, WIFI environments, SQL Server, Exchange and Microsoft platform applications.  • Oversaw SharePoint Portal Server infrastructure, user access and application deployment - taking the lead role in implementing SharePoint across the organization. Support the installation, configuration,  • security, operation, and maintenance of all web portal servers, equipment, and software related to  • SharePoint infrastructure  • Performed data analysis using PowerShell and VB script. Education Cisco Network Specialist LANIER TECHNICAL COLLEGE 2018 Skills Azure, AWS