Desktop Support Technician Desktop Support Technician El Paso, TX Customer-focused Desktop Support with 5 years of experience with a broad spectrum of computer operating systems applications and hardware. Exceptional customer service and communication skills; consistently conveys competence and concerns to end users. Strong ability to effectively multitask and to perform with a sense of urgency for rapid issue resolution.    TECHNICAL SKILLS & CERTIFICATIONS  - CompTIA A+  - CompTIA Network+ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Desktop Support Technician Texas Health and Human Services Commission - El Paso, TX September 2018 to May 2019 -          Responded to requests for technical assistance in person via phone and remotely for the following technologies: Windows OS, Surface Pros, Caretrackers, Kiosk, Smartphones (IOS) Citrix and O365.  -          Accurately recorded, updated and documented requests using Remedy ticket system.  -          Created and maintained an inventory, support documentation for the team based from fixes found during troubleshooting issues, as well as installation guides for software.  -          Installed new data lines, workstations and updated map layout with new ports  -          Worked with Active Directory creating user accounts, modifying permissions, password resets and unlocking accounts.  • -          Performed iOS configuration and troubleshooting. Support Services I City of El Paso January 2018 to May 2018 January 2018 - Present  El Paso, Texas    - Serve as the primary point of contact for over 6,000 city employees.  - Provide IT Support through effective ticket resolution, proactively anticipating customer needs, and working with internal teams to ensure complex and escalated issues are resolved.  - Manage user access rights by creating, managing and disabling user accounts in Active Directory and city applications.  - Troubleshoot and diagnose problems with city applications and operating systems to include W7, W10, Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange and Office 365.  - Support and troubleshoot network printers, scanners and mobile devices.  - Escalate tickets as necessary to the proper department for additional support. Campus Specialist - IT HARMONY SCHOOL OF INNOVATION - El Paso, TX July 2017 to December 2017 - Installed, configured, tested, maintained and monitored end user workstations, software/hardware and networked peripheral devices  - Developed and maintained an inventory of all IT assets to include desktops, laptops, Chromebooks, IPads, printers and network equipment  - Responsible for maintaining the School's website with the latest news and events  - Managed AD accounts, network rights, and access to Campuses Desktop Support BOEING - El Paso, TX March 2017 to July 2017 - Diagnosed and resolved Microsoft Windows (Windows 7 & 10) hardware and software problems  - Installed and configured new PC hardware and software on desktops, laptops and peripherals  - Developed, prepared, test and deployed hard drive images  - Performed basic computer wired and wireless network troubleshooting  - Maintained a high level of proficiency in using helpdesk systems and tools  - Developed, documented and effectively communicated job processes, procedures and techniques  - Tracked and maintained personal computer equipment inventories Systems Administrator, ARMA GLOBAL El Paso, TX July 2016 to November 2016 - Part of a dynamic team of six contractors that supported two thousand end users in various locations in Afghanistan.  - Delivered technical support over the phone or on site to users on multiple Department of Defense networks.  - Administered FSMO roles, including Files Shares, DFS, Exchange, Print Server, Active Directory and Skype for Business Server.  - Escalated problems that cannot be solved at tier 1 or 2, to higher support utilizing Remedy ticketing system.  - Active Directory configuration, administration, and troubleshooting.  - Installed, configure and administered various Cisco devices including Cisco VoIP's and 3750 switches across 3 classifications of networks Technology Field Specialist Clint ISD - El Paso, TX April 2015 to June 2016 - Maintained and administered a Windows-based server network, with a combination of physical and virtual servers.  - Designed tested and implemented group policies for Students and Staff.  - Installed and managed LAN Access Points at campuses and LTE Access Points in buses.  - Participated in technical research and testing of new software  - Provided technical support over the phone and onsite throughout the School District.  - Student labs, assisted Apple users and resolution to standard supported applications: MS Office 365, Browser programs and supported proprietary applications and systems Network Specialist Workforce Solutions Borderplex - El Paso, TX January 2014 to March 2015 - Responsible for monitoring, operating, managing, troubleshooting and restoring to service end user systems that had authorized access to the network.  - Managed Active Directory, which involved creating and modifying accounts, establishing permissions, resetting passwords, and ensuring proper access to network resources such as file shares and printers.  - Identified, isolated and repaired computer equipment showing wear and tear as well as preventative maintenance routines.    Work Study, American GI Forum-National Veterans Outreach Program April 2013 - December 2013  El Paso, Texas    - Assisted Veterans with job searches, resumes and job applications.  - Provided secretarial and administrative support in order to ensure effective and efficient office operations. Education Associates of Applied Science in Information Systems & Security Western Technical College February 2013 to March 2015 Skills Service Desk, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, MAC, Tech Support, Microsoft Office (4 years) Military Service Branch: ARMY Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant January 2005 to November 2012 Infantry Additional Information CompTIA A+  CompTIA Net+