COMPUTER SUPPORT COORDINATOR COMPUTER SUPPORT COORDINATOR COMPUTER SUPPORT COORDINATOR Harvest, AL • I am an IT professional with a background in network and system administration. More recently I have been the Computer Support Coordinator for one of the major Universities in Western Colorado responsible for deployment of newer systems and asset/project management. I oversaw the SolarWinds ticketing systems as well as facilitated and trained employees in various aspects of network and computer matters that occur on a day-to-day basis. Work Experience COMPUTER SUPPORT COORDINATOR COLORADO MESA UNIVERSITY - Grand Junction, CO September 2016 to May 2019 My primary duty was to supervise, train, and effectively complete day-to-day tasks and projects on multiple campuses. I formulated multiple documents for training and was the liaison between our four groups of IT professionals.  • Created standard operating procedure documentation on several subject matters.  • Reported and troubleshot network connectivity issues for both wireless and local area network ports.  • Maintained monthly transaction logs for issued University ProCard.  • Utilized SCCM for our computer imaging and updating PCs.  • Utilized JAMF and DEP for imaging and updating Apple devices.  • Managed and approved time-sheets for 10-15 employees on a bi-monthly basis.  • Provided training and completed annual reviews for 10-15 employees.  • Lead on numerous projects that had hard deadlines due to construction and commencement of classes.  • Coordinated with Denver company to destroy/shred our campus hard drives and media on premise. Information Systems Technician US NAVY IT RESERVIST September 2013 to September 2015 Completed training with SOCNORTH and USNORTHCOM Intelligence Units 0122 on Peterson Air Force Base. During my 2014 annual training, I served two weeks on board USS Gridley and during my 2015 annual training, I served at Naval Surface Force Pacific Command (COMNAVSURFPAC).  • During annual training with USS Gridley, I mapped out switch network for the radio focused group.  • I also worked with the ship's administrators to go through maintenance procedures with a focus on Exchange server space.  • During my annual training with the COMNAVSURFPAC, I primarily processed SAAR forms and assisted with setup of video conferencing meetings for the officers. SYSTEM/ NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR US NAVY/CVN74 December 2008 to September 2013 Responsible for the administration and maintenance of classified and unclassified local area networks. Supervised, trained and mentored numerous sailors while serving. Worked with various servers/subsystems, Alcatel omni switches, cisco series routers, NAS backups, and databases.  • Responsible for the administration of classified and unclassified networks consisting of over 3000 accounts for ships company.  • Supervised, trained and mentored eight network administrators to collaborate and provide service to over 5000 end users during 2012 Westpac Deployment for Operation Enduring Freedom.  • Managed 32 Windows 2003 servers/subsystems, 30 Alcatel Omni Switches, 47 Blackberry cell phones and two Cisco 4000 series routers.  • Experience with Group Policy implementation, DHCP configuration, and DNS management.  • Persistent with training and reconfiguration of the classified LAN Veritas backup procedures which improved operational mission readiness in regard to sensitive data.  • During ships renovation period, assisted with deployments of over 800 new computers.  • Re-optimized seven Windows 2003 network servers and freed over 100GB of data storage on the Classified Exchange servers. Education A.A.S in Information and Communication Technology/ Network Integration COLORADO MESA UNIVERSITY - Grand Junction, CO August 2014 to May 2016 B.A in SOCIOLOGY COLORADO MESA UNIVERSITY - Grand Junction, CO August 2003 to May 2008 Skills Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, File Management, Network Administration, System Administration, Computer Hardware, Asset Management, asset deployment, Backups, Troubleshooting, Technical Support, Training & Development, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Office 365, Information Assurance Military Service Branch: United States Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E5 September 2008 to September 2013 Commendations: (2) Navy & Marine Corps Achievement Medal Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) July 2016 to July 2019 Additional Information Previously held a DOD Top Secret Clearance; currently inactive due to time out of service. 