NOC Technician/ Network Engineer NOC Technician/<span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Alexandria, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NOC Technician/ Network Engineer Lepton Global Solutions - Vienna, VA February 2019 to Present As a NOC technician I'm responsible for site commissioning and provisioning, provide support to costumers for VSAT installation and pointing, creating iDirect option files, network monitoring and analysis and as a network engineer I'm closely working with all teleports make sure all the communication channels between HQ office and the teleports are maintained securely at all times as well as taking care of internal network such as Windows server/Active Directory management, file server, database administration and much more... Image Processor (Verifier) Faneuil Inc - Alexandria, VA April 2017 to October 2018 • Visual data processing, review, analyze and entry.  • preparation of the raw data to measure the tolling amount of vehicles which have used express lanes on I-495 and I-95 to/from northern Virginia and DC Metropolitan area. Help Desk Support ATR Landhandel GmbH & Co. KG - Ratzeburg, DE June 2016 to March 2017 Germany  • User and domain administration, active directory server and domain controller  administration on windows server 2012/2016, Office 365 and Microsoft Exchange  2010/2013/2016. Creation of physical networks, cabling and network troubleshooting.  • Have been responsible for providing technical assistance and support related to computer  systems, PC assembly, hardware or software. Responds to queries, runs diagnostic  programs, isolates problem, and determines and implements solution. IT Technician USAID AECOM April 2013 to March 2015 SIKA-West  • Setup workstations with computers and necessary peripheral devices (routers, printers etc.)  • Performed troubleshooting to diagnose and resolve problems such as hardware. Software or network failures.  • Installation, configuration and running appropriate services on existing servers.  • Provided orientation and guidance to users on how to operate new software and computer  equipment.  • Developed local networks in ways that optimize performance. Network Administrator Information Technology Center July 2011 to February 2013 of Herat)  • Have been responsible for implementing, maintaining, supporting, developing and, in some  cases, designing communication networks within the University or between other branches in different provinces.  • Main goal was to ensure the integrity of high availability network infrastructure to provide  maximum performance for the users. Users could have been staff, clients, and customers.  • Hardware troubleshooting, printer and file sharing Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Herat - Herat, Afghanistan March 2009 to December 2012 Skills database administration (2 years), DHCP (6 years), DNS (6 years), HTML (2 years), Windows Server 2012/2016 (5 years), Office 365 (5 years), Active Directory (3 years), Vmware (5 years), Customer Service (5 years), SATCOM (3 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), Data Analysis (3 years), Virtualization (4 years), Cisco Routers (3 years), Citrix (1 year), Cisco Switches (5 years), Networking (6 years), Operation, NOC (3 years), Cisco (5 years), Ethernet (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Network+ Present GVF 520 and 521 Certificates from Global VSAT Forum (SATCOM fundamentals and technical skills for VSAT installers) Additional Information Other Skills:  • Detailed knowledge of Microsoft Office  • 3+ years of experience working with different servers and services like DNS, DHCP, VPN,  Hyper-V and Vmware.  • Hands on database administration (MySQL & MS Access)  • Programming languages: Java, PHP, HTML