LAN Administrator - (CompTIA Network+,Systrack Engineer) LAN <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - (CompTIA Network+,Systrack Engineer) IT Solutions Architect Denver, CO Adaptable Information Technology Operations Specialist who excels in providing flexible, high-quality solutions. Currently holds CompTIA Network+, Stefanini Systrack Engineer, and various Apple Hardware and IT certifications.   Frequently involved with multiple interactions and projects with local and remote teams to provide quality of service. Supports various technical projects, utilizing clear, prompt, and professional communication. Effective in the repair, configuration, troubleshooting, sand administration of Desktop, Network, and Mobile ecosystems. Knowledgeable supporting OSX, iOS, Chrome, Droid, Windows (7,10,Server), and related systems. Understanding of network administration, TCP/IP, Command Line, DHCP, JAMF, DNS, remote administration, system deployment, Active Directory (Mac and PC), and beginner scripting (C+, SQL, C). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LAN Administrator - (CompTIA Network+,Systrack Engineer) Stefanini - Aurora, CO July 2018 to Present Greater Denver Area  • Desktop Engineer functioning as Local Network Administrator, and Ticket-Based Support in enterprise environment. Primarily focusing on Windows 10 and Windows 7 (enterprise versions), frequently images and deploys systems locally and to other sites as needed.   • Daily functions include software/hardware configuration, remote assistance, in-person troubleshooting, active directory administration, vendor communication, asset management/ inventory tracking, technical solutions documentation, end-user training, account management, and ensuring helpdesk ticket-resolution. Service Manager / Senior Mac Technician (CompTIA A+, ACiT, ACMT, MIB, ACSP) Simply Mac | Spring Mobile - Greeley, CO October 2017 to June 2018 • Senior Technician and Manager of service department, responsible for supervising sales and directing service operations for the store.     • Completes tasks while supervising small team of sales and service specialists to meet the store goals and meet customer needs.     • Skills include setting up networks, hardware maintenance, hardware and software support, maintaining positive client relationships, and team leadership. Apple Specialist / Certified IOS Technician Simply Mac | Spring Mobile - Greeley, CO 2015 to 2017 • Was promoted to phone technician for technical troubleshooting abilities.  • Recognized for outstanding client communication and workplace communication to achieve desired outcomes.  • Became quickly certified (apple certified ios technician) to take on more responsibility in the company.  • Remained constantly available to oversee repairs and customer interactions when away. Loss Prevention / Tech Resource Auraria Higher Education Center - Denver, CO 2014 to 2015 • Recognized for outstanding client communication and workplace communication to achieve desired outcomes.  • Connected with peers to produce a team consisting of each individual's strengths.  • Became quickly familiar with relevant technologies for security and was a leader in department. Education Bachelor in Information Technology and Cybersecurity Capella University - Minneapolis, MN April 2017 to Present Skills Computer Hardware (3 years), Computer Software (4 years), Computer Repair (3 years), Phone Repair (3 years), System Administration (2 years), Customer Service (5 years), Network Administration (Less than 1 year), Management (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Apple Certified iOS Technician September 2016 to Present Certified with iPhone and iPad repair and troubleshooting. Apple Certified Mac Technician January 2018 Apple Desktop and Laptop Repair certification. CompTIA A+ March 2018 to March 2021 Industry certification demonstrating basic computer hardware and software aptitude . Apple Certified Support Professional 10.13 April 2018 to Present Integration of Macs into networks and advanced troubleshooting and configuration of Apple systems in mixed ecosystems. Mac Integration Basics 10.13 April 2018 to Present Integrate Macs into mixed environments, perform basic troubleshooting and support on Mac OSX systems CompTIA Network+ October 2018 to October 2021 Industry Certification demonstrating proficiency in networking technologies.   (N10-007 2018) Systrack Technician August 2018 to Present Proficiency using sys track system to view network statistics and create plans for action based on metrics. Systrack Engineer December 2018 to Present Second level training for systrack analytics programs. Additional Information ? Flexible and team-oriented  ? Consistent and professional documentation  ? Able incorporate new concepts quickly  ? Strong background in technology and troubleshooting  ? Experience with ticket-based IT solutions  ? Background experience in Microsoft Windows, Mac OSX, and Linux systems