Network Administrator Specialist <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Specialist Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Network Administrator Specialist Southern Nevada Health District (SNHD) - Las Vegas, NV October 2018 to Present • Responsible for network infrastructure consisting of Cisco Nexus/Catalyst devices, Cisco wireless devices, and Palo Alto firewalls  • Manage projects including implementation of VLANs for enterprise functions, MDM implementation, and migration of user VPN Client from Cisco to Palo Alto  • Provide cooperation and support for other IT units including a Help Desk, Systems Administrators, and in-house software developers Systems Engineer Resorts World Las Vegas - Las Vegas, NV March 2016 to October 2018 • Responsible for managing enterprise network including Cisco routers/switches and Palo Alto firewall appliance  • Responsible for managing enterprise servers including physical, VMWare, and Hyper-V platforms  • Managed Active Directory, Exchange 2016, and Skype for Business 2015 environments  • Coordinated project implementations for Skype for Business, HPE 3PAR with C7000 blade server, HPE Simplivity, and SCCM  • Vendor project coordination and management  • Provide top-tier user support Division Network Engineer HCA - Las Vegas, NV September 2014 to March 2016 • Worked as part of team supporting Cisco infrastructure for 8 acute care facilities and ~20 satellite facilities in Nevada and California  • Supported Cisco wireless functionality  • Created Check Point firewall rules for internal and Internet-facing networks  • Planned and implemented numerous projects, including:  ? Switch hardware upgrades (up to 120 devices per facility)  ? Design, hardware installation, and configuration of new surgery center site networks  ? Wireless controller replacements/upgrades (up to 500 APs per facility)  ? Design, hardware installation, and configuration of equipment closets for new hospital construction (additional floors, new towers, etc.)  • Communicated with other network teams across the enterprise to share knowledge of issues, fixes, and troubleshooting methodologies Independent Contractor Las Vegas, NV October 2012 to September 2014 • Work performed on behalf of Robert Half Technology  ? Removed networking/systems equipment from closing client location  ? Assisted in laptop AD domain migration  ? Provided technical support for client (a law firm) during a court case, including using proprietary software to edit deposition video  ? Assisted client with hosted exchange migration to cloud  ? Assisted with VoIP phone rollout  ? Performed router/firewall upgrade and re-architecture  • Assisted client with Cisco router/MPLS implementation Network Manager and Help Desk/Desktop Manager First Tech Federal Credit Union - Beaverton, OR October 2011 to September 2012 • Managed a team of three employees to provide support for Cisco routers/switches and Cisco VoIP (Call Manager and Unity voicemail) in a 40+ location environment with 1000+ workstation nodes  • Successfully led migration from two unique MPLS clouds with different carriers to a single MPLS cloud during a business merger  • Co-managed Solarwinds Orion monitoring/alerting for the enterprise  • Managed relationships with vendors including an after-hours NOC and multiple LECs  • Worked closely with server administrators to coordinate consolidation of Active Directory domains and related services such as DNS, DHCP, etc.  • Helped install and support HP EVA 4400 SAN  • Managed a team of eight employees to provide support for PC hardware, Microsoft Windows XP, Microsoft Office 2007/2010, and other third-party and in-house applications  • Created and deployed software packages via admin scripts and Admin Arsenal PDQ Deploy  • Led project planning for major enterprise endeavors  ? Physical relocation of 800+ PCs over a 4-month period  ? Three-year hardware replacement cycle for workstations Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology CSU Global - Greenwood Village, CO Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, REMEDY, Technical Support, Windows, Vmware, Customer Service, Networking