Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Fair Haven, NY Pursuing an IT related career position which requires a motivated, dedicated, above-average person, where individual achievements and performance will be recognized, thereby allowing opportunities for growth and development. Work Experience Network Administrator Entre Computer Systems - Auburn, NY 2018 to 2019 I was responsible for all aspects of the Cayuga County's network and security throughout the 6 buildings in the Auburn area. I started with reverse engineering the existing network so that I can begin to implement changes and improvements throughout the infrastructure. Upgraded all the wireless access points to ensure coverage in each of the buildings, and performed upgrades to the Cisco wireless controllers as well, while ensuring redundancy. Segregated the network via VLANs and ACLs to ensure sensitive information was unreachable between departments; unless needed. Maintained VPNs between sites, and external locations using multiple Cisco ASAs and used a Palo Alto for web filtering. Network Engineer II Charter Communications - Syracuse, NY 2018 to 2018 This was a short term position working to provision customer circuits and troubleshoot during outages. This involved building the Layer 2 portion to the customer premise but also configuring VPLS or pseudowires to pipe the connection back to the terminating layer 3 device. Also, for non DIA customers I was tasked with ensuring a solid EVPL or EPLAN to allow private communication between customer locations. Operations Engineer II Level 3 Communications - Broomfield, CO 2014 to 2018 Worked as part of the Advanced Technical Support group as the highest level of support for the Managed IP department. This involves managing the CPE up to PE, and requires CCIE/JNCIE level knowledge of not only the core backbone, but also an infinite number of combinations the customer could request across most protocols. As part of the ATS group, any ticket would have to go through several levels of technicians until everything included in their skill set were exhausted. Among these were BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, MPLS, PIM, STP, REP, CEF among others but also involved upgrading equipment, resolving latency and throughput issues. I was tasked to work in depth with either customers or field technicians to ensure SLAs were met and configuration was satisfactory to all parties. I also worked on configuring and managing DNS and several AWS services as well as the main datacenter. Sr. Network Engineer Frontier Communications - Rochester, NY 2010 to 2013 As the highest level of support for a country wide network, I was tasked with troubleshooting issues involving thousands of devices across many different vendors. These included Cisco, Juniper, Alcatel-Lucent, Motorola, and BTI among others. I configured several firewalls, including Juniper SRX and Cisco ASAs for not only security purposes but also for site to site and client based SSL/IPSec tunnels. Worked on advanced routing, managing a VOIP network, implementing VPN solutions, IPv6 and all the technologies involved with maintaining a loop free switch environment across multiple platforms. I was tasked with installing new switches to handle the large LAN at the local facility including the cabling, VLAN and STP configurations and ensuring full redundancy to both local and public resources. I created scripts in PERL and Python to accomplish certain tasks such as monitor devices, check for code versions and create configurations for new device turnups. Network Engineer WBS Connect - Denver, CO 2007 to 2009 As part of the NOC, I was troubleshooting issues with various circuit sizes throughout the world. These included connections ranging from T1's to OC-192's with customers that ran mostly BGP. However, the WBS internal infrastructure involved many more protocols, including OSPF, MPLS and EIGRP. I worked together with most carriers across the country and handled usage information for all of their circuits.    2003-2007: Troubleshooting less advanced networks from dial-up to firewall/VPN appliances. Education Engineering SUNY Canton - New York, NY 2002 to 2003 Computer Engineering Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY 2001 to 2002 Hugh C. Williams High School - New York, NY 1997 to 2001 Additional Information Troubleshooting for me started with dialup customers back in 2003 and I have been working my way up ever since. Now, I have extensive knowledge of a wide variety of equipment and most of the protocols used with advanced networking and security. Obtained CCNA and CCNP and have experience applying for ORG-ID and additional IP's through ARIN. I have built well over a hundred computers/servers and fixed many more as well as cabling and configuring the LAN/WAN for many customers.