Network Control Specialist <span class="hl">Network</span> Control Specialist Network Engineer Cary, NC Work Experience Network Control Specialist Harris - Saint Cloud, FL 2017 to 2019 • Deployment/Provisioning team on the My Florida Network (MFN2) program for Florida state agency's with over 600 new circuits turned up.   • MFN2 project consisted of $700 million contract with State of Florida to provide state-wide communications to connect public safety, law enforcement and public schools.   • Awarded from management most successful amount of installs in fiscal year. Experienced working with Cisco ISR 4200, 4300 4400 series and ASR 900, 9900 series.   • Provided escalation support for Quality Assurance team on sites that failed .   • Provided guidance to other deployment and operational team members as lead deployment engineer.   • Troubleshooted with other Telecommunication provisioning teams in configuration of new circuits. Prevented technician dispatches by remotely correcting router configurations adding to cost savings to MFN2 program.  • Implementation and managing carrier grade networks consisting of Metro Ethernet, MPLS, VPLS, and Pseudowire Network Operations Engineer II Thales - Orlando, FL 2016 to 2017 • Provided United Airlines / Jet Blue internet and HD TV via satellite internet using Thales KA band.  • Pushed media campaigns to airlines through Windows DFS and parsed transaction logs into SQL databases.  • Operations consisted of Windows Server Monitoring, Web-based Application Monitoring, Ground System Incident and Problem Management, maintenance tracking for Support live TV for InFlyt products to air lines.  • Performing daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, networking equipment, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system, error and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs and tasks.  • Production and Test environments platform monitoring for alarms and performance issues on systems, applications, database and network connectivity. Jr System Administrator City Electric Supply - Orlando, FL 2012 to 2015 • Design/Planning for team and individual projects consisting of:   -Deployment of $1.2 million Cisco Meraki networking project to 400+ branches.   -Migrating the data centers physical environment to virtual in a multi-domain environment.   • Managed servers, LAN/WAN, and telecommunications systems troubleshooting network performance and access issues.   • Administration of network, email, security, telecom, data storage, printing, website, and data center IT systems.   • Performed system backups and recovery and maintained a disaster recovery plan for fail over testing. Implemented network security policies and procedures.   • Ensured network security access and protect against unauthorized access, modification, or destruction. Provided technical assistance and support related to computer systems, software and hardware through the IT Help Desk ticket.  • Improved existing systems by reviewing objectives and specifications, recommending changes, evaluating proposed changes and making approved modifications.  Education Bachelors in Information Technology Western Governor University Certifications/Licenses CCNP Present Security+ Network+ CCNA Security