Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Foxborough Regional Charter School Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Network Administrator Foxborough Regional Charter School - Foxborough, MA August 2015 to Present Administers maintenance, upgrades, backups, and monitoring to physical and virtual servers, switches, SANs, firewalls, and various other  network components.  • Planned and implemented campus expansion to new building including fiber 10gb site to site circuit installation and full network  expansion.  • Planned and migrated transition from premise-based Microsoft environment to hosted Office 365 environment.  • Regularly uses Powershell for scripting and Azure AD for Powershell to configure and maintain Microsoft cloud environment.  • Maintains cleanliness and organization of all server rooms, as well as keeping all equipment tracked in inventory spreadsheet.  • Optimizes computer-based testing environments annually to run quickly and without issues for the desired number users in many locations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve network issues to improve performance throughout campus.  • Always seeking to find cost savings in cheaper, more efficient solutions for outdated software.  • Responsible for researching new solutions, attending sales meetings, gathering quotes, and advising on any technology related purchases.  • Works with administration in revising yearly technology budget, keeping all necessary licenses and certificates up to date.  • Manages tech department employees and helpdesk, handling any escalations.  • Provides A/V support for various events including audio mixing, filming, projection, and livestreaming. Systems Engineer Bullhorn Inc - Boston, MA November 2014 to August 2015 • Maintained, managed, and monitored over 500 servers across 3 environments and 5 data centers.  • Worked as part of an on-call rotation, maintaining 24/7 availability for a week at a time.  • Worked with linux CentOS servers using Apache, Tomcat, and Jboss.  • Performed initial Cisco switch configurations, PFSense firewall modifications, Netscaler  configuration changes, and basic network troubleshooting.  • Performed deploys to both windows and linux environments.  • Worked closely with project lead in migrating windows software environment from west coast to east coast datacenter.  • Built and managed virtual machines on KVM and ESXI hosts. IT Desktop Engineer Bullhorn Inc - Boston, MA May 2013 to November 2014 • Provided IT support of employees globally for PCs, Macs, Servers, and VoiP Phone systems.  • Worked closely with manager as part of a team to maintain 24/7 availability.  • Used Microsoft Active Directory to manage employee accounts and create new accounts; performed new hire setups.  • Filled in for manager during his absence and assumed all responsibilities.  • Assisted other departments with networking, system administration, and any other technical related issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Management of Information Systems in Management of Information Systems University of Massachusetts Dartmouth - North Dartmouth, MA 2009 to 2013 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Solarwinds, Vmware, Ios, Windows 2000, Windows server 2003, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office