Data Management Specialist / Linux Systems Administrator Data Management Specialist / Linux Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Dallas, TX Work Experience Data Management Specialist / Linux Systems Administrator USAA - Plano, TX April 2019 to June 2019 Supported a team of developers and data management specialists that provided data tokenization services for server related applications in the environment. Responsibilities included web server configuration changes, application containerization for testing application solutions including writing or maintaining automation scripts to improve backups, maintenance and security for a data security product called Protegrity.    • Provided VMWare vSphere and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 and 7 systems administration support to the team and guidance for how backups are taking place from an infrastructure stand-point and what would be necessary to properly secure the Protegrity security appliance.  • Monitored logs using Splunk Cloud mainly for Protegrity servers supporting the application including failover servers running San Antonio and Plano for any system level or application level errors.  • Supported BASH and Python automation scripts that provided backup for the configuration of Protegrity running in a VMWare environment including other miscellaneous maintenance tasks.  • Configured RHEL 6/7 servers running Apache HTTP Server 2.2 with SSL and WSGI modules to host Python Flask applications that supported Protegrity data analysis for reporting.  • Setup an Ansible control station to push package installations, upgrades and configuration changes for Docker images of mainly CentOS 6 and 7 builds running in containers being hosted by Red Hat 6 server in a development environment.  • Created Docker images of CentOS 6 and 7 customized as web servers for application testing which included Python code written by the Developers on my team before deploying to production servers in the environment. Systems Administrator Ascension Health - Irving, TX December 2016 to October 2018 Provided engineering support across multiple locations in an enterprise Healthcare environment. Gathered and analyzed project data and requirements, maintained Windows and Linux servers, including authoring and executing scripts for server automation and migration. Identified and resolved complex technical issues that could delay the pending server remediation plans for the sites I supported.    • Reduced potential end-of-support licensing costs from Microsoft by remediating 45+ Windows Server 2008 or earlier servers for multiple targeted office branches.  • Created meetings for all of the resources involved in each server upgrade or application migration for each site I supported including the local DBA, Server Administrator, Project Manager and Applications teams.  • Designed and implemented AWS EC2 instances utilizing S3 storage, VPC network subnets and assigning them to Security Groups for a new Windows and Linux environment to support multiple mission critical applications being migrated from VMs running on VMWare or Hyper-V hosts or even physical servers.  • Authored and maintained PowerShell and BASH scripts including the automation of P2V conversions from VMWare ESXi vSphere to Hyper-V and Network Discovery which pulled configuration data from Windows servers as well as identifying which devices would be running another operating system such as Linux and exported the data to CSV for data collection and reporting.  • Designed and implemented a CentOS 7 server with a minimal configuration running NGINX web server with Python, Django and a PostgreSQL database to provide a solution for project status tracking and configuration data inventory for the upgrade project. Senior Network/Systems Administrator General Electric October 2010 to November 2016 Provided technical leadership as a 'go to' person for resolving critical outages related to the network, power or server that could have potentially impacted the business. Also provided support in a datacenter environment which included maintaining and deploying physical servers as virtualization hosts, backup grid, power backup and network equipment including patching network connections for desktop and server related connectivity and troubleshooting physical network cabling connectivity issues. Server platforms in the environment included VMWare ESXi vSphere, Windows, Solaris and Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers which hosted mission critical engineering applications and web services.    • Maintained documentation of procedures for applications, server configurations, BUR policies as well working with the SOx compliance team to ensure security of the databases and windows security accounts.  • Created new server builds based on specific role configurations as templates for Windows and RHEL 6 servers in a VMWare ESXi 5 environment (with vCenter) in a clustered environment including remediating critical patches and host updates.  • Utilized Service Now for incident, problem resolution and change management for local and remote sites.  • Maintained Solaris 8/9/10 servers running in Solaris Zones and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 servers which included most of the legacy mission critical applications for the engineering team.  • Supported and deployed VMWare servers in a clustered environment including remediating critical patches and VMWare ESXi vSphere host upgrades.  • Managed Oracle Sun Blade, HP Proliant and PowerEdge servers, Enterasys and Cisco network equipment, VMWare hosts, and an Avamar grid.  • Managed SAN storage on an EMC Clariion which included adding and removing LUNs for the NAS file systems which was our primary storage within the business.  • Authored and maintained PowerShell and BASH automation scripts for scheduled jobs to improve platform stability with maintenance of applications and OS level tasks running on Windows and RHEL 6 servers in the local datacenter.  • Involved in an EMC Avamar deployment which included an EMC engineer to configure three Avamar grids at three different branches of the business in case of a fire to support backup policy requirements. Configured Avamar application specific backup policies which included datasets (data to be included in backups), retention periods and schedules. Backups included servers, NAS shares, databases and some user's desktops to provide backup services in case of a loss of data dating back years. Information Technology Coordinator Dallas Children's Advocacy Center - Dallas, TX June 2010 to September 2010 Provided turnaround leadership and support to staff at multiple sites, including resolving infrastructure issues through data analysis and architecture analysis. Identified and implemented corrective actions for security vulnerabilities and set up data recovery and daily backups of File Servers and Exchange Server mail stores.    • Identified and remediated network traffic bottlenecks that were due to design of the network. One of the issues were Folder Redirection Group Policies used for Roaming Profiles and daily scheduled backups which pulled a lot of data over the WAN causing slow speeds for the users.  • Streamlined the speed of recovery in the event of a corrupted Windows workstation by creating a Citrix XenServer platform for virtualization of user workstations which included using XenConvert for P2V conversions.  • Setup a Barracuda 300 Spam and Virus Firewall including configuring connectivity to the mail server and working with an outside source for supporting the Cisco Firewall to direct traffic to the Barracuda to intercept emails coming in and going out. Configured spam and virus settings to prevent emails from being dropped to queue which is a when the email is scanned, quarantined, or blocked before sending to the recipient. This cleaned and blocked thousands of viruses and spam that were flowing through the organization.  • Used Symantec Backup Exec 11d with a Dell PowerVault 124T for data recovery and managing daily backups of the File Servers and Exchange Server mail stores.  • Provided leadership as an IT Coordinator solving issues with spam and virus problems plaguing their systems at the time of my arrival. Education Brownwood Senior High School - Brownwood, TX Skills Apache, Linux, Sun, Unix, Active directory, Linux Administrator, Red Hat, Redhat, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator