Princ Network Administrator - Mission Support Operator Princ <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Mission Support Operator Princ Network Administrator - Mission Support Operator - General Dynamics - ARMA Tracy, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Princ Network Administrator - Mission Support Operator General Dynamics - ARMA - Livermore, CA October 2018 to Present • Provides 24/7 operational support to base end customers and users in the field.  • Monitor the performance and capacity of end-to-end IT computer systems using a variety of tools.  • Triage hardware, software, and environmental faults, alerts or malfunctions.  • When an issue is identified, the MSO works to determine the cause of the problem provide situational awareness and resolution to the user community.  • Serve as first responder and 'one-stop shop' for all site issues, requiring a broad level of knowledge of high priority systems across a multi-location enterprise.  • Duties include monitoring, recognition, evaluation, and correction of IT systems and network problems.  • Required to interface with the user community, Mission Directors, System Admins, Network Engineers, external sites and other system operators as required for real-time detection, isolation, and resolution of problems.  • Provide network monitoring, troubleshooting, Testing, and Analysis on a myriad of IT infrastructure systems and critical physical infrastructure (Solarwinds, Splunk and Wireshark) in accordance with established SOPs / TTPs.    CDO Technology  Sr. Network Administrator/VoIP Engineer March ARB, CA October 2017 to September 2018 • Manage NIPR and SIPR WAN/LAN Cisco network devices. Monitor availability and reliability of Cisco routers and switches using Solarwinds and Cisco Prime Infrastructure. Configure DHCP scopes, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, QoS, VTP, VLAN, SSH, RADIUS dot1x, and Cisco TACACS v5.8 and ISE. Maintain and upgrade Cisco ACS Maintain and upgrade Cisco Call Manager from 8.6 to 11.5 and install IOS's for Catalyst 6500 with DUAL-SUP 720, 2960, 3560, 3750X and 3850 Cisco switches and configuration files.  • Troubleshoot LAN/WAN connectivity for over 4,000 Air Force customers and approximately 190+ Cisco switches and over 4000 Cisco phones. Ensure outages and corrective actions are documented in Remedy System. Configure, troubleshoot and deploy 6921, 7965, 7945 and 8831 VOIP phones using Cisco Call Manager 11.5. Maintain Voicemail system using Cisco Unity 11.5.  • Create and update network topology diagrams using Microsoft Visio, update Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) as needed.  • Maintain systems including but not limited to Virtual machines using vSphere 6.0 and remote desktop to maintain, configure and upgrade network servers.  • Use Wireshark to troubleshoot the network. And spot problems before they impact the network.  • Work with Venders to resolve problems, order supplies and upgrade systems with approved procedures. Network Administrator General Dynamics, March ARB, CA July 2015 to September 2017 Manage NIPR and SIPR WAN/LAN Cisco network devices. Monitor availability and reliability of Cisco routers and switches using Solarwinds and Cisco Prime Infrastructure. Configure DHCP scopes, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, QoS, VTP, VLAN, SSH, RADIUS dot1x, and Cisco TACACS v5.2. Maintain and upgrade Cisco ACS 5.5. Maintain and upgrade Cisco Call Manager 8.6 and IOS for Catalyst 6500 with DUAL-SUP 720, 3560, 3750X and 3850 Cisco switches. Troubleshoot LAN/WAN connectivity for over 4,000 Air Force customers and approximately 160+ Cisco devices. Ensure outages and corrective actions are documented in Remedy System. Configure, troubleshoot and deploy 6921, 7965, 7945 and 8831 VOIP phones using Cisco Call Manager 8.6. Maintain Voicemail system using Cisco Unity 8.6. Create and update network topology diagrams using Microsoft Visio, update Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) as needed. Maintain systems including but not limited to Virtual machines using vSphere 6.0 and remote desktop to maintain, configure and upgrade network servers. Service Desk Specialist Insight Global/AT&T - Camp Pendleton, CA May 2014 to July 2015 • Provided technical assistance and support for over 30,000 Marines in the Western USA. Resolving issues related to computer systems, software and hardware. Utilized Microsoft Exchange Servers for user mailbox creation. Managed SIPR and NIPR users and computers using Microsoft Active Directory. Maintain and troubleshoot network printers.  • Installed Windows 7 O/S using an approved baseline image. Coordinated with various teams such as Network Administrators and System Administrators to resolve issues in a timely manner. Documented trouble resolutions using Remedy System. Desktop Support Redlands Unified School District - Redlands, CA February 2014 to May 2014 • Supported hardware refresh of approximately 2,000 users. Installed and configure the laptops with the software needed to support the testing environment. Disable or enable hardware to specification set by the School District.  • Provided end-user support to teachers and students on how to properly use the laptops and the software installed. Diagnosed computer software and hardware problems in a timely matter. Corrected problems and document the cause and resolution of the incident. Help Desk Analyst Presbyterian Health Systems - Albuquerque, NM October 2013 to January 2014 • Analyzed computer technical issues remotely or over the phone of 1,600 hospital users. Supported Epic Software rollout in three hospitals simultaneously. Utilized CA service desk ticketing system to input customer requests and incidents. Communicated with customers who are having problems and analyze the issue remotely or over the phone.  • Escalated problems up to the next level and work with the team involved to resolve the issue in a timely manner. Support a Citrix environment, resetting the user access and instructing users on the correct way of using the environment. Reset user passwords in Active Directory, searched user accounts and the permissions granted to diagnosis their login and access problems. Reset passwords in HPF (Patient data base software). Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory, Customer Service, Networking, Vmware, Technical Support, Windows 7, Windows, Microsoft Office Certifications/Licenses CCNA Route and Switch November 2018 to November 2021