IT Service Desk Specialist IT Service Desk Specialist IT Service Desk Specialist Cleveland, OH Experienced IT professional with a passion for solving problems and creating harmonious solutions. Looking for opportunities to develop powerful tools with emerging technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Service Desk Specialist Fairmount Santrol - Independence, OH September 2017 to December 2018 Facilitate change requests to Mitel phone system; extensions, DIDs, voicemail accounts, and IT service  desk call queue.  ? Support of business critical systems during a full domain/ network migration. Documentation of new and existing processes for both end users and internal support.  ? Management of support tasks through hosted ticketing system ( ServiceNow ) to track Incidents and requests for software and hardware.  ? Documentation of new and existing processes for both end users and internal support.  ? Domain account management through active directory.  ? Administration and maintenance of mobile phone and conference bridge accounts.  ? PC hardware and software support (Win 10 / 8 / 7) for offices, plants and terminals in a 24/7 production  environment. PC Support Technician Summa Health - Akron, OH March 2013 to July 2017 Collaboration between vendors, clinical and technical staff in the design, deployment and training of system wide secure messaging platform.  ? Technical support for clinical and nonclinical systems, including desktop and VOIP phone support ( Skype  for Business and Cisco ). Setup and support of video conferences and desktop sharing.  ? Support and troubleshooting experience with Citrix virtualized desktop and applications.  ? Management of support tasks through internal ticketing system ( Heat ) from beginning to end including  creation of ticket, assignments, documentation, and maintaining communication with end users.  ? Call center phone system administration and support including call flows, dial plan, workgroup and user  configuration / setup, and software / hardware installation.  ? MDM system administration using MaaS 360, configuration of organization wide mass notification system, and the deployment of 400+ iPhones / 250+ emergency preparedness iPhones / 200+ Cisco phones across  multiple campuses. Network Services Administrator HSM Wire International Inc - Canton, OH May 2012 to June 2014 Development of a dynamic cable specification and quotation system for the company's flagship product  using PHP and MySQL.  ? Administration and maintenance of web server and database including updating company website  backend and frontend.  ? Support and maintenance of network infrastructure and connected devices including desktop support. Education Bootcamp in Full-Stack Java Development Tech Elevator - Cleveland, OH May 2019 to August 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Science w/ Physics Kent State University - Cleveland, OH September 2007 to May 2015 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CITRIX, DHCP, VPN, DNS, MITEL, C++, Git, HTML, JSON, PHP, PYTHON, XML, MDM, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, MVC, CSS, JAVA, Service Desk, MAC, Tech Support, Desktop Support, Help Desk, SQL, Javascript, Sql Server, Jquery Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mwatson7 https://github.com/mwatso7