Network Field Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Field Engineer Bridge City, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Field Engineer Lousiana radio communications - Lake Charles, LA February 2018 to Present Maintain and install company owned Wireless Internet Service, equipment, and cctv and security systems for customers both residential and commercial parties. Work with a variety of wireless communications manufactures closely to design and maintain equipment for customer needs. work closely with vendors for all clear emergency mustering scanning equipment and software. Network Administrator SUPERIOR SUPPLY AND STEEL - Lake Charles, LA October 2014 to February 2018 administer and manage networks. control and troubleshoot active directory and exchange, small portions of sql server database, security cameras and software associated, shore tel and voip systems, manage esxi 4.1 and 6.5 virtual machine environments with vsphere. program in c++, c#, python. and have very deeply routed my administration over microsoft dynamics AX. and many other skills, soldering, making and deploying cables cat5 and cctv. i have troubleshoot and repaired desktop laptops and netbooks, repaired laser and dot matrix printers on a very consistent basis. Bench Technician Geek Force LLC - Jacksonville, FL March 2013 to April 2014 Computer assessment and detailed reports for user computers  • Troubleshoot and diagnosis of faulty components  • Refurbish and/or rebuild units utilizing any means deemed necessary  • Document inventory in detail student and bench technician Homestead Job Corps Center - Miami, FL May 2012 to March 2013 computers and electronic devices  • Explanation of procedures through detailed documentation  • Enhance performance and upgrade computer for both student and staff  • On-site installation and detailed instruction on hardware and software to the end user on how to maintain systems. such as preventative maintenance  • Detailed instruction to staff and students about computer preventive maintenance Education Homestead Job Corps Center - Homestead, FL 2013 Skills Computer Repair (4 years), Active Directory, security, Vmware, Exchange, VPN, LAN, Networking Certifications/Licenses ESA security + March 2019 to Present certifiate denotes my abillity to troubleshoot and install security cameras and network security devices and protocols to government standards Zetron call taking Present E911 server administration deployment and repair. Additional Information Skills  • advanced knowledge of network protocols and troubleshooting techniques  • Advanced knowledge of wireless equipment (cambium, ubiquity, and mimosa)  • advanced knowledge of mikrotik routers  • Advanced knowledge in computer hardware and software  • Advanced Operating System knowledge (windows 95, 98,2000, XP, 7,8, 10, multiple versions of Linux and MAC OSX)  • Advanced skills in electronics (soldering, building and customization of personal computers)  • Teamwork and team leadership skills  • Interpersonal and communication skills