Cyber Security Technician Cyber Security Technician Cyber Security Technician - Novant Health UVA Health Systems Prince William, Medical Work Experience Cyber Security Technician Novant Health UVA Health Systems Prince William, Medical - Center, VA, US May 2011 to Present • Ensuring Patients and employee data security against threats with data de-identification.  • Conducting data loss prevention with and implementing appropriate measures.  • Prioritizing data loss scan on repositories based on pre-defined criteria and policies.  • Analyzing potential privacy violations to identify false positives and policy violations with immediate remediation.  • Conducting SIEM analysis and generating dashboard/reports.  • Identifying vulnerabilities through scans and penetration tests to report the issues.  • Scanning and Identifying Indicators of Compromise (IOC's).  • Performing threat intelligence and implementing Cyber Kill Chain defense against APT.  • Employing cyber modeling techniques to identify malicious threats and activities.  • Analyzing network traffic for malicious or abnormal activity for attack vectors.  • Identify adversary's Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) for technical mitigation strategies for preventing, controlling, and isolating incidents.  • Performing malware analysis using different malware analysis methodologies.  • Performing digital forensics to identify suspicious malicious content.  • Conducting intrusion detection and prevention.  • Performing log analysis and identifying malicious activities. Cyber Security Specialist DUANE READE - Manassas, VA August 2015 to January 2016 • Analyzed compromised machines to provide explanation of break-in process  • Investigated email threats, fraudulent emails and copyright violations  • Researched in-progress attacks by use of network sniffers  • Analyzed pre-production systems for security vulnerabilities.  • Responsible for phishing mail box, blocking URL's and log analysis.  • Researched on an emerging threat, updated emerging threats, and detection capabilities.  • Analyzed most prevalent vulnerabilities, threats, attack methods, and infected vectors.  • Assisted SOC hire and training on Networking and Security fundamental of TCP/IP and other core Internet protocols.  • Monitored Security Information and Event Management (SIEM); Intrusion Detection System (IDS); Network Monitoring and Response Services.  • Managed global threat landscape by tracking changes in directing Manage services.  • Responded to evaluation-related queries from the evaluation facilities and assisted in resolving evaluation-related issues. Network Administrator Uncommon Goods LLC - Brooklyn, NY May 2010 to July 2011 • Managed all new install projects for servers, switches, and other network resources.  • Developed and updates documentation, appraising users and administrators of vital information.  • Provided adequate controls to ensure system security and access granted to users on a "Need to Know" basis.  • Administrated and maintained environment security. Involved with administering security alerts to staff and weekly data backups.  • Performed all levels of hardware and software systems support for over 200 dispatching computers.  • Performed hands-on administration, monitoring, and troubleshooting of Local Area network (LAN), resulting in optimum performance and minimum downtime.  • Designed, developed, and modified reporting processes in accordance with client specifications.  • Coordinated data transfer requirements between Organizational Maintenance Activities and all other automated information systems, such as ensuring all data stored on media transferred  • Established procedures for all systems recovery and contingency processes to include back fit processes.  • Established and maintained a system log, recording all down time, hardware failures, database saves, and all other system requirements established Education AS in Business Administration Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH 2015 to 2018 AS in Business Administration Northern Virginia Community College - Annandale, VA 2012 to 2014 Skills CYBER SECURITY, FIREWALL, MALWARE, SSL, DATA LOSS PREVENTION, DLP, IDS, IPS, NESSUS, NMAP, SIEM, SNORT, SPLUNK, VPN, WIRESHARK, SECURITY, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, LDAP, TCP, TCP/IP, Comptia, Information Security, Network Security, Cybersecurity Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE July 2019 to July 2022 CPR/AED Associates in Business Administration August 2018 to Present