Job Seeker Yonkers, NY Seeking a position in the IT field where my skills and knowledge may attribute to the work environment and to gain more experience in the field Work Experience METROPOLITAN COLLEGE OF NY September 2016 to Present Network Administrator METROPOLITAN COLLEGE OF NY September 2016 to December 2016 • Maintained guidelines, methods, procedures and policies regarding IT on Campus.  • Set up computer security measures.  • Maintained and repairing computers and peripherals.  • Worked individually or assist a team, who addresses technical and IT support, that helps resolve IT-related issues for the college.  • Assisted with user support as a technical support technician and assist in all aspects of computer hardware and software, delivery, installation, setup and configuration.  • Pursued a passion for Cisco and management coursework through ACE Institute of Technology PC Technician CUBICLES, USA Corp September 2015 to December 2015 • Competently skilled in installing, repairing, and troubleshooting computer hardware and peripherals.  • Working knowledge of modern networking devices and printers.  • Configure VPN and server/client-side hardware and software.  • Demonstrated expertise in Microsoft Windows XP, Vista, 7 and 8  • Utilized Active Directory to install, create, and manage end user client support to create, delete, and install user accounts  • Troubleshoot and run virus scans to quarantine and mitigate virus network intrusions  • Provide desktop and laptop support for system refresh project, supported users on setting up multiple network printers, managed hardware and software failure due to viruses, network cabling and termination and Punch down keystone jacks and patch boards  SENTEL, INC Inventory Management Specialists August 2013 to May 2014 Executed equipment storage, and inventory processes; this will include, but may not be limited to, the receipt, storage, issue, accountability and preservation of organizational and installation equipment.  Identified equipment status to include completeness, serviceability, and accountability.  Ensured proper storage of material in appropriate/assigned locations ensuring storage site meets weight capacity, space, and security requirements.  Verified part numbers, general quantity or condition, and label or data plate information.  Supported various stock/supply actions such as audits and inventory.  Moved equipment in support of maintenance requirements, to include exercising and transport to source of repair. Supply Technician HONEYWELL TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS INC June 2012 to August 2013 Worked for US Army posted in Afghanistan.  Property Book Accounts Manager for over 23 units for over 23 Primary Hand Receipt Holders. Posts property book transactions of equipment to unit hand receipts using PBUSE (Property Book Unit Supply Enhanced).  Provided customer service as a subject matter expert for logistical support of theatre provided equipment to deployed units.  Initiated Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss (FLIPL) DD Form 200 and Accountability Adjustment Reports (AAR) DA Form 4949s to properly adjust equipment accountability errors on Theatre Property Books.  Developed training materials for training subordinate personnel on the proper standards and procedures for supply actions such as requisition, receipt, storage, and turn-in of equipment.  ManED consolidated unit turn-in sites at unit motor pools or unit Warehouse.  Established and conduct turn in and issue operations at designated sites throughout theatre of operations. Education HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA Ace Institute of Technology - New York, NY October 2016 Wadleigh Secondary High School - New York, NY June 2001 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Router, Network security, Deployment, Internet explorer, Security, Snmp, Routing protocols, Microsoft windows, Windows 7, Lan, Customer service, Training, Inventory Additional Information SKILLS  • Installing Operating Systems, Software * Succesfully install and configure Cisco routers to  Installations, Pc Migration build multiprotocol internetworks  • Troubleshooting Hardware, Software, Network * Create Cisco router configuration files from scratch  Connection Issues, Printer Issues * Configure IP routing protocols  • Virus Removal, Recovery and System backup, * Perform software and hardware upgrades  Group Policy, Active Directory. * Effectively manage and maintain Cisco routers with  • Windows Fire wall, Firefox browser, Internet SNMP  Explorer  • Perform Basic windows 7 deployment with  Microsoft deployment toolkit  • Active Directory, Army, backup, Basic, book,  Hardware, Client, customer service, Financial,  Internet Explorer, inventory, LAN, windows 7,  Microsoft Windows, Windows, Migration,  Network Security, Network, Operating Systems,  organizational, PC Technician, personnel,  Printer, processes, Theatre, training materials,  • Troubleshooting, Wan