Computer Technician/ Network Administrator Computer Technician/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Computer Technician/ Network Administrator - Orange Grove Center Flintstone, GA Technical support representative, skilled at resolving complex customer service issues in a timely manner. Work Experience Computer Technician/ Network Administrator Orange Grove Center - Chattanooga, TN August 2015 to Present • Android Tablets, Cellphones, Computers, Servers, Local VPN.  • Network, Proxmox, Firewall, Servers, Routers, Switches, Wireless Access, DHCP, Active Directory.  • Collaborating with EPB, AT&T, Peacecom, CBM, and other companies - which support our business.  • Installing Network and Fiber cables if needed.  • Driving to different remote locations around town and solving customers problems on the spot.  • Creating and deleting accounts, resetting passwords, on local servers and EPB mail system. Creating and managing accounts on Peacecom server, working with the telephone system, Installing and maintaining Peacecom equipment ATA boxes. Direct Support Professional Orange Grove Center - Chattanooga, TN March 2012 to August 2015 • Provide direct support to individuals with disabilities.  • Assist in establishing routines that meet all individuals' needs and desires and to ensure compliance with licensing regulations, agency policies and practices and protection of individual rights. Computer Technician Chattanooga State Community College - Chattanooga, TN May 2014 to September 2014 • Provided base level IT supports to students and teachers. Researched issues on Mac, Windows and Linux computer systems to resolve complaints and answer inquiries. Also work on Android cellphones to make sure access to campus wireless internet.  • Provided real-time support to everyday users of Windows, Microsoft Office, Internet applications (IE, Firefox, mail-client)  • Troubleshot hardware issues and worked with service providers to facilitate repairs.  • Created new accounts, reset passwords and configured access to college networks for students. Education Associate in Network Management Chattanooga State Community college - Chattanooga, TN August 2013 to May 2015 Master of Science Samara State Aerospace University - Samara, RU Skills Active Directory, Customer Service, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Vmware Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uria-lrcrwnxldtq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.