Applications, Collaboration Engineer Applications, Collaboration Engineer Applications, Collaboration Engineer - Mantech International Corporation California, MD * BS / Cyber Security (2020)  * CCNA  * Security +CE  * Clearance: DoD Secret (Active)  * STIG and Security Compliance  * Army veteran - IT Specialist  * 7 years of experience in network engineering and administration Work Experience Applications, Collaboration Engineer Mantech International Corporation - California, MD July 2018 to Present * Performing network engineer tasking in support of a National Guard Bureau CMCS enterprise network (WMD Civil Support Teams).  ? Implementation and troubleshooting of tunneling, routing, and switching technologies.  ? Configuration of ACLs and firewall rules, to include zone based firewalls (ZBF).  ? Configuration of control plane policing on multiple Cisco routers.  ? Design and implementation of a wireless network that spans multiple buildings and geographic locations (Cisco vWLC).  ? Performing scheduled maintenance as well as break/fix to correct network inefficiencies and implement new designs/solutions.  ? Performing STIG checks of network devices and compiling configurations to correct vulnerabilities.  ? Tracking device status and health using various tools, including Solar Winds.  ? Configuration and implementation of Unified Communications to include Video and Voice over IP Network Administrator II AT&T - Next Generation Enterprise Network September 2017 to July 2018 September 2017 - Present    * Network configuration and management.  ? Port activations.  ? Responding to network/user incidents.  ? Troubleshooting a variety of network issues including: WAN/LAN/WLAN Connectivity, authentication, and hardware failures.  * Utilization of HP Service Manager (SM9) ticketing system.  ? Creating network change tickets and submitting tasks to appropriate teams.  ? Completion and closure of network incident tickets and port activations.  * Configuration and installation of network hardware:  ? Router, switch, firewall, and IPS installations.  ? Logical/physical upgrade and change implementation.  * Experience with a variety of network devices from manufacturers such as Cisco, Brocade, Riverbed, Aruba, and McAfee.  * Project management for site-wide technology refresh and sustainment projects.  ? New installation and upgrades for hundreds of hostnames and pieces of network hardware. IT Specialist US ARMY March 2012 to October 2017 March 2012 - October 2017    * Responsible for installing, configuring and troubleshooting of US Government network automations including computers, VOIP phones, and network shares on both Secret Internet Protocol Router Network and Non-secure Internet Protocol Network. (SIPR/NIPR)  * SATCOM operator responsible for utilizing SAA/SAR's to configure transmission equipment to properly identify a satellite and provide data link to a distant end user.  * Hand selected to serve as the Communication Security (COMSEC) custodian of cryptographic hardware; ensured the control and security of sensitive material providing support for several missions across the Pacific  * Responsible for receiving, safeguarding, issuing, accounting for, shipping and destroying all COMSEC material and equipment within the Battalion COMSEC account.  * Installed, maintained, upgraded and replaced all classified network encryption devices. (TACLANES) Education Computer Networks & Cyber Security University of Maryland - Glenarden, MD Skills Bgp, Cisco, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Layer 2, firewalls, MPLS, DNS Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Hardware: Cisco 3600/3000/2600/1000 series routers, Layer 2, Layer 3 switches  Hubs, laptops and workstations (HP, Dell, IBM). TACLANE KG-175,  Network cards, Memory, Printers Scanners and other peripherals.    Software: McAfee, Norton, Cisco IOS, MS Office Suite, Acrobat, Exchange,  Cisco Unified Communications Manager.    Networks/Protocols LAN/WAN, Telnet, VPN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, SMTP, FTP, ICMP,  NAT, IGRP, Ethernet, IPv4, OSPF, BGP, VLANS, Wireless