Technical Services Manager Technical Services Manager Technical Services Manager - US eDirect Bellmore, NY Work Experience Technical Services Manager US eDirect - Roslyn, NY February 2018 to Present Technical services for a growing outdoors and recreation scheduling software company. Serve as a lead for Network Monitoring, AWS, Application Performance, and PCI DSS compliance. Become an SME on the New Relic monitoring solution, design dashboards and configure alerts to provide advanced level resolution and root cause analysis of client issues. Manage and architect solutions for the enterprise via AWS using services like EC2, S3, Cloudwatch, Cloudtrail, Cloudfront, VPC, Route 53, IAM, RDS, WAF, etc. Prospect, research, and implement new technologies that enhance business initiatives. Train/mentor associates and support analysts on network/security protocols and ticket handling/escalation procedures as well as emerging technologies. Also function as a technical project manager for key client implementations and assist the writing team on development of the RFP process. Clients include State Governments in areas of the United States, Canada, and Australia. New Relic and AWS certified. Network Security Engineer Flexible Business Systems - Hauppauge, NY December 2016 to April 2017 Provide network engineering and security support services as a member of the remote services team for a major Managed Services Provider (MSP) supporting over 250 businesses in the New York tristate area. Utilize Oracle Netsuite as a ticketing system to meet service level agreements. Resolve security incidents and interface with various content and spam filtering products such as Proofpoint, McAfee, and Barracuda to resolve client issues. Adhere to HIPPA compliance in escalating Winthrop Hospital service requests. Contribute expert-level knowledge of Sophos Antivirus deployments and network traffic analysis of security incidents via Wireshark packet capture. Become a subject matter expert on Datto file and server restores in remediating client disaster scenarios. Participate in an on-call rotation. Network Support Engineer KEMP Technologies - Melville, NY April 2015 to October 2016 KEMP is a visionary software company that sells the LoadMaster, an application delivery controller (ADC), that Load Balances network traffic for businesses and organizations around the world. Support KEMP's clients and partners via phone, e-mail, and Cisco WebEx meetings to troubleshoot, diagnose, and effectively relay technical information. Knowledge of HTTP, SMTP, DNS, FTP, and SNMP protocols in relation to problem solving LoadMaster issues. Supported applications for the LoadMaster include Exchange, Lync, Sharepoint, RDS, VMWare Horizon View, Moodle, Blackboard, IIS, and more. Expert-level knowledge of Wireshark in examination of packet captures to analyze network connectivity concerns. Manage security cases related to content filtering and the Web Application Firewall feature. Fulfill service level agreements for customer satisfaction with a 99.98% satisfied rating, while solving the most cases of any engineer. Mentor two new hires in the onboarding and development process. Research Coordinator and Systems Administrator Management Recruiters of Woodbury - Woodbury, NY August 2014 to April 2015 Collaborate with account executives specializing in IT and supply chain. Utilize professional websites such as Monster, Dice, LinkedIn, Indeed, etc. to source candidates for specified job orders. Conduct initial screening of candidates and manage jobsite portals for open requisitions. Exceed target goals by contributing to numerous candidate placemen as the company's top researcher. Dual/hybrid role as network and system administrator for the office. Manage servers, networking and printing hardware as principal point of contact to the technology services provider. Lead a networking infrastructure project to install wireless connectivity and configure security and password policies for the office. Systems Administrator CHIPS Technology Group - Syosset, NY September 2013 to November 2013 Member of the proactive services team for a managed services provider in a Network Operations Center. Assess data backups, maintain server capacity, and answer level 1 client trouble tickets. Manage Active Directory Group Policy, Windows 2008 and 2012 servers, Exchange, and Lync. Operate VMWare, Hyper-V, and Citrix XenApp thin clients, with Symantec Backup Exec, Acronis, and ShadowProtect as primary backup utilities. Co-lead a two-week networking project for a private school district from conception to completion. Responsible for over 650 servers, travel to locations across Long Island, New York City, and Connecticut providing onsite technical service. IT Intern Sbarro LLC - Melville, NY May 2013 to August 2013 IT assistant in a summer position. Plan, design and build the new WSUS server for the company as a primary project. Organize the lab room and utilize the Spiceworks ticketing system to solve problems for end users. Attend corporate project meetings and conferences, and closely collaborate with the Infrastructure Manager and Technical Support Analyst to achieve goals for college internship requirements. Education Master's degree in Cybersecurity Bellevue University June 2017 CCNA SUNY Farmingdale Bachelors of Information Technology in Network Administration SUNY Cobleskill Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/jonathan-gimpelman/75/670/bb6 Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect July 2018 to July 2020 SSCP January 2017 to January 2020