Network Operations Manager <span class="hl">Network</span> Operations Manager Network Operations Manager - Datahal, LLC New Hartford, CT Work Experience Network Operations Manager Datahal, LLC - Canton, CT April 2018 to Present Responsible for continued Senior Network Engineer duties while serving as lead for all internal and assigned client infrastructure projects.  • Creation of internal SOP documentation including new hire training and technical operational guides.  • Full redesign of colocation racks; Fully redundant firewalls and switches within a Tier 4 colocation facility.  • Conceptualize, assess and implement hosted instance of Ubiquiti Unifi controller.  • Improvement on backup solutions to leverage colocation with development and execution of DRaaS solution.  • Development of risk analysis reports and disaster recovery plans with business continuity considerations. Senior Network Engineer Datahal, LLC - Canton, CT August 2016 to April 2018 Responsible for the development and integration of complex network systems while providing tier 3 and 4 support.  • Migration of Gentoo based DHCP with 31 VLANs to Microsoft DHCP while achieving 5 minutes accumulated downtime at the time of implementation.  • Implemented WDS/MDT for a 500-node campus, eliminating thick imaging and reducing data transmitted time spent per node by 40%.  • Technical lead for 60 AP deployment: Responsible for controller configuration, installation and radio tuning.  • Reverse engineer existing infrastructure and deploy new core switch with 33 VLANs, state routes and ACLs Network Engineer Datahal, LLC - Canton, CT March 2016 to August 2016 Responsible for the configuration and implementation of network systems while providing tier 1-2 support for clients.  • Perform scheduled maintenance to networking components and audit logs for potential breach attempts.  • Configure security settings and access permissions for groups or individuals per client needs.  • Design, configure and install network infrastructure using a wide array of equipment, insuring proper integration with existing network systems. Use of traditional and SDN networking technologies included.  • Establish new or update existing technical documentation for client networks including change tracking. Document help desk requests and resolutions in ticketing system.  • Designed and implemented complex wireless networking configuration, including 802.1x and dynamic VLANs. IT Technician / Junior Systems Administrator Electric Motion Company, Inc - Winsted, CT November 2014 to March 2016 Responsible for end-user technical support, monitoring and ticket system maintenance in a multi-site environment  • Identify, diagnose and resolve hardware, software, and network issues to minimize end-user downtime.  • VMware ESXi hypervisor management for multiple sites under supervision of IT manager.  • Create or update technical documentation pertaining to network infrastructure additions or changes  • Design, implement and managed new wireless infrastructure using Ubiquiti.  • Structured cabling; Termination of UTP via patch panel, wall outlet, and RJ-45 crimp end. Collision Repair and Refinishing Technician Classic Coach Works, Inc - Southbury, CT December 2009 to November 2014 Responsible for maintaining information systems while repairing and refinishing of foreign and domestic vehicles.  • Maintained and improved current networks and infrastructure within two buildings.  • Panel straightening and part replacement by welding or mechanical fasteners. Refinish surfaces: Certified PPG painter.  • Mechanical expertise acquired by troubleshooting and installing engines, transmissions, suspensions and brakes.  • Inspect repaired vehicles for proper functioning, completion of work, test drive and final inspection of vehicle. Education B.S. in Computer Information Science in Computer Information Science POST UNIVERSITY - Waterbury, CT December 2015 A.S. in General Studies in General Studies NAUGATUCK VALLEY COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Waterbury, CT May 2012 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CLUSTERING, INFRASTRUCTURE DESIGN, SDN, VMWARE, VPN, NETWORKING, HYPER-V, R2, TECHNICAL LEADERSHIP, Wlan, Cisco