Security Engineer Security Engineer Security Engineer Orlando, FL Security Engineer at Viewpost that has worked in a variety of environments securing, designing, and managing networks and systems. Holds a Bachelor of Science in Information Technology, CCNP Routing and Switching, CCNA Security, AWS Solutions Architect Associate, and additional certifications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Engineer Viewpost - Maitland, FL January 2018 to Present • Responsible for implementation and support of all security technologies on-premise and in AWS including CrowdStrike, Splunk, Tenable.io, Tenable.sc, Carbon Black, Palo Alto firewalls, Juniper, Duo, Aruba, McAfee, Avecto, CyberArk, Pleasant Password, ForcePoint/Websense, and Pulse Secure VPN.  • Configure and support a layered/defense-in-depth network including certificate-based 802.1x, Microsoft Network Policy Sever (NPS), network segmentation, multi-factor authentication, Palo Alto firewalls, Cb Protection, and CrowdStrike Falcon.  • A primary participant in SOC audits and Bank of America Global Information Security (GIS) assessments to ensure compliance with required standards. Also adhere to Center for Internet Security (CIS) Benchmarks for strengthened security posture.  • Design custom Splunk dashboards and alerts to provide actionable data to the Security and Infrastructure teams.  • Implement and maintain AWS security technologies including GuardDuty, Security Groups, NACLs, Macie, and VPG/VCG.  • Lead regular meetings to review vulnerabilities within the environment and develop solutions to remedy outstanding items.  • Create and provide Security Training for all new employees, internal phishing campaigns utilizing Wombat/ProofPoint ThreatSim, in addition to regular communications regarding security trends as part of an overall educational program.  • Create and maintain documentation for on-premise networks, AWS networks, as well as security applications and processes.  • Member of the Security Incident Response Team responsible for immediate action upon reported security incidents. System Administrator Axiom Bank - Maitland, FL June 2015 to January 2018 • Supported the creation of and migration to a new Windows domain. Including mission critical servers, Citrix XenDesktop 7.5 and XenApp environments, and migration of end users.  • Configured and replaced previous network switches with Cisco 3850s in the headquarters, disaster recovery, and all branch locations.  • Assisted with configuration and implementation of backup branch network connections using IPSec VPNs through CradlePoint wireless devices.  • Maintained and supported the Aruba ClearPass 802.1X NAC solution and Symantec Endpoint Protection ensuring good security posture for endpoints and increasing overall network security.  • Assisted with maintenance of Dell EqualLogic SANs and Dell DR4100 backup appliances.  • Managed Group Policy, Active Directory, Office 365, DHCP, DNS, DFS, WDS, and other Windows server functions.  • Automated various processes including FTP-reliant transfers, and multiple application-specific tasks using PowerShell and batch scripts. Automation of certain processes decreased disaster recovery failover time by 80%.  • Utilized VMware vSphere 5.5, Veeam Backup and Replication, Citrix Studio, and additional tools to manage and support the IT infrastructure.  • Worked directly with middle and upper management on several customer-impacting projects as subject matter expert.  • Created and maintained documentation on systems, network connections, and various applications. System/ Network Administrator Spectrum Bridge - Lake Mary, FL May 2014 to May 2015 • Responsible for security, sustainability, and management of all systems and networks. • Deployed and configured Dell SonicWALL firewalls including ACLs, one-to-one NAT, PAT, and other firewall settings. Also supported Fortinet FortiGate firewalls.   • Performed cutover migration from on premise Exchange to Exchange Online (Office 365).  • Designed and implemented automated backup procedure for servers and workstations using Veeam Endpoint Backup and Veeam Backup and Replication.   • Planned and executed the re-location of the company’s IT infrastructure to a new location. Including the installation of all physical network equipment and cabling prior to configuration. Launch IT Intern SpaceX - Cape Canaveral, FL May 2013 to August 2013 • Imaged and configured servers and workstations for launch readiness using SCCM, Clonezilla, and WDS.  • Installed KVM setup for main server room, as well as switches and new servers.  • Installed PDUs, ATSs, and other power units to provide redundancy for server room.  • Assisted in restructure of site's network infrastructure including deployment of multi-mode and single-mode fiber optic cables, CAT6 STP Ethernet cables, and new switches and routers. Education Bachelor of Science - Graduated with Honors in Information Technology University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL 2011 to 2015 Skills Information Security, Network Security, Splunk, Access Control Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/corichardson Certifications/Licenses CompTia Network+ April 2014 to April 2017 License #: 8CDP002JZ3Q1QQL2 CCNA Routing and Switching January 2016 to October 2019 License #: 423814169441AKYG CCNA Security October 2016 to October 2019 License #: 426456267451JOBN CCNP Routing & Switching December 2018 to December 2022 License #: 434524170782DTXM AWS Solutions Architect Associate June 2019 to June 2022 License #: EKE59VP1JMBE1E5M Additional Information Malware Response Team - BleepingComputer  http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/forums/    Malware Specialist - Tech Support Guy  https://forums.techguy.org/