Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - GE Building Schenectady, NY • Around 5+ years of experience in IP network design, network integration, deployment and troubleshooting.  • Extensive knowledge in configuring and troubleshooting Layer 3 Interior Gateway Routing protocols such as Link-State routing protocols (OSPF and IS-IS) and Distance Vector routing protocols (RIPv1, RIPv2 and EIGRP).  • Good knowledge in configuring and troubleshooting Exterior Gateway protocols such as BGPv4 including internal BGP (iBGP) and external BGP (eBGP).  • Outstanding skills of ITIL principles.  • Extensive knowledge of WAN technologies such as T1, T3, DS3, OCx, SDH, SONET, LTE, Fiber and Frame relay.  • Worked on configuring the Nexus 5K Aggregation Switch and Nexus 2K Fabric Extenders. Implemented VDC, VPC, VRF and OTV on the Nexus 5505 and 7009 switches.  • Hands on experience in configuring high end routers like GSR 12000 series, 7500 series and Catalyst Switches like 7600, 6500, 4500 series.  • Extensive experience in upgrade, backup and password recovery of Cisco IOS.  • Experience in working with Cisco Nexus Switches like 5000 and 7000 series and Virtual Port-Channel configuration.  • Knowledge and configuration of redundant router protocols like HSRP, VRRP and GLBP.  • Substantial knowledge, including the configuration, of Spanning Tree Protocol (STP), Per VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST), Rapid STP (RSTP) and Rapid per VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST+).  • Thorough experience in configuring Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN) with IEEE 802.1Q, VLAN trunking protocol (VTP), shortest path bridging, Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol and VLAN Cross Connect (CC).  • Experience in troubleshooting both connectivity issues and hardware problems on Cisco based networks.  • In-depth knowledge and hands-on experience in Tier 2 ISP Routing Policies and Firewalls.  • Experience in testing Cisco routers and switches in lab scenarios and deploy on site for production.  • Good knowledge of IPv4 and IPv6 Addressing, Fixed Length and Variable Length Subnet Masking (VLSM), OSI and TCP/IP models.  • Experience in migration of IPv4 addresses to IPv6 addresses using mechanisms like Tunnel Broker, Transport Relay Translation (TRT), NAT64, DS-Lite and DNS64.  • Experience in installing and configuring NAT, DHCP server and DNS in large networks.  • Experience in configuration of LAN protocols such as Ethernet and Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI) on Cisco Switches.  • Worked on Cisco Firewalls Cisco ASA 5500(5510/5540) Series and Checkpoint R75, 76 Firewalls.  • Experience in installing and configuring Checkpoint NGX R70.  • Implemented traffic filters using standard and extended access-lists, distribute-lists and route maps.  • Provided support that included resolving day-to-day operational issues with tickets generated by a server.  • Experience with F5 load balancers - LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 5000 ad 2000 for the corporate applications and their availability.  • Experience in documenting and preparing the process related operational manuals.  • Wide exposure to LAN/WAN setup, installation, configuration and commissioning of network devices.  • Good understanding of SNMP, IP SLA and Network Monitoring with experience in tools like PRTG.  • In-depth knowledge and hands-on experience in Tier II ISP Routing Policies, Network Architecture, IP Sub netting, VLSM, TCP/IP, NAT, DHCP, DNS, FT1 / T1 / FT3 / T3, SONET POS OCX/ GigE circuits, Firewalls.  • Good knowledge on implementing F5 BIG-IP load balancer.  • Experience in implementation of F5 GTM based on topology load balancing methods  • Having experience in deploying BIG-IP F5LTM Load Balancers for load balancing and traffic management of business application.  • Experience in troubleshooting a variety of problems. Streamlined and improved process to be quicker to market, ensured compliance and optimized operational efficiency. Identified opportunities for continued improvements of process to ensure maximum output. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer GE Building - Schenectady, NY September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete LAN, WAN development (including IP address planning, designing, installation, configuration, testing, maintenance etc.).  • Involved in Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANS's, Port security, Trunking, STP, Inter VLAN routing, LAN security etc.  • Good understanding of ITIL V3 lifecycles and processes  • Provided technical support to all ITIL process owners and performed audits on process.  • Coordinated with customers to develop ITIL process strategies for design.  • Implemented with Cisco Layer 3 switches 3750, 4500, 6500 in multi VLAN environment with the use of inter-VLAN routing, HSRP, ISL trunk, ether channel.  • Possess good experience in configuring and troubleshooting WAN technologies like MPLS, T1, T3, DS3 and ISDN.  • Implementing the necessary changes such as adding, moving and changing as per the requirements of business lines in a data center environment.  • Developed ITIL framework in coordination with MSC staff members.  • Administered program management activities and design plan for risk management.  • Monitoring the network traffic with the help of IBM QRadar and Cisco IPS event viewer.  • Managing and implementation of PORs (port open requests) based on the requirements of various departments and business lines.  • Implementing and troubleshooting (on-call) IPSec VPNs for various business lines and making sure everything is in place.  • Installing and configuring new Cisco equipment including Cisco catalyst switches 6500, Nexus 7010, Nexus 5548 and Nexus 2k as per the requirement of the Organization.  • Worked as a part of data center deployment where we converted from Cisco 6500 to Nexus.  • Configured Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 5000 to connect servers and storage devices.  • Worked primarily as a part of the security team and daily tasks included firewall rule analysis, rule modification and administration.  • Configuring & managing around 500+ Network &Security Devices that includes Juniper SRX Firewalls, F5 BigIP Load balancers and Nexus Devices.  • Modified internal infrastructure by adding switches to support server farms and added servers to existing DMZ environments to support new and existing application platforms.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration across the network.  • Setup simplified and traditional VPN communities, and Cisco Any connect  • Support customer with the configuration and maintenance of ASA firewall systems  • Used F5 load balancers and Cisco load balancers (CSM, ACE and GSS).  • Allocation and designing appropriate virtual IP for F5 ADC through IPAM infoblox.  • Configuring various advanced features (Profiles, monitors, iRules, Redundancy, SSL Termination, Persistence, SNATs, HA on F5 BIGIP appliances SSL termination and initiation, Persistence, Digital Certificates, Executed various migration/upgrade projects across F5 and hands on with F5 BIGIP LTM).  • Worked with Firewall DMZ zones and configuring them.  • 24x7 on-call escalation support as part of the security operations team.  • Working configuration of new VLANs and extension of existing VLANs on/to the necessary equipment to have connectivity between two different data centers.  • Managing and providing support to various project teams with regards to the addition of new equipment such as routers switches and firewalls to the DMZs.  • Adding and removing checkpoint firewall policies based on the requirements of various project requirements.  • Implementing IPSec and GRE tunnels in VPN technology.  • Supporting project test teams in analyzing the bandwidth utilization.  • Installing, configuring Cisco Catalyst switches 6500, 3750 & 3550 series and configured routing protocol OSPF, EIGRP, BGP with Access Control lists implemented as per Network Design.  • Designed, configured, implemented site-site VPN on Cisco ASA 5500 firewall.  Environment: Cisco 2948/3560/4500/3560/3750/3550/3500/2960 6500 switches and Cisco 3640/12000/7200/ 3845/3600/2800 routers, Cisco Nexus 7K/5K, Cisco ASA 500, Checkpoint, windows server 2003/2008: F5 BIGIP LTM, RIP, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP, LAN, WAN, VPN, HSRP Network Engineer Chevron - Houston, TX April 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Working in high availability Nexus Environment and provide Level 3 Network Support.  • Configuring, upgrading and verifying the NX-OS.  • Basic and advanced F5 load balancer configurations, general troubleshooting of the F5 load balancers.  • Worked with Load Balancing team to build connectivity to production and disaster recovery servers through F5 Big IP LTM load balancers.  • Designed and implemented DMZ for Web servers, Mail servers & FTP Servers using Cisco ASA5500 Firewalls.  • Modified internal infrastructure by adding switches to support server farms and added servers to existing DMZ environments to support new and existing application platforms.  • Analyzed customer application and bandwidth requirements, ordered hardware and circuits, and built cost effective network solutions to accommodate customer requirements and project scope.  • Used NetFlow Data statistics from NetFlow engine and export it to a NetFlow Collector for storage.  • Configured routers and coordinated with LD Carriers and LECs to turn-up new WAN circuits.  • Providing Level 3 support to customers, resolving issues by attending to conference calls.  • Designing and installing new branch network systems. Resolving network issues, running test scripts and preparing network documentation.  • Worked with MPLS to improve quality of service (QoS) by defining LSPs that can meet specific service level agreements (SLAs) on traffic latency, jitter, packet loss and downtime.  • Actively participated in upgrading fast Ethernet, Layer 3 switched/routed LAN infrastructure from Cisco 3640 to Cisco 2811 ISR routers and switches at access level to 2950, 3550.  • Configured various Router interfaces like ATM interface, T3 & Channelized T1 interfaces  • Configured and troubleshooting CISCO catalyst 6509, 7609, 7613 with Supervisor cards, Cisco 3640, Cisco GSR 12416,21418(with PRP and RPR processors)  • Configured HSRP between the 3845 router pairs of Gateway redundancy for the client desktops.  • Configured GLBP, VLAN Trunking 802.1Q, STP, Port security on Catalyst 6500 switches.  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches and fixes with all around technical support.  • Configured BGP, MPLS in Cisco IOS XR. Configuring Virtual Device Context in Nexus 7010.  • Configured multiple route reflectors within a cluster.  • Worked on HP open view map for Network Management System and Ticketing.  • Involved in Configuration of Access lists (ACL) on ASA firewall for the proper network routing for the B2Bnetwork connectivity.  • Secured configurations of load balancing in F5, SSL/VPN connections, Troubleshooting CISCO ASA firewalls, and related network security measures.  Environment: Cisco 2948/3560/4500/3560/3750/3550/3500/2960/6500 switches and Cisco 3640/12000 /7200/3845/3600/2800 routers ,Cisco Nexus 7K/5K/2K, Cisco ASA5510,Checkpoint, windows server 2003/2008: F5 BIGIP, LTM, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, BGP, VLAN, VPN, Checkpoint, Juniper SRX S.I.R. Administrator, Shared Services International Monetary Fund - Washington, DC January 2016 to March 2016 R Responsibilities:  Responsible working on Software Installation Requests from users within the Fund.  Experience on White listing applications and Software's using some agile methodologies.  Troubleshooting of users Workstations while in no Response state and making them active within the Fund.  Reviewing and analysis of Business Justification of Software's requested by users throughout the Fund.  Configuring rules, maintaining and Analysis of account logs using various tools.  Responsible in reviewing security threats of the software's and blocking them that is hazardous to the Fund Network.  Environment: Service Now Support Engineer TPG Communications - Belleville, NJ February 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Configuring and troubleshooting multi-customer network environment.  • Involved in network monitoring, alarm notification and acknowledgement.  • Implementing new/changing existing data networks for various projects as per the requirement.  • Troubleshooting complex networks layer 1, 2to layer 3 (routing with MPLS, BGP, EIGRP, OSPF protocols) technical issues.  • Providing support to networks containing more than 2000 Cisco devices.  • Performing troubleshooting for IOS related bugs by analyzing past history and related notes.  • Carrying out documentation for tracking network issue symptoms and large scale technical escalations.  • Managing the service request tickets within the phases of troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, fixes, patches and providing all-round technical support.  • Preparing feasibility report for various upgrades and installations.  • Ensure Network, system and data availability and integrity through preventive maintenance and upgrade.  • Involved in L2/L3 Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANs, Port security, Trunking, STP, Inter-Vlan routing, LAN security.  • Worked on the security levels with RADIUS, TACACS+.  • Completed service requests (i.e. - IP readdressing, bandwidth upgrades, IOS/platform upgrades, etc.)  • Identify, design and implement flexible, responsive, and secure technology services  • Modified internal infrastructure by adding switches to support server farms and added servers to existing DMZ environments to support new and existing application platforms.  • Configured switches with port security and 802.1 xs for enhancing customer's security.  • Monitored network for optimum traffic distribution and load balancing using Solar winds.  • Validate existing infrastructure and recommend new network designs.  • Created scripts to monitor CPU/Memory on various low end routers in the network.  • Installed and maintained local printer as well as network printers.  • Handled installation of Windows NT Server and Windows NT Workstations.  • Handled Tech Support as it relates to LAN & WAN systems  Environment: Cisco 2990/3550/6550 switches, Cisco 7200/3845/3600/2800 routers, EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, BGP, VPN, Ether Channels, and Sniffer. Network/Systems Engineer Value Source Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Provided estimated bandwidth requirements for data replication, to best determine adequate timing for migration service levels  • Configuring HSRP between VLANs, Configuring Ether-Channels, Port Channel on 6500 catalyst  • Switches Replace branch hardware with new 2851 routers and 2960 switches.  • Implemented Cisco Wireless Access Points and WLC's at various corporate sites fort 11n Infrastructure and its legacy technologies.  • Configuring/Troubleshoot issues with the following types of routers Cisco (7200, 6500, 4500, 1700, 2600 and 3500 series), to include: bridging, switching, routing, Ethernet, NAT, and DHCP, as well as assisting with customer LAN /MAN, router/firewalls.  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture.  • Assisted in network engineering efforts consistent with the infrastructure of an Internet Service Provider and support of such network services. Helped in designing and implementation of VLAN for the new users.  • Installation and Configuration of various types of Personal Computers and Printers. Installation of different operating systems on Intel based PC's.  • Installed Hard disks, Floppy drives, CD Drives, Sound Blaster cards, CPU, Memory, Power supply unit, Network card, Video graphics card, Hard disk controller card on PC systems.  • Troubleshooting of personal computers. On line Support to customers concerning their computer problems.  • Configuring, managing and troubleshooting networks using routing protocols like RIP, EIGRP and OSPF (Single Area and Multi Area).  • Assisted with troubleshooting all network issues with routers and switches when necessary and consulted with on call tech as needed for client.  • Excellent Troubleshooting Skills and Customer Centric approach.  • Actively participated in upgrading fast Ethernet, Layer 3 switched/routed LAN infrastructure from Cisco 3640 to Cisco 2811 ISR routers and switches at access level to 2950, 3550.  • Configured Vlan's, VTP's, enabling trunks between switches.    Environment: Cisco 2950 switches and Cisco 3825 Routers, EIGRP, BGP, MPLS, VLAN, QOS Education Master's in Electrical & Computer Sciences Skills Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Eigrp, Mpls, Ospf, Router, Sdh, Sonet, Switching, Vlan, Vpn, Firewalls, Load balancing, Openview, Remedy, Cisco ace, Cisco asa, Cisco pix, Ipsec