Sr Network Security Engineer Sr <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Seeking a Sr network security engineer position with a well-established company that will allow me to utilize my skills and abilities in order to maximize the company's output and foster continuous learning. Work Experience Sr Network Security Engineer Alpharetta, GA June 2017 to Present • Experience in Palo Alto Firewalls, Checkpoint, Fortinet and Zscaler.  • Use scripting to implement network configuration and push policy to firewalls.  • Upgrade Check Point Version from R75 - R77.30 Gaia to R80.20 Gaia.  • Upgrade Check Point Version from R75 - R77.30 Gaia to R80.10 Gaia.  • Install, configure and maintain Check Point R75 - R77 Gaia and Splat.  • Analyze logs in smartview tracker to troubleshoot network traffics.  • Managed Checkpoint Cluster Firewalls in VSX environment.  • Deployed Site-to-Site VPN tunnels between Check Firewalls and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Install, configure and maintain Palo Alto Version 5.0.1 to 8.1.8.  • Install, configure and maintain Palo Alto PA-500, PA-3020, PA-3060, PA-5020, PA-5220 and PA-5040.  • Palo Alto cluster implementation and configuration including Version 8.0.1 and previous version of Palo Alto firewall OS.  • Configuration, Troubleshooting and Maintenance of Palo Alto and Fortinet Firewalls.  • Strong experience in creating firewall policies as per the requirements on Palo Alto, Fortinet and Checkpoint firewalls.  • Install, configure and maintain Fortinet Version 4.0. to 6.0.  • Managed multiple Fortinet Firewalls using Forti-manager.  • Create administrative domain(Adom) to manage multiple Vdom.  • Create multiple virtual domain(Vdom) on Fortinet firewalls.  • Use Forti-Analyzer to troubleshoot and analyze traffics.  • Configure NAT such as Dynamic, Static, and Manual NAT policies as required for user traffics going out to the internet.  • Configure URL filtering to enable and/or disable user traffic access to unauthorized web sites.  • Configure new routes for new endpoints into Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Managed Palo Alto Firewalls from the command line interface.  • Extensive Packet level debugging and troubleshooting on Palo Alto Firewalls to resolve numerous network issues.  • Palo Alto Management server HA for fail-over for network management reliability.  • Managed multiple Palo Alto Firewalls using Panorama.  • Migrate from Checkpoint Firewall to Palo Alto Firewall using PAN 3.0 tool.  • Migrate from Cisco ASA Firewall to Palo Alto Firewall using PAN 3.0 tool.  • Administered Skybox to validate the Firewall rules and configurations before implementing the changes to meet NIST Standard.  • Experience managing and configuring Zscaler proxy filtering. Sr Network Security Engineer Dish Network - Forest Park, GA June 2013 to May 2017 • Experience in Checkpoint firewalls and Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Proven success managing multiple Information Security Systems.  • Install, configure and maintain Check Point R75 - R77 Gaia and Splat.  • Implement network security for remote access. Tasks includes configuring site to site and clients to site VPN tunnels.  • Configure and administer security rules and policies to permit and/or deny user traffics based on company security policy.  • Configure NAT and HIDE such as Dynamic, Static, and Manual NAT policies as required for user traffics going out to the internet.  • Configure IP-SEC VPN, and SSL-VPN (Mobile Access) on Check Point Gaia based on user traffics that needs to be encrypted using Checkpoint.  • Conducted security policy/rule review to identify and remove rules that are not needed to reduce checkpoint firewall policy lookup.  • Analyze logs in smartview tracker to troubleshoot network traffics.  • Checkpoint Management server HA for fail-over for network management reliability.  • Migrate from Cisco ASA Firewall to Checkpoint Firewall.  • Comprehensive understanding of networking concepts pertaining to LAN and WAN, Information security, IT communication and maintenance in multi-platform environments.  • Managed Checkpoint Firewalls from the command line interface.  • Worked with Checkpoint Support for resolving escalated issues  • Managed Checkpoint Cluster Firewalls in Provider1 environment.  • Install, configure and maintain Palo Alto PA200, PA220, PA500, PA3020 and PA5020.  • Configuration, Troubleshooting and Maintenance of Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Migrate from Cisco ASA Firewall to Palo Alto Firewall using PAN 3.0 tool.  • Strong experience in creating firewall policies as per the requirements on Palo Alto firewalls.  • Configure new routes for new endpoints into Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Managed Palo Alto Firewalls from the command line interface.  • Extensive Packet level debugging and troubleshooting on Palo Alto Firewalls to resolve numerous network issues.  • Palo Alto Management server HA for fail-over for network management reliability.  • Managed multiple Palo Alto Firewalls using Panorama.  • Migrate from Checkpoint Firewall to Palo Alto Firewall using PAN 3.0 tool.  • Configure URL filtering to enable and/or disable user traffic access to unauthorized web sites.  • Periodic policy review to ensure security polices achieves purpose.  • Experience in Network Intrusion detection/Intrusion Prevention System and Firewalls.  • Signature Updates Deployment on the Management Components and all the Individual IPS/IDS devices. Firewall Administrator University Of Lagos - Lagos, NG December 2009 to May 2013 • Experience in Fortinet and Cisco ASA Firewall.  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases.  • Remotely connect into end user computer to help troubleshoot network issues.  • Provide technical and administrative support to customers on a daily basis.  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches and fixes with all around technical support.  • Install, configure and troubleshoot Fortinet firewalls.  • Maintain active directory database (backup and restore).  • Work with Fortinet Fortigate NGFW appliances 1500D, 1200D at the data center as well as Fortinet 300, 500 at regional office locations managed through Fortimanager.  • Cisco ASA Firewall configuration and troubleshooting.  • Advanced knowledge in Cisco Switches and Routers Configurations.  • Maintain effective communication with vendors, peers and clients.  • Participate in on call support in troubleshooting the configuration and installation issues. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Kennesaw State University - Marietta, GA Bachelor of Science in Electrical in Electrical/Electronics Engineering University of Lagos - Lagos, NG Skills CISCO, NETWORKING, TCP/IP, TCP, CISCO PIX, IDS, IPS, SECURITY, CHECKPOINT Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • SECURITY: Checkpoint NGFW( R65, R75.20, R76(GAIA), R77), (4400, 4600, 5100, 5600, 12k, 13k, 41k,61k Series), Palo Alto (Version 5.0.1 to 8.0.8), ( PA-5020, PA-3020, PA-500, PA-200,PA-220), Fortigate (3950B,1500D, 1200D, 300, 500, 3k, 7k chasis), ASA 5500 Series Cisco PIX.  • Static & Dynamic IP Addressing, NAT/PAT, web Application and IPS/IDS. Networking/Protocols: TCP/IP Protocol Suite    TECHNICAL SUMMARY  • IPSEC-VPN configuration for data encryption.  • Working knowledge of security governance, compliance frameworks, and technical hardening standards (e.g. PCI, COBIT, NIST, etc.).  • Use scripting to implement network configuration and push policy to firewalls.  • Administered Skybox to validate the Firewall rules and configurations before implementing the changes to meet NIST Standard.  • Checkpoint cluster implementation and configuration including R77 clusterXL and previous version of checkpoint firewall OS.  • Checkpoint Management server HA for fail-over for network management reliability.  • Firewall security policy implementation and monitoring  • Firewall traffic tracking using tcpdump and fw monitor for packet capture and analysis  • Well experienced in configuration of Cisco routers and switches for packet routing and switching.  • Experience in network intrusion detection/intrusion prevention systems and firewalls.  • Managed multiple Fortinet Firewalls using Forti-manager.  • Create administrative domain(Adom) to manage multiple Vdom.  • Create multiple virtual domain(Vdom) on Fortinet firewalls.  • Use Forti-Analyzer to troubleshoot and analyze traffics.  • Managed Checkpoint Cluster Firewalls in Provider1 environment.  • Extensive Packet level debugging and troubleshooting on Palo Alto Firewalls to resolve numerous network issues.  • Managed multiple Palo Alto Firewalls using Panorama.  • Migrate from Checkpoint Firewall to Palo Alto Firewall using PAN 3.0 tool.  • Migrate from Cisco ASA Firewall to Palo Alto Firewall using PAN 3.0 tool.  • Considerable research into logs for root cause analysis of any issues within a network.  • Work with team and resolve client firewall issues.  • Experience managing and configuring Zscaler proxy filtering.  • Experience using office tools such as MS Word, Excel, Powerpoint,Visio, Outlook.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skill.