Cybersecurity Specialist Cybersecurity Specialist Cybersecurity Specialist - College of American Pathologists Mount Prospect, IL Work Experience Cybersecurity Specialist College of American Pathologists 2018 to Present • Provides leadership related to security technology implementations and associated configurations, manages security projects, and facilitates, coordinates and executes security processes and procedures for applications, networks, and end-points.  • Analyzes business security/risk management requirements, develops and maintains security processes, policies, procedures, and communications and coordinates security initiatives.  • Provides guidance and expertise for application based security and performs vendor management reviews to determine third party risk.  • Implements and manages cybersecurity initiatives which include the vulnerability management program, privileged access management, dynamic and static application security testing and security awareness and training. Information Security Unit Manager Ceannate Corp 2014 to 2018 • Manages and develops staff to include selection, work allocation, training, coaching and mentoring, problem resolution, performance evaluation, feedback and corrective actions.  • Maintains a formal Information Security Organization to ensure compliance and regulatory requirements are satisfied.  • Maintains compliance with FISMA, PCI-DSS, FERPA, GLBA, FACTA, ISO 17799/27001/27002, IRS Publication 1075 and SSAE 16 SOC I / SOC II.  • Maintains Information Security Libraries to ensure compliance and regulatory requirements are satisfied.  • Conducts and leading internal, client, vendor, and third-party security assessments.  • Performs monthly internal vulnerability assessments, quarterly external vulnerability assessments and annual penetration testing/ethical hacking to comply with vendor and client contractual requirements.  • Tracking all issues identified by monthly internal vulnerability assessments, quarterly external vulnerability assessments, and annual penetration testing through remediation  • Ensures compliance and training on security awareness, incident response, and business continuity processes  • Leading and conducting risk and security assessments, vulnerability scanning, penetration testing, and incident response and security awareness to ensure compliance.  • Coordinate the information security operations, recurring tasks and projects and distribute responsibilities throughout the information security team. Network Support Engineer Insight Global (Walgreens) 2014 to 2014 • Configuring Quality of Service and Access Lists on the Cisco devices. Other configurations include configuring switch ports and VLANs according to the specifications of the connected devices. Verifying that all configurations are correct and testing device functionality.  • Trouble shooting VoIP issues that include issues with configuration as well as walking on site tech through wiring issues. Identifying the source of issue, isolation it and the solving the problem. Trouble shooting BGP configuration issues on newly implemented routers and correcting autonomous systems and encapsulation misconfigurations.  • Configure live Cisco routers and switching at remote locations. The devices include Cisco routers 2821 and 2921, Cisco switch Catalyst 2950, Catalyst 2960, and Catalyst 3560. Testing failover systems to minimize or eliminate down time during the conversion.  • Testing devices and systems affected by the VoIP conversion. These include testing all store lines from the demarcation point to the router. Verifying 911 works correctly on the VoIP system. And finally making sure music on hold, paging and drive thru systems function correctly. Network Implementation Engineer Barkat Consulting (Hospira) 2013 to 2014 • Participated in customer planning meeting with Project Managers to design comprehensive network, wireless and security solutions in new and existing network configuration, and planned hardware deployment. Implemented secure network infrastructure and wireless solutions, implemented local and wide area network solutions between multiple platforms and protocols.  • Created and maintained up-to-date documentation of network design, operation and procedure manuals. Created and executed test plans to meet project requirements for assigned components. Conducted tests of network redundancy, resilience and failover network elements to ensure up-time standards are full achieved.  • Extensive experience on Cisco Routers, Switches, WAN accelerators and Firewalls (Catalyst 4500, Catalyst 3750, Nexus7K, Nexus 5K, Nexus 2K). Enterprise Routing experience using protocols like; RIP, EIGRP, and OSPF. Enterprise Switching experience with: VLANs, Trunks, Spanning Tree, and VPC.  • Identify and troubleshoot hardware and software technical problems related to LANs and WANs. Able to troubleshoot L2 and L3 issues. IT Director Berman's Auto Group 2012 to 2013 • Project Management, upgrading equipment, changing calling architecture for VoIP.  • Disaster recovery, recovering network after uncontrolled event like power outage.  • Maintaining and managing VoIP system, servers, network, and end user equipment.  • Supporting day to day operations for staff spread across five geographical locations.  • Implementation and configuration of web filters, switches and routers.  • Performing server backup and restores.  • Maintaining web site domains hosted on Go-daddy and phone profiles.  • Managing company wide E-mail migration from Rackspace to Google apps.  • Building a network and all configurations for a new location using CISCO equipment, Cisco Catalyst 3750's. Assistant Systems Administrator Westwood College O'Hare 2011 to 2012 • Assist in IT projects, deployments, and day to day operations.  • End user maintenance/repair, ensuring that computers have full internet connectivity and functionality  • End device maintenance/repair, making sure printers, and phone systems are fully operational.  • Help desk, helping students and faculty with day to day computer operations. Server/ network maintenance 2009 to 2012 • PC and MAC diagnostic.  • Hardware installation, including laptop and desktop hardware components.  • Software installation, including operating systems, and end user programs.  • Infection removals, including Trojans, Viruses, and Ad-Ware. Registry fixes when necessary.  • Interaction with customers, explaining problems and solutions. Education MBA in Management Morris Graduate School of Management 2015 Information Systems Security Westwood College 2012 Skills Cyber Security, Information Security, Network Security, Siem, Nist, Cissp Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) August 2018 to August 2021