Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Panorama City, CA Bilingual individual with electrical, electronic and network upgrade and repair knowledge. Professional, detail-oriented engineer  motivated to drive projects from start to finish as part of a dynamic team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator AGG Mantenimiento - Guadalajara, MX May 2014 to November 2017 Mexico  • Backed up company data on a regular basis, which proved effective in successful recovery when malware hit the network.  • Participated in on-call rotations during holidays, weekends and overnights to handle emergency network situations.  • Identified issues and implemented troubleshooting techniques to alleviate downtime and system failure.  • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders. Water Treatment Plant Engineer SYTESA - Mexico City, MX February 2012 to January 2014 Mexico  • Performed Inspection and routine testing on each system within the plant.  • Maintained equipment by tightening fittings, replacing valve packing, gaskets, valves, and gauges, motors and any other electrical and electronic equipment.  • Ensured water chemistry is within proper control ranges. Made adjustments to water chemistry, as needed, by controlling chemical  feed and/or process flow rates.  • Trained new plant operators in the operation and basic troubleshooting of aerobic water treatment plants. Education Master of Science in Environmental Biotechnology University Of Guadalajara - Guadalajara, MX 2010 MBA in Electrical Engineering Technological Institute Of Zapopan - Guadalajara, MX 2008 MBA in Compute Systems Engineering Technological Institute Of Zapopan - Guadalajara, MX 2007 Skills LOW VOLTAGE, MAINTENANCE (3 years), CABLING, STRUCTURED CABLING Additional Information Skills  • Network repairs and maintenance • Network maintenance  • Analysis and critical thinking • Enterprise applications  • Network systems installation • Low voltage electrical installations  • Troubleshooting • Structured cabling