Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - NTT Data Arlington, VA •Possess an active DOD Top Secret Clearance.  •Certifications: CISSP, CCNA, ITIL V3 Foundation  •Experience in installing, maintaining, and troubleshooting IT equipment in an Enterprise environment.  •Language: English (Not Bilingual) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator NTT Data - Arlington, VA April 2017 to Present • Configure Cisco routers and switches, insuring devices meet government security requirements.  • Install Wireless Access Points to provide users with mobile connection to the network.  • Deploy to customer sites and complete installation of new/replacement Cisco equipment.  • Coordinate network outage with customers and insure work is completed within agreed time frame  • Perform onsite analysis, diagnosis, and resolution of complex desktop problems for end users, and recommend and implement corrective solutions.  • Insure workstations are in compliance by upgrading operating systems from Win 7 to Win 10.  • Perform LAN Room site surveys for needs such as adequate AC wall power, shelving space, network equipment, and cabling requirements.  • Open, monitor and track ticket system, emails and phone calls for incoming incidents and requests.  • Assure daily and weekly reporting is completed in a timely and relevant manner. Network Engineer Zolon Tech - Arlington, VA July 2015 to December 2015 • Optimized the performance of the network consisting of various Cisco switches and routers by configuring routing protocols, static routes, vlans and switch ports.  • Ensured network equipment configurations and updates were correct and current.  • Provided Tier II support for all network connection and outage issues.  • Installed Cisco switches and cables to provide network access to new office areas.  • Identified and documented network requirements for specific needs of customers.  • Assisted in hardware installation and maintenance of workstations, servers, networking equipment, and other supporting hardware. Network Administrator Indus Corporation - Arlington, VA June 2014 to June 2015 • Upgraded Cisco IOSs on routers and switches to meet security requirements.  • Added, deleted, and modified Access Control Lists as required.  • Maintained network diagrams and modified as necessary.  • Configured Cisco routers and switches for first time use.  • Deployed and managed the end-to-end lifecycle of network devices.  • Managed, maintained, and when necessary troubleshot all network connections and devices. Computer Systems Support Administrator Institute for Defense Analyses - Alexandria, VA February 2013 to May 2014 • Configured Active Identity PKI and Remote Access Token Cards.  • Created, deleted, and modified user accounts and security groups in Active Directory.  • Created, deleted, and modified e-mail and distribution groups in Microsoft Exchange.  • Sanitized infected workstations involved in classified data spills.  • Ran client-side virus scans, when notified of possible malicious activity on a system.  • Provided technical client-side support and maintenance of endpoint hardware and software.  • Configured and troubleshot mobile devices to provide users with access to Microsoft Exchange emails, using the Blackberry Enterprise Server and the Good for Enterprise Application.  • Moved, added, and replaced computer systems, peripherals, and network printers.  • Utilized MacAfee Endpoint Encryption for PCs to allow users access to systems when locked out.  • Assisted users with Remote Access/VPN issues.  • Created, canceled, and modified tickets in the Remedy ticketing system.  • Connected, configured, and troubleshot Thin Clients on the Citrix network  • Configured, installed, and modified Cisco VOIP phones using Cisco Call Manager. Systems/ Network Administrator Intelligent Decisions - Arlington, VA June 2010 to January 2013 • Provided first line diagnostics and problem resolution for all issues dealing with hardware, software, and applications.  • Configured and installed Cisco 3570 Series Switches on the network.  • Resolved network connection issues from the end user's location to the Cisco switch.  • Utilized Active Directory to add, delete, modify, and troubleshoot user accounts.  • Programmed, installed, and troubleshot Avaya VOIP phones, using the Avaya Call Manager.  • Ensured accurate completion of all required documentation using the Remedy Action Request System.  • Troubleshot user profile issues remotely or in person.  • Troubleshot/Replaced malfunctioning computer components.  • Moved and added computer systems to newly assigned locations. Systems Analyst Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc., Taji Iraq July 2008 to October 2009 • Established a unit level Service Desk, servicing 200+ customers.  • Coordinated the installation of backbone cabling, and switches to newly acquired office spaces and buildings that required classified and unclassified network connections.  • Assured that all computer systems were updated with the latest security patches, hot fixes, and program updates in order to assure network credibility.  • Connected peripheral devices to the network or when needed locally on a customer's computer.  • Installed, modified, and repaired computer hardware and resolved software issues.  • Installed/Troubleshot Cisco VOIP phones.  • Provided quick time response when dealing with all network connection, and system issues.  • Installed/Troubleshot Cat5e cables from Cisco switch to end-user's location. Education Associates Degree in Computer and Network Systems Administration in Computer and Network Systems Administration IntelliTec College December 2006 Skills Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Networking, Active Directory, Customer Service Certifications/Licenses CISSP CCNA Additional Information • Possess an active DOD Top Secret Clearance.