Network/Computer Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span>/Computer <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network/Computer Administrator - Enspyr LLC Hampton, VA Work Experience Network/Computer Administrator Enspyr LLC - Hampton, VA May 2019 to Present Maintain and monitor a DOD/Microsoft based LAN network for over 200 personnel and 300 end devices. Responsible for ensuring that all VTC equipment and software are up to date and all SVTC/VTC conferences maintain their connection. Migrate, repair, install, test, maintain, and upgrade computers, and network hardware, and software. Change back-up media on servers when needed, prepare and maintain server backup schedules and restore user files from back up media. Plan and implement system support including LAN administration, and train end users on new systems. Provide recommendations and support analytical documentation on purchases of hardware and software. Successfully create OSD upgrade and deployment, and implementing security patches. Senior SCCM Administrator Link Solutions, Inc - Fort Lee, VA November 2014 to May 2019 Scan for vulnerabilities using ACAS Scan Network Security Scanner and report findings. Migrate, repair, install, test, maintain, and upgrade computers, and network operating systems software. Monitor and control, as assigned, system security for bureau systems and interfaced with Department systems. Plan and implement system support including LAN administration, and train end users on new systems. Assist in design, planning and implementation of configuration and installation of new hardware and software, including LAN and connectivity to new WAN networks. Provide recommendations and support analytical documentation on purchases of hardware and software. Respond to end users request and assure timely follow-ups on all helpdesk issues. Install, setup, upgrade and support audio, visual and Polycom Video Teleconference equipment as well as coordinate VTC with overseas and domestic posts. Change back-up media on servers when needed, prepare and maintain server backup schedules and restore user files from back up media. Add users to Active Directory, network share drives and printers Tier II- Desktop Support Technician Diverse Business Systems - Richmond Supply Center - Richmond, VA April 2012 to November 2015 Provide telephone and in-person support, troubleshooting, diagnosing, resolving, and documenting hardware, software, and network related technical issues. Task to administer End Users and Computers through Active Directory and through SCCM. Implemented Active Directory Services, maintaining Replication, Trust Relationship and enforcing Domain wide Group Policies. Administered Good Mobility Messaging Servers for iPhone, and iPad users. Create, and respond to escalated, and close tickets. Track all outstanding tickets, working closely with Tier III and Window Server Technician to ensure any problems are resolved in timely manner. Document all technical issues, highlight steps taken to re-mediate problems. A part a of multiple software and hardware deployments: IPhone 5 roll out and Apple iOS Updates and installs. Responsible for Disabled personnel IT services i.e. special software installs and initial setups with hardware and software. Tier II Desktop Support Technician General Dynamics Information Technology - Fort Lee, VA December 2010 to April 2012 General Dynamics Falls Church, VA. Tier II- Desktop Support Technician. Provide telephone and in-person support to over 250 commissaries, and end users, troubleshooting, diagnosing, resolving, and documenting hardware, software, and network related technical issues. Created and maintained workstation images, and Manage the workstation life cycle, providing ongoing updates. Active directory admin for over 500+ users configuring and administrating customer's users accounts and PC accounts. Create, and respond to, and escalate tickets. Track all outstanding tickets, working closely with Tier III and Window Server Technicians to ensure any problems are resolved in timely manner. Document all technical issues, highlight steps taken to re-mediate problems. Education BS Network Security ECPI University - Richmond, VA April 2007 to April 2009