Housekeeper Housekeeper Chicago, IL Work Experience Housekeeper Chalet Living And Rehabilitation Center - Chicago, IL August 2015 to March 2019 Responsibilities were but not limited to was typically sweeping, mopping, dusting, cleaning walls, deep cleaning certain rooms required from daily checklist, cleaning private hallways and stairways, wearing proper safety gear for certain rooms, make sure linen was change for each complete room, deep clean every bathroom, assist residents if needed. Also work schedule days as an laundry aide attendant. Make sure each machine was functioning properly before inserting linen, transport soiled laundry to washers carefully using solution for laundry, maintaining an clean work area, stock all cleaning supplies and transport all clean linen to correct resident. Turn end supply closet keys before end of shift. Custodian Help at Home - Chicago, IL February 2011 to July 2015 Responsibilities were providing general housekeeping work to keep clients commute safe and clean, preparing daily healthy meals, prepared nutritious meals and snacks to meet client dietary requirements such as diabetic, low  sodium and high protein (hand serving some clients), assist clients around home and public medical locations, provided weekly review to supervisors medical staff to improve cases, help families in planning for meals and shopping for ingredients to meet nutritional plans when not schedule for clients. Packer Amazon - Joliet, IL June 2010 to December 2010 Responsibilities were to cleaning packaging materials, loading items into containers or boxes that were required for that order, making sure all products were loaded in the correct container and labeling each finished package, carefully expecting products before preparing there for shipment, working in fast pace environment, keep record of damage products so they can be transported to damage area. Network Security Administrator TAS Security Service - Chicago, IL March 2009 to June 2010 Responsibility were securing the company’s servers and routers and helping the company create expedient policies surrounding the security of its networks. Secure main entrance as well as computer to make sure everyone are entering the premises in a self and life threatening manner. Education High School Diploma Paul Robeson High School Chicago Illinois - Chicago, IL Skills Custodian (4 years), Customer Service (1 year), Housekeeping (5 years), Personal assistant (2 years) Assessments Workplace English — Highly Proficient July 2019 Understanding spoken and written English in work situations. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uwfysdit2xwzuiss Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.