Sr. Cloud Migration Engineer Sr. Cloud Migration Engineer Sr. Cloud Migration Engineer - Strategic SAAS Pflugerville, TX Work Experience Sr. Cloud Migration Engineer Strategic SAAS - Austin, TX February 2019 to Present Responsible for onboarding new clients with up to 500 employees and leading client migration from on-premise Microsoft products to Microsoft Office 365 Cloud based products.    • Company expert for delivering optimal design of Microsoft Office 365 environments, analyzing complex hybrid production deployments, and making recommendations to optimize performance  • Educated customers on the value proposition of Office 365 and related services. Led technical training sessions for internal teams, external partners, and clients  • Provided on-site and remote customer service. Identified workarounds for specific issues and scenarios observed during cut over, hybrid, and tenant to tenant migrations. Proactively implemented automated solutions to address frequent challenges  • Developed test plans and test scripts to demonstrate pre and post migration readiness. IT Director Lane Women's Health, LLC - Cincinnati, OH May 2018 to Present Led design and on-site implementation of the entire IT and network infrastructure for new healthcare facility. Currently volunteering remote service and support for medical staff.    • Designed, implemented, and maintained servers/racks, network, and workstations for health care facility.  • Executed Active Directory 2016, Office 365, Microsoft Exchange 2016, and Malwarebytes Servers. Also implemented VoIP phone system  • Provided technical onboarding to new employees and health care administrators  • Shifted from employee to volunteer upon relocation to the Austin area. Currently providing remote technical support to staff as needed. Sr. Network Administrator Union Institute & University - Cincinnati, OH September 2015 to April 2018 Led design and on-site technical support for over 2500 students and 550 staff members at the university, including network infrastructure and security collegiate network infrastructure consisting of virtual server environments (Windows Server 2012, 2008, Cent OS Linux) for testing and deployment using VMWare ESX / ESXi 5.5 and Horizon View.    • Implemented solutions that reduced single points of failure improving system uptime to 99.9% availability utilizing Group Policy and PowerShell Scripting  • Installed network device including routers, firewalls, access points, and support when needed.  • Researched and implemented new technologies to improve efficiency for staff and end users  • Installed and maintained system upgrades, patches, established system monitoring protocols, and maintained security protocols utilizing Windows System Update Service (WSUS)  • Created and manages Active Directory Federated System (ADFS) that allows student logins to Office 365  • Maintained and manage both SharePoint Online and SharePoint On Prem deployment and upgrades  • Created, launched and manages a multipurpose Room Booking system for the University  • Implemented, launched and manages a SharePoint 2010 to 2016 campus wide migration  • Implemented a college wide upgrade from Windows Server 2008 r2 to Windows Server 2012 r2 Sr. Network Administrator Ross Education, LLC - Cincinnati, OH November 2013 to April 2015 Led network infrastructure design and implementation for a collegiate healthcare facility with over 500 students, staff, and faculty. Included support for Windows Servers, Citrix applications, and other networking components. Investigated and resolved performance issues demonstrating strong diagnostic skills across multiple platforms.    • Provided enterprise support to multiple on-site locations in Ohio, Kentucky, Indian, and Michigan  • Created virtual server environments (Windows Server 2012, 2008, Debian Linux) for testing and deployment using VMWare ESX/ESXi 4.0  • Designed and implemented Kaseya Application, Zendesk Help Desk Application, and Remedy Salesforce Help Desk Application  • Installed and maintained SonicWALL injection points, access points, and firewalls.  • Led physical installation of network cabling, servers, employee workstations, and Cisco VoIP Phones Global IT Help Desk Administrator Devicor Medical Products - Cincinnati, OH January 2013 to June 2013 Supported a global IT infrastructure for 1000+ employees throughout the U.S. and 8 countries. Led troubleshooting of hardware, software and network issues for a mixed Unix, Linux, Windows and MAC OS environment. Supported voicemail, telephone and PBX systems. Personally, selected to support company executives and board of directors due to ability to provide timely resolutions for business-critical application users. Left to pursue personal education endeavors  • Researched, designed, and executed new multi-level help desk system in less than one month, improving service efficiency by over 50%. Trained internal staff to independently run new system in less than 6 months. Eliminated outsourcing costs while keeping internal costs and resources neutral.  • Responsible for on-site service of over 75 unique software programs for 480 employees  • Delivered remote networking support to over 1000 global employees across 8 countries  • Developed and maintained the Microsoft Exchange Server for both Local and Wide Area Networks IT Help Desk Manager University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH February 2011 to June 2012 Managed a team of 15 employees to provide technical support for 1000+ students and employees at the Design and Architecture college at the University of Cincinnati. Maintained the various computer labs with in Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning. Performed top tier help desk and technical support for faculty, deans, and directors.  • Managed external relationships with over 10 different vendors; executed vendor service and maintenance agreements; oversaw vendor expenditures.  • Created and executed evaluation systems for new vendor programs and systems; tested and made recommendations for new systems and system upgrades  • Responsible for managing 24-hour on-site support for student and faculty computer lab with over 200 machines Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology The University of Phoenix May 2013 Associate of Applied Science in Network Engineering in Network Engineering Virginia College at Austin August 2006 Skills Active directory, Iis, Dhcp, Ldap, Vmware, AWS, Azure