Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - National Disease Research Interchange Brookhaven, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator National Disease Research Interchange - Philadelphia, PA February 2016 to Present • Manage IT infrastructure including Network LAN, WAN, MPLS Data Network, Data Centers, Disaster Recovery facilities, ERP application (GP), telecommunications, various third-party applications including CRM Online, Solar Winds, SQL, and a custom IT help desk.  • Designed and implemented Hyper-V and Hyper-V Failover Clustering, virtualizing over 90% of workloads, enabling high availability across most systems, and driving efficiency.  • Steered the enhancement of disaster recovery engineering plans through detailed recovery documentation, scripting, and enabling Hyper-V Replica replication for virtual workloads, in turn dropping the recovery point objective (RPO) from hours to minutes.  • Assumed responsibilities of the IT Director during an extended 12-month absence; which includes inventory management, budgeting, and cost controls.  • Implemented multifunction copy/scan/fax/print solutions (Xerox) to eliminate desktop inkjet devices to reduce cost per page, saving NDRI over $1000 per month in expenditures.  • Configure and maintain database servers and processes, including monitoring of system health and performance, to ensure high levels of performance, security, and availability.  • Drove implementation of Microsoft Azure disaster recovery plan.  • Wrote project proposals to third-party vendors covering multiple technology areas such as VoIP migration and Backup/Recovery solutions. Systems Engineer Computer Systems Resource Incorporated - West Chester, PA February 2015 to February 2016 • Worked closely with customers, internal staff, and other stakeholders to determine planning, implementation and integration of system-oriented projects.  • Administered VMware virtual machines, hypervisors and clusters with support from virtualization engineers.  • Ensured full and incremental data backups were successful; performed data restore for users as needed.  • Managed and monitored clients' systems and network infrastructures to ensure the highest level of availability.  • Responsible for data center operations such as rack installation, server configuration, server health monitoring, switch installation etc.  • Provided 24x7 desk side and phone support for over 100 customers which resulted in high computer uptime and high customer productivity. Game Tester VMC Games - Redmond, WA May 2014 to February 2015 • Validated developer fixes for success and compliance.  • Developed test methodology to check product features and devised test plans for modules.  • Documented and reported bugs related to network connectivity.  • Participated in stress testing to determine the stability of a given system or entity in order to:  ? Determine breaking points or safe usage limits  ? Confirm intended specifications are being met  ? Determine modes of failure (how exactly a system fails)  ? Test the stable operation of a part or system outside standard usage Network Security Operations Center Engineer Evolve IP, LLC - Wayne, PA June 2014 to November 2014 • Investigated alarms received regarding T1 links between remote node sites.  • Assisted VPN users with connection related issues.  • Detected and investigated all infrastructure alerts and escalated to appropriate personnel as necessary.  • Completed all service requests within agreed time scales while adhering to quality standards.  • Performed Basic triage/troubleshooting and escalated events as necessary to engineers Education Master of Science in Information Science Pennsylvania State University - Great Valley - Malvern, PA August 2013 to December 2016 Bachelor of Science in Legal Studies Saint Joseph's University - Philadelphia, PA August 2010 to May 2013 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Linux, Active Directory, Cisco, DHCP, Hyper-V, Infrastructure Planning, Log Analysis, Microsoft Azure, Network Administration, Network Monitoring, Penetration Testing, Project Management, Proposal Writing, SolarWinds, SQL, Windows Server Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/seanhpatterson/ Awards Employee of the Quarter Award 2016-10 Quarterly award given to the employee in acknowledgement of excellent attitude and performance. This award is peer-selected by all employees.  Employee of the Quarter 2019-05 Quarterly award given to the employee in acknowledgement of excellent attitude and performance. This award is peer-selected by all employees.  Additional Information NDRI  Disaster Recovery Implementation                                                                     August 2016 – December 2016  Responsible for development and implementation of NDRI’s disaster recovery plan via Microsoft Azure.    Employee of the Quarter Award    Quarterly award given to the employee in acknowledgement of excellent attitude and performance. This award is peer-selected by all employees. Received in 2016 (3rd quarter) and 2019 (2nd quarter).     Computer Systems Resource, Incorporated (CSRI)  Office Planning and Installation - June 2015  As project manager, spearheaded the installation of a new corporate office. Configured and deployed high-available WatchGuard firewalls, a Cisco switch, multiple workstations, and an Office 365 tenant.     Rutgers University – Camden Campus   October 2018  Delivered a guest lecture at Rutgers University for undergraduate students. The title of the class was Network Technology and Security. Topics discussed included the differences between each OSI layer, and how they relate to business.