UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator UNIX/Linux Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator - Trinitech Consulting Global Lewisville, TX • Over 4+ years of System/ Network Administrator's experience in multiplatform UNIX and Linux environments, with expertise in networking, scripting and system integration.  • Excellent technical skills, with strong knowledge of current and emerging technologies.  • Adaptable, strong team player, detail oriented, ability to multitask, Excellent verbal and written communication skills, ability to work within strict deadlines.  • Solid background in systems and software installation, user and group administration, role base access control, file transfer and sharing, competent in file systems, volume and storage management amongst others. Work Experience UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting Global May 2016 to Present • Install operating system, brand new virtual and physical servers. Deploy Solaris 10, RHEL 6/7, Centos 6/ 7, windows 10 OS, windows 10 pro, windows NOS & windows 2008 server to the network.  • Creating user accounts on multi platforms (UNIX, Linux and Windows)  • Patching Solaris 10 servers using both single user mode and life upgrade patch method.  • installing patch in Linux server  • Hands on experience in installing and configuring zones in Solaris.  • Unix/Linux Bash shell scripts and backups, including full and incremental backups and expansion on mount file system.  • Perform application of TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, SCP and winSCP protocols.  • Installation and configuration of both Apache http and Apache tomcat on a Solaris and Linux servers.  • Diagnosing and troubleshooting network connectivity in a MAN, LAN and WAN network, using tools such as ping, arp, nslookup and tracert.  • Disk management, slicing and mounting disk on Solaris, RHEL and Centos servers.  • Use the "dcpromo" tool to configure DNS, Active Directory as well as to promote standard Windows 2008 servers to domain controllers  • Work on Unix/Linux security hardening and monitoring (password policy, such as password aging and password complexity, modifying and changing file ACL.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, system software, application software and all configurations.  • Root password reset in Solaris 10, Centos 7, RHEL 6&7 servers  • Perform volume management in Solaris and Linux using ZFS and LVM volume management tools  • OS installation using both standard and advance methods (Net installation, kick start, jumpstart). Network Administrator at "Agence des prestation maritime" APM Cameroon March 2014 to November 2015 Perform multiplatform Server builds on VMware, which include Windows Server 2008, UNIX Solaris 10, LINUX Centos 6.4, and RHEL 6.4.  • Responsible for assigning hostnames, static IP addresses, default gateway addresses and DNS addresses to Windows 2008 Servers so as to introduce them to the network.  • Use the "dcpromo" tool to configure DNS, Active Directory as well as to promote standard Windows 2008 servers to domain controllers  • Create new User accounts, passwords and profiles on Windows NOS, UNIX and LINUX systems.  • Troubleshoot and resolve OS, application, malware desktop related issues on various Windows NOS.  • Use TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and DNS related issues in the LAN.  • Configure Windows NOS clients to join the domain as well as configure file and print sharing on some Windows NOS to enable resource sharing.  • Experience in building and configuring VMware host and guess systems on Oracle Virtual Box as well as bridging the Guess VMware systems to communicate with other physical LAN systems. Education Bachelor's in computer science in computer science University of Douala - Douala, CM October 2010 to December 2013 Skills Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Nfs, Vmware, Bash, Oracle, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, Redhat Additional Information Technical Skills: Solaris 10, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6, Centos 6, NFS, Oracle Virtual Box, Bash Shell Script, LVM, ZFS, FreeNAS; SCP, Putty, winSCP, Packet Tracer, Working knowledge of RHEL 7, Solaris 10&11 and VMware ESXI 5.5