Network Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst Network Analyst - Safelite Autoglass Dublin, OH Work Experience Network Analyst Safelite Autoglass - Columbus, OH September 2017 to Present 3rd shift 10-8)  ? Support and troubleshoot networks for Safelite stores and warehouses using the following technologies  ? Fortinet  ? Meraki/Cisco  ? Solarwinds and Infoblox  ? Monitor and provide first response support to Mainframe (z/OS) environment  ? Serve as after hours Service desk support  ? Create and document tickets for Audit purposes using LanDesk/Cherwell  ? Create documentation for new networking and operations tasks  ? Incident management and coordination of engineers/developers in priority incidents Desktop Administrator RedRoof Inn - Columbus, OH July 2016 to May 2017 Provide technical support and troubleshooting for RedRoof Inn franchisees and company-owned Inns  ? Identify and resolve issues with applications, following agreed procedures and using application management software and tools to collect agreed performance statistics.  ? Serve as second level support for operating system software, application software, and hardware issues  ? Image new Corporate and Franchise hardware  ? Install and configure software applications  ? Create and document tickets with accuracy in ServiceDesk  ? Create documentation for new incidents for HD L1 Knowledge Base Service Desk Analyst PCMall - Lewis Center, OH February 2016 to July 2016 Troubleshoot/diagnose basic PC software and hardware issues  ? Create and document tickets with accuracy in Service Now  ? Provide hardware support on laptops, desktops and printers  ? Install and configure software applications  ? Manage active directory accounts, exchange mailboxes, and distribution lists  ? Create documentation for new incidents for technicians Knowledge Base Assistant Office Manager Historic Dublin Restaurants - Dublin, OH July 2015 to February 2016 Payroll entry, head of accounts payable, bookkeeping and in-house banking for three entities  ? Excellent computer skills - proficient in Quickbooks, Microsoft Office Suite, and more  ? Managing relationships with General Managers to ensure quality and consistency across all restaurant brands Network Analyst 3KeyLogic - Dublin, OH January 2014 to December 2015 Responsible for initial problem diagnosis, repair and maintenance of a full range of communication equipment encompassing analog and digital technologies within a client location  ? Addresses client issues of availability and reliability of voice and data systems  ? Follow established protocols and procedures to perform MACD and basic troubleshooting work at client locations  ? Defines, isolates, and resolves operational problems relating to telephone line, set, or network cable operational issues  ? Perform monitoring and event correlation tasks  ? Administration of the following Cisco technologies:  • Cisco Unified Communications Manager  • Cisco Unity  • Voice Gateways  ? Knowledge of Routers, Switches, Circuits (T-1, PRI, DS3, OC3, OC48) CSU/DSU, VPN and DSL.  ? Assigned Customers: Omnicare, CVS Health, American Signature Inc. Skills Cisco, Switching, Noc, Incident management Additional Information Skills  Trained in Cisco Enterprise environments with a strong knowledge of Routing and Switching. Four years technical experience working in a NOC providing support for Fortune 500 clients. Strong attention to detail, follow up, and incident management skills.