LAN Support Specialist LAN Support Specialist Technical Support Specialist Washington, DC Work Experience LAN Support Specialist TAYS Inc September 2018 to April 2019 Social Security Administration (Contract) 9/2018 - 4/2019    As a LAN support contractor with the Office of Electronic Services and Technology (OEST), I analyze, test, troubleshoot, and evaluate existing network systems and Internet system or a segment of a network system support to the Deputy Commissioner for  Operations, the Associate Commissioner and the OEST employees. I assist with the planning, developing, implementing and monitoring  a variety of software and hardware support activities and ensures an effective security and integrity program.    • Assist senior analysts in providing technical services supporting SSA Online. Participates in the development and implementation of new Web page features and designs.    • Create or update technical documentation for network installations or changes to existing installations    • Document help desk requests and resolutions.    • Install network software, including security or firewall software.    • Coordinates DCO software implementation activities and provides software and STAR help desk support for problem  reporting, analysis and remedial measures as well as providing procedural clarification.    • Work with components, validates and evaluates modernized software and support materials in the Model District Office and Test Processing Module, prior to implementation, to ensure operational  requirements are satisfied.    • Participate in varied computer platforms in multi-layered client server environment.    • Monitors and supports national software and online and batch systems performance on behalf of operational end user to ensure operational expectations and performance standards are satisfied.    • Develops and manages mechanisms to evaluate user reaction to modernized software and support  materials to define, shape and refine future Agency approaches to modernized software  development.    • Determines and defines technological hardware needs for Operations components and ensures the acquisition, effective implementation and innovative usage of the technology.    • Evaluates the acquisition of state-of-the-art technologies such as imaging, storage and retrieval  alternatives, and optical disk capabilities to modernize and streamline labor-intensive processes.    • Provides oversight in the management of automated computer processes in large components;  identifies and defines support requirements, such as procedural and technical training needs, to assure the smooth operation of these computer processes.    • Ensures that technical support, including procedural instructions and comprehensive user training,  is provided in conjunction with the integration of modern technology into Operations' day-to-day  activities.    • Train users in procedures related to network applications software or related systems.    • Oversees and manages the distribution and implementation of personal computers and related  equipment.    • Defines the operational security and audit control requirements to ensure an effective and efficient  program to deter and detect improper systems usage for fraudulent purposes.  • Coordinates the implementation of security software controls and evaluates their effectiveness. Desktop Support Specialist State Highway Administration December 2017 to September 2018 • Assist with Laptop / Desktop Configuration or related equipment  • Identify the causes of networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  • Install and configure Tablets, Laptops, Desktops Imaging / Installs  • Configuration of Mobile Devices (iOS) iPhone & iPad  • Remote Desktop Connection  • Configure security settings, password reset or access permissions for groups or individuals  • Maintain logs of network activities and update Active Directory (Adding Users to The Correct Group)  • Utilize Maximo Ticketing System  • Utilize Virtual Machine Configuration (Dell Wyse)  • Port Toning  • App Volumes (By VMware) Creating a User Profile  • VMware Horizon "6 Assigns Users to VMs & Create User Pools Satellite Technician SSA Office Nationwide November 2016 to August 2017 Social Security Administration  • Remote support for 1700+ SSA Office Nationwide  • Identify the causes of networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment  • Monitor Satellite Signal Strength and Frequency  • Troubleshoot Media Gate Routers  • Activate, deactivate and authorize all field site receivers controlled for the integrated satellite database  • Perform system configuration and database backups on a regular schedule  • Provide technical support for all equipment in the Interactive Video Training network  • Assist the field technicians with installation and site configuration  • Communicate troubleshooting information for the repair or placement of non-satellite equipment to a VBMS technician  • Document help desk requests and resolutions using the CAPRS ticketing system Network Administrator Meggitt Defense Systems May 2016 to September 2016 • Network Cable Installation and Terminating  • Virus and Security Software Tracking  • Maintain the Network hardware and software  • Backup Data Recovery  • Install, configure, maintain and troubleshoot end user desktops  • Windows Server (2003-2012R2)  • Power Edge VTX configuration  • Active Directory  • Network Design and Implementation  • HTML  • Software Testing  • Administering Network Security  • System Upgrades of Service Packs, Hot Fixes Desktop Support Specialist/ System Administrator Public Trust Clearance January 2016 to May 2016 Lockheed Martin (Department of Health and Human Services)(FDA & CMS)  • Oversee HHS building in Silver Spring 8455 Colesville Road supporting 300+ end users  • Backup and data recovery  • Installation of network printers and printer mapping  • Hardware and software installs for Government Agencies  • Remedy System  • HHS/ITIO Imaging -  • Install, configure, maintain and troubleshoot end user desktops  • Troubleshoot CAC readers/PKI  • Maintain remote access for off-site and on-site employees  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software  • Install for new users Laptop/Desktop configuration  • Computer asset tracking Desktop Support (Epic Go Live Project) University Of Maryland Rehabilitation & Orthopedic Institute November 2015 to December 2015 • Laptop / Desktop Configuration  • Password Reset  • Configure PCs and laptops, problem ticket resolutions and track problems using Remedy system  • Load software packages such as networking components, operating systems and office applications  • Distribute software installs and updates  • Installation and repair of operating system and applications on desktop & laptops  • Troubleshooting a variety of computer issues  • Setting up computer security measures  • Install and configure monitors, keyboards and printer Help Desk Analyst WBCM- Architecture, Engineering, & Construction August 2015 to September 2015 • Reset passwords  • Establish, maintain and monitor groups and access controls  • Distribute software installs and updates  • Ability to install basic equipment (monitors, keyboards, printers and disk drives), load pre-approved software packages  (operating systems, networking components and office applications) and troubleshoot end-user issues with desktop and laptop hardware, software applications such as Microsoft 365/2013, and office IT hardware such as printers and scanners  • Maintain remote access for off-site and on-site employees (Remote Desktop Connection)  • Experience providing IT service desk-style support to end-users using Windows 7 and Windows 8.1  • Active Directory & Group Policy  • Remote Desktop Connection  • Laptop / Desktop Configuration  • Window 7 Installs 2 Help Desk Support/NOC Tier May 2014 to August 2015 Global Telecom Brokers, Owings Mills MD,  • Password Resetting  • Troubleshoot connectivity issues  • Group Policy  • Remote support and desktop sharing  • Tracks inquiries using a problem management database and maintains history and related problem documentation  • IP/DHCP/ARP  • Testing  • Distribute tickets to engineers and technicians.  • Configuration of Voice over IP telephone system  • Troubleshooting POE switch  Darius M. Melton Public Trust Clearance  Owings Mills, MD (347) 382-2582 D.Melton1024@gmail.com Education Associate of Applied Science in Information Technology in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - Owings Mills, MD December 2014 Skills database (2 years), Dhcp (1 year), networking (1 year), Security (2 years), telephone (1 year) Additional Information Skills    • Organization skills/Data Entry • Time Management  • Effective Communication Skills • Team Player with Positive Attitude  • Excellent Customer Service • 50 WPM  • Ability to reason with users    Technical Skills  ? General Networking ? Mac Experience  ? TCP/IP/DNS/DHCP/ARP ? Basic Working Knowledge of Programming  ? Troubleshoot ? Basic Working Knowledge of Data Encryption  ? Microsoft Applications ? Client Server  ? VoIP/Configuration ? Reset Passwords  ? Strong Communication Skills ? Problem Solving  ? Database Software ? Basic Working Knowledge of HTML  ? Troubleshoot Connectivity Issues ? Microsoft Windows 7 & XP Configuration  ? Basic working Knowledge of Linux ? Active Directory  ? Installation of Firewalls ? Remote Support and Desktop Sharing Technologies  ? Basic Working Knowledge of Information System ? Configuration of Voice over IP telephone system  Security  ? Google Apps Cisco Routers and Switches  Smart Phones iPhone, Blackberry, & Androids