Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - INGHAM COUNTY Lansing, MI Experienced Information Technology Tech with a demonstrated history of working in the government administration industry. Skilled in Computer Repair, Windows Server, Spanish, CompTIA Network+, and Software Installation. Strong information technology professional with a Associate’s Degree focused in Computer Repair & Support Technician from Lansing Community College. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Ingham County - Mason, MI October 2017 to Present IT TECHNICIAN INGHAM COUNTY - Lansing, MI June 2015 to October 2017 Troubleshoot, repair, install and maintain PC related hardware on the County’s network.  • Organizes and prioritizes requests for service and on an as-needed basis works with vendor to resolve hardware and software problems.  • Visits departments throughout the County to trouble-shoot, repair, and maintain data equipment problems, including workstations, portable/laptop computers, scanners, monitors, printers, telephones, faxes, modems, and other peripherals.  • Determines the need to contract out repair work.  • Tracks inventory by staff member and workstation and ensures this information is updated and accurate in the county’s call tracking system.  • Assists in developing specifications and recommends computer related purchases to management.  • Coordinates work orders for the installation of new equipment and recycles old equipment. Ensures all necessary software and data is migrated and network connectivity is established.  • Plans, schedules and coordinates new operating systems releases, engineering changes, and preventative maintenance changes.  • Ensures the accurate and complete logging of required information into the MIS call tracking system.  • Adheres to county and MIS policies and procedures.  • Provides software support on county approved applications and operating systems.  • Assists with special projects as needed.  • When necessary, escalates problems to management or the appropriate secondary level of support resource for resolution. REMOTE SUPPORT TECH SUPPORT.COM - Lansing, MI September 2014 to August 2015 Assist customers via telephone or remote session with wireless  configuration for all operating systems including Windows, iOS, Android  devices, windows network or router configurations on XP, Vista, 7, and 8 PRINCIPAL/INSTRUCTOR COMPUTER'S CLUB - Cuba, MO March 2004 to May 2007 Instructed students in Windows operative system and the use of the  Microsoft Office. Computer installation and configuration, tune ups, virus and spyware removal. I also administrated the operations of the school by recruiting, orienting, and training employees. Maintaining a safe and secure work environment. Education Associate Applied Science in COMPUTER REPAIR AND SUPPORT Lansing Community College. - Lansing, MI August 2014 to December 2016 LICENCIATE IN COMPUTER SCIENCE in Computer Science Jose Machado University. - Manzanillo September 2003 to July 2007 HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA Boris Luis SantaColoma - Manzanillo September 2000 to July 2003 Skills Spanish (10+ years), Active Directory, System Administrator, Networking Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexys-r-522ba0a9 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA: A+ July 2014 to Present CompTIA Network+ November 2016 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Windows Server 2012 August 2017 to Present {BeyondTrust} Remote Support Administrator March 2019 to Present CompTIA :IT Operations Specialist CIOS July 2017 to Present {BeyondTrust} Privileged Access Administrator March 2019 to Present MCSA Windows Server 2012 August 2019 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mmfdq1uwrvjfoaxd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.