Systems Software Senior Engineer Systems Software Senior Engineer Systems Software Senior Engineer - TTEC Englewood, CO Work Experience Systems Software Senior Engineer TTEC - Englewood, CO March 2019 to Present USA    Responsible for the core-networking infrastructure at corporate data, operation, and business centers along with access for customer sites. Served as liaison with Windows Engineering, Unix Engineering, and Networking to ensure coordination of planning and implementation. Handled multiple concurrent projects that could affect customer production.  * Support the Windows infrastructure for 50000 users across the globe in five different Domains.  * Creating KBA documentation for all the process and technologies being used in the company.  * Monitor and test network performance and provide network performance statistics and reports.  * Work closely with other system architects and project managers to develop, plan and implement system enhancements and upgrades in the HQ and remote locations.  * Manage Exchange and Active Directory Performance including replication, Azure AD, Office 365, SSO for various applications inside and outside the company and Cisco CES/Iron Ports for protection of the cloud/on premise email from phishing, ransomware, spoofing and more.  * Works independently designing and developing new Windows System solutions to be implemented including Versa SDWAN integration with Microsoft Azure. Century Link Business - Littleton, CO August 2018 to March 2019 USA    * Worked Versa SDWAN trouble tickets for over 1000 clients.  * Created and maintained accurate documentation on activities performed and assisted with developing diagrams, MOPs, workflows, and process maps.  * Assisted with the team's escalations and significant projects.  * Frequently configured Next-Gen Firewalls, VPNs, NAT, BGP, and VLANs for clients.  * Ticketing system expertise with Remedy and Ops Console (Level 3).  * Created automated workflow capabilities while removing bottlenecks and inefficiencies.  * Participated in all meetings and worked with other peers in the infrastructure team to successfully provide world-class support to our customers.  * Kept up to date with constantly changing processes across the company under different mergers. SDWAN Operations Technician III LOB 2016 to 2019 Line of Business) needs.  * Developed methodologies for cloud migration, implemented best practices and helped to develop backup and recovery techniques for applications on virtualization platform.    ? SDWAN Operations Technician III VoIP Network Engineer Voiceware LLC - Miami, FL March 2017 to July 2018 USA    * Installed and maintained voice network systems and services for 900+ phone extensions with different clients across South Florida and LATAM.  * Managed and monitored the infrastructure and services in QTS Miami (A Category 5 Data Center), ensuring that the computers processing facility functions at peak capacity, checking the temperatures of the servers, server reboot, and fixing faulty hardware like hard disks.  * Installed and configured clients on-premise PepLink routers, ADTRAN, and Cisco switches, Ubiquiti AP's.  * Managed multiple telecommunication network projects in coordination with the project manager.  * Responsible for managing all post-sale technical support both remotely and on-site.  * Installed, configured, and maintained hardware/software for corporate clients.  * Addressed end users' requests professionally and in a timely manner.  * Provided technical advice to clients for setting up networking systems.  * Analyzed telecommunication statistics, data, and prepared reports.  * Conducted training and monitored the other staffs work.  * Ticketing system experience with Zendesk.  * Created network capacity reports and performed troubleshooting on the existing network, managing Active Directory, Group Policies, WSUS, and FS in Windows Server 2016.  * VMware ESXi, Citrix XenServer, and Hyper-V Virtualization experience. Network Administrator Applied Research National Enterprise January 2012 to June 2016 * Implemented and maintained firewalls, series switches, and security appliances.  * Reviewed logs on all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems.  * Performed daily troubleshooting and maintenance on all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including switches, routers, and firewalls.  * Communicated with vendors to resolve network outages and periods of reduced performance.  * Documented all server and network problems and other unusual events in detail.  * Upgraded and expanded network systems and their components.  * Diagnosed system hardware and software problems using advanced root-cause analysis.  * Monitored system logs for all company computers and devices to maximize uptime.  * Worked extensively with Nagios to schedule and store reports.  * Defined security requirements for computer systems including mainframes, workstations, and personal computers.  * Protected the organization's value by keeping information confidential.  * Opensource server virtualization management using Proxmox (KVM). IT Support Technician Pabexpo Exhibition Complex March 2010 to January 2012 * Installed software, modified and repaired hardware while resolving technical issues.  * Provided base level IT support to non-technical personnel within the business.  * Managed call flow and responded to the technical support needs of customers.  * Resolved customer issues in a clear, courteous and straightforward manner.  * Installed Windows/Linux images and required software on the company's computers and servers.  * Identified and solved technical issues with a variety of diagnostic tools.  * Fixed malfunctioning products like printers, fax machines, and scanners.  * Followed up with clients to ensure optimal customer satisfaction. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Higher Polytechnic Institute Assessments Written Spanish for English Speakers — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to respond to basic requests written in Spanish. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/e0pi-zqowy1je-oq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.