Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Physicians Group Rochester Hills, MI Network Engineer with nine years of experience in roles ranging from help desk technician to network engineer. Skilled at configuration and maintenance of Cisco switches and routers. Excellent written and oral communication focused on putting the client first.  Technical Experience    Software    ? Cisco IOS  ? Avaya IOS  ? VMware vSphere Client. vSphere Web GUI, and Standalone Converter  ? Microsoft Windows operating system, Microsoft Office Suite, Windows Server and Microsoft Visio  ? Cisco IP Communicator soft phone    ? What's Up Gold and Solarwinds  ? Barracuda Web Filter  ? DHCP, Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange and Group Policy Management  ? A10 Thunder Load Balancer  ? Checkpoint Smart Console, Tracker, VPN and URL Filtering    Hardware    ? Cisco 2900, 3500 and 3800 series switches and Cisco routers  ? Avaya 3500, 4400, and 4800 series switches  ? HP switches, wireless controllers and access points  ? Dell network switches  ? Nortel, Avaya and Shoretel VOIP phones  ? Cisco and Aruba Access Points and Wireless LAN Controllers  ? Avaya Access Points and Wireless LAN Controllers  ? Cisco ASA Firewalls 55xx series & Firepower 2110  ? Checkpoint firewall and VPN appliance Work Experience Network Engineer Physicians Group April 2019 to Present Administer the LAN/WAN configuration of the main sites as well as satellite locations  ? Configure, deploy, maintain and troubleshoot Cisco network infrastructure (Catalyst 3700 series and Nexus 5000 series switches as well as Cisco ASR 1000 series routers.  ? Administer Juniper SRX firewalls and VPNs for remote locations.  ? Manage Cisco wireless controllers and access points in the main network and remote sites.  ? Troubleshoot complex network outages and problems at main sites as well as satellite locations Network Engineer Mortgage Builder Software November 2017 to March 2019 Tasked with designing, configuring and implementing Cisco network infrastructure, both as upgrades on existing configurations and hardware and on new deployments within the network.  ? Currently tasked with upgrading current Cisco switches (2960 and 3550) to new Cisco 3850 switches.  ? A participant as part of a larger team upgrading the firewalls from Cisco ASA 5500 and 5512 to Cisco ASA 5525 in a high availability configuration  ? Support the existing Aruba wireless network infrastructure and configuration.  ? Maintain network uptime and troubleshoot any outages or degradation in network connectivity  ? Assist in documentation of procedures and creation of network diagrams and spreadsheets.  ? Point of contact regarding audit documentation procurement for all Cisco ASA firewalls and switches.  ? Secure the network by enforcing the company policies and by deploying new equipment consistent with company standards and procedures.  ? Part of company disaster recovery (DR) initiative tasked with scaling and implementation of network infrastructure at DR site and communication between production and DR location. Network Engineer City of Detroit February 2017 to November 2017 • Tasked with a number of network projects including internet circuit cutovers, VLAN creation and migration, VOIP VLAN deployments and segregation of data, voice and wireless VLANS.  ? Monitored the network ticket queue and troubleshoot problems escalated to the tier 3 network team.  ? Coordinated network operations, maintenance, repairs, and upgrades with management of other departments throughout the city to deliver optimal network speeds and reliability.  ? Determined specific network hardware or software requirements, such as platforms, interfaces, bandwidths, or routing schemas.  ? Supported all wireless technology and their deployments.  ? Secured network system by establishing and enforcing policies.  ? Monitored network performance to ensure system availability and reliability. Senior Network Administrator Mitsubishi Electric Automotive America August 2014 to February 2017 Install, monitor and maintain local area network and PC hardware and software, including servers, peripherals, network nodes, terminals, and wiring.  ? Manage, schedule, train a co-op employee in daily operations, and provide ongoing support/education  ? Analyzed the network and contributed to design of network architecture, integration, and installation.  ? Lead administrator in physical to virtual conversion of all physical servers in Detroit office, using VMWare vSphere client and standalone converter.  ? Was part of a team in July 2015 that completed a full Cisco infrastructure upgrade at the Detroit office, which replaced old HP network.  ? Originally drafted and currently maintaining the network and server diagrams for the Northville office.  ? Effectively manage ongoing relationships with vendors, service providers and 3rd parties with whom the company has a relationship with.  ? Coordinate third-party maintenance for network hardware, software, and telecommunications services.  ? Prepare and maintain documentation of network configurations, cabling layouts, and other documentation required for the efficient operation of the network.  ? Audit and implement countermeasures to improve the network's security in compliance with Company policies and information security requirements.  ? Consult managers and other upper level personnel on proposed or completed transactions in order to aid their decision-making and risk assessment.  Caretech Solutions Network Administrator/Senior Field Engineer Crittenton Hospital November 2013 to August 2014 Maintained the computing environment by identifying network requirements and installing upgrades.  ? Established network specifications by conferring with supervisors, analyzing workflow, access, information, and security requirements including the implementation and administration of switches, routers and other hardware.  ? Evaluated network performance issues including availability, utilization, and latency. Maximized network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis; troubleshooting network problems and outages and, when necessary, escalating problems to vendors.  ? Upgraded the network by conferring with vendors; testing, and installing enhancements. Also, when necessary, perform Cisco image and configuration upgrades to network hardware, including Cisco 2900, 3500, and 3800 switches.  ? Tasked with helping manage the 2 wireless network solutions present throughout the hospital, Cisco Meraki and Cisco Wireless, through their respective controllers. Tasks included configuring and maintaining access, troubleshooting connectivity issues, and deploying access points where needed.  ? Administered the Barracuda web filter by configuring and troubleshooting issues including firmware upgrades and feature enhancements to better improve network security within the hospital.  ? Maintained clear documentation of policies and procedures, updating each when necessary.  ? Assisted, when necessary, with field support tasks, including computer hardware/software installation and repair, computer peripherals, printers, Nortel/Spectralink phones, and mobile phones and tablets. Desktop Engineer Oakwood Health System June 2012 to November 2013 Performed a variety of IT functions across different Oakwood Health System client sites. Functions include but are not limited to: 2nd/3rd level Helpdesk Support, printer queue management/diagnosis, Active Directory administration/maintenance, review/manage Group Policy using the management and object editor, deploy packages using SCCM, troubleshooting issues with EPIC, both during initial deployment and everyday issues, and supported proprietary software.  ? Actively monitored ticket queues and quickly resolved problems of varying difficulty as they arise by researching the issue(s) using a number of different sources.  ? Researched solutions to problems that arose within the hospitals, tested solutions for the least disruptive fix, devised ways to roll out fixes, developed plans, and executed these plans  ? Point of contact for new software testing within Oakwood's environment to ensure that the software does not impact patient care and if issues arose within the environment due to Microsoft updates. Education J.D. in Law in Law University of Detroit Mercy School of Law - Detroit, MI 2004 B.S. degree in Communications University of Michigan - Dearborn, MI 1999 Skills Cisco, Active Directory, Vmware, security, Exchange