Senior Systems Administrator Senior Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator Raynham, MA Special Skills & Achievements:  ? MCSE – Server Infrastructure (2012)  ? VCP5 Certification (2013)  ? CCNA Certification (2013)  ? CompTIA A+ Certification  ? CompTIA Network + Certification  ? MCTS – Windows 7 Configuration  ? MCITP – Server Administrator  ? MCSA – Windows Server 2012  ? MCTS – Windows Server 2012: Implementing an Advanced Server Infrastructure  ? MCTS – Windows Server 2012: Designing & Implementing A Server Infrastructure  ? MCTS – Exchange Server 2010: Configuration  ? MCTS – Windows Server 2008 Network Infrastructure: Configuration   ? MCTS – Windows Server 2008 Active Directory: Configuration  ? MCTS – Windows Server 2008 Applications Infrastructure: Configuration  ? EMC - 2011 Velocity Affiliate Development for SE  ? Able to troubleshoot for any computer related problems  ? Alpha Chi National College Honor Society  ? Dorothy W. Miller Highest Scholastic Honor Award  ? Currently Pursing: CCNP (Cisco Certified Network Professional)     Knowledge and Experience with:  ? Various Computer Operating Systems: Linux, Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10; Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012/R2, 2016 (Active Directory, Group Policy, etc.); Exchange Server 2010, 2013  ? VMware vSphere 6.5 Deployment and Configuration  ? PURE Storage, Nimble, EMC Isilon, NetApp  ? Cisco ASA Firewalls  ? Cisco & HP Switches  ? Networking (DNS, DHCP, etc.)  ? Cisco/Brocade Fiber Channel  ? Cisco Nexus Switches  ? Cisco UCS Platform  ? AWS (Amazon Web Service) Cloud Technology  ? Barracuda Spam and Security System  ? IronPort Secure Email System  ? KEMP/Peplink WAN Load Balancers  ? SAN Technologies  ? RAID Configurations  ? Citrix (Installation, Configuration, Deployment/Management)  ? Computer Help Desk Support Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Gunderson Dettmer May 2019 to Present • Management of Microsoft Windows Servers  • Configuration and Maintenance of Microsoft Windows Active Directory and Exchange Server  • Installation, Configuration, and Maintenance of Virtualization Technologies   • Responsible for coordinating with Network Engineering, Application Development, and Database Administration resources to ensure Availability, Reliability, and Scalability of Datacenter Infrastructure to meet the firm’s objectives  • Ensuring routine analysis and fine tuning of all enterprise Storage Platforms, Backup and Restoration Environments, Disaster Recovery (DR) Hardware and Processes  • Interacts with all types of vendors and service providers, and assisting with onsite support and implementations as needed  • Travel to all remote locations both local and abroad  • Documentation for all aspects of the Enterprise Senior Systems Administrator Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution March 2019 to May 2019 • Design, implement, and support Windows and Linux server computing infrastructure, Active Directory, and VMware ESXi  • Install, configure and monitor servers, both physical and virtual, with an advanced knowledge and understanding of Windows and Linux server configurations including networking  • Management of the institution’s VMware cluster, including the use of management tools such as vRealize Operations Manager  • Deploy and manage backup services (Commvault) for end user data, storage appliances, and servers  • Manage current documentation on systems and procedures  Data Center Engineer Congruity 360 May 2017 to March 2019 • Monitor, diagnose, and resolve complex network and computer system issues  • Data storage deployment support, capacity planning and provisioning with SAN, NAS, iSCSI, direct-attached storage & storage virtualization  • Specific knowledge of PURE, EMC Isilon and NetApp storage systems  • Cisco/Brocade fiber channel switch configuration and support  • Server virtualization technology  • Server clustering technology  • Server software and patch deployment technology including SCCM and WSUS  • Deployment and configuration of server monitoring tools such as Check_MK, NetIQ, VMTurbo, and Microsoft SCOM  • Remote management of client infrastructure  • Network configuration of server hardware for LAN and SAN connectivity  • Server hardware including blade technology, hyper-converged infrastructure  • Manage and administer servers, networks, and applications such as DNS, FTP, and Web  • Maintain internal network structure of a data center by managing routers and keeping them running  • Install, configure, and maintain switches, servers, firewalls, and hard drives  • Troubleshoot network systems to identify and fix performance issues  • Provide solutions to complex problems on the integration of various technologies  • Design plans as well as lead initiatives for the optimization and restructuring of network architecture  • Maintain an up-to-date knowledge of network administration and firmware integration  • Monitor the environmental conditions of a data center to ensure they are optimum for servers, routers, and other devices  • Perform system repairs and update software/operating systems  • Calibrate and monitor data center servers to ensure efficient performance  • Collaborate with IT handlers, sales, and data center managers to develop action plan for improved operations  • Conduct inspections on power and cooling systems to ensure they are operational and efficient  • Organize the floor space that harbor data center equipment to allow for easy accessibility  • Resolve operational, infrastructure or hardware incidents in a data center Senior Network & Systems Administrator Bridgewater Savings Bank - Raynham, MA June 2014 to May 2017 Critical System, Security Protection, and Functions:  • Windows Systems Update administration  • Lumension patch administration  • Windows Server Update installations  • Remote Laptop Lockdown configuration and administration  • Assistance with IDS implementations and problem resolution  • Administration and support for Sophos AV, Encryption, Mobile Device Management systems  ? Critical Network Configuration, Build, and Administration:  • Administration and installation of switches and other network devices  • Active Directory - Domain Controller Builds and administration  • Active Directory - User Object creation, Group Policy Object administration  • VPN administration and problem resolution  • Environmental System device management and monitoring  ? Installs, Administers, and Troubleshoots:  • VMware environment  • Exchange Server Administration, upgrade and problem resolution  • OWA LAN troubleshooting  • Juniper/DUO Security - token administration and problem resolution  • Barracuda (spam and security) system administration  • IronPort (secure email) system administration  • Exchange - Windows update administration  • iPhone/iPad (Mobile device) Exchange Administration  • Exchange data replication administration  • Veeam/Evault Backup and replication  ? Server Configuration Builds, Server Management, and Server Administration:  • New server and replacement server builds  • Server upgrade implementations  • VMWare (server virtualization) configuration and implementation  • DFS Replication  • Server hardware troubleshooting  ? Disaster Recovery, Data Replication, and Data Restoration:  • Workstation Image building and deployment  • Backup/Recovery Solutions of agent installations, troubleshooting and file/full system restoration  • Disaster Recovery Testing and documentation of such testing for audit review purposes  • Bare Metal Disaster Recovery restorations as needed  • Administration and Support for Enterprise Vault Email archiving  ? Application Support:  • Sophos Full Disk Encryption implementation and administration  • Internet Explorer Configuration and security administration  • SQL Server administration and problem resolution  • Design and administration of ShoreTel Voice mail systems  • Administration and Support for various banking related applications and devices (Teller Insight, Vision Content Suite, FIS IBS, Fedline Advantage, Clearview Reports, Cash Dispenser/Recycler, Check Printers, Branch Check Capture Systems, etc.)  ? Other Responsibilities:  • Updates to technology upgrade and asset management tracking systems  • Vulnerability report gap and audit finding remediation efforts  • Outsourced secure email management  • Helpdesk support  • ISP/Telephone/Data Systems and Circuit problem resolution  • Exchange email problem resolution  • Server hardening  • All areas of workstation support  • All areas of in-house application support  • On-Call and After Hour Support Systems Engineer & Architect Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates - Needham, MA November 2013 to September 2014 (Contract)  • Lead Patching Technician for over 1000 servers  • Patching Project Implementation  ? Design, implement, and maintain patching project procedure for all of HVMA's servers  • Functional Manager  • Training Advisor  • OS Upgrades Project Implementation  ? Design and implement Operating System Upgrades throughout entire environment (Windows Server 2003 - 2008, Windows Server 2008 - 2012)  • VMware Upgrades Project Implementation  ? Design and implement VMware Upgrades throughout entire environment  • ESXi Upgrades (ver. 4.x - 5.x)  • VMware Tools  • VMware Hardware Systems Engineer Courion Corporation - Westborough, MA June 2013 to April 2014 • Design, implement and maintain multi-site Windows 2008 Active Directory infrastructures  • Assist in management, troubleshooting and maintenance Microsoft Exchange 2010 Environment  • Provide assistance in managing, troubleshooting and maintenance of VMware vSphere environment  • Cisco UCS Platform (Installation, Configuration, Optimization, Management)  ? UCS Manager  ? Deploying Service Profiles  ? Deploying VMware with SAN Boot  • Manage vulnerability and penetration testing process to ensure proper security for organization  • Enterprise SANs Storage (Installation, Configuration, Optimization)  ? Dell Compellent  ? EMC  • Work with System Admins and Support on any company related security issues or auditing needs  • Work with Infrastructure Engineer and System Admins to implement network security procedures  • Work with vendors to establish and implement latest security technologies to the infrastructure  • Generate scripts/applications to automate common tasks  • Mentoring/training more junior staff on latest technologies and efficiencies with current technologies  • Deploy and manage current and future version Courion's marketing leading IAM technology for internal use  • Participate in 24x7 on-call support rotation schedule as necessary Systems Administrator Retail Solution Inc - Providence, RI June 2013 to October 2013 (Contract)  • Build both physical & virtual servers  ? Troubleshoot and tune for performance along with exercise best practices  ? Apply IT industry best practices to enhance internal processes and support  • Provide a high level of technical expertise  • Work with business groups to develop and deliver new solutions for critical business applications  • Adhere and contribute to improved support processes and solutions  • Contribute to departmental & organizational goals  • Focus on, contribute to and develop standard processes and technologies  • Suggest, design, build, implement and deploy new technologies to help RSi and Technical Operations achieve its goals  • Work collaboratively with multiple teams to improve and enhance IT core competencies and infrastructure technologies (this includes deploying new customers and creating solutions that meet business requirements)  • Keep current with emerging technologies and recognize the potential value they bring to RSi SaaS Systems Administrator Courion Corporation - Westborough, MA July 2012 to June 2013 • Install, configure, operate, monitor, troubleshoot, resolve and maintain software required to operate Courion's cloud environment including:  ? Security (Anti-virus, Anti-malware, File permissions)  ? Windows Server 2008 / 2008 R2 (including IIS 7)  ? Active Directory Services (including Group Policies)  ? DNS  ? VMWare VSphere  • SAN Technologies (Installation, Configuration, Optimization): EMC (NX4, CX4)  • SolarWinds Monitoring Product of Suites  • Participate in securing computer systems using industry standard patch management and vulnerability detection strategies for Windows operating systems  • Coordinates with Database and Infrastructure Admins to do disaster recovery testing on the documented periodic basis  • Maintains and implements VM templates  • Builds scripts and VM templates to expedite VM and software deployments  • Helps implement new customer deployments (VMs, Software and Database configuration)  • Plan and test disaster recovery scenarios  • Monitors and administers backup solution for VMs and Databases  • Install and maintain 3rd party SSL Certificates on IIS 7 web servers and web load balancers  • Member of rotating 24/7 on-call support team Technology & Systems Engineer iCorps Technologies - Boston, MA May 2011 to June 2012 • Virtualization - VMware vSphere (ESXi 5.0, Design, Deployment, Management)  • SANs Storage (Installation, Configuration, Optimization): Dell MD & EqualLogic Series, EMC, RAID  • Windows OS Specialist (Windows Server 2003/2008 ; Windows XP/Windows 7)  • Exchange Server 2010 Administrator (Installation, Configuration, Deployment/Management)  • Citrix (Installation, Configuration, Deployment/Management): XenApp, XenDesktop, XenServer  • Network Design & Deployment (LAN/WAN Design)  • Desktop & Help Desk Support (Superior Customer Service)  • Data Backup and Disaster Recovery Solutions  • Strategic IT Consulting (Supporting over 100 Businesses in Boston, New York, & Philadelphia) IT Administrator/ Network Specialist Brookfield Renewable Power - Marlborough, MA May 2010 to May 2011 • Worked with Microsoft Server 2003/2008  • CISCO Networking  • CISCO Unified Messaging System  • Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7 Deployment Configuration  • Exchange Server 2010  • WAN/LAN Telecommunications  • DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP  • Configuring, managing, and troubleshooting switches and routers  • Active Directory, Group Policy  • File/Print Services  • SAN Technologies (Installation, Configuration, Optimization)  • Manage 400 Users Education BS in Computer Game Development & Design Becker College - Worcester, MA 2011 BS in Computer Systems Engineering Technology 2011