Professional-Technology Security Professional-Technology Security Network security engineer - AT&T Raleigh, NC Work Experience Professional-Technology Security AT&T - Durham, NC June 2016 to Present Currently implement MACDs (move, add, change, delete) for AT&T Managed Network Security.  Responsible for reviewing changes, following change control process which includes proper backups, implementation and documentation of the change that was performed.  Perform changes on Cisco ASA firewalls via CLI, FortiGates using FortiManager, Juniper changes via NSM, Checkpoint using Provider1 and Palo Alto changes via Panorama.  Perform troubleshooting, run packet captures, sniffers and implementation of VPN on various firewalls. Escalation Manager (Student Intern) AT&T - Durham, NC July 2012 to Present Utilize Business Management Platform to provide Tier 2 support for business customers  • Monitor circuit for alarm (DS0, DS1, DS3)  • Perform basic circuit tests to verify resolutions  • Obtain escalations from access providers to get circuit issues resolved  • Work with fortune 500 customers as well as internal AT&T service manager and executives to discuss status of circuit hard down issues as well as provide next step course of action to resolve issues  • Work with testing centers to ensure circuits are tested or handed off to the correct provider Photo Technician Walgreens - Raleigh, NC November 2009 to Present Monitor equipment operation to detect malfunctions  • Trouble shoot photo lab equipment  • Provide customer service and assist in sales Network Security Engineer Durham, NC December 2013 to June 2016 Work for AT&T GCSC Managed Security Service troubleshooting networks.   Currently hold a Public Trust Clearance.   Oversee the daily responsibility of managing the Remedy based ticketing system and incoming phone support.  Perform troubleshooting to devices such as: Cisco PIX/ASA Firewall, Cisco Routers, Blue Coat Proxies, Juniper Firewalls, Network Based Firewalls (Fortinet) and Check Point Firewalls.  Responsible for setting up LEC circuit testing, vendor meets, hardware replacement dispatches, opening vendor cases with Cisco, Juniper and Blue Coat.   Troubleshoot Secure Email Gateway related problem for client using the email service offered by AT&T  Train new team members.  Cross team training.   Help other understand how to use the UD Ticketing platform. Network Administrator (Student Intern) Tipper Tie - Apex, NC February 2012 to April 2012 Install, maintain, and operate LAN/WAN systems  • Assist with hardware and software evaluation and purchasing  • Troubleshoot problems and upgrade systems (Windows XP and 7)  • Maintaining backups Education BS ECPI University - Raleigh, NC June 2013