Instructional Designer Instructional Designer Instructional Designer - Lincoln University Jefferson City, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Instructional Designer Lincoln University - Jefferson City, MO May 2014 to Present Full-time) 40 Hours worked per week  ? Develop course material via quality matters standards  ? Develop online environments  ? Design learning content for online learning environments  ? Research emerging technology for inclusion in online curriculum  ? conduct quality assurance on courses to ensure consistency via quality matters standards  ? Help and assist instructors in anyway and continue to serve students in online environment Systems Administrator Lincoln University - Jefferson City, MO May 2013 to May 2014 Full-time) 40 Hours worked per week  ? Web development front end & back end with Languages such as (JavaScript, CSS, Ruby on rails, PowerShell)  ? Solve Integration issues with LMS and Campuseai via CAS Authentication  ? MS office VBA for Application programming Excel for LMS Imports  ? Create Web Branding such as Logo, Graphics, transform look and feel of LMS  ? Addressing issues with user class creation and user enrollments  ? Research the best way to achieve goals involving course development Senior Information Technologist (Contractor) Lincoln University May 2013 to October 2013 Full-time) 40 Hours worked per week  ? Rack and Stack New Servers in Data Center for VMware Storage  ? Documenting simple procedures and automating task via VBscript, PowerShell, C# and VBA for Applications ( Technical writing services)  ? Troubleshooting issue VMware and Vcenter server infrastructure  ? Made PowerShell script that will automate the creation of Virtual Machines  ? Made Jscript to interact with end-user machine when they access vWorkspace Website  ? Create PHP code to interact with SQL database and display Inventory online  ? Installed and configured Network monitoring software  ? Giving access to users via AD, Making AD scripts to populate user information  ? Giving access to users via AD, Making AD scripts to populate user information Lead Network Administrator, CHCCMO Account Creations and Distribution February 2013 to May 2013 Full-time) 40 Hours worked per week  ? Designed and Build New Server Room and Networking Closet  ? Configured and Deployed Anyconnect VPN and Cisco Routers  ? Administer Permissions, Account Creations and Distribution group through Active Directory and Exchange Server  ? Troubleshot, diagnosed user application, and performance problems on Server 2008.  ? Created and maintained system Procedural and Process documentation  ? Configured, managed, encrypted, Exchange Server through third party application  ? Installed and configured Network monitoring software SMTP - System Administrator IBM April 2011 to February 2013 Full-time) 40 Hours worked per week  ? SharePoint Systems Networking and Central administration (routing, DNS, co-hosting, communications, permissions, )  ? Led teams of staff and contractors deploying a department-wide technology refresh of computer hardware, software, and compatible peripherals including printers.  ? Deployed a complete technology refresh of computer hardware, software, and compatible peripherals.  ? Troubleshot, diagnosed user application, and performance problems.  ? Created and maintained system documentation.  ? Configured, managed, encrypted, and optimized internal storage arrays for I/O intensive applications  ? Installed and configured analytical application software, optimizing for client use in a distributed environment  ? Provided end-user support in a help-desk type role.  ? Installed Windows/ Linux operating systems and maintained through applying updates and patches.  ? I was the technical expert and led a team of staff that provided installation and troubleshooting support, as well as training to both administrative and technical staff on the efficient use of analytical software  ? Provide level 2 or 3 support including problem determination/resolution support/implementation  ? Coordinate and/or perform all software installation/re-installs, release upgrades & apply patches/  ? Major (version level change) & minor (patch version changes) software upgrades, testing & changing configuration before implementation  ? Maintain virus product logs & apply updated antivirus data files  ? Ensure software virus & anti-spam patterns are downloaded to a primary server & configured to propagate to all spoke servers in domain.  ? Ensure replication of virus pattern file ; Ensure virus software program documents are configured properly  ? Setup automated spam update & maintenance mechanisms  ? Configure spam filtering to delete/return/label/quarantine/deliver items meeting rules per product capabilities  ? Establish "real time blocking list" policies & "local blocking list" policies ; Enable DNS blacklist filters  ? Provide ad-hoc scans and/or make spam rule changes ; Load virus software server tasks & ensure they run continually  ? Backup/restore configurations ; Generate usage reports from log files ; Configure/change system parameters  ? Maintain network interface, IP address assignment, routing, DNS & NTP  ? Maintain DNS entries required for Internet email  ? Facilitate customer creation of 'whitelists/blacklists' of email servers/domains  ? Manage/administer security (pins/ID's), access to hardware  ? Implement client rules for spam/content filtering policies & keywords for content filtering rules, custom rulesets for content filtering  ? Think flexibly, independently & strategically to resolve client issues, often interacting with other support or client teams  ? Standardize repeatable tasks & activities across multiple client accounts within a team  ? Develop support documentation or scripts to solve similar issues  ? Participate in cadence meetings covering topics such as team performance, current issues or challenges, work related trends & improving troubleshooting techniques  ? Provide coaching & mentoring to junior team members Secondary Responsibilities  ? Provide examples of spam to the feedback mechanism for inclusion in the antispam database  ? Manually update spam list files ; Manage quarantined email database  ? Customize email notification messages ; Communicate alerts, threats/infestations to end users  ? Monitor virus logs for recurrent viruses or recurrent virus originators  ? Manage Website materials fix modules dealing with website and email functionality Computer Operator I GTECH Corporation September 2010 to April 2011 Full-time) 40 Hours worked per week  ? Troubleshoot and diagnose lottery customers problems  ? Document problems with lottery equipment  ? Provided end-user support in a help-desk type role. Intern Website Cleanup Project, Dept of Revenue July 2010 to September 2010 Full-time) 40 Hours worked per week for 2000 hours  ? SharePoint Content Admin (administration)  ? Making sure all links; link to a page  ? Managing 3000 pages which had to be done in two days  ? Make 2000 Word Forms Fill-able via Acrobat Pro  ? I have provided installation and troubleshooting support, as well as training to both administrative and technical staff on the efficient use of web development software Education M.Ed in Educational Technology University of Missouri - Columbia, MO March 2015 B.S. in Computer Information Systems Lincoln University - Jefferson City, MO 2010 Skills microsoft office (8 years)