Personal Banker Personal Banker Personal Banker - The Peoples Bank Gulfport, MS Enthusiastic and focused administrative assistant who excels at prioritizing, completing multiple tasks simultaneously, and following through to achieve project goals. Answers a high volume of incoming calls while handling in-person inquiries from clients and colleagues. Adaptable and hardworking with a strong drive to succeed. Work Experience Personal Banker The Peoples Bank - Biloxi, MS July 2018 to Present • Receives checks and cash for deposits to accounts, verifies amounts, examines checks for proper endorsement, and enters deposits into computer records.  • Cashes checks and processes withdrawals; pays out money after verification of signatures and customer balances.  • Promotes and explains other financial institution services such as consumer and mortgage loans, IRAs, certificates of deposit, safe deposit boxes, traveler's checks and money orders.  • Receives mortgage, consumer loan and other payments and ensures the payments match balances due. Enters payments into computer. Generates customer receipts.  • Place holds on accounts for uncollected funds.  • Counts, checks and packages coins and currency.  • Balances cash drawer at the end of the shift and compares totaled amounts to computer-generated proof sheet. Reports any discrepancies to the supervisor as necessary.  • Ensures that the teller station is properly stocked with forms, supplies, etc.  • Reports malfunctions of teller terminals and other equipment used at the teller station.  • Is responsible for checking night depository bags and recording proper information on the financial institution's forms.  • Processes new account transactions, assist customers in selecting an account(s)  • Cross-sell bank's products and services.  • Opening, closing and maintaining new accounts.  • Clerical duties  • Any other duties that may be appropriate to achieve the objectives of both the department and organization. Office Administrator Retirement Benefit Solutions - Alexandria, VA May 2015 to June 2017 • Management of the front desk activities; greets visitors and callers, handles their inquiries, and directs them to the appropriate persons according to their needs.  • Scheduled tentative appointments. Made arrangements for conferences and meetings and assemble established background materials as directed. May attend meetings and record and report on the proceedings.  • Word processing, typing, editing, making classification markings, preparing envelopes, annotating writer information, assembling completed  correspondence, retaining and filing copies in official files and preparing classified mail and packages for couriers.  • Used basic office equipment including a copy machine, computer, typewriter, fax machine and calculator in performing office supporting functions  • Establishes, updates, and maintains office records within the PensionPro system  • Oversee stationery supplies and stock levels. Place orders for stationery and general office supplies, and maintain proper records.  • Opened, sorted, and distributed daily mail  • Organized and balanced clients monthly retirement account statements  • Downloaded monthly and quarterly reports from various distributors' websites  • Assisted senior consultants with various tasks upon requests Provider Network Administrator Care 1st Health Plan - San Diego, CA February 2014 to September 2014 • Developed/managed contract relationships with IPAs and MSOs assigned.    • Assessed training needs of IPA and develops, implemented and conducted appropriate training programs for IPA staff and administrators. Responsible for the Provider understanding of Care1st products, services and contract details.    • Conducted New Provider Orientations for no less than 100% of new IPA or medical groups within 10 working days of contract effective date per the direction of management.    • Responsible for timely and professional interaction with Providers and escalates recurring or critical issues, such as quality of care or access by new patients, to appropriate management in a timely fashion.    • Interpreted policies and procedures relating to Care1st relationships with IPAs. Provided interpretation and clarification on benefits interpretation, eligibility and access and authorization inquiries. Responsible for timely and professional interaction with providers and escalates critical issues and re-occurrences to management.    • Maintained provider/IPA grievance log for all questions/issues/concerns brought forward.    • Coordinated and resolved all provider/IPA issues, concerns and inquiries, which may involve other departmental areas    • Maintained a daily working relationship with Credentialing, Member Services, Marketing, Quality and Utilization management regarding provider related matters.    • Responsible for terminating provider affiliations, coordinating members to new provider and determining new effective date for providers, along with communicating such to Provider/IPA.    • Assisted marketing associates and acts as a liaison between marketing field staff and assigned IPA. Responsible for timely and professional interaction within Care1st.    • Participated in special projects, which may include assistance in negotiation of contracts, which requires a basic knowledge of contract negotiations. Administrative Assistant Care 1st Health Plan - San Diego, CA October 2013 to January 2014 • Used basic office equipment including a copy machine, computer, typewriter, fax machine and calculator in performing office supporting functions  • Prepared documents for providers to be entered or updated in the system  • Assisted supervisor with various projects Media Clerk Apple One - Portfolio Recovery Associates - San Diego, CA May 2013 to September 2013 • Prepared, copied, scanned, and emailed legal documents  • Mailed legal documents using UPS and US Postal Service  • Sorted through mail documents received from outside parties Medical Records Clerk Coastal Family Health Center - Gulfport, MS September 2010 to July 2012 • Monitor outside referrals and coordinates transfer of medical records following HIPAA guidelines  • Answered the multi-line phone, send/receive faxes, and made copies  • Ran errands Sales Associate Ralph Lauren Factory Outlet - Gulfport, MS March 2010 to May 2012 and San Diego, California  • Ensured the customer receives the best in class shopping experience by providing a guest friendly environment while utilizing our Fab 5 sales techniques and the 10/10 rule.  • Adhered to the company's policies and procedures at all times to safeguard the company's assets and to maintain the safety of all personnel/customers/guests.  • Maintained great integrity, floor awareness and a vested interest in shrink control to ensure the shrink goal are consistently met.  • Assisted with sales floor and stock room organization, which includes maintaining displays and participating in store recovery to ensure adequately replenishing of merchandise and timely execution of price markups/downs for effective inventory management.  • Enhanced the customer's shopping experience by offering suggestions/opinions to guide their purchase decisions/generate sales/aid with retention.  • Processed all sales transactions by accurately totaling purchases, properly handling of cash, verifying identity for credit card transactions, and completing the sale and or exchanges in a positive, professional manner.  • Extensive product knowledge on all merchandise that we carry so you are able to discuss brands as a selling point.  • Other store related duties assigned by the management team. Education Accountancy Bridge Program to Masters in Accountant University of Alabama at Birmingham - Birmingham, AL August 2018 to Present Bachelor of Science in Speech and Hearing Sciences University of South Alabama - Mobile, AL December 2009 Skills WORD (2 years), EXCEL (Less than 1 year), EXCELLENT COMMUNICATION SKILLS (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Powerpoint, Excel, Outlook). Excellent communication skills verbal and written. High degree o integrity, confidentiality, initiative, accountability, and strong work ethic. Ability to prioritize and manage multiple on-going tasks and maintain project control. Work well with others and perform duties as assigned.