Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Dishnet Direct Lemon Grove, CA Reliable certified engineer adept at learning new methods and following directions on a flexible schedule. Adept at mastering new network infrastructures and contributing to team success. Interested in expanding career and fostering leadership capabilities. Experience in a variety of fields including network administration, computer repair, sales engineering, and construction. Performs in various situations on individual assignments or in teams to meet deliverables punctually. Work Experience Network Administrator Dishnet Direct - San Diego, CA January 2015 to Present -Responsibilities  • Cisco 4000, 3900 series routers and various Cisco Catalyst Switch management and configuration for small and large enterprise businesses.  • Ensured internet privacy for end users by implementing Cisco firewalls at IDFs and MDFs.  • Completing work orders answering online tickets using Zendesk and developing client relations.  • Configured site-to-site VPNs adhering to encryption requirements specified by the customer.  -Accomplishments  Comptia A+ Computer Repair  Extensive Knowledge of current technologies  Work with Windows 8, 7, Vista, and XP operating systems  Recommend computer equipment based on customers' needs  Troubleshoot hardware and software Field Upgrade Technician AT&T - San Diego, CA August 2013 to January 2015 -Responsibilities  • Discovered and resolved issues that affected project outcomes. Utilized safety practices with no complaints or accidents. Managed repair documentation while troubleshooting for router and switching devices.  • Conducted site surveys in order to recommended equipment to satisfy customer needs allowing for projected growth.  • Ethernet cabling and layer 1 support  • Installed end user networks for home internet using various Wi-Fi home routers, and collaborated with clients to verify internet speed is acceptable for household user's devices  • software configuration and troubleshooting.    -Accomplishments  Great customer satisfaction ratings among clients  Commended on work ethic on finishing projects by deadlines Installer Dixieline - San Diego, CA July 2012 to August 2013 -Responsibilities  Installed windows and doors for Dixieline home centers across Greater San Diego. Specialized in, framing and finish carpentry. Constructed safety provisions, including scaffolding, gang ladders, perimeter railings, fall protection and temporary covers. Ran small crews on commercial sites for window installation.  -Accomplishments  Framed and installed La Cantina and Fleetwood doors and windows for both residential and commercial jobs. Installed Legoland CA hotel as well as the Westin Hotel in Carlsbad CA Sales Associate Vector Marketing - San Diego, CA May 2011 to July 2012 -Responsibilities  The position was to promote CutCo Cutlery products through demonstrations and events. The job required networking out to potential customers, setting up appointments with leads, then to give a presentation and push for more leads.  -Accomplishments  Sold Approx. $100,000 worth of product  Commended on great 'Can Do' Attitude Education Associates of Science in Social and Behavioral Science in Social and Behavioral Science Grossmont College - El Cajon, CA 2017 Associates of Science in Transfer Grossmont College - El Cajon, CA 2017 A+ certification Imperial Beach Adult School - Imperial Beach, CA 2012 Skills Maintenance, Customer Service, Sales, Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Security, Cisco Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) July 2019 to July 2019 CCENT certified and working towards my CCNA Additional Information Skills  • Network diagnostics  • Troubleshooting  • Residential and commercial network infrastructure maintenance  • Safety and security compliance