Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer Spring Hill, TN Network and Security Engineer specializing in Operations and Security hardening Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Engineer Experian - Franklin, TN November 2017 to Present I am a Senior Network Engineer at Experian, Inc in their medical transactional division, Experian Health.     I was brought inboard in contract capacity for Security expertise to harden their server and network infrastructure, and was kept on full-time as a Senior Network Engineer to manage and administrate their Network.     My responsibilities include:    - Network and server hardening to keep Network at PCI DSS standards, among others.  -Manage and stabilize enterprise network environment.   -Engineer Load Balancing and client data transmission services  -Firewall management and auditing    Further details are available upon request. Network Operations Engineer II UBS - Nashville, TN June 2015 to November 2017 I was a Network Operations Engineer for UBS AG, a Swiss financial Multinational. I worked there in contract capacity for Pinnacle Resources, AT&T Managed Services, and full-time as a UBS Employee.     The Network spans 6 continents, over 20,000 Network devices, 20+ Datacenters and Colo centers, and more than 250,000 servers.     My job involves oversight and operational management of the entire UBS Global Infrastructure.     Some of my duties are as follows:    --Analysis for daily operations and Network stability  --Implementation for Break-Fix and Network Operational changes  --NOC Project Management for Global Infrastructure Implmentation  --Creation and analysis of routing and switching configurations within Datacenters and Remote Branch Offices  --Interfacing with vendors for TAC and telecommunication support to ensure swift Incident Remediation  --Maintaining constant communications with customer to ensure proper visibility of Network stability to the business  --Diligence towards project and operational efficiency, tools improvement, and work efficiency for the entire Operations team    I require the following skill sets to complete my daily work in my current role:    --Networking Models: OSI, TCP/IP  -- Network Designs: WAN, LAN, MAN  --Networking Protocols: BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP/RIPv2, IPsec, ARP, IGMP, SNMP, Spanning-Tree, MPLS, HSRP, VRRP  -- Network Equipment Vendors: Cisco, Juniper, HP, Palo Alto, F5, Arista, Aruba, Infoblox, Riverbed, McAfee, Fire Eye, Bluecoat  -- Network Technologies: Routing, Switching, Firewalls, Load Balancing, Proxy, WAN Optimization, Network Polling, IDS/IPS  -- Network Implementation: Static Routing, Dynamic Routing, GRE Tunnels, VPN Tunneling, VLAN Trunking, VRF, QoS  -- Network Operating Systems: IOS, NX-OS, JUNOS, CatOS, ScreenOS, F5 TMOS and BIG-IP, ProcurveOS IT Contractor for TEK Systems Workplace March 2015 to June 2015 My work includes a wide range of job duties, depending on what the clients are needing done. Domain migration, server installation, POS systems, Network and Server support, user support, OS Upgrades, anything the clients need done, I am responsible for. I receive a contract notice from my recruiter, and I am deployed to the job site for the duration of the contract.   Design and Consultancy IT Specialist and Network Administrator for TSVH Tennessee State Veterans' Home - Humboldt, TN June 2014 to September 2014 I was responsible for the on-site Network, including all Hardware involved and uptime for staff.  I was also responsible for all telecommunications in the facility, and maintaining their uptime. In the event of a loss of service, I was onsite and responsible for Network Functionality until they were restored.  My specific responsibilities and scope of work are as follows:    Telecommunications:  -Maintenance of Analog/Digital Phone Systems  -Maintenance of Both incoming Data connections, as well as all voice channels coming to the facility.  -Manage tickets/ticket queues for users Helpdesk items.  Facility:  -Maintenance and day to day care of all internal Networking equipment, to ensure accessibility and uptime.  -Maintenance and day to day care of Local servers to ensure accessibility and uptime.  -Responsible for 49 Workstations, as well as a 3 Laptops and Presentation Hardware. All software updates, malware protection and removal, installation and imaging for repair.    -Responsible for any Resident equipment maintaining its connectivity, as well as basic training and tips.  Server:  -Usage and maintenance of Active Directory services to provide access to facility staff without improper access violations.    -Maintenance and usage of Exchange Server for facility user inboxes, as well as establishing connectivity to AD in order to keep on universal ID for facility staff access.    -Maintenance and usage of Local DNS, DHCP, File, and Print servers  -Assuring that all of these standards were HIPAA and HITECH compliant, as well as maintaining user permission logs to ensure only necessary access was given. Field Engineer Acuative Corporation - Fairfield, NJ November 2013 to May 2014 I was responsible for the timely arrival and completion of the jobs assigned to me in my Territory. I was in the Bismarck, ND market, which mad me responsible for the entire state of North Dakota.  This was roughly a 200 mile radius from my location, and I had to manage to time to properly arrive and complete in a timely fashion jobs in any area of the State, as well as going to other States in that region if help is needed there. All of our work was distributed to me via ticket queue, and I was responsible for maintaining and updating that upon completion.  I am also responsible for managing my downtime when I am not on a ticket by staying on top of my Product and Client training, as well as preparing for further Certification and Education to benefit myself and the company.  My specific responsibilities and scope of work are as follows:    Telecommunications:  -Installation/Troubleshooting of Analog/Digital Phone Systems  -Installation/Troubleshooting of VOIP Phone Systems  -Extensions of and Signal Testing of -Demarcation Points  -Running/Repairing Cabling    NOC/Datacenter:  -Installation/Troubleshooting of Cisco NOC/Datacenter Routing and Switching Equipment  -Installation of Blade Servers  -Installation of DC Power Modules  -Installation of Backup Communications  -Work inside of client NOCs, installing equipment as needed.  -Manage ticket queue. All work is assigned to us by ticket, and we work with the Acuative NOC to ensure end to end communications between us and our clients.    Networking:  -Site Surveys of Client establishments for cabling and Network Installation  -Programming/Configuration of Cisco Routing and Switching Network Equipment  -Connecting Client Networks to Acuative NOC and support Network  -Termination/Connection of all appropriate cabling and links Field and Networking Technician Aeneas Internet and Telephone - Jackson, TN May 2012 to November 2013 I was responsible for the uptime and usability of all Telecommunications and Managed Services customers that our company had. Based out of Jackson, Aeneas serviced almost the entirety of Western Tennessee, as well as some select locations in Middle Tennessee, covering nearly half the state of Tennessee.  Upon arrival at work, I would see what tickets were open for the day, and from there dispatch out to repair and resolve any issues our clients may have had, be it Telecommunications or Managed Services. When I wasn't out in the field, I was in the office managing the ticket queue to keep our Helpdesk load as low as possible.  Personal accomplishments included saving a large number of our clients from leaving our services due to excellent and expedient care, as well as adding to our Managed Services portfolio by offering and allowing those clients to see the value in our services.  My specific responsibilities and scope of work are as follows:    Telecommunications:  -Installation/Troubleshooting of Internet and Voice Telecommunication solutions over Copper technologies such as ADSL, VDSL, EFM, T1, DS3, and POTS.    -Troubleshooting/Maintenance of any premise wiring in possession of our Clients (per contractual agreement)  -Installation/Troubleshooting of Cisco VOIP Phone Systems  -Extensions of and Signal Testing of Demarcation Points  -Installation/Troubleshooting of Voice/Data Equipment for Clients  -Troubleshooting/Repair in AT&T Central Office to fix source of line downtime/noise/trouble (Secure Access required)  -Work Helpdesk ticket queue, and delegate tickets as needed to upper Helpdesk/support to ensure client satisfaction.    NOC/Datacenter:  -Rebooting/Troubleshooting Client Server/Networking equipment in our NOC per Managed Service/Hosting contracts  -Installation of NOC/Datacenter Routing and Switching Equipment  -Manage NOC tickets, ensure end-to-end communications for our clients.  Networking:  -Installation/Troubleshooting of Zhone, Cisco, and AdTran Routing and Switching equipment.  -Programming/Configuration of Cisco, Zhone, and AdTran Routing and Switching Equipment, using OSPF, RIP(v2) and BGP routing protocols.    -Complete and total management of a Client's LAN and all equipment attached to it, including WAPs, legacy switching equipment, Servers and Printers (per Managed Services contract).    -Termination/Connection of all appropriate cabling and links to insure throughput and connectivity to our NOC so that clients receive contracted Telecommunications services. Education Jackson State Community College - Jackson, TN 2009 Skills Network Administration (5 years), Network Security (5 years), Windows Server 2008 (Less than 1 year), WAN (7 years), LAN (5 years), Cisco (7 years), Routing (6 years), Switching (7 years), IOS (5 years), Load Balancing (4 years), Firewalls (5 years), VPN (3 years), F5 (2 years), PCI Auditing (2 years), Network Hardening (3 years), Server Hardening (3 years), Security Administration (3 years), Vulnerability Assessment (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CCENT August 2016 CCT Routing Swtiching January 2017 Security+ February 2017 to February 2020 CompTIA Security+ Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7bhsm95z1so5ygdn Attention to Detail — Highly Proficient August 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7mtq1jwnnwpwysao Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.