Job Seeker Work Experience Toastmasters International- Club of West Delhi January 2019 to Present Business Technology Analyst Tableau May 2018 to Present Big Data Alteryx Spring MVC  Key Responsibilities:  Architect, design, construct, test, tune, and deploy ETL MS SQL/ ORACLE Excel Java C++  infrastructure based on the Hadoop ecosystem based  technologies. Splunk Hive Impala Python Redshift  Work closely with administrators, architects, and application  teams to insure applications are performing well and within agreed upon SLAs. ACHIEVEMENTS & CERTIFICATES  Designing and implementing data visualization capabilities through advanced Tableau dashboards to capture KPIs.  Research paper published in International Journal for Scientific Research and Development for Tree  Building data warehouse designs and data processing pipelines Overlay Network Project to store, maintain and aggregate data from multiple feeds and preparing it for reporting consumption.  Splunk Certified Power User 6.x by Splunk Inc. Application Developer Associate Tableau October 2017 to May 2018 Application Developer Associate Certified Core Java Developer by Delhi Institute of  Accenture Computer Science.  10/2017 - 05/2018 Silver Associate in Sarso Biznet International Pvt.  Key Responsibilities: Ltd. - Completed INR 10 lakhs+ sales in 16 months.  Worked for an e-retail client and helped them increase their  online sales by analyzing sales data using Splunk & Excel.  Maintained overall quality of the development of their e- KEY PROJECTS  commerce website by analyzing the defect and progress of project.  Tree Overlay Network (T.O.N.): Conceptualized and developed a decentralized node location, routing  Skills Acquired: Splunk, Java, Excel, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, C++ and maintenance network overlay for large scale  peer to peer systems.  Partner Development- Intern  Online Magazine Portal: Designed & developed an Network Administrator- Intern MyRefers January 2017 to April 2017 online magazine portal called Googly Networks  01/2017 - 04/2017 having footfall of more than 3000 visitors daily and  Achievements/Tasks Traffic Rank less than 22K in India.  Gathered account intelligence and did funnel analysis to formulate B2B GTM strategy. Android App: Developed an android application which stores user details and documents on a  Generated leads in over 300 companies in Delhi, Maharashtra and server provided by 000webhost.com during Google  Gurgaon. Study Jam.  Face Detector: Built a program in Python to detect  Network Administrator- Intern object of interest (face) in real time and to keep  Powergrid Corporation of India tracking of the same object.  Achievements/Tasks  Implemented DHCP snooping and dynamic ARP inspection  techniques in 70 network switches.  ORGANIZATIONS Education B.Tech in Information Technology Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Technology May 2015 to Present college under Google Developers Group February 2014 to May 2017 Links http://linkedin.com/in/suraajhasija