IT Operations Manager IT Operations Manager IT Operations Manager - POSabilities, Inc Annapolis, MD ? Decades of experience in Information Technology focused on big-picture infrastructure hardware and software.  ? Highly adaptable generalist with a grasp of multiple industries across varied platforms and steep learning curves with new technology.  ? Efficient small team manager (3-9 direct reports) in shifting conditions across multiple simultaneous projects (15+ monthly). Work Experience IT Operations Manager POSabilities, Inc - Annapolis, MD August 2016 to Present Office and IT Manager for tech services, coordinating operations of field service technicians and project managers, schedule installs, upgrades, and break-fix, field customer queries, oversee project progression.  - Point of Sales (POS) systems installation and service to design, install, troubleshoot, break-fix of servers, software, terminals, network, printers and related equipment 90% on-site with customers with minimal supervision from headquarters in POS and PCI compliant environments from Richmond, VA to Philadelphia, PA.  - Managing the Annapolis, MD office and coordinate multi-state operations with a team of 3-5 Direct Reports, 4-9 Indirect Reports, 15+ stakeholders (per month).  - Project management and customer relations for two national clients including tasked with leading project management and direct primary stakeholder interaction with all new Mission BBQ locations nationwide.  - Promoted to IT Operations Manager after four (4) months Senior Technology Analyst Apparatus Inc - Indianapolis, IN November 2012 to June 2014 Systems Analyst and Systems Administrator utilizing multiple technologies and platforms to design, plan, integrate, monitor, and troubleshoot enterprise level systems.  - Responsible for nationwide network reconfigurations, datacenter installation projects, and disaster recovery.  - Principal duties included building custom customer solutions without supervision; and onboard clients with custom monitoring systems and help desk support.  - Windows, Linux, and Cisco Systems, including Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, PXE, Asterisk/Lync, Nagios, Cisco, VMWare, Juniper, and F5.  - Clients included Eli Lilly, Harrison College, Salin Bank, Goodwill Indianapolis. Network Administrator Printing Partners - Indianapolis, IN January 2010 to October 2012 Network and Systems Administrator, providing back-end support and management of all company IT infrastructure and employees.  - Facilitated all help desk operations to all employees in sales, art, and manufacturing departments.  - Fostering new services for sales and art departments per ownership requests and industry needs.  - Continuing improving efficient operations of company network and servers due to increased demands year over year.  - Developed a disaster recovery plan and business continuity backup solution and implemented it using new technology purchases and management.  - Learned the Kodak RBA programming language to assist art department in automating tasks, becoming the sole automation programmer for the company, and creating automation tasks to speed up production. Education MBA Keller Graduate School of Management 2019 to 2020 Bachelor of Science in Technical Management. Specialization DeVry University 2013 to 2017 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, NAGIOS, SOLARWINDS, VLAN, BGP, DHCP, VMWARE, VPN, SSL, DEPLOYMENT, SIP, APACHE, LINUX, POLYCOM, VOIP, WIRELESS, PERL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dewayne-lehman