Linux Systems Administrator/ Information System Security Officer Linux Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Information System Security Officer Systems Administrator/ Information System Security Officer Albany, GA To obtain a position where I can maximize my management skills, information assurance skills, program development, training experience, data-center operation skills and a 8 year successful track record as a system/ network administrator. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator/ Information System Security Officer Cask LLC - Albany, GA October 2017 to Present Supported the AWS/VM Ware installations, optimizations, integration, troubleshooting, backup, recovery, modifications, security, and upgrading of Linux and Windows systems. Assisted with the development of Risk Management Framework (RMF) Certification and Accreditation documentation, standard operating procedures, policies and security instructions for AWS. Administered vulnerability scanner(retina) to address any hardware/software security issues so they can be remediated. Ran SQL commands using SQL Developer for Oracle WebLogic Databases, for table spaces and other task as requested. Maintained Oracle WebLogic Application/Report servers in Production, Test, and Dev. Patched systems using RHEL satellite server. Lead, Network Operations Specialist Artech Information Systems LLC - Morristown, NJ December 2014 to October 2017 Oversaw the monitoring and analytics of the network to identify security issues for remediation using Solarwinds and a customized HP IMC. Configured, hardened, and installed a variety of Cisco layer2/layer3 appliances. Migrated a Server 2003 domain to 2012R2 domain. Patched routers/switches with latest iOS. Designed and executed movement plans for over 4000+ users while maintaining port security and switch integrity. Administered desktop workstations using HP BigFix to patch. Network Backup Administrator/ System Administrator Concurrent Technologies Corporation - Albany, GA December 2012 to December 2014 Developed and maintained On-site/Off-Site Backup Standard Operating Procedures for approximately 400 physical and virtual servers consisting of Server 2008/2012R2, Linux, Unix, and Solaris. Installed, configured, and upgraded Symantec Netbackup management software from version 4.0 to 7.6 and implemented disk to disk to tape using Data Domain appliance so that backup/restore performance would increase. Managed all server types that were virtual using HP Blade Center. Network Backup Administrator/ System Administrator Concurrent Technologies Corporation - Albany, GA April 2008 to December 2010 Developed and maintained On-site/Off-Site Backup Standard Operating Procedures for approximately 400 physical and virtual servers consisting of Server 2008/2012R2, Linux, Unix, and Solaris. Installed, configured, and upgraded Symantec Netbackup management software from version 4.0 to 7.6 and implemented disk to disk to tape using Data Domain appliance so that backup/restore performance would increase. Managed all server types that were virtual using HP Blade Center. Education Associates Degree in Microcomputers Albany Technical College - Albany, GA May 2003 Skills Linux, Security, Web services, Information security, Nist, Amazon web services, Netbackup, Risk management, General office, General office skills, Correspondence, Office skills, Active Directory, Red Hat, SCCM, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Redhat, Linux Administrator, Customer Service, Organizational Skills, Word, Typing, Stocking Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ October 2007 to October 2021 Certification that validates the baseline skills needed to perform core security functions. CompTIA Linux+ April 2018 to Present Validates the competencies required of a system administrator supporting Linux systems. CompTIA Advanced Security Practitioner (CASP+) October 2018 to October 2021 Certification for technically advanced skill level of cybersecurity professionals who wish to remain immersed in technology as opposed to strictly managing. Additional Information Results-oriented, high-energy, hands-on professional, with a successful record of accomplishments in the IT Operations field. Experience in networking, information assurance(cyber-security), and data-center operations with focus on providing the customer with the highest quality product and services.    Major strengths include strong leadership, outstanding communication skills, competent, team player, attention to detail, dutiful respect for compliance in all regulated environments and supervisory skills including scheduling, training, and other administrative tasks. Thorough knowledge of current IT best practices and a clear vision to accomplish the company goals.    SKILLS SUMMARY    ? Project Management ? Report Preparation ? Written Correspondence  ? General Office Skills ? Linux Admin ? Amazon Web Services  ? Network Admin ? Windows Admin ? NIST  ? Information Security Officer ? NetBackup Admin ? Risk Management Framework