Job Seeker Hoboken, NJ To obtain a long-term career with the organization, as it has a strong background, and which would provide good opportunity for  enhancement of professional and personal status. To work in an environment which will help me to add value to both myself and the  company. Work Experience Tata Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd., India/USA January 2012 to Present 7.57 Years] Services Associate at John Wiley and Son Tata Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd., India/USA June 2016 to August 2019 System Administrator Tata Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd., India/USA September 2015 to March 2016 System and Network Administrator Tata Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd., India/USA October 2013 to July 2015 member Tata Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd., India/USA June 2012 to September 2013 Working as a Site Tech at an Onsite location for the past 3 years which involves handling end user issues and providing touch  support at the data center.  • We have established a Tech Bar at client site taking Ideas from Apple's Genius Bar, where we handle all end user related  issues for the approximately 1500 users.  • Have continuously worked at the data center involving windows servers, network switches, routers, firewalls and storage  devices whenever there is an outage or there is a deployment.  • Have been providing White Glove Support at the Client Site which involves working on issues for High Level Executives  likes of CEO, CFO, CSO, CTO, etc.  • Have Handled bulk floor movements related to IT equipment's when there were new office spaces built.  • Have supported Board Meetings and Town Halls every year which involved Audio/Video arrangements along with technology support.  • Have worked with various vendors like Verizon, ATnT, Microsoft, Dell, Lenovo whom we involve for Data center as well as End User support.  • End user support includes support for software's and hardware used on Laptops, desktops, printers and scanners, desk  phones, cell phones, iPads and Audio/Video devices on all meeting rooms.  • Previously while working with AIG have performed Installation and configuration of Network Devices and Windows servers  from scratch.    Responsibility  • Reporting global/multiple user issues to concerned teams and working with them for solution.  • Tracking and resolving tickets from servicenow/servicemanager.  • Updating and maintain Xassets-Inventory management tool.  • Knowledge transitioning to new Site Techs for all locations.  • Daily report maintenance for new Inventory.  • Reaching out to responsible vendors depending on the failures or for maintenance activity. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering Trident Academy of Technology - Bhubaneshwar, Orissa Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DATA CENTER, EXCHANGE, NAGIOS Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 February 2014 to Present By EXIN Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mnjwp3kqvyx21wck Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS    Software    OKTA, SEP, Crowd Strike, Office 365, Service Now, Bomgar, Team Viewer, C, C++, DBMS, Putty, Tool Command Language TCS  training with: Microsoft Exchange Server, TCS MasterCraft Service Manager V2 .2, TCS MasterCraft Knowledge Manager V2.2,  Service Now, Microsoft Teams, TCS MasterCraft Inventory Manager V2.2, Skype for Business, Microsoft Excel, Keynote,  SolarWinds, MasterCraft SM Nagios, TCS NetAsthra, SCCM 2012 R2, Xasstes, jamf PRO, Active Directory Services, SOL Server  Reporting Services, Dell Tech Direct Portal, Polycom RealPresence Resource Manager, TCS Integrated Cloud P-ortal, TCS  MasterCraft Application Performance Monitor V1.3, Putty, HTML5.    Operating Systems    Windows XP/7/8/10, Windows 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016 DC servers, MAC OS Mojave/Sierra/High Sierra,    Hardware    HP Proliant Dl (380/380 G6/360 G6), IBM System x3650 M4 & Dell Power Edge 2950  Routers[Cisco 1900, 2960/Juniper SRX 240]  Firewall[Cisco ASA 5510]/Switch[Cisco 2960]    Business Development    Supporting the client meetings by providing A/V setup.  Resolving tickets within the stipulated SLA.  Supporting data center during off work hours during outage or change.