Network and System Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> and System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network and System Administrator Knoxville, TN I am an IT professional with over 10 years of experience working with rack servers, network infrastructures, enterprise networks, cloud platforms, dozens of different software packages, and more as listed below. I consider myself a very well-rounded person due to my open mind and my broad range of interests. I have an extremely strong work ethic, a strong sense of urgency, and I have excellent communication skills. In addition to working exceptionally well with teams, I am also able to work autonomously. My main goals are to become a part of something larger than myself and have a positive impact on the world. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network and System Administrator Jupiter Entertainment December 2016 to September 2017 • Maintained, monitored, and upgraded Jupiter's Networks, Firewalls, Switches, Servers, Shared Storage, SANs, and Phone systems.  • Installed, maintained several new servers with VMs - Domain Controller, Active Directory, Exchange, DFS  • Implemented and maintained a new shared storage system for high density storage  • Infrastructure Manager for the move between Jupiter's two offices in New York. I handled installation of new CAT6A cabling, the server room build-out, IT rack layout and implementation, switch setup, wireless setup and server setup.  • Implemented an MPLS so offices were on the same network and could high-speed communicate.  • Implemented site-to-site VPN for the phone system so employees could dial in Knoxville or New York.  • Rolled out managed anti-virus software with "CryptoWall" (A Solar Winds Product)  • Upgraded Jupiter's network architecture by replacing the existing CAT5/CAT5e at the Knoxville location cabling with OM3 Fiber increased bandwidth. - Installed both multi-mode fiber and GigE  • Negotiated contracts with Cloud9, Windstream, Verizon, Dell, HP, Ricoh, Cisco, Cisco Meraki, Paxis, and many more. Operations Agent / System Administrator Best Buy September 2014 to October 2016 • Maintained, upgraded, and monitored Best Buy's internal Systems.  • Troubleshot, diagnosed, and repaired client systems. I helped clients resolve issues that they have with their computers, tablets, phones, home routers, and small businesses  • My responsibilities included re-imaging hard drives, re-installation of operating systems, replacement of bad hardware, virus detection and removal, data back-up and restoration, and extended testing of hardware and software  • As an Operations Agent, my responsibilities also included supervising the other agents, mentoring and training System and Network Administrator (NOC) Science Applications International Corporation March 2014 to September 2014 • Assisted in the transition from the NSOC in Little Rock to the new Network Security Operations Center in Knoxville.  • My duties included monitoring SAIC's network for hardware and software failures: stopped services, network failures or local / extended outages, security breaches, and many other tasks.  • If failures or bandwidth degradation were detected, the issues were diagnosed and a solution was devised. IP space allocation was managed using Proteus and HP automation.  • Used Splunk (Security and Logging) and SolarWinds NPM for network monitoring. I utilized Cisco's IPS and IDS along with Dell's SonicWALL in the NSOC for security and firewall administration.  • Constantly logged into Cisco routers remotely via SSH to troubleshoot network and security issues. I made adjustments to firewall rules if necessary. If routers were not accessible, I would dial into a Digi and connect to the router via the console port to troubleshoot the issue and resolve it.  • Many other software packages were used in the NOC, all of which I quickly mastered quickly. (Airwaves for wireless devices, EMGT, Splunk Enterprise, SolarWinds, VSphere, etc.)  • Used Service Now for incident response. Tickets would come in and I would ether resolve the issue or escalate the issue to the proper team or personnel. System and Network Administrator Pilot Flying J, LLC July 2011 to March 2014 • I worked with over 1000 stores to keep them online and fully operational (each store had as many as 10 registers/workstations and 10 servers  • When a site went down, it was my job to diagnose and fix the issue(s)  • Issues included network outages, server failures, database failures, Citrix issues, basic hardware and software issues and many other IT related issues  • I worked with Cisco equipment (IPS/IDS) and Windows servers and operating systems  • PFJ used Active Directory and I managed the user accounts for all of the sites company wide  • These sites contained all Vendor and employee accounts. Also, I worked with databases on a daily basis  • Pilot makes use of InterBase and Firebird. I have become familiar with SQL and the firebird utility, which uses SQL to communicate with several of the databases. I am also familiar with dBase explorer, which was used to edit databases at the individual stores  • In many cases, I had to restore a corrupt database with a known good backup. I worked with the Network and Switch teams to keep IP-routing consistent and the site's network secure System and Network Administrator University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Knoxville, TN July 2013 to January 2014 • Server management, Active Directory management, firewall rules, standard computer diagnostics and repair, and web development  • Most of my work involved managing the University's servers for research and storage purposes  • The University implemented a new SAN which I helped deploy and maintain.  • My duties also included imaging and cloning drives for servers as well as imaging and cloning drives (mostly lab drives) for daily use by students and faculty.  • I managed Unix/Linux access for students in the EECS department by utilizing ACLs and standard Linux permissions.  • I built and maintained 5 remote desktop servers for student and faculty research.  • These were Dell servers, which used Dell's iDRAC remote management console, and SonicWALL firewalls.  • Packet capture and analysis using (Splunk, PSTools, SysMon)  • I used tcpdump, Windump and Wireshark for forensic analysis when intrusions were detected.  • I worked with a Team of 8 who maintained the entire network of computers and rack servers for the EECS department.  • Managed all of the servers (150+), networks, and computers for the entire EECS (Min Kao) building.  • Maintained backups for all student and faculty profiles both on Linux and Windows. Easy Tech - Knoxville, TN March 2010 to August 2010 Observatory Equipment Assistant East Tennessee State University - East, Tennessee, US August 2008 to May 2010 • Responsible for setting up the school's portable telescopes and managing related observatory and laboratory equipment  • Deployed and used the observatory's main telescope on a night- by-night basis  • Used the main telescope's tracking and monitoring software to conduct research    Computer Networking Staff (Lead), Farragut High School (Student Staff)  • Responsible maintenance and troubleshooting of faculty and student computers, printers, networks, and network devices, projectors and the school's new SmartBoard systems  • Became exceedingly familiar with the GradeBook database software, as I was enlisted with the responsibility to ensure its functionality  • Deployed and subsequently maintained all new computer related hardware that the school purchased  • Deployed DeepFreeze to the student use computers in the library    Research Assistance  • I Programmed models of astronomical and astrophysical data (Wolfe-Raye and Be Stars with Spectral Energy Distributions in C (some C++) at ETSU as a summer intern / Research Assistant under Dr. Richard Ignace. All of the graphical models were in LaTeX I presented the data and our findings at the American Astronomical Society in Washington, DC in January of 2010 - Fully funded by a grant by the National Science Foundation.  • American Astronomical Society 215th Meeting, Washington D.C., January 2010  • Funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation  • I assisted in the writing and compilation of programs (C, C++, LaTeX, SuperMongo) that modeled the spectral energy distributions of certain stars as well as generic simulations of Stellar Winds from different types of stars. I presented the results at the AAS meeting in Washington, D.C. Research Assistant East Tennessee State University - East, Tennessee, US 2009 to January 2010 Writing programs (C, C++) to simulate stellar winds and model spectral energy distributions (SED's). I became familiar with the documentation preparation system known as LaTeX. I also became familiar with the interactive plotting and modeling program known as SuperMongo Lead Computer Repair Technician and Electronics Specialist April 2008 to September 2008 * Computer repair technician and electronics specialist. My main responsibilities were troubleshooting and repairing customer computers.  * I fixed software and hardware related issues. Many of the hardware related issues were resolved by replacing power supplies; DVD/CD drives, hard drives, motherboards, processors and installed or replaced RAM into clients' computers. I performed re-formats and Windows re-installations and upgrades on an almost daily basis. I was responsible for backing-up and transferring client data to back-up devices and transferred data to new computers. I manually checked for and removed viruses from client computers on a daily basis. Education Computer Engineering Western Governor's University 2010 to 2013 Computer Science and Astrophysics East Tennessee State University - East, Tennessee, US 2007 to 2010 Skills DATABASE (4 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), CISCO (3 years), C++ (2 years), NETWORKING (1 year), access, Javascript, Windows, Technical Support, Mac Additional Information Technical Skills  • Windows Server 2003(R2), 2008 (R), 2012, R2, 2016  • OS X Server    • Microsoft Office Software  • Office 365 Administration    • Linux (Red Hat Server, Ubuntu, Debain, Cent OS)  • Oracle Hardware/Software    • Network Infrastructure Management  • Oracle E-Suite    • Database Administration • VPN - Cisco L2TP/IPSec/SSL/P2P  • Virtual Machines, VMWare / vSphere • Dell Sonic WALL, Dell KACE, Dell EMC, iDRAC  • Microsoft Exchange • Cisco IOS  • Network Architecture/ Design and Implementation  • Cisco Software/Hardware and Cisco Meraki Hardware and Software  • WAN, LAN Networking  • Packet Capture/analysis (Wireshark/Splunk)  • Networking routing and switching  • Layer 2 and Layer 3 Switching  • Fiber Channel    • Amazon Web Services  • VLANs  • Cisco CCNA, CCNP material  • Dell, HP, and Cisco Switches  • Avid Software and Hardware  • Adobe Suite (CC and prior versions)  • Azure Platform  • Carbon Black's CB Response (SOC)    • Service Now • Data Recovery - Software and Hardware  • Active Directory Deployment and Administration • NetApp Cloud Services  • Splunk Enterprise • Network Load Balancing  • Network Protocols (WEP, WPA, WPA2, LEAP, RADIUS and Two Factor Authentication(2FA) • Dell's SonicWALL - Firewall Rules Design and Deployment  • Shell Scripting, Bash, PowerShell • Java | C | C++  • Virus removal and detection  • Network and System Monitoring and Analysis  • Google G Suite and Administration  • SolarWinds Orion, and Solar Winds Products    • HP Automation  • Office 365 Administration  • Tripwire Network monitoring  • SysMon, PSTools and related networking tools