Senior IT Specialist Senior IT Specialist Senior IT Specialist - XRI Blue Midland, TX Work Experience Senior IT Specialist XRI - Midland, TX August 2018 to Present - XRI BLUE Smarter Water Solution Midland, TX  08/2018 - Current  XRI is a leading water management and pipeline transportation company in the Permian, and a committed partner that provides world-class water logistic solutions to upstream oil and gas producers. My role is to ensure the stability IT services (Internet, Network, Secure server connection, Communication system) and to install, configure and maintain IT infrastructure (Routers, Switches, Computers and Copier/Printer/Scanner). XRI blue allows me to develop my skills in:  • QuickBooks, Exchange mail server, Azure, Office 365, Active Directory, Hyper-V, VMware  • Cisco Meraki, MDM solution (Maas360, Cisco, office 365)  • VoIP, Remote Access, Routing & Switching (Cisco, Ubiquiti)  • Site to Site VPN and DMZ (Cisco Meraki) Network Administrator PermianLide - Odessa, TX March 2018 to August 2018 PermianLide is the largest United States manufacturer of above-ground storage tanks and processing equipment for the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. As a Network administrator, I was responsible of: Windows server 2016, Mimosa Wireless Access Point, Office 365, Exchange, VMware monitoring, Routing/Switching (Pfsense, Cisco Catalyst, Cisco 3K, Cisco Meraki, Ubiquiti Edgeswitch, UniFi), OpenVPN), VOIP (Ring Central), Printer administration.  Achievement:  • Successful identify and fix a switching issue to allow faster and more stable internet connection.  • Setup Mimosa Access Point for a point to point connection between the main office and other offices  • Design the first Network diagrams (Physical, Layer 2&3) to facilitate network troubleshooting.  • Remapped the network architecture to have a core & distribution, and Access Network devices. IT Help Desk III PermianLide - Odessa, TX September 2017 to April 2018 Duties include: Active Directory, Windows Server, Support (computer systems, Windows 7 & 8 backups, restores and security software, and hardware), ticket resolution, Printer administration, Office 365, VMware, VOIP, DNS, DC, DHCP, Routing/Switching, Exchange.  Achievements:  • Creation of the first helpdesk ticket, to track all tickets.  • Creation of an inventory list to track all devices related with IT department.  • Backup solution to prevent data lost. Remote Network Engineer LAN/WAN PROFESSIONAL - Irvine, CA January 2017 to September 2017 LAN/WAN Professional is an exclusive IT mentoring and professional development agency that specializes in helping techies advance their career in the information technology industry through comprehensive IT internships, career advancement and placement services. My role at Lan/Wan Professional allows me to improve my skills in:  • Member of a team of professional responsible for administration/ service request, escalation support/ticket resolution in an enterprise LAN/WAN environment for datacenters, corporate, WAN links, and branch offices.  • Specific Technologies handled include but not limited to Cisco ISRs/ASRs, Cisco Catalyst/ Nexus Switches, CUCM, Cisco Wireless Controllers, Cisco ASA, Solar Winds Orion, Wireshark.  • Technologies in network environment include but not limited to routers, switches, security firewalls, voice, wireless and related technologies along with various server/application administration, system reimaging, and remote setup.    Achievement:  • Setup of Canned Response to help with ticket response.  • CWT: Certified WAN Technician  • CWA: Certified WAN Associate  • CWP: Certified WAN Professional  • CWEA: Certified WAN Enterprise Administrator Desktop Support Engineer Surf et Yamo January 2012 to November 2015 LAN configuration, Support (computer systems, software, and hardware), Windows 7&8, Active Directory, Printer administration, Office 365, Exchange, Linux (Ubuntu), VMware, and System Reimaging, MySQL, PHP, Argo UML. Education Bachelor's in Architecture of Systems and Network University of Ngaoundere - Ngaoundere October 2011 to July 2015 Skills Exchange, Active Directory, security, Vmware, Cisco, LAN, Networking, VPN, firewalls, DNS Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching January 2017 to February 2017 CCNP Routing and Switching January 2017 to March 2017