System Administrator II System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II System Administrator Kendallville, IN I am excited to expand my career in the field of Information Technology. I have graduated with a Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Management Information Systems, my course work has thoroughly versed me in both the business and IT exigencies and organizational demands. I understand the importance of business requirements and working with information systems to achieve business goals. I have a passion for system and network administration and love using technology to make things more efficient. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator II BAE Systems - Fort Wayne, IN February 2019 to Present - Configuring new client desktop and laptop computers utilizing DFARs, Windows 7 and 10, as well as XP.  - Configuring new Windows Server 2012/2016 systems, and supporting existing server systems to ensure maximum uptime.  - Hardening server, desktop, and laptop systems.  - Supporting the network’s RMF continuous monitoring efforts by conducting regular vulnerability scans using ACAS/Nessus, remediating vulnerabilities utilizing established solutions, and developing solutions to newly discovered findings.  - Supporting a VMware virtual server environment.  - Maintaining and monitoring network backups and restoring data as needed.  - Supporting Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x and 7.x systems, applying system updates, conducting regular vulnerability scans, and troubleshooting any issues that arise.  - Installing and managing server-based applications, administer user accounts, file and print shares, and group policy objects.  - Troubleshooting issues with server and desktop-based applications.  - Distributing application updates as needed.  - Responding to user assistance requests in a timely manner.  - Troubleshooting complex hardware and software issues on desktop and laptop computers.  - Routing and terminating network cabling. System Administrator SPAWAR - San Diego, CA 2011 to 2014 • Training Other System Administrators  • Building Servers  • Installing Servers  • Configuring Servers  • Trouble Shooting Hardware Issues  • Installing Database Shells  • Database Configuration  • Ensure Replication Routes Through Three Layers  • Built Linux Databases  • Updated Via Patches  • Updated Microsoft Operating Systems with Correct Patches  • Ensure Database Alignment with DAPs (Data Alignment Programs)  • Set Up Test Environments  • Ensured Network Compatibility for Linux Database  • Completed Weekly Reports of System Build Completion Times  • Implemented Hot Fixes in Sybase E-5 Network Administrator United States Navy 2009 to 2011 • Updated ACLs (Access Control Lists)  • Ensured Connectivity of Navy Network  • Configured User Profiles for Twelve Databases  • Installed Secret and Above Applications  • Installed New Client Computers  • Updated Operating Systems  • Trouble Shooting Network Issues Satellite Communications Supervisor United States Navy 2005 to 2009 • Ensure Connectivity to Four Different Satellite Communications Suites  • Configured MODEMs for Three Different Satellite Suites (SHF, EHF)  • Configured ADNS Router for Satellite Data Communication  • Supervised Eleven Subordinates  • Kept Daily Communication Across Navy Communication Spectrum  • Coordinated with Three Navy Communication Centers to Ensure Proper Configuration  • Trouble Shooting Satellite Issues  • Coordinated Communication between Navy and Marine Units with Navy Line of Sight Communications (HF, UHF)  • Conducted Maintenance on RF Equipment Through Navy PMS System (Preventative Maintenance System)  • Installed Parts for Navy RF Systems Education BS Business Administration in Management Information Systems Indiana Tech - Fort Wayne, IN January 2017 to December 2018 Skills SQL SERVER, SQL, SYBASE (4 years), LINUX (4 years), PROCESS DEVELOPMENT Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 Certifications/Licenses Secret Clearance March 2019 to March 2029 Additional Information Other Skills:    • Excellent verbal and written communication skills  • Exceptional organizational skills  • Outstanding ability to multitask and use multiple applications  • Learn quickly and able to adapt  • Great critical thinking skills  • Experience with Sybase, SQL server, Linux  • Teamwork oriented  • Process development and implementation  • Enjoys collaborating with other offices