Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Greensburg, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Clayton Kendall, Inc January 2019 to June 2019 Configured and deployed Firewalls, switches, and routers in an enterprise environment including Cisco ASA  5516X, Ubiquiti USG XG-8 and pro, unifi and edge switches. Created bash scripts to simplify commands needed  on a daily basis. Assisted in repair and configuration of Unifi wireless system. Assisted in deployment of workstations and created an imaging work area to streamline PC deployments. Monitored and maintained all  networking equipment. Service Technician III Intech Solutions, Inc September 2018 to December 2018 Act as mentor to lower technicians - Act as first escalation point for all technical issues - configure and troubleshoot  Cisco ASA firewalls - Configure and maintain Cisco SG series switches - Assisted in new deployments of servers, firewalls, Wireless devices, and workstations. Assisted in refining internal processes. Service Engineer Ideal Integrations, Inc February 2013 to September 2018 Configured and deployed Wiki for Service Desk documentation and customer procedures. Train and mentor Level I  service desk & NOC technicians. Troubleshoot and maintain customer networks for routing, switching, firewall, and wireless. Maintain and troubleshoot customer environments for Windows server including Active Directory,  Exchange, Remote Desktop Services, & Office/Office 365. Maintain and troubleshoot customer Mitel voice systems for both MCD and MiVoice business 250. Assisted projects team on migrations including Exchange and active  directory. Used powershell and batch scripting to gain data on environment and user accounts.  Troubleshoot and maintain VMware environments for small and mid-sized companies. Work with restoring from backup in disaster recovery situations. Performed break/fix work on all aspects of windows environments and  customer networking equipment. Freelance systems administrator Firestone Electric December 2012 to March 2013 Maintained small office on all levels. Wireless backups servers and printers. Maintained Quickbooks platform.  Configured and installed wireless bridge for rural site for company. Maintained vonage phone system. Lead Field Technician M&M Hightech September 2012 to December 2012 Created a proxy to block specific web traffic during business hours. Monitored and maintained and installed  windows servers 2003 & 2008 using Active Directory. Created, monitored and maintained NAS server. Created a mediawiki to log all infrastructure and client technologies and configurations. Performed troubleshooting and repair of hardware and software on PC and MAC desktops and laptops. Installed and configured small office networks  including desktop computers, small business servers for file sharing, and networked printers. Installation and  configuration of network printers, routers, and switches. Advising and educating client's on use of technology. Systems Analyst ETG/Conde Nast February 2012 to September 2012 Logging of all faults using Peoplesoft CRM. Provide client support and technical issue resolution via E- Mail, phone, and remote desktop systems. Create and maintain client accounts within Active Directory and Exchange.  Configuration and troubleshooting of Entourage, Outlook 2007, 2010, & 2011 including multiple identities, configuring delegate access on accounts, and creating rules for clients in an exchange environment. Identify and  correct or advise on operational issues in users Windows and/or Mac desktop systems. Installation and support of Microsoft office suite and Adobe Creative suite. Installed, configured, repaired, and assisted with use of Filemaker  pro for clients. Removing viruses and other malicious software from Windows XP. Ensure escalation process, and standard operating procedure was followed on all calls and requests. Installation and configuration of Windows  environments using VMware in OS X. Wood Cutter March 2010 to December 2011 March 2010 - December 2011  Pine River Logging    Responsible for felling & de-limbing of trees using proper and safe directional felling techniques. Attaching downed  trees to chokers. Clean, sharpen, and lubricate tools and chainsaw. Assisted in maintenance of company equipment such as skidders, dump trucks, and firewood splitters. Assisted bucking logs prior to transport and sale. Cut  firewood to length and split for customers. Performed basic IT responsibilities including but not limited to  maintenance for email account and desktop support for the team. Network Support Analyst Dimension Data - Framingham, MA January 2010 to July 2011 Managed and monitored the clients of the INSITE customer base from the Global Service Center. Provided first line  fault resolution on all Level I and Level II incidents, primarily in IPT environments but including WAN/LAN, and Security systems. Logged faults with the Customer Management System and logged and drove calls with the Telco or appropriate engineering group. Ensured escalation procedure was followed on all critical calls and requests.  Communicated effectively with all levels of support and management while providing updates to the customer and  3rd party help desk personnel. Worked with Help Desk, Service Delivery Manager, and the Customer Management  center to ensure swift resolution of faults. Managed tickets to ensure completion according to service level  agreement guidelines. IT Manager Aria Medical Co - San Antonio, TX September 2009 to December 2009 Procurement of all technology solutions and equipment including PC desktops, server technology, advising on handheld and tablet devices, and networking hardware. Advised on, maintained, and installed all software for the  company. Monitored and maintained CentOS, Windows 2003, & Ubuntu Servers, LAN, Windows and CentOS  Desktop computers, company website, firewall, and PBX phone system. Created in house instant messenger server  using Openfire on an Ubuntu platform. Created AMANDA server as a disaster recovery solution using CentOS  Linux. Spoke to company employees regarding any questions or concerns and helped educate them in use of technology as needed. Built new workstations configured to work with NFS/Client server and dual monitors using  CentOS Linux. Monitored/maintained company SUGAR CRM server also on CentOS Linux. Education Wilmington University - New Castle, DE July 2003 to May 2009 Skills Networking (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Cisco, Active Directory, Vmware, Exchange, DNS, VPN, LAN Certifications/Licenses Sonicwall Firewall administrator Present