Child Transportation Child Transportation Systems and Cloud Administration Happy Valley, OR I am a full-time student on a mission to complete my Bachelor of Science degree in Cloud and System Administration. I am currently looking for employment related to my current studies. A place where I can learn and be challenged, then pass on my knowledge to those who might also be new in the system administration field, where my opinion counts and my hard work does not go unnoticed.    Though I may be new to the Cloud Administration field, I am not new to working hard to get where I want to go, and training the right people who have the same desires to be successful. I have been in IT since I got out of the Navy in 2006 and have worked under employers such as Dept. of State in Afghanistan as a Network Administrator, and in the private sector with Nike as a Cyber Security Analyst.    I was originally in the Health Information program with Western Governors University, but have recently changed my course of study to the System and Cloud Administration BS degree. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Child Transportation Assist Services - Portland, OR September 2018 to August 2019 Provided transportation for kids with disabilities, foster kids, and kids with behavioral issues. Sr. Cyber Security Analyst Nike World Headquarters - Hillsboro, OR January 2015 to May 2017 ? Served as Shift lead and SME in a robust 24/7 Security Operations Center; provided technical analysis and triage of Cyber Security events, mentored analysts, and performed QA on completed investigations.  ? Collaborated with outside teams to decrease false positive alerts.  ? Defined analytic baselines, created documentation, implemented unified triage standards, and offered technical guidance with individually tailored training plans to junior analysts.  ? Actively monitored security event logs and reported on computer viruses, malware, DDoS attacks, DNS callouts, brute force attacks, and any other suspicious activities using tools such as Splunk ES, Fireeye, Bit9/Carbon Black, Crowdstrike, SentinelOne AV, Mcafee AV, ScanSafe, ThreatStream, and Palo Alto’s AutoFocus and WildFire.  ? Identified and remediated information security events and intrusions and escalated to the Incident Response team when necessary.  ? Received training on network security concepts such as advanced persistent threats, intrusion prevention, cyber kill chain, zero-day malware, network sandboxing, and targeted attacks.  ? Developed and documented standard operating procedures, reference manuals, and information sources to consistently apply uniform methodologies for the Security Operations Center. Cyber Security Analyst Arrow Electronics - Bonneville Power Administration Contract - Portland, OR June 2014 to January 2015 ? Provided analysis, response and mitigation coverage in a 24:7 Security Operations Center environment for Dept. of Energy customers utilizing log aggregating software, SIEMs, and various network and security tools.  ? Performed log analysis using Splunk ES and responded accordingly to security events.  ? Conducted exploit and vulnerability research and investigations using tools such as Checkpoint firewalls, Nessus, Netflow, NMAP, and Splunk ES.  ? Analyzed firewall IPS logs and Websense for any suspicious activity.  ? Documented standard operating procedures and information sources to consistently apply uniform methodologies for the Security Operations Center. Network Administrator DynCorp, Intl - Dept. of State Contract, Afghanistan - Melbourne, FL February 2012 to March 2014 ? Performed concurrent duties as a network and systems administrator for 400+ end users on US State Department INLA Aviation Terminals at Kandahar Air Field and Kabul in Afghanistan.   ? Managed the corporate Active Directory for local site in Kandahar and Kabul, including, but not limited to: adding/deleting user accounts, managing security and distribution groups, configuring security permissions.  ? Conducted daily hardware deployment, troubleshooting, repairs, cleaning, replacement, imaging, hard drive recovery/replication, as well as quarterly inventory tracking & management for over 12,000 IT hardware assets.  ? Performed tier 1, 2, and 3 technical support for all software, hardware, and networks.  ? Managed the camp MWR network servers, switches, routers and cable TV satellite system.  Created and documented standard operating procedures for consistency and uniformity for all IT technicians in Kandahar and Kabul Dept. of State camps. Video Teleconference Technician ABBTech, LLC. - Army Corp of Engineers Contract - Portland, OR May 2011 to February 2012 ? Supported approximately 200 users utilizing Windows XP and Windows 7 operating systems.  ? Managed the deployment of new computer systems and re-imaged new computers using Ghost to back up and restore user accounts to new computers.  ? Assisted with the project to migrate all Army Corp of Engineer users from XP to Windows 7.  ? Provided critical computer and video teleconference (VTC) support for Army Corps of Engineers, Northwestern Division.  ? Supported development and implementation of new computer projects and new hardware installations. Network Administrator DynCorp, Intl - Dept. of State Contract, Afghanistan - Melbourne, FL February 2010 to April 2011 ? Performed concurrent duties as a network and systems administrator for 780+ end users on US State Department INLA Aviation Terminals at Kandahar Air Field and Kabul in Afghanistan.   ? Managed the corporate Active Directory for local site in Kandahar and Kabul, including, but not limited to: adding/deleting user accounts, managing security and distribution groups, configuring security permissions.  ? Conducted daily hardware deployment, troubleshooting, repairs, cleaning, replacement, imaging, hard drive recovery/replication, as well as quarterly inventory tracking & management for over 12,000 IT hardware assets.  ? Performed tier 1, 2, and 3 technical support for all software, hardware, and networks.  ? Managed the camp MWR network servers, switches, routers and cable TV satellite system.  ? Created and documented standard operating procedures for consistency and uniformity for all IT technicians in Kandahar and Kabul Dept. of State camps. Service Desk Technician Convergence Networks - Milwaukie, OR July 2007 to February 2010 ? Provided server, desktop, printer, and other peripheral support for over 100 company networks and over 2000 users utilizing Windows 2000, XP, Vista, Windows 7 and Server 2003.   ? Configured, maintained and supported Microsoft Exchange 2003.  ? Provided setup and support of Blackberry Enterprise Server and Blackberry devices.  ? Installed and configured Symantec Anti-Virus.  ? Assisted with configuration of Fortigate and Sonicwall firewalls.  Restored files and folders using Symantec Backup Exec and Shadow Copies; verified and analyzed backup files for any issues. Education BS in Systems and Cloud Administration Western Governors University - Happy Valley, OR May 2018 to Present Associate of Arts in Information Technology University of Phoenix July 2012 to July 2014 Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 May 1997 to June 2006 • Administered and operated classified and unclassified telecommunications network equipment including cryptographic equipment, multiplexers, modems, routers, switches and satellite equipment.  • Operated and maintained network hardware and software, troubleshot and restored outages within the network.   • Applied diagnostic and recovery techniques to all facets of the integrated information systems to find and correct any connectivity issues using oscilloscope and bit-error-rate equipment. Commendations: Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal  Navy Unit Commendation Medal  National Defense Service Medal  Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal  Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal  2 Good Conduct Medals Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) March 2017 to March 2020 MCSA January 2011 to Present Server 2003 Network+ January 2007 A+ Certified December 2006 Security+ February 2011 to February 2014 Additional Information In pursuance of my degree, currently in the process of updating A+ and Network+.