Part-Time Office Administrator Part-Time Office <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Part-Time Office Administrator - Law Office of Dr. Anand Acton, MA Seeking entry level full-time or part-time opportunity. Work Experience Part-Time Office Administrator Law Office of Dr. Anand - Chelmsford, MA April 2016 to Present • Data Entry, preparing reports, scheduling appointments, Filing/Sorting, making phone calls • Help with Legal Research MIS Suport Staff Luk Crisis Center - Fitchburg, MA May 2019 to August 2019 Attended EHR planning meetings every week  Built forms in the EHR software known as CareLogic  Built external EHR user manual using word  Built external EHR programs using CareLogic IT administrator (Contractual) MHA OF GREATER LOWELL - Lowell, MA January 2017 to June 2017 • Manage phone calls, Psychiatrist scheduling, • Patient record management on EHR using Evolv.  • Maintain Payroll documentation using Evolv.  • Provide ongoing support to the programs, management, and administration.  • Ensure development of user manuals, security procedures, and system policies • Exporting and importing data from excel and word and also access, manage clinical billing tables for financial management and report • First they assigned me to get the medical records to verity the time period each clinical spent with the clients • Select a time period for the month before • Each clinician has their own patients that they deal with • After exporting the data I looked at what information needs to be entered or re-entered • I looked at the insurance info and if the insurance is the same then I would move to the next patient. I would do this same process for each client • I was maintaining the timesheets and how much time the clinician spent with the clients • Each clinician had different time value with their clients • All this information was submitted to my supervisor every week • I ran the receptionist desk when the receptionist wasn't available • When the clients came, I would check the clinicians schedule and paged them informing that their client is there to visit them • I was receiving phone calls and get the message to the appropriate person and department • I was getting the Explanation of Benefits (EOBs) for insurance companies with the medical records of that specific patient and mail it to the insurance companies • I was sorting outgoing and incoming mails and looking for up to date medical records IT Network Associate QED Systems - Belmont, MA November 2014 to December 2015 • Network infrastructure and ensure proper operation of all wired and wireless network equipment from a variety of vendors, to include Cisco. This includes Installing, managing, maintaining, and troubleshooting data network systems, including, switching, hubs, routing, mobile/wireless technology, protocols, and protocol analyzers • Configured ASA from scratch, using combination of serial port/ASDM, use Serial port to install ASDM, other basic routers with DHCP, static WAN • Troubleshoot networking issues with assorted devices (such as time clocks, etc) • Using the TCP/IP model - Ran cable, terminated ends, patched into panels, switches - Installed printers, scanners, troubleshooting.  • Wiped units, formatted drivers, installed OS from scratch, searched for and downloaded and installed drivers/ • Added, modified users Exchange mailbox, AD profiles, Group policy linking objects - Installed and configured new printers/scanners; mapping network drivers manually and via script.  • Removed and added PC's to domain, understanding differences between local profiles and Active Directory - added, remoted, edited users, Microsoft exchange - DHCP.  • Configured assorted routers to the DHCP server, set DHCP pool. Configure computers and other devices to obtain IP config via DHCP, static (when and where applicable). Applies to both WAN and LAN. Library Assistant Bunker Hill Community College October 2010 to December 2011 Worked at the front-desk, maintaining database, Check out books to patrons and Sorting  Binding Education Master's in healthcare management in healthcare management University of Massachusetts Lowell - Lowell, MA Skills Office 365 Assessments Data Analysis — Familiar March 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fnvwuhyjnm6cqyqh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.