Software QA Analyst Software QA Analyst Software QA Analyst - (remote), ValleyTek Seattle, WA ? 3 years QA experience testing web and mobile software applications.  ? Knowledge in QA Processes, SDLC, delivery of quality software, products, systems and applications to meet business, market and customer needs, utilizing blended onshore/offshore delivery model.  ? Experienced in functional, smoke, integration, regression, GUI, back-end testing, browser compatibility, load/performance testing at different stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Strong background in functional and regression testing for enterprise web/portal applications following iterative and agile methodologies.  ? Ability to write detailed test cases, test plans and thoroughly document defects identified.  ? Strong knowledge of full Software Testing Lifecycle (STLC).  ? Able to exhibit sound scientific judgment based on reasonable assumptions and available information.  ? Knowledge of QA processes and best practices in corporate client.  ? Extensively involved in Backend testing by writing and executing SQL Queries  ? Proficiency in Test Analysis, Bug Detection, Defect isolation and Report generation.  ? Ability to work with Business Analysts, Developers, Project Managers and other Team Members in complex testing projects and in the overall enhancement of software product quality.  ? Experience with test automation tool Selenium WebDriver.  ? Knowledge with performance measuring tool JMeter.  ? Experience with defect tracking and test management tools  ? Experience in working on multiple releases in parallel, able to work well in team environment to achieve results, excellent interpersonal and communication skills, a self-starter who can deliver well as part of a team, ability to work under pressure during tight deadlines.  ? Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills competencies.  ? Self-motivated individual and creative thinker who will take ownership and accountability. Work Experience Software QA Analyst (remote), ValleyTek - San Jose, CA November 2016 to Present Developing, maintaining and executing manual tests and regression scenarios for multiple web and mobile applications under test.  ? Report issues into the Defect Tracking system Bugzilla and continue following up with bugs till resolution  ? Review and analyze requirements to develop detailed test cases and to established traceability between application requirements and test cases.  ? Develop test plans and test cases by analyzing design documents and business requirement documents.  ? Lead test cases and scenarios walk-through and Peer-Reviews, Business Reviews to confirm test coverage as per the Business Requirements.  ? Planning, monitoring and taking control over the testing activities and release tasks  ? Estimate the testing to be done within the deadline and discuss with management the necessary resources.  ? Analyze specifications and assist team to create test data, test cases for Functional, Regression, Smoke and System testing.  ? Participate in the review of software design, change specification and plan against contractual and/or process requirements.  ? Identify the Scope of the testing required for a particular release based on the Requirement Documents  ? Initiate the test planning activities for test case design and encourage the team to hold review meetings, also ensure the review comments are incorporated.  ? Prepare any risk mitigation plans in case there are any delays are foreseen.  ? Create Test results for each testing cycles and provide a test summary to all stake holders, within the team and management.  ? Develop Requirement Traceability Matrices (RTM) to make sure all requirements are covered by test cases.  ? Perform Functional, Regression and Smoke testing for every modification in the application and new builds  ? Coordinate with IT leads, developers and system integration team to resolve various issues related to bug fixing, re-analyzing certain functionalities and providing creative feedbacks. Network and Computer Systems Administrator PCVienna - Vienna, AT 2015 to 2017 Austria  ? Was responsible for the upkeep, configuration, and operation of computer systems and server  ? Ensured the performance, resources, and security of the computers  ? Updated, changed, fixed configuration files  ? Provided all in-house network, software, hardware and phone support German Teacher National Technical University, Kirovograd - UA 2012 to 2015 Ukraine Education MA in Linguistics State Pedagogical University Skills Bugzilla, Jira, Html, Javascript, Visio, Xml, Ms access, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Linux, Unix, Java, Rdbms, Ms office, Mantis, Css, Ms outlook, Outlook, QA, Automate, Quality Assurance, Selenium Certifications/Licenses Teaching Certificate