Information Technology Manager Information Technology Manager Information Technology Manager - General Stair Corp Miami, FL Professional Summary:  • IT Engineer with twenty years of experience troubleshooting and providing technical support for small/intermediate level networks.  • Provides effective customer service, network administration tasks, and excellent team-worker.  • Bilingual, able to provide support in English and Spanish.  • Experience managing projects, budgets, as well as best practices, procedures and field concepts.  • Proven ability to lead and deliver workplace productivity.  • Extensive field experience, working in a large variety of environments and companies. Work Experience Information Technology Manager General Stair Corp October 2018 to Present • Responsible for IT Service delivery (2 offices, 100 employees)  • Evaluate and provide expert advise for Cloud migration projects.  • Evaluate and provide expert advise related to software solutions and execute implementation as needed.  • Responsible for managing relationship and contracts with providers, vendors and intercompany services.  • Responsible for preparing, executing and controlling IT budget.  • Analyze current services and provide solutions that improve quality, delivery times and tangible savings.  • Supervise, evaluate and manage IT technicians (2 technicians).  • Provide level 2-3 support for IT services and escalates accordingly to vendor support.  • Manage Data Center equipment and services resiliency.  • Manage and support multivendor environment.  • Perform Network Administration services.  • Participate in Projects, mainly for IT segment and systems.  • Elaborate procedures and standardize SLA's.  • Participate in Internal Audits.  • Organize training and workshops for the team in order to elevate the quality of services and troubleshooting skills.  • Collaborate with other departments providing IT solutions. Regional IT Supervisor (Continental Americas) ED&F MAN SUGAR LTD April 2016 to September 2018 • Responsible for regional IT Service delivery (10 offices, 300+ employees)  • Responsible for managing relationship and contracts with providers, vendors and intercompany services.  • Responsible for preparing, execute and control IT budget.  • Supervise, evaluate and manage IT technicians across Americas (4 technicians)  • Provide level 2-3 support for IT services, and escalates accordingly to senior experts within the company, or vendor support.  • Manage Data Center equipment and services resiliency.  • Manage and support multivendor environment.  • Perform Network Administration services.  • Participate in Projects, mainly for IT segment and systems.  • Elaborate procedures and standardize SLA's regionally.  • Participate in Internal Audits across different branches.  • Organize training and workshops for the team in order to elevate the quality of services and troubleshooting skills.  • Collaborate with other departments providing IT solutions. Regional Network Administrator (Continental Americas) ED&F MAN SUGAR LTD April 2015 to April 2016 • Performed customer service and offered on-site and remote services.  • Performed PC/Servers/Firewalls, and printers troubleshooting and diagnostics.  • Provided IT consulting services for Project Management, and project execution and implementation.  • Installed, troubleshot and maintained virtualized servers and computers (VMWare).  • Applied security policies on networks devices, such as firewalls, servers, switches and personal computers.  • Performed computers and server's migration, and system upgrades/updates.  • Eliminated and cleaned computers from malware activity and virus infections.  • Configured network devices, such as routers, ADSL modem-routers, wireless routers, access points and print servers.  • Installed and configured a wide range of software, such as MS Office, Adobe Suite, ITAS, LayTime, Bloomberg, ICE Data, Symantec EndPoint Solutions, etc.  • Performed and keep updated system images for backup and resiliency.  • Installed and configured virus protection software in servers and network stations.  • Detected and replaced broken or malfunctioning parts, such as Hard Disk Drives, RAM memory, motherboard, etc.  • Provided technical support service on-site, by phone or remotely.  • Installed and configured Video Surveillance Systems.  • Provided technical consulting for projects and upgrades.  • Controlled the IT inventory (parts, tools, and supplies) and refilled/ordered as needed. Jr. Network Administrator (Continental Americas) ED&F MAN SUGAR LTD October 2014 to March 2015 • Performed customer service and offered on-site and remote services.  • Performed PC/Servers/Firewalls, and printers troubleshooting and diagnostics.  • Troubleshot and maintained virtualized servers and computers (VMWare).  • Applied security policies on networks devices, such as firewalls, servers, switches and personal computers.  • Performed computers migration, and system upgrades/updates.  • Eliminated and cleaned computers from malware activity and virus infections.  • Maintained network devices, such as routers, ADSL modem-routers, wireless routers, access points and print servers.  • Installed and configured a wide range of software, such as MS Office, Adobe Suite, ITAS, LayTime, Bloomberg, etc.  • Installed and configured virus protection software in servers and network stations.  • Detected and replaced broken or malfunctioning parts, such as Hard Disk Drives, RAM memory, motherboard, etc.  • Installed and configured Video Surveillance Systems.  • Provided technical consulting for projects and upgrades.  • Controlled the IT inventory (parts, tools, and supplies) and refilled/ordered as needed. IT Support Engineer CompuCare Systems, Inc November 2011 to October 2014 • Performed customer service and offered on-site services.  • Performed PC/Servers/Firewalls, and printers troubleshooting and diagnostics.  • Deployed FTP/SFTP Server and configured it as required for special projects (HIPAA compliance)  • Deployed systems and configured them on PC/Server/Firewall, under user requirements.  • Deployed Domain Controller Server/Exchange Server and configured them as required and following security policies.  • Deployed Firewall servers, and configured them tailored to customer requirements, and following best practices procedures.  • Provided IT consulting services for Project Management, and project execution and implementation.  • Deployed and configured Active Directory Services in servers, following best practices and customer requirements.  • Installed, troubleshot and maintained virtualized servers and computers (Hyper-V and VMWare).  • Applied security policies on networks devices, such as firewalls, servers, routers, switches, and personal computers.  • Performed computers and server's migration, and system upgrades/updates.  • Eliminated and cleaned computers from malware activity and virus infections.  • Configured network devices, such as routers, ADSL modem-routers, wireless routers, access points and print servers.  • Installed and configured a wide range of software, such as MS Office, Adobe Suite, Quickbooks, PeachTree, etc.  • Installed and configured virus protection software in servers and network stations.  • Detected and replaced broken or malfunctioning parts, such as Hard Disk Drives, RAM memory, motherboard, etc.  • Provided technical support service on-site, by phone or remotely.  • Installed and configured Video Surveillance Systems, as well as performed maintenance routine to those installed on customer premises (IP cameras, DVR, etc).  • Provided technical consulting for projects, investments, expansions and upgrades.  • Controlled the IT inventory (parts, tools, and supplies) and refilled/ordered as needed. Education Configuration & Management New Horizons Academy - Miami, FL August 2015 Security+ Certification Miami Dade College - Miami, FL October 2013 Cisco Certified Network Associate Miami Dade College - Miami, FL June 2013 CCNA Miami Dade College 2012 to 2013 Certificate in Business University of Havana - Havana, CU March 2008 to June 2008 Bachelor Degree in Management of Information Systems in Management of Information Systems University of Havana - Havana, CU June 2003 Bachelor's Degree in Information Science University of Havana 1997 to 2003 Certificate University of Havana 1996 to 2003 Management and Troubleshooting Palo Alto Academy Skills Cisco, Dns, Firewalls, Networking, Tcp/ip, Virtualization, Dhcp, Switching, Tcp, Vmware, Vpn, Malware, Ms office, Ethernet, Erp, Cisco asa, Macola, Symantec, Unix, R2, Excel, Customer Service, Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Exchange Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Systems: Windows (7, 8/8.1, 10; Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2016), Mac OS 10.X.  • Hardware: Desktops, Laptops, Servers, Switches, Routers, Printers, and other devices.  • Software: MS Office Suite (various editions), Accounting applications (SAGE MAS and ERP editions, Quickbooks Pro & Enterprise), and other specific applications per industry (Macola, ITAS, LayTime, Bloomberg, QuoTrek, etc.)  • Networking: Switching and Routing, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, ETHERNET, VPN, ACL.  • Firewalls: Fortinet, Palo Alto, Cisco ASA, Windows Security Suite, UNTANGLE (UNIX) and SonicWall.  • Anti-Virus: Symantec/Norton, Kaspersky, McAfee, Malware Removal Tools.  • Virtualization: experience working with VMWare 6 and HyperV environments.