Lead Network Engineer | Security Analyst Lead <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer | Security Analyst Lead Network Engineer | Security Analyst - Our Lady of Victory Amherst, NY Work Experience Lead Network Engineer | Security Analyst Our Lady of Victory January 2019 to Present • Systems architecture engineering & management for approximately 1500 users across 29 facilities.  • Management and implementation of Hyper-V to VMware migration project.  • Management and implementation of Physical to Virtual infrastructure conversions.  • Rapid Recovery to Veeam backup redesign and deployment.  • Server and storage upgrade design and deployment.  • Server 2012 to Server 2019 systems upgrades and application migrations.  • Exchange 2013 to 2016 migration.  • WAN and LAN connectivity upgrades via private fiber and carrier ELAN.  • Core and branch closet switching redesign and implementation from Cisco to HPE Aruba.  • Email & Web filtering appliance deployments with Barracuda security products.  • SCCM re-deployment and configuration of most recent branch release including endpoint AV.  • Service Desk Supervisor for a team of four technicians. Systems Architect | Supervisor AT Technology April 2016 to November 2018 • Managed technology services & consulting for Healthcare, Dental, Manufacturing, and Legal.  • Manager & Technology Lead for a team of Consultants, Systems Engineers, and Technicians.  • Implemented new sales models and recurring revenue streams.  • Microsoft Windows Server 2016 deployment, upgrades, and overhauls.  • Systems & Network design and implementation  • Dell & HPE Modular Blade Infrastructure  • EMC Unity & VNX Storage Appliances  • Cisco, Juniper, and HPE | Aruba Networking  • Barracuda Email, Web, and Backup appliances Technology Consultant at C Insight April 2014 to April 2016 • Managed Services for Medical Facilities specializing in Electronic Medical Records Systems  • Technology Services management for multiple clients both remote and on-site  • Elevated technical support for Tier 1 Employees and client staff  • Microsoft Windows Server deployment and administration on 2012R2 / 2008R2  • Domain conversions from Server 2003/2008 to 2012  • Centralized software deployment and management  • Management of medical imaging systems  • Storage planning, deployment, and administration on EMC VNX and HP P-Series appliances  • L2 / L3 Networking on Cisco, Juniper, and HP appliances (Cisco ASA, HP ProCurve, Juniper SRX)  • Backup infrastructure planning and implementation for Disaster Recovery.  • Infrastructure reconfiguration project management. Network Administrator at University Buffalo School of Medicine September 2013 to April 2014 • Server Deployments, Upgrades, & Migrations to Microsoft Windows Server 2k12  • Active Directory & Group Policy Administration on Server 2k8 R2 & 2k12  • Juniper JunOS / ScreenOS Firewall configuration  • IIS6.0 to IIS8.0 Migrations Microsoft Migrations Contractor Novell - Amherst, NY July 2013 to September 2013 • Migration of Corporate Data from Novell Netware to Microsoft Server 2k8 R2 Environment  • DFS & Print Server Management  • Automated Deployment using SCCM 2012 Support Technician II PCB Piezotronics - Depew, NY November 2012 to July 2013 • Elevated Desktop Support for an organization of approximately 1000 employees  • SCCM 2012 Configuration and Administration  • Integrated Driver and Application Deployment  • Microsoft Forefront Endpoint Configuration and Deployment Systems Administrator Advanced Educational Products - Buffalo, NY June 2010 to October 2012 Researched, procured, and deployed a complete infrastructure replacement for all company  hardware including routers, switching, servers, storage, workstations, and cabling.  • Drafted and executed a migration plan for company server and workstation platforms from Windows  Server 2k3 / Windows XP Professional to Windows Server 2k8 R2 / Windows 7 Professional  • Migrated company databases from Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Express to SQL Server 2008.  • Deployed Network-Attached Storage solutions for corporate data sharing and fault-tolerant  backup retention.  • Configuration and management of Dell SonicWALL Router / Firewall Education Bachelors of Music in Leadership Baldwin-Wallace College - Berea, OH 2005 to 2009 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Vmware, Network security, Hyper-v, Security, R2, Large-scale, Ios, Windows xp Additional Information • 9+ years of experience deploying & administrating Information Technology Systems  • Management experience leading a team of technical employees.  • Deployment and production support experience with servers, workstations, mobile devices, and  associated software.  • Operating System and Application deployment & management with Microsoft Systems Center  Configuration Manager.  • Administrator level experience with Microsoft SQL Server.  • Deployment of centrally managed Anti-Virus including Forefront Endpoint, Symantec, and Vipre AV  • Knowledge of Apple OS X and mobile devices on the iOS platform  • Able to quickly adapt to new technology environments and obtain relevant skill sets    Technical Knowledge  OS Experience: Windows XP, 7, 8, 10, Windows Server 2k3, 2k8 R2, 2k12, 2k12 R2, and 2k16  Skills: Active Directory, GPO Management, SCCM 2012, Hyper-V, VMware ESXi, JunOS, Cisco IOS  Areas of Interest: VMware Large-Scale Deployments, Citrix, Network Security