WholeSale Driver WholeSale Driver WholeSale Driver Houston, TX Work Experience WholeSale Driver Specs - Houston, TX 2017 to 2019 Pull orders in the warehouse  ? Delivered orders to different locations  ? Made sure the trucks was stacked with the proper tools like dollies  ? Load/ unloaded packages on and off the truck  ? Collects check and cash from customers  ? Verify the products and invoices in all the stops  ? Planned, organized and effectively used space in trucks  ? Pads, stacks, and secures items in position on truck to prevent damage during shipment.  ? Ensured all package are accounted for and also signature received.  ? Delivery on time to the costumer  ? Ensure three point contact are being followed as required by safety guideline  ? Keep clean and organize the box truck  ? Team Leader Warehouse Operations Cooper General - Miami, FL 2016 to 2017 Supervised a team, ensuring efficiency and organization, while maintaining a positive and effective work environment.    Reviewed online orders and pulled products from warehouse inventory with accuracy and efficacy.    Organized and performed routine inventory checks.    Prepared and correctly labeled products for shipment through USPS, UPS, and Fedex.    Utilized interpersonal and communication skills among various departments to facilitate a productive and collaborative work  environment. Operated a forklift extensively and safely, transporting heavy loads WAREHOUSE WORKER tuscany 2016 to 2016 Pulling orders and Wholesale driver Tuscany Warehouse Wines - Miami, FL 2016 to 2016 • Prepare and complete orders for delivery or pickup according to schedule.    • Receive and process warehouse stock products, pick, unload    • Perform inventory controls and keep quality standards high.    • Keep a clean and safe working environment and optimise utilisation.    • Prepared, Wrapped, weighed, and loaded items for shipping according to packing slips.    • Supervised the loading and unloading of goods, making sure that items were handled with care and placed acculturate in the warehouse. Valet Parking Hotel Carillon Address Tuscany Warehouse Wines - Miami, FL 2016 to 2016 6801 Collins Ave, Miami Beach    Duties: Park and retrieve cars    ? Greet customers  ? Collect fees  ? Manage the valet podium  ? Organize vehicles  ? Manage parking area (barricades, directing traffic, etc.)  ? Protect cars  ? Basic car servicing (change oil, tire if needed, jump a car)  ? Wear a uniform  ? Groom appropriately  ? Hand out Claim Tickets  ? Manage Keys  ? Do basic math without use of a calculator Network Administrator Vivienda Municipal Cienfuegos/Cuba 2012 to 2015 Duties: Installing network and computer systems. Maintaining, repairing and upgrading network and computer systems. Diagnosing and fixing problems or potential problems with the network and its  Secures network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation; maintaining  documentation. Prepares users by designing and conducting training programs; providing references and support. Upgrades network by conferring with vendors; developing, testing, evaluating, and installing enhancements.hardware, software and systems. Monitoring network and systems to  improve performance Installing hardware and software systems. Network Administrator Politécnico 5 Septiembre Cienfuegos/Cuba 2009 to 2012 Education High school or equivalent Skills LEADERSHIP SKILLS (Less than 1 year), PICKER (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Forklift Certified Additional Information Skills  ? Strong Computer skills  ? Strong Hardware  ? Strong Leadership Skills  ? Good Communication  ? Order Picker Experience  ? Clean driving record  ? Experience wholesale  ? Good Driver and Clean Record