Network and Computer System Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> and Computer System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network and Computer System Administrator Sierra Vista, AZ JOB as an Information Technology Specialist    HIGHLIGHT OF QUALIFICATION  Security Clarence: Secret Active  Management/Supervision Work Experience Network and Computer System Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Wahiaw?, HI September 2005 to March 2013 Lead Platform and Intelligence System Team Leader  Serves as a team lead for a four man team, and lead Instructor, ensures all team members are highly trained in their job position. Researches and trains team members on new software/hardware updates. Attains all new equipment conferences and on/off site training events. Ensures all team members have access to necessary training aids to perform missions. Schedules and tracks training for the units, attends training meetings with Division Chiefs. Maintains and accounts for over 200 computers and associated materials. Oversees the operation of four classroom areas. Secondary duties Required highly complex training, educational program of instruction and expert-level development for the Force XX1 Battle Command, Brigade and Below Platform System (BFT and EPLRS). Tactical Ground reporting System). Distributed Common Ground System-Army). Responsible for teaching the operator and system administrator's courses often. Required to develop, counsel and train new instructors as well as unit level master trainers, writes annual evaluations for team members. Required to coordinate for unit level sustainment training program based on the commanders training objectives. Must demonstrate effective presentation techniques and communication skills and is required to develop, review and/or update computer based training, programs of instruction and training support packets for the FBCB2 Platform System. Served as Branch Chief in his absents which consisted of a ten man team.    Required to maintain an expert working knowledge of how to network your classroom from beginning to finish. Must be able to create a LAN or wireless configuration within the class room, requires setup of all computer components, making LAN cables (Cat 5/6) to communicate on a closed network, using switches and routers as necessary. Setup all projectors and screens ensure all cables are tied down and class room safety is enforced. Loads the correct version of software on computers which includes all administrative work, assigning IP addresses renaming computers and creating accounts for students to operate on. If required must be able to program a gateway and point the gateway to server, Ensuring all computers accounts can reach the server to provide student and staff with the data needed to produce the proper products necessary complete the course and or mission. Loads practical exercises and exams on student's computers via remote desktop.  Serving as a Mission Command Information Instructor you are required to support all unit exercise some of the duties included shift work during a 24 hours period, other duties required the subject matter expert (Instructor) to do thread testing on all Mission Command Information Systems to ensure the systems were operating correctly and could communicate with gateways, servers and others Systems. Military units would also request instructors to perform refresher training to students who had attended the course but their skills had perished. Units would also request the subject matter expert for over the shoulder support, which required the instructor to be embedded with the unit and answer all software operating systems and employment questions. Instructors were required to have a good working knowledge of Live, Virtual, Constructive, and Gaming, must know how the external feed is pushed into the Mission Command Information Systems to drive the exercise and provide the best training possible for the Unit.  U.S ARMY  Served as a Master instructor for seven years in the Army, teaching Basic Offer Course, Advance NON-Commission Officer Course and Initial Entry Training. Retired from the Army and joined General Dynamics team of trainers, Received advanced training in numerous Mission Command Information Systems. As an Instructor was required to attend the basic operator's course, the maintainer course and administrator course all certifications gained. As the primary instructor for a system you are required to teach all areas of software operations, must be able to troubleshoot software and hardware problems when they arise. To serve as a Mission Command Information System instructor you must have knowledge of how the equipment is used during deployments. Instructors of the mission Command Information Systems are required to certify and re-certify annually, must use the internet websites ETC to keep up with the latest changes in software and hardware components. Create and maintain contacts to keep abreast the lesions learn in theater. Must be proficient in instructor skills to find unique and new ways to ensure all students and staff receives the best training possibly, must also understand how all Mission Command Information Systems complement each other on the battlefield. Battalion Resource Management NCOIC NCOIC for a 415 Personnel battalion to include senior NCOs and senior commissioned officers, accounted for all soldiers after a enemy attack soldiers would be disperse through the battlefield, overcame the challenge by assigning areas of responsibility and establishing a soldier to account for his area. Planned, coordinated and briefed team on their mission, tracking the 65 teams on the battlefield became difficult but through Constance battlefield update briefs, which kelp the locations know to all. Schedule all flights for the unit and teams moving through out Afghanistan, due to security the flights changed daily, overcame that challenge by Constance communication with airfields and pilots for updates prepared units and teams to be ready to move in 15 minutes notice. Supervised Afghan locals working on military bases, language was a huge challenge requested an interpreter to translate resulted in increase in productivity by 90% and improving relations between American and afghan local workers. Worked as the Battalion Resource Management NCOIC, created a system for tracking land and ammunition for five companies, self trained on the software Tamis-r and Rfmss attended land and ammunitions meetings with Range Control. During advance, NON-Commission Officers Course learned single source and all source systems, which are military intelligence systems.  Served as property manager for Aliamanu Military Reservation, a housing unit that supported 10,000 soldiers, sailor's marines and family members, who presented a unique challenge with many diverse backgrounds, overcame that challenge by learning their culture and simply listening to service and family member's problems. Negotiated contracts for maintenance, landscaping, garbage disposal and building projects, the garbage contract presented a challenge the contract called for once a week pickup by mid week the trash was overflowing I issued more than one trash receptacle per unit oversaw the contracts daily for quality assurance for families. Living in family housing with so many different backgrounds there were constant disputes I Attended courses in mediation, solved and mediated over 100 domestic issues between family members, supported soldier and family members during natural disaster such as hurricanes and floods. Planned, coordinated and led the quarterly town hall meetings, informing families of future events, changes in policies and contracts. Worked with the Military Police, establish a contract to tow all abandon vehicles to maintain a clean appearance for families. Performed weekly safety checks of parks and recreation equipment    Served as a platoon sergeant for 125th Military Intelligence Battalion, NCOIC for a 40 man GSS platoon instructed leaders and soldiers on daily operations of a GSS platoon trained numerous officers on organizational operations, GSS equipment and emplacement of that equipment which led to a well trained platoon able to perform their wartime mission. Chosen as subject matter expert to attend and intelligence sharing Program, with the governments of Malaysia, Philippines and Singapore resulted in the exchange of intelligence and the improvement of relations and defense of the countries.    Performed as the Senior Instructor for the Ground Surveillance Systems Course (GSS). Provided subject matter expertise on all GSS Intelligence (GSS) material within the Academy. Supervised the training, developing and mentoring of six Instructors. Evaluated the development and instruction of 35 tactical and technical lesson plans and related course material. Reviewed and edited all GSS academic evaluations reports, leading to highly trained military intelligence soldiers. Trained Commissions Officers on GSS equipment and proper emplacement on the battlefield leading to the successful use of GSS during operation enduring freedom and operation Iraq Freedom.    Served as a Test Developer. Wrote and published a Ground Surveillance lesson plan that provided students a better understanding of Ground Surveillance operations. Created and finalized 96, MI career management field lesson plans. Utilized small group instruction to effectively teach advanced course material. Mentored and evaluated 35 soldiers an NCOs during a 7-week MI Course. Wrote and edited academic evaluation reports viewed training aids to ensure videos were not out dated, made sure the proper security level was listed on lesson plans and training aids, that ensured a 90% accuracy on training material. Education Wayland Baptist University Skills Computer management security (7 years) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SFC/E-7 Additional Information KEY SKILLS AND ABILITIES  System Building & Configuration Network Administration Desktop Support  Account & Security Administration System Imaging / Cloning Patch Management Backup & Disaster Recovery Remote Troubleshooting Asset Management  VOIP Installation & Configuration Remote Administration  Outstanding Customer Service    TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Operating Systems Windows 9x/2000/XP/Vista/7, Windows Server 2000/2003/2008  Networking TCP/IP, Ethernet, VPN, DHCP, Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS, File Sharing & Permissions  Business Software Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Visio), VM-Ware, Ghost    Information Technology, Networking, Routers, Switches, Cat 5/6 Cables, LAN Setup, Computer Hardware, Computer Software, Server/Gateway, Basic IT networking, Exercises, Linux Red Hat,  Microsoft Office, Trainer/Instructor, Develop Lesson Plans, Create Practical Exercises, Create Examinations, Live Training, Virtual Training, Constructive Training, Gaming, Teach the Program of Instruction, Field Service Representative Training FBCB2, FBCB2 Installation Training, Joint Capabilities Release, Force 21 Battle Command Brigade & Below, Command Post of the Future, Tactical Ground Reporting System, Distributed Common Ground System  All Source Analysis System, Movement Tracking System Plus, Advance Field Artillery Training  C2PC