Database Administrator Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Posh Lane Freight Smyrna, GA 4+ years of experience in Database Administration and related portfolios for a large and complex database in SQL Server 2012, SQL Server 2008 R2, 2008. I would like to be part of a challenging environment where my technical skills and analytical abilities can be used towards achieving the objectives and goals of your organization.    KEY COMPETENCE  * Thorough knowledge of Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, performance tuning and maintenance with outstanding troubleshooting capabilities.  * Experience in Disaster Recovery Planning and Security Management operations.  * Having Ads-on experience in Disaster Recovery processes including Log Shipping and Database Replication.  * Expertise in efficient database performance, implement performance optimized recommendations, fix issues and problems. Configuring and creating databases using DBCA.  * Worked on configuring SQL Server with minimum privileged access  * Extensive Knowledge on Database Backup/Recovery Strategy, Capacity Planning, Replication, Database Cloning, and Patch Management.  * Strong emphasis on Organization and documentations. Excellent interpersonal and strong communication skills (Including Presentations). Customer-service oriented attitude and self motivated, dedicated in any work environment. Work Experience Database Administrator Posh Lane Freight January 2018 to Present Responsibility:    • Performed side by side migration of data from SQL Server 2008R2 to SQL Server 2012 and 2014 using suitable approach  • Created logins, users and configured permissions and assigned roles to users  • Set up of Transaction Replication from Application Server to Reporting Server  • Worked extensively in automating process like creating jobs, and error reporting using Alerts, SQL Mail Agent  • Developed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies  • Managed a centralized MS SQL Server 2008 and 2012 Platform consisting of over 500 mission critical databases  • Resolving requests related to database and system issues raised by user support  • Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning  • Proactive and active performance monitoring and tuning of production databases.  • Conducted root cause and analysis for database incidents and problems.  • Participated in designing, testing and implementing an enterprise Disaster Recovery Plan.  • Monitored data activities (i.e. database status, logs, space utilization, extents, Checkpoints, locks and long transactions).  • Provided on call support as needed to support operations of critical databases in a 24 X 7 environment.  • Involved in Analyzing and Upgrading SQL Server 2008R2 test servers to SQL Server 2012.  • Planned and executed many upgrades such as Service Pack, Hot fixes etc.  • Handled Fine Tuning Databases System in-coordination with Application owners to utilize the maximum resources for Database and Applications.  • Upgrade of Database from SQL Server 2005 and 2008R2 to SQL 2012  • Installed & configured database with associated database tools and performance monitoring software. Database Administrator Apolinari Taxes & Multi-Services October 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:    * Working with other IT professionals for database designs and reviews; troubleshooting database issues, deploying timely fixes; maintaining regular and proactive database patches, updates and performance enhancement.  * Tuning Queries and Database performance using tools Database Tuning Advisor, SQL Server Profiler Creating database that meet the constantly changing requirement and need of the company and clients.  * Involved in upgrading of SQL Server with latest Service packs known as Patching.  * Resolving the issue of mission critical to high usage of system CPU, disk, deadlock issues, locks and blocking.  * Managing and securing the database by using appropriate proper authorization schemes, roles and privileges.  * Involved in Performance Tuning of SQL Server for web-based production and development environments  * Sending daily operational report to the top management regarding the whole operation of the day, including any hitches and unusual situations.  * Set up and Manage Transactional Log Shipping, Failover Clustering, and AlwaysOn Availability group.  * Automated maintenance plan jobs in SQL Server agent and task scheduler: such as shrinking database, backup database, index rebuilding, creating filtered indexes, index reorganizing, cleaning up, and updating statistics  * Participated actively in meetings with staff and users, demonstrated ability to interpret user needs by preparing thorough summaries and recommendations  * Creating user logins and adding users to databases aliases and allotting roles to users Network Technician Intown Suites - Atlanta, GA June 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:    • Provided excellent services through phone to IT users for basic end user related hardware's and software's, desktop related LAN network systems.  • Configuration and resetting the network access accounts whenever required.  • Processing software's and hardware's by coordinating user setups, installations and upgrades.  • Provided training to end users.  • Enrollment of new Employee in the Computer system  • Performed basic diagnostics and troubleshooting in support of designated applications and infrastructure platforms.  • Prepared or updated system documentation; assisting in developing and analyzing data for planning and problem resolution.  • Worked with the team to complete ongoing projects and tasks.  • Installed and upgraded systems with virus protection software, spyware, firewall protection software Technical Production Assistant Ceridian Inc - Atlanta, GA August 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:    * Set up bundle for customers with various subsidiaries and/or branches who would want their payroll sent to various branches.  * Provided computer help desk support via telephone communications with end-users.  * Worked closely with system users to ensure information system strategies are aligned with Business plan and needs.  * Responsible for creating tracking records, keeping track of processed payrolls and sending such information to the major customers on a daily, weekly and bi-weekly basis.  * Resolved any payroll irregularities through various applications such as the Response PlusNet (RPN), Output Distributions, etc.  * Responsible for processing quitter tapes and the onward transmission of necessary information both to the customer and the new company.  * Worked closely with system users to ensure information system strategies are aligned with Business plan and needs. Education Databases COIN Consultancy and Training Institute - Dunwoody, GA Diploma Southern State Polytechnic University - Marietta, GA Cisco Certified Network Associate Federal University of Tech