Software Migration Engineer Software Migration Engineer Dallas, TX Hard-working, customer service-oriented IT network professional with technical expertise in network administration and support, network infrastructure security and system maintenance. Proven aptitude with switches, routers, security appliances and servers to maintain and improve network stability. Detail-oriented IT professional that is committed to resolving problems for end-users and customers quickly and accurately to reduce downtime and increase productivity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Migration Engineer Mindtree - Dallas, TX June 2019 to Present Software Migration Engineer working in Microsoft O365 migration project for Exchange/Notes/Gdrive/File share/Box/Gmail to O365. Perform the process of migration/hand-off in the respective shift by closely monitoring all migration activities. Has working knowledge in Microsoft Exchange to O365 migration types and Azure. Worked with project managers and quality assurance and customers to resolve technical issues. Suggested improvements to team and project workflow Network Analyst Collabera (Citigroup) - Irving, TX January 2019 to May 2019 Provide network Support and monitoring to the global technology infrastructure. Execute or implement automated and scripted changes or infrastructure requests.Troubleshoot and provide client support for technology and infrastructure issues. Document and update incident technical details into ticketing system. Technical Support Representative IStation - Dallas, TX January 2018 to January 2019 Provided first line technical support over the phone and through email for external end-users of IStation’s software for desktops, laptops and mobile devices. Assisted with remote technical issues using specialist software. Conducted computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems and provide technical assistance and support. Composed statistical and progress reports for supervising managers. Logging and prioritizing end-user support calls for the second line support team in order to create an efficient work stream process overall. Ability to track, report on and monitor all Help Desk incidents within the defined customer service levels of what is required. Developed training materials and procedures. TECHNICAL SUPPORT ENGINEER PALO ALTO NETWORKS - Plano, TX December 2016 to August 2017 Provide Technical support and configuration assistance to customers and partners regarding the Palo Alto line of firewalls and Security services platform. Respond to all client requests for technical support assistance by phone and email to provide best practices and troubleshooting an array of issues ranging from configuration assistance, NAT\PAT translations, Security\NAT policies, Platforms and Architecture, Routing issues (RIP, OSPF & BGP), App and Content-ID, User-ID and Authentication, SSL Decryption, Site to Site VPN, etc. with Palo Alto Next-Generation of firewalls and Security services platform. Provide fault isolation and root cause analysis for technical issues. Manage support cases to ensure issues are recorded, tracked and customer communication is done in a timely manner. Provided guidance in data correction and resolved/escalated client incidents to other departments as necessary. Researched issues on various matters involving IT security and firewall systems to resolve complaints and answer inquiries. Maintained a calm, professional demeanor when faced with high demand, high volume workloads. SENIOR SERVICE DESK SUPPORT ANALYST BRINKER INTERNATIONAL - Dallas, TX September 2015 to December 2016 Provide IT support and diagnosed network problems involving a combination of hardware, software, network, power and communications issues for restaurants and corporate end-users. Respond to all client requests for technical support by phone, email and the inter-office chat service. Worked with outside vendors and teams to support data wiring infrastructure to restaurants. Manage multiple client issues in a fast paced organization and prioritized problems effectively. Provided guidance in data correction and resolved/escalated client incidents to other departments as necessary. Researched issues on various computer systems and databases to resolve complaints and answer inquiries. Maintained a calm, professional demeanor when faced with high demand, high volume workloads. Drafted training materials and organized training sessions for new employees. Trained new employees and explained protocols clearly and efficiently. Assisted Network Engineers with any configurations or hardware issues. Level II SUPPORT TECHNICIAN TEKSYSTEMS INC - Dallas, TX June 2015 to September 2015 Provided troubleshooting for computer networks, computers, printers and peripheral devices. Troubleshot issues and resolved problems accurately and efficiently. Troubleshooting: Accurate identification of hardware problems or failures, desktop computers, laptop, printer, mobile devices, computer servers and workstations management. Installed and performed repairs to hardware, software and peripheral equipment, following design and installation specifications. Answered user inquiries regarding computer software and hardware operation. Trained new employees in effective diagnostic and repair procedures. IT SUPPORT ANALYST COMPUCOM SYSTEMS INC - Dallas, TX June 2014 to July 2015 Provided technical support over the phone and through email for internal end-users for desktops, laptops and mobile devices. Assisted with remote technical issues using specialist software. Conducted computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems and provide technical assistance and support. Composed statistical and progress reports for supervising managers. Logging and prioritizing end-user support calls for the 2nd line support team in order to create an efficient work stream process overall. Ability to track, report on and monitor all the Help Desk incidents within the defined customer service levels of what is required. Developed training materials and procedures. NETWORK TECHNICIAN\JUNIOR NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Peloton College - Dallas, TX December 2013 to June 2014 Support and maintain in-house computer systems, desktops, and peripherals. Install, diagnose, repair, maintain, and upgrade all hardware and equipment while ensuring optimal workstation performance. Also troubleshoot problem areas in a timely and accurate fashion, and provide end user training and assistance where required. Assist in preparing, maintaining, and upholding procedures for logging, reporting, and statistically monitoring LAN performance. Accurately document instances of hardware failure, repair, installation, and removal. Performed IT duties as needed for internal support/maintenance/troubleshooting of desktops, laptops, printers, servers, access points, switches and routers. Ran cables from existing patch panels to new patch panels to secure the router and switches in the proper location. Configured and installed routers, switches and wireless controllers. Support development and implementation of new computer projects and new hardware installations. Assisted in company-wide migration of 70 computers from Microsoft XP to Windows 7 Professional providing users with new OS features while minimizing downtime. Assist in the delivery of curriculum in training programs in information and communications technology. Education Some college Skills Root Cause Analysis and Fault Isolation (3 years), Technical Support (4 years), Network Administration (2 years), Server administration (Linux and Windows) (2 years), Firewalls (2 years), Network Security (2 years), Desktop Support (3 years), Tech Support, Help Desk, Mac, Windows, Networking, Active Directory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/austin-sillers-6b088883 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching Additional Information Management\Supervisory skills and Team building skills  Analytical and problem solving skills  Effective written, verbal, presentation and listening communications skills  Ability to install and administer computer hardware, software and networks  Willing to travel\relocate