Centralized Services Administrator Centralized Services <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Bio Queens, NY Conor is a SUNY Albany Graduate with a B.S. in Business Administration with a concentration in Information Technology Management. He's excited to leverage the skills he's garnered through his studies, internships, and recent work experience to build upon them in a new role in the IT financial industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Centralized Services Administrator Edge Technology Group - New York, NY May 2018 to Present -Responsible to scheduling, communicating, and preparation of client patching for over 100+ clients.  -Head of DR scheduling, resourcing, and planning for all US based clients.  -Built and lead Confluence migration documentation site for Edge & migrated from old wiki database.  -Responsible for monthly backup storage reporting for all US based Clients. Distribution Systems Intern Golub Corporation August 2017 to December 2017 • Built Prototype database system for cross docking process using Microsoft Access  • Developed an understanding for the cross docking system of a large grocery distribution warehouse.  • Presented to Price Chopper stakeholders to demonstrate the functionality and proficiency of the prototype system Desktop Engineer Intern Edge Technology Group - New York, NY May 2017 to August 2017 • Worked with Desktop Engineers to troubleshoot at client sites  • Set up workstations for 100+ clients  • Developed proficiency in both Microsoft and Mac OS systems Systems Engineer Intern Edge Technology Group - New York, NY May 2016 to August 2016 May 2016 - August 2016  • Built client workstations and desktops  • Gained knowledge of BIOS and machine imaging   • Traveled to client sites to assist systems engineers with trouble shooting Network Engineer Intern Edge Technology Group - New York, NY May 2015 to August 2015 • Worked alongside Network Team to troubleshoot at client sites  • Configured network closets for clients transitioning between offices  • Gained an understanding of the basics of networking and routing Head Lifeguard/Manager Gerard Towers Pool Club - New York, NY May 2014 to August 2014 Education Bachelor's in Business Administration and Information Technology Management State University of New York at Albany - Albany, NY August 2014 to May 2018 Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE (Less than 1 year), PROBLEM-SOLVING (Less than 1 year), Excel, Microsoft Office, Filing, Word Certifications/Licenses CompTIA IT Fundamentals October 2018 to Present Additional Information Skills  • Proficient in the Microsoft suite of applications.  • Strong business acumen and customer service skills.  • Penchant for troubleshooting and problem-solving.