Operations Manager Operations Manager Operations Manager - Bug Out Pest Control, LLC Tolar, TX To work for an organization that would allow me to be productive on multiple fronts; where I will be able to transition my prior military experience to its civilian counterpart, continue ongoing education, and further future security goals, while simultaneously contributing to the growing prestige and productivity of the organization. Work Experience Operations Manager Bug Out Pest Control, LLC - Justin, TX October 2018 to Present • Manage staff, preparing work schedules and assigning specific duties.  • Review financial statements, sales and activity reports, and other performance data to measure productivity and goal achievement and to determine areas needing cost reduction and program improvement.  • Direct and coordinate the organization's financial and budget activities to fund operations, maximize investments, and increase efficiency.  • Establish and implement departmental policies, goals, objectives, and procedures, conferring with management, organization officials, and staff members as necessary. ill family member January 2017 to October 2018 Systems Administrator/Department Manager Law Office of Jennifer Gjesvold - Hurst, TX October 2016 to January 2017 • Manage backup, security, and end user help systems.  • Develop and interpret organizational goals, policies, and procedures.  • Review projects to plan and coordinate project activity.  • Develop computer information resources, providing for data security and control, strategic computing, and disaster recovery.  • Meet with department heads, managers, supervisors, vendors and others to solicit cooperation and resolve problems.  • Direct daily operations of department, analyzing workflow, establishing priorities, developing standards, and setting deadlines.  • Evaluate the organization's technology use and needs and recommend improvements such as hardware and software upgrades. Network Administrator Corptek Solutions, LLC - Fort Worth, TX October 2015 to October 2016 • Analyze information to determine, recommend, and plan layout, including types of computers and peripheral equipment modifications.  • Select hardware and material, assuring compliance with specifications and product requirements.  • Converse with customers to determine details of equipment problems.  • Advise customers concerning equipment operation, maintenance, or programming..  • Setup equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  • Refer major hardware or software problems or defective products to vendors or technicians for service.  • Install new hardware or software systems or components, ensuring integration with existing network systems. Technical Writer Alamo Information Management, LLC - San Antonio, TX May 2012 to May 2014 Information Assurance    • Write, edit and check documentation for completion under the Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) for various systems.  • Review information technology systems' configuration documentation.  • Create policy letters and maintain information security artifacts.  • Conduct Quarterly POA&M and Annual Reviews for DIACAP'd systems.  • Conduct security evaluations for software wishing to be placed on the Approved Product List (APL)  • Familiar with Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMASS)  • Familiar with Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository (EITDR)  • Manage the Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM) Program  • System testing and Sustainment. Systems Administrator Marine Forces Command - Norfolk, VA February 2010 to April 2012 • Demonstrated success in ability to effectively prioritize and execute tasks in a high-pressured environment  • Worked closely with the Information Assurance team to assess, evaluate, and enforcing policies required to maintain the availability and security of the networks.  • Created eight SOP's to assist with troubleshooting.  • Managed implementation and integration of information systems components in compliance with Federal laws, regulations, and guidance.  • Thoroughly tested work and involved the client in acceptance testing to ensure their needs are met.  • Supervised and assisted with 400+ trouble tickets per month.  • Moved up through the ranks to become the VIP support lead.  • Trained over 20 Marines in the daily operations of Active Directory, Exchange, and disaster recovery.  • Managed more than 400 (Windows 2000, XP and 7) workstations and 1,000 user accounts spanning separate networks (classified and unclassified).  • Assisted in planning, designing, developing, and integrating three separate DOD compliant networks  • Followed laws, regulations, and guidelines related to securing facilities and information, including the requirements for handling, transporting, and protecting classified information and reporting incidents. Education Security+ Certification Northwest Vista College 2011 Skills Operations, Management, Excel Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-5/Sergeant