Senior Network Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Administrator - National Dentex Bayport, MN Experienced Network Specialist, born and raised into IT seeking to further my knowledge and career. I've  spent some time working with Cisco products (5+years), primarily ASAs and CUCM. Have merged several  acquisitions into a hub and spoke topology to integrate VOIP/data services. Work Experience Senior Network Administrator National Dentex - Falcon Heights, MN August 2014 to Present • Network Administrator to over 40 National Businesses, 1 International, 2 Data Centers  • Support for different phone systems, I have converted many locations to CUCM; I continue to design  and optimize call flows using UCXN. Also manage call reporting, monitoring, and recording servers.  • MPLS / IPSEC management for data networks, saw the company through a MPLS provider change.  • Cisco Firepower Management Center 6.2.0 environment with Malware Protection.  • Centrally managed wireless environment (5508 WLC) with over 100 WAPs.  • VAR, ISP, Vendor management, collaboration - Purchasing, troubleshooting, Project oversight.  • Support for various services including FOIP, Paging, Audio/Web Conferencing, IM, and Intercom.  • DHCP Management, also work with DNS, Active Directory, and Exchange. IT Support Analyst National Dentex - Falcon Heights, MN March 2013 to August 2014 • Specialized in CAD/CAM technical support  • End user support and Active Directory/Exchange MACD. Typically it was first call resolution, those  that were escalated I always tried to see through in order to learn. Mobile (Sales) Technical Support TEK SYSTEMS - Oakdale, MN November 2011 to August 2014 Geared toward supporting Sales Reps, mostly transferring data to new laptops and troubleshooting.  • I spent a bit of time in the hardware department replacing failed laptop components.  Install Technician  • Hardware replenishment for a large environment beginning to end, from unboxing/imaging to replacing hardware at the desk and configuring software. Returned end of lease equipment.