Network - System Engineer IV; Lead Solutions Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> - System Engineer IV; Lead Solutions Engineer Network - System Engineer IV; Lead Solutions Engineer - Bank of America Saint Augustine, FL Seasoned Information Technology professional with diverse experience ranging from systems and infrastructure engineering to project management and IT direction. Adept in process improvement and balancing risk vs. productivity. Work Experience Network - System Engineer IV; Lead Solutions Engineer Bank of America - Jacksonville, FL September 2018 to Present • Lead Solution Engineer for data center consolidation / exit  • Build out requirements of business needs; document solutions  • Develop, design, and communicate solutions for data center migrations, and collaborate with partner teams to implement the solution Sr. Systems Engineer Fanatics - Jacksonville, FL July 2017 to August 2018 • Enterprise Storage & Compute - team member responsible for infrastructure oversight, maintenance, and performance  • VMware ESXi v6.0, 6.5; performed upgrades to 6.5  • Dell Compellent and Equallogic storage management  • Rubrik - backup solution deployment and maintenance  • GoAnywhere - enterprise secure file transfer solution configuration and support. Create new projects and corrected logic and performance of existing projects  • Dell OME - infrastructure monitoring and firmware upgrades across organization  • Remote site ENT-Compute Infrastructure relocation and consolidation - physical move and re-provision  • Perform server maintenance and special projects during extended and off work hours  • Powershell scripting to automate various tasks  • GoAnywhere job creation and scheduling Sr. Systems Administrator Venus Fashion - Jacksonville, FL May 2016 to July 2017 • Managed VMware ESXi v5.5 environment  • Increased capacity of VMware ESXi by adding storage and hosts to the infrastructure  • SAN storage management (Dell EMC; Hewlett Packard Enterprise Nimble Storage)  • PowerShell scripting for backup notifications and other tasks as needed  • Implemented Slack and Single Sign On (SSO) deployment across organization  • Deployed and managed: patching solution (Ivanti Shavlik) for OS and third party patches  • Implemented email standardization across the organization  • JIRA, Confluence, and Atlassian administration; JIRA Service Desk Implementation  • Managed cloud-based storage solutions for the organization  • Trained junior staff on best practices and procedures.  • Managed Microsoft Terminal Services 2012 R2 and connectivity to thin clients (Several terminal servers plus one brokerage server).    NGA Human Resources Jacksonville, FL Windows Systems Administrator NGA Human Resources - Jacksonville, FL August 2015 to May 2016 • Facilitated transition of Windows infrastructure support from contracted provided to internal resources.  • Coordinated and participated in information sharing sessions between newly on boarded team and current contract support.  • Assumed project management role for identifying servers needing upgrade to Windows Server 2008. Engaged stakeholders and server owners to determine update plans and readiness.  • Independently assumed role of patch management coordinator and data backup coordinator. Service Delivery Manager - Americas Regional Lead Hewlett Packard Enterprise Services / Deutsche Bank - Jacksonville, FL November 2013 to August 2015 for Deutsche Bank November 2013 - August 2015  • Managed the Service Transition team and the Request For Service (RFS) work portfolio for the Americas Region.  • Assigned activation requests to team members, responded to client inquires, and was the primary escalation point for the region.  • Owned and managed the server lifecycle transition from build to activation, acted as liaison to application teams at time of asset handover, and managed the hand over process to the operations teams for full production support.  • Guided application teams through server access, application deployment, security remediation, operational checks, and disaster recovery failover tests as prerequisites to activation.  • Ensured that the applications teams successfully deployed their application, and the environment met all of the operational guidelines for security, patching, and Business Continuity Planning (BCP) standards. Field Engineer II Panasonic - Saint Augustine, FL April 2012 to October 2013 • Analyzed, tested, and provided solutions for customer applications and issues related to hardware and software used with Panasonic Toughbook products and services.  • Analyzed customer requirements to recommend most appropriate Panasonic business solutions.  • Served as escalation point for service and hotline in resolving customer problems when escalated to ensure timely resolution.  • Assisted in pre and post sales situations with on-site technical assistance as required. Provided training on new products to Sales, Service, and end-users as required.  • Provided technical assistance to support end-users, Hotline, HQ Engineering, and 3rd parties as needed.  • Collaborated closely with Sales team on leads, pre-installs, site surveys, and emergency support issues.  • Assisted sales teams by providing support on specification, configuration, compatibility and functionality matters related to the PSCNA products (Toughbook Laptop and Toughpad Tablet product line).  • Possessed solid understanding of common computer operating systems (i.e. Windows, Linux, Android, etc.), and the ability to troubleshoot accordingly. Network Engineer Jacksonville Sheriff's Office - Jacksonville, FL April 2010 to April 2012 • Support 100+ servers in a Microsoft ADS environment with a Cisco network infrastructure.  • Perform network backups. Maintained various Cisco routers and switches. Managed Panasonic Toughbook Arbitrator 360° Security Video System.  • Created, deployed, and administered various servers by way of Microsoft System Center Virtual Machine Manager (SCVMM) and Hyper-V Server.  • Team member on upgrade to Microsoft Exchange 2010 (from 2003).  • Deployed agency wide networked printer and scanner solution.  • Managed enterprise-level APC UPS solution and facilitated efforts to upgrade batteries and battery cabinets.  • Participated in on-call rotation to promptly respond to network issues and outages as needed. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Technology University of Phoenix - Jacksonville, FL Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Sciences University of North Florida - Jacksonville, FL Associate in Science in Network Services Technology Florida Community College at Jacksonville - Jacksonville, FL Introduction to Project Management International Institute For Learning Skills Active directory, Cisco, Router, Vmware, Compellent, DNS, LAN