Logistics &Transport Officer/ Procument Officer Logistics &amp;Transport Officer/ Procument Officer Logistics &Transport Officer/ Procument Officer - OLAM GHANA LIMITED.TEMA TOMATO FACTORY US Work Experience Logistics &Transport Officer/ Procument Officer OLAM GHANA LIMITED.TEMA TOMATO FACTORY May 2015 to Present Warehouse Department    Warehouse Supervisor Warehouse Department: Responsibilities:  * Receiving, moving, checking and storing incoming goods and raw materials from international partners.  * Providing reliable information to Management at any given time on condition of stocks (Minimum and Maximum stocks level) in the Warehouse by establishing and maintaining accurate records and control  cost by minimizing damage of materials ensuring proper storage and handling materials in the Warehouse.  * Checking and inspecting goods received and ensuring they are of accurate quantity, type, and also acceptable quality.  * Packaging and labeling products before they are dispatched.  * Organize and maintain records of inventories up to date and arranging for good to be placed in the designated areas.  * Contacting transport companies and coordinating dispatch and delivery with them.  * Moving and organizing stock, Monitoring stock levels.  * Moving items through the warehouse from receipt to dispatch to customers.  * Accurately updating all data into computer and manual recording systems.  * Manage daily Capturing of raw and packaging materials supplied (transferred) to production from warehouse into the company data system and creation of account for vendor using SAP (System  Application Products) software application etc.    Logistics & Transport Officer:  Leading and motivating the entire transport team and responsible for looking after 15 vehicles which run on a 24-hour basis. On call out of hours and at weekends to deal with any urgent matters.  * Managing, monitoring and developing a team of drivers and line managers.  * Arranging for the induction and training off all new staff.  * Organizing for internal audit vehicle checks.  * Making sure that all transport fleet vehicles are properly maintained and serviced.  * Responsible for all of the dispatching, routing, and tracking of delivery vehicles.  Competencies  * Able to manage and operate effectively in a high-volume service driven transport operation.  * Possessing a good understanding of all relevant legal compliance and fleet controls.  * Experience of Budgets and Financial controls.    Procurement Officer:  * To carry out market analysis to get the best purchasing deals.  * responsible for preparing and processing purchase orders in accordance with his organization's policies  and procedures.  * To sure signing up a supplier who can deliver goods and services in the agreed quantities, in a timely  manner,  * Performs this role by comparing prices of goods from different suppliers  * Must evaluate prospective suppliers before signing them up to ensure they meet his organization's needs.  Also attend trade shows and conferences to gather information and get contacts of potential suppliers.  * Responsible for maintaining and reviewing all records of purchased goods, including their costs, deliveries, inventories and updated data such as information about suppliers' products and prices by  using SAP or Excel software etc.    * Coordinate staff and ensures all activities in the procurement department run as scheduled. He might  achieve this by holding regular meetings with staff and vendors to discuss the department's performance and resolve any issues in the procurement process. Network & Systems administrator OLAM GHANA LIMITED.TEMA TOMATO FACTORY May 2013 to 2015 ACQUACEE INTERNET & TRAINING COMPANY LTD. Year:2010 (3 years) Tema. Assist Manager  Responsibilities:  • Sales and also IT consultant.  • Generate report on daily cash position for financial controller  • Deal with client's problems and help them to find solution to the problem Assisted IT students  and counsel them in their day-to-day duties.    TEMA OIL REFINERY (TOR) LTD - Year: 2009  Tema, Ghana. Network & System Administrator  Responsibilities:  • Diagnose hardware and software problems, and replace defective components. Perform data  backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments, including  computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures in order to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Operate master consoles in order to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use.  • Perform routine network startup and shutdown procedures, and maintain control records.  • Installing, configuring and administering Microsoft windows7, XP professional, UNIX, Linux and vista.  • Troubleshooting network problems and deals with servers' configuration and also Managing.  Installing and configuring of printers, antivirus and secured the network.  • Repairing of computer hardware. IT Technician Spintex - Accra, GH 2006 to 2008 • Part of the team that implements and install computers and network them for schools and other institutions.    • Part of training team dealing with client's request.  • Working in a team environment that plan, administer and help client with all kinds of problems  concerning computers. Education Diploma in Network Engineering Certified College of IT Professional Studies - Accra, GH 2007 Certificate UNIVERSITY OF CAPE 2006 Diploma in Engineering NIIT - Accra, GH 2006 SOLID AFRICA MISSION INTERNATIONAL COMPUTER TRAINING SCHOOL 2005 Skills SAP, LINUX, EXCHANGE, CISCO, DNS, Excel, Inventory, Logistics