Cyber Warfare Operation Security Analyst Cyber Warfare Operation Security Analyst IT professional with 5 years experience in both Networking and Information Security in large enterprise environment. TS/SCI (ACTIVE) Virginia Beach, VA Work Experience Cyber Warfare Operation Security Analyst United States Air National Guard - Langley AFB, VA January 2017 to Present • Utilize network defense system tools, technical training materials and data to protect Air Force computer systems from viruses, data tampering, and unauthorized remote entry.  • Advised on information security as related to security procedures and control of classified materials.  • Assisted on the creation of information security policy as related to security procedures and control of classified materials Network Administrator II AECOM - Virginia Beach, VA Present • Monitored the health and efficiency of Classified and Unclassified multi-site networks utilizing Orion SolarWinds; Configuration, administration, upgrade, and maintenance of over 300 network devices including Cisco layer 2, layer 3 devices, and security devices including Cisco ASA and Firepower  • Integration with engineering, operations, system administration, and cyber security staff to identify new efficiencies and design implementation models, maintain documentation, and adhere to procedures and policies.  • Troubleshooting of routers, switches, systems, and applications to identify and correct malfunctions, network issues, and remediate vulnerabilities.  • Peripheral duties include Cyber Security and Systems to include scanning, vulnerability remediation and mitigation and Windows Active directory administration. Network Engineer General Dynamics - Virginia Beach, VA April 2018 to August 2018 • Management of the AFNET (Air Force Network) comprising of 85 bases worldwide by monitoring the traffic flow to identify and troubleshoot problems and implement possible solutions.  • Installation, configuration, and management of Cisco/HP/Dell switches and routers.  • Responds to incident tickets through Air Force Program Remedy, and resolving multiple tickets per day to keep the AFNET running properly. Field Service Technician Marathon TS - Norfolk, VA August 2017 to November 2017 • Provide desktop support for all United States Navy personnel and other electronic and mechanical devices  • Resolved incidents that required onsite personnel to include both hardware and software  • Installing of hardware and software products with risk management research and documentation. Security Technician United Sates Air Force - Langley AFB, VA October 2012 to January 2017 • Administered and maintained access to special classified programs of over 100+ personnel; Verification and granting of access to personnel through access list.  • Maintenance and reporting of records of security clearance and access in addition to the investigation of security audit anomalies. Education Bachelor's in Computer Networking and Cyber Security UMUC October 2016 to Present Specialized training in Cyber Warfare Operations Course Air Force - Biloxi, MS November 2017 to April 2018 Associate in Applied Systems Technology College of the Air Force 2017 to 2018 Associate in logisitcs College of the Air Force 2010 to 2015 Skills Security, Ccna, Cisco, Network security, Cisco asa, Nessus, Ios, Risk management, Security infrastructure, Comptia, Cyber Security, Information Security, It Security Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: SSgt Certifications/Licenses CCENT 2018 to 2021 CCNA Routing and Switching June 2019 to June 2022 CompTIA A+ 2017 to 2020 CompTIA Security+ 2017 to 2020 Additional Information KEY SKILLS  Network Security Infrastructure ? Network Configurations ? CCNA Route/ Switch  Risk Management ? Top Secret Clearance ? Strong Writing/Oral Skills    ADDITIONAL KNOWLEDGE/SKILLS    • Cisco ASA  • Cisco Firepower  • ACAS/Nessus Scans  • Cisco Switch/Routing IOS Configurations  • VRAM