Tactical Systems Technician Tactical Systems Technician Tactical Systems Technician Hope Mills, NC Work Experience Tactical Systems Technician GeoNorth, LLC March 2018 to August 2019 • Responsible for performing corrective maintenance and preventive maintenance.  • Responsible for making tactical logbook entries that are concise, accurate and provide sufficient detail.  • Responsible for using proper Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).  • Responsible for generating/updating/closing work candidates and configuration changes ensuring the information is detailed and accurate.  • Responsible for installing/testing all SSDS Systems related to ICSTF local change notices.  • Responsible for utilizing all applicable security procedures while performing in the ICSTF.  • Responsible for performing Tactical activities at the Operations Control Center (OCC)  • Providing support to the facility users. Field Engineer Future Technologies, INC June 2016 to March 2018 • Install, operate and maintain complex computer systems within a technical systems environment.  • Utilize knowledge of computer system requirements, installations, operations, maintenance and specifications involving a wide range of operating environments and state of technology.  • In control of over 100 computer systems and must be able to troubleshoot and maintain all systems for a total of 6 labs which operate NGS, ASTATS and CCDs.  • Build computer racks for multiple sites and complete 2 lifecycles with installing new NTDS cards, NICs, PCIE cards and Building Hard drives. System Administrator Future Technologies, INC December 2015 to June 2016 • Maintain information Assurance on Windows 7/8  • Management of Networking devices such as Cisco switches and Routers  • Submit media and complete Software Distribution Requests to numerous site using Access  • Build 32 and 64 bit hard drives for different Systems to include NGS, ASTATS, ENG, NGS-ENG classified or unclassified.  • Patch Management done on all drives weekly  • Run backups weekly on all Administrative systems (Cisco Network Assistant, Website, servers)  • Create and update user accounts and passwords (email users when they have not logged in within 30 -60 days before accounts are deleted)  • Experience in Active Directory (user accounts, computers and more) Escort Access Control July 2015 to December 2015 07/2015-12/2015  Future Technologies, INC.  • Verify clearance within JPAS system.  • Interact daily with multiple personnel Military, Contractors, and Government Employees  • Sort and hand out print outs from DGS and other printers which include secret, unclassified, and classified material.  • Answer phone calls, emails and send/receive fax  • Escort personnel without proper clearances into buildings and rooms  • Work on Lenel System and assign proper accesses to badges and CACs. Help Desk/ Communications Support US Army - Fort Hood, TX September 2012 to November 2014 • Interacted with end user to identify a variety of issues related to desktops, laptops, printers, and server or network connectivity.  • Opened and logged trouble tickets in the call tracking system to track issues from identification through resolution.  • Provided phone and in-person support for installation, configuration, troubleshooting for operating systems and software applications.  • Maintained desktops; configure laptops; create accounts, accesses, and permissions.  • Distributed and managed blackberries, Communicate technical information in a non-technical manner.  • Monitored and resolved issues to completion using the call tracking system.  • Escalated any outstanding issues to senior-level technicians or engineers.  • Documented, tracked and monitored the problem to facilitate a swift resolution.  • Handled calls within strict deadlines to ensure optimal support and premium customer services.  • First point of contact to end users for information technology-related issues, problems, and requests  • Highly motivated and have strong customer focus with the ability to interface with all levels of staff. Network Administrator US Army Camp Stanley - KR August 2011 to August 2012 Korea.  ? Performed systems analysis, troubleshooting and preventive maintenance.  ? Maintained over 3 million dollars of equipment which included CPN stack, phones, Laptops, cabling, Vehicle and trailer.  ? Was in charge of setting up a Toc which consisted of 46 users, running of 46 SIPR lines and NIPR Lines and a total of 4 Top Secret lines for the Commander and First SGT and all lines to VOIP phones.  ? Military Background: Provided uninterrupted services of voice and data to end users as a tier 0-1 customer to a Network Operations Center connected through fiber and T1 connections and distributing out through tier 2 connections with Virtual Private Networks using Open Shortest Path Protocol (OSPF) and a Command Post Node.  ? Distributed this data and voice via KU Band connections using a Satellite Transportable Terminal using two 2.4 meter sat dish through TDMA and FDMA connections. Link way IP terminals to connect the sat dish for each of the FDMA and TDMA connections, with active systems on the JNN and WIN-T.  ? Applications to include Command Control, Voice and Data, EOIP, and VoIP, Call Manager and LAN Manager. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology Management in Charlestown American Public University May 2018 Associates of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies Central Texas College - Killeen, TX May 2017 Skills Data management, Administrative support, Customer service oriented, Customer service, Auditing, Microsoft office, Excellent communication skills Additional Information • Over 7 years' experience providing security systems procedures and guidelines to ensure the safety and IT security of programs throughout the federal government or commercial industry.  • Utilize Microsoft applications to complete spreadsheets, transcription, word processing and desktop publishing.  • Clearance: Secret - Current    SKILLS    • Spreadsheet management  • Microsoft Office proficiency  • Excellent communication skills  • Computer knowledge  • Strong interpersonal skills  • Troubleshooting systems  • Hardware Management  • Customer service oriented  • Data Management  • System Build Out  • Administrative support specialist  • Contract auditing  • Report analysis