I.T. Security Administrator I.T. Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I.T. Security Administrator - Make-A-Wish Foundation America Phoenix, AZ To provide my knowledge and expertise to all areas that can benefit from my skills and attributes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience I.T. Security Administrator Make-A-Wish Foundation America - Phoenix, AZ June 2016 to Present • Team lead of IT Security Services helpdesk providing Identity & Access management, e-mail, and telecommunications support.  • Utilize Active Directory and Okta ID Management system to manage resource and cloud access.  • Develop security processes and procedures to protect organization assets.  • Office365 exchange administration.  • Mitel VoIP phone system administration.  • Manage user account lifecycle from creation, modification, and termination. Technical Service Specialist I Make-A-Wish Foundation America - Phoenix, AZ December 2014 to June 2016 • Install and maintain IT hardware and software to meet needs and keep the organization functioning at optimal capacity.  • Provide maintenance and support on PC, LAN, and telecom equipment.  • Participates in the daily operation of the helpdesk ensuring calls are handled and resolved in a prompt, accurate, and courteous manner.  • Provide end users with information, support, and training on the organization's products and services.  • Installation of voice/data solutions, LAN and PC equipment.  • Acts as support for disaster recovery solutions including off-site storage, backup/recovery platform maintenance, and documentation.  • Installs, and maintains IT hardware and software to meet the Make-A-Wish Foundation’s needs and keep the organization functioning at optimal capacity.  • Performs software/hardware troubleshooting, patches, and reinstallations.  • Maintains Active Directory accounts, creating, disabling, deleting, and assigning permissions.  • Performs back-up and data recovery using Backup Exec, tape drives, and offsite storage.  • Maintains email accounts including permissions, mailbox size, Outlook Web Access, and mobile device set-up.  • Assists with new office set-ups. Office expansions, including relocation, and/or installation of voice/data solutions, LAN and PC equipment. Information Technology Intern Make-A-Wish Foundation America - Phoenix, AZ August 2014 to December 2014 • Learn day-to-day functions of the IT department and aid in streamlining processes where applicable  • Assist the department with new and existing projects, including hardware and software upgrades throughout the office  • Creation of instructions and how-to guides for the national office and supporting chapters.  • Work on level 1 support calls and help desk requests regarding technical assistance. Wells Fargo Technical Service Specialist I Randstad Technologies - Chandler, AZ September 2013 to June 2014 • Hardware and application support to Wells Fargo employees within a high call volume environment.  • Assisted customers having issues with passwords regarding to system access.  • Placed service and order requests for employees needing computer hardware, software, system access, and on-site tech support.  • Assisted employees with Windows 7 migration tasks such as migration preparation, execution, and follow up.  • Performed post migration duties ranging from installing missing programs, printers, shared drives, and providing how-to support for transitional ease. Network Administrator Reef Point Technology - Mesa, AZ November 2012 to August 2013 • Provide IT services to Reef Point team such as but not limited to: install operating systems, configure and upgrade computer hardware, troubleshoot workstations, and install needed software  • Install, configure, and trouble network hardware such as: routers, switches, firewalls, WAPs.  • Manage routine data backup of crucial company data.  • Monitor network infrastructure to provide flow control to company network and external clients.  • Manage customer data contained in information systems for hosted accounting and property management software.  • Provide technical support for installation, configuration, training and network troubleshooting for various versions of client software. Education Associates of Applied Science in Information Technology Collins College June 2013 Skills Active Directory (4 years), Microsoft Office 365 (3 years), Okta (2 years), Cloud Phone Systems (4 years), Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) (2 years), Raiser's Edge (2 years), Information Security, Provisioning (3 years) Awards Silver Star Award 2016-04 Organization equivalent employee of the month. Recognized for performing above and beyond for the benefit of organization. Star of Excellence Award 2016-06 Organization equivalent to Employee of the Year award. Performing job duties above standard in both department and organization standard.