Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Woodbridge, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Aristotle International - Washington, DC October 2015 to Present • My role at Aristotle is help desk technician. Everyday tickets come in from users and auto generated from our applications and servers when software/hardware issues came up. I had to respond with a solution in a timely manner. Also make documentation for issues so one can follow back on when needed. I answered end users and client's questions and concerns related to computers, security, phones, policy, software, and hardware via email, over a call, or in person.  • Took trips to the data center when an issue occurs, for maintenance, and to do health checks. I completed tasks such as replacing failed hard drives, replacing bad power supplies, upgrading equipment, adding new technology/equipment, decommissioning servers, running cable, and worked with SANs and servers.  • Helped the company pass the SOC 2 audit by meeting compliance on the IT side.  • Administer active directory: Creating new users, disabling users, password resets, adding PCs to domain, working with OUs, integration, and auditing.  • Manage Exchange 2016: creating user mailboxes, deleting mailboxes, attaching existing mailboxes to other users, creating distro groups, setting up email access on various devices, and allow/deny devices connecting to our mail server.  • Backup/Restore: Worked with rapid recovery to backup and restore servers. Adding new critical servers to back up on a set schedule, do database restores for clients and end users, do restores of files and folders that are accidentally deleted, maintain the overall health of the application.  • Virtualization and storage: Worked with Hyper-V, failover, and SAN storage on a daily basis. Creating new VMs, decommission VMs, migrating VMs, working with check points, attaching storage from one VM to another and upgrading the specs; HD space, RAM, CPU, and add new storage location.  • SSL implantation/Renewals: Used Godaddy and Digicert to renewal and apply SSL for existing sites, created a new SSL for a new site, working with wildcard SSLs to minimize the cost per year, worked with clients to help them with the whole process from the .csr to the .pfx to SSL.  • Helped rebuilt Predictit.com. Company deiced to move away from Microsoft Azure to have full control on every aspect of our product.  • Provided remote assistance through remote administering applications and/or over the phone and email to our end users, who are working from home, on the go/clients location, working overseas or working from one of the remote offices. I used tools such as Desktop Central, TeamViewer, and SCCM.  • Scheduled and performed maintenance once a month on all system to keep them patched and secured. Mostly automated but some servers required manually patching. Scheduled maintenance periods to upgrade firmware on critical network appliances.  • Long term project: When I was initially hired I was given a long term project to upgrade laptops for everyone in the company. The company provided every employee with a work laptop. Every user was upgraded to Windows 10, a SSD, and at least 8GB of RAM. I replaced the out dated laptops with new models, did clean installs, installed applications users needed and installed security and IT managing software.  • Long term project: I had was to enable bit locker on every single PC in the entire company. This helped us pass the SOC 2 audit.  • Worked with applications such as Qualys and Barracuda Cloud Control to do web application testing for our hosted sites and vulnerability scan on our products. Provided the developers with the report with solutions to mitigate the problems found in the scan.  • Short term project: I enabled MAC filtering across the network in all of our locations. This project was completed in 1 month. We controlled what connected to our network. New devices had to be approved before getting any access. This eliminated all the rouge devices and potential attack or spread of a virus.  • I had many short term projects such as, installing and configuring an application such as Solarwinds NCM to back up all of our firewall and switches configs, also testing new application that can help us improve our network, also setting up surveillance around the company building to make sure the premises are secure and have access to video recording at the time of requests.  • Worked closely with vendors to purchase hardware and software for the company. Created POs, kept an asset list of all of our equipment and software, and worked with vender when it came to renewal. Easy Tech Expert Staples - Alexandria, VA January 2013 to June 2016 • Troubleshoot: Laptops, desktops, hardware, software, routers, printers, and Windows OS.  • Back up Data: Computers, hard drives, phones, tablets. Hard copy and/or cloud storage.  • Install new software and/or hardware on desktops/laptops to upgrade the machines.  • Data handling & integrity. Dealing with important and sensitive data most of the time.  • On site experience: Troubleshooting, wireless printer installation, network setup, range extenders, site surveys, computer setup, virus removals, & network camera setup.  • Dealing directly with customers; face to face, over the phone, and/or through email.  • Store key holder for a $10 Million dollar retail store. Biggest store in its district. Increased responsibilities and duties after one and a half years, initially hired as an Easy Tech associate.    SPECIAL ACCOMPLISHMENT:  Staples Employee of the Month January 2014//September 2014//March 2015 Education Bachelor of Science degree in Management Westwood College - Annandale, VA June 2015 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CE June 2018 ID: COMP001020870371 CompTIA Network+ CE June 2018 ID: COMP001020870371 Microsoft Certified Professional Security (MCP) Present ID: 12042843 Microsoft Certified Professional Nework (MCP) Present ID: 12042843 Microsoft Certified Professional Windows Operating Systems (MCP) Present ID: 12042843