Senior Network Administrator - Marine Simulator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Marine Simulator Senior Network Administrator - Marine Simulator US Work Experience Senior Network Administrator - Marine Simulator 2013 to 2019 • Monitors and maintains availability, performance and security all of systems software, hardware and related applications for all FMA Staff.  • Analyzes, installs, configures and maintains operating, network and other systems software and utilities, servers and other hardware and related applications systems. Adds, removes and integrates software and hardware into existing systems.  • Creating Group Policies and implementation as per standard procedures.  • RAID Configurations and Disk management utilities tools.  • The setup and maintenance of new infrastructure of Windows 2008 Server Edition, Domain Controller, DNS Servers, DHCP Servers, File Server.  • 3rd party vendor coordination for visit and troubleshooting  • Monthly check of assets along with Inventory  • Daily Operating System alert handling and response  • Log and Plan Procurement Request  • Install of OS, Tooling, Backup Software, system management components  • Maintaining all the Simulator.  • Install and Configure 32 Channel NVR CCTV.    Other Extra Responsibilities  • Involves in the Phase II Simulator Projects.  ? Liquid Cargo Handling Simulator - (Includes a 10 KVA UPS, 1 server, 1 Instructor and 10 workstations)  ? GMDSS Network Classroom Simulator (Includes a 10 KVA UPS, 1 server, 1 Instructor and 10 workstations)  ? ECDIS Network Classroom Simulator - (Includes a 10 KVA UPS, 1 server, 1 Instructor and 12 workstations )  • Act as a project Supervisor for the projects. (prepare and submit contract between Transas and FNU together with scope of work)  • Structured Network Cabling (Data, Voice, CCTV) of all the simulator rooms  • Analyze all quotation submitted in order to meet our current budget  • Liaise with our Finance Team in procurement of the items requested  • Installing and configuring of all equipment's once received from vendor before handling it over to Transas Company for final verification and test. Senior User Support Officer 2011 to 2013 • Responsible for purchasing services in accordance with the University policies and procedures which includes the FMA IT equipment and supply.  • Raising Scopes of Work for Maintenance of all ICT projects  • Consults with vendors concerning potential source supply and service and liaise with Finance on procurement and purchasing of college ICT assets.  • Maintains IT/Infrastructure inventory and provides acquittal report to Management  • Maintenance and repair to all systems  • Completing system and facility backups  • Following security policies  • Carrying out troubleshooting, maintenance and upgrades to equipment.  • Involved in the State of the Art Simulator projects Phase I for FMA  • Responsible for configuring, Creating and running exercise/scenarios for both NTPRO and ERS simulator systems for FMA  • Troubleshooting and repairing of Academy simulator systems' hardware and software malfunctions.  • Preparing, operating, and securing all simulators and their associated hardware and software.  • Creating and updating charts, publications and documentation associated with simulation training.  • Working closely with simulation system vendors to ensure optimal operation of all simulation systems.  • Overseeing software upgrades and hardware replacements to any simulation system.  • Assisting and training other operators, instructors, and faculty in the operation of all simulator systems.  • Cleaning and preventative maintenance for all simulator systems and ancillary equipment.  • Maintaining readiness and order within all simulation spaces. IT NETWORKING AND USER SUPPORT OFFICER 2009 to 2011 • Minimize the impact of problems on the availability of services.  • Managing problems from identification of the root causes through the major  • Incidents to the provision of quality solutions and service recovery / delivery.  • Optimum trouble-shooting and problem solving abilities developed.  • Worked on projects in a variety of support and development roles.  • Supporting various (software, hardware and networks), troubleshooting, administration at all levels.  • Supported business critical applications and in house software.  • Mobile support for laptops, remote connectivity access, Secure Dial and Connection  • Delivered all significant results within deadlines. Working effectively as part of the team.  • Procurement & purchasing of desktop equipment's, laptops and IT Equipment's.  • Documenting of procedures to be followed by academic staff & support teams.  • Monitoring and delivering of Service Level on first instance.  • Desktop and network infrastructure, basic network designing and server sizing, and implementation of new software over Wide Area Networks  • Solving network connectivity, MS Office and remote access problems  • Designing and constructing of Student computer lab, library resource center and lecturer theater  • Supporting a large number of users across several sites, including remote laptop users and academic staff.  • Responsible for all desktop PC and laptop related issues including routine administration of networks across Fiji National University.  • Monitored and maintained network security and printers.  • Trained staff in the use of MS Office 2007 & 2010 with Windows XP SP3 & Window 7  • Submission of Weekly Reports to Management  • Cabling Projects Team Leader for Samabula, Nasinu, Nasese, Sigatoka, Lautoka, Ba, Rakiraki and Labasa Campus.  • Part of the Network Team in merging all devices throughout campuses within FNU in 2010. Education Cisco Certified Network Associate University of the South Pacific 2013 planning and document all operations FIJI NATIONAL UNIVERSITY 2010 to 2012 Diploma in Business Applied Computing in Tertiary Education Fiji National University 2009 Savusavu Secondary School 2005 Ahmadiyya Muslim College 2001 to 2004