IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist Schaumburg, IL Astute IT professional with extensive history of increased responsibility. Proven track record of network and user service management. Open to a position where my experience can be utilized to improve internal and/or external client satisfaction.    ? Diagnose hardware and software problems and replace defective components.  ? Determine causes of operating errors and seek permanent solutions.  ? Perform routine network startup and shutdown procedures and maintain control records.  ? Design, configure and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.  ? Understand the implications of new information for both current and future problem solving and decision-making.  ? Research new technology and implement it or recommend proper implementation.  ? Recommend changes to improve systems and network configurations and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes.  ? Consult with network users about how to solve existing system problems.  ? Maintain an inventory of parts for emergency repairs. Work Experience IT Support Specialist Air Line Pilots Association, Int'l - Rosemont, IL January 2014 to September 2018 o  Set up OS on Windows and Mac computers  o  Printer and scanner setup and maintenance  o  Outlook setup and support  o  Active directory  o  Microsoft Exchange  o  Troubleshooting devices  o  Scrubbing data  o  Imaging  o  Restoring data  o  Time machine backups  o  Setting up conferences and video links  o  Helpdesk support  o  Software installation and hardware upgrades  o  Inventory and APC management VinaKom, Sr. Network Administrator/Technical Support Imaging - Schaumburg, IL July 2010 to May 2013 o  Call center operations (open, assign, escalate, close and review internal trouble tickets)  o  Opening trouble tickets with ISP vendors (Century Link, AT&T, Wind Stream)  o  Technical support and assistance on site   o  Creating and processing work orders  o  Installing OS, software, applications and devices to meet user standards or requirements  o  Build and repair desktop computers, laptops and servers  o  Installing and configuring the peripherals, components and drivers  o  Creating and maintaining email mailboxes and backups (MS Exchange)  o  Configuring and troubleshooting Microsoft Outlook and Outlook express.  o  Administration of biometrics system (Bio-Office), locks, fingerprint & keycard users,  o  Installation, management, upgrade and maintenance of TemPager server and alerts  o  Recovering lost, erased data or files, and lost login credentials (Windows and Mac OS)  o  Virus Protection and Eradication  o  Computer imaging with Symantec Ghost, Acronis true image and Deepfreeze  o  Remote administration by RDP, VNC Viewer, Remote administrator and Team Viewer  o  QuickBooks, installation, backup and management  o  Supporting and troubleshoot users’ mobile devices (Android & IOS)  o  Purchasing equipment  o  Generating monthly, and yearly expense reports  o  Shipping and receiving operations  o  Data center and network equipment damage claims processing   o  Sales of service and equipment Education High school or equivalent Skills Linux (Less than 1 year), Mac (2 years), Mac os (Less than 1 year), maintenance (2 years), Microsoft office (Less than 1 year), Ms office (Less than 1 year), Multi-tasker (Less than 1 year), Problem solver (Less than 1 year), team player (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support, Service Desk, Active Directory, Help Desk, Tech Support Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Office 2000 November 2000 to November 2020 A valid IT Specialist certification