Rough in/Low Voltage Technician Rough in/Low Voltage Technician Bealeton, VA Goal orientated individual with a secret clearance seeking a career in a networking field with opportunities that affords growth and reward. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Rough in/Low Voltage Technician Trinity Wiring and Security Solutions - Manassas, VA April 2019 to Present • Low voltage wiring and installation for new construction homes and commercial buildings.  • Analyzing information, judgment, confidentiality, quality focus, supply/inventory management.  • Administration of documents for assigned services. Network Administrator United States Marine Corps - Cherry Point, NC October 2016 to April 2019 • Install, operate and maintain Local Area Networks (LAN) and Wide Area Networks (WAN) to enable command and control. Install routing/switching configuration, premise wiring, installation of network components.  • Establish technical control sites, conduct fault analysis, circuit testing and end to end troubleshooting.  • Maintain adequate bandwidth utilization in support of communication networks and data services.  • Familiar with routing protocols, Virtual Private Networks (VPN), Internet Protocol Security (IPSEC), subletting, traffic monitoring and cybersecurity. Tactical Switching Operator or Field Wiremen United States Marine Corps - Cherry Point, NC February 2016 to April 2019 • Maintain wire networks to link key outposts, control points, and headquarters.  • Provide reliable paths for the transmission of telephone, facsimile, and digital data messages.  • Install of telephones and switchboards and laying wire and cable.  • Adjust equipment for proper operation. Recover wire, located wire system faults, and operated switchboards. Chief of Equipment Maintenance United States Marine Corps - Cherry Point, NC February 2016 to April 2019 • Operated and maintained of over 1.2 million dollars' worth of equipment.  • Oversaw the monthly inventory of vital pieces of equipment.  • Responsible for the ordering and maintaining of tools of operation.  • Inspected the equipment through internal data checks to ensure that the items are operational and functioning  properly. Education General Studies Tidewater Community College - Portsmouth, VA Churchland High School - Portsmouth, VA Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4 Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4