Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Newport Harbor Corporation Providence, RI Work Experience Network Administrator Newport Harbor Corporation - Warwick, RI 2014 to Present As a Network and System Administrator - oversee the help desk team and provide mentorship. Work proactively and reactively on the systems and network equipment, such as firewall, switches, access points, servers and all virtual machines. Create and maintain user accounts on Active Directory and Office 365 using Azure. Configure and update group policies, shared folder permissions. Create and maintain VMs on Hyper-V with Lenovo SAN for remote desktop users. Create and update DNS and DHCP service. Configure and maintain Barracuda Backups, Spam and Web filter.    ? migrating MS exchange server om premise to MS office 365 in the cloud  ? upgrade windows 2008 to windows 2012 some were fresh installation  ? replace all the Cisco firewall from ASA 5505 to ASA 5508X and reconfigured them all. also, the same for some switches other updated the firmware  ? Provide remote support and on-site to all our business units, desktop, network and server support and administration.  ? Create and manage Active Directory Users, create and troubleshoot MS Exchange emails. Server, desktop and laptop hardware/software installation and upgrades.  ? Create and manage users and configuration on Microsoft exchange online and MS office 365. System updates, patches and configuration changes, Phones support, setting up email and troubleshooting emails issues on mobile devices. Help User with folder permissions and file sharing.  ? Configure Cisco ASA firewall, also cisco small business switches. Install and maintain Ruckus SmartZone and Access point Manage tickets for support requested and follow up Via Freshservice. Supporting Point of Sale systems, replace or fix POS terminal.  ? Create and maintain virtual servers and desktop running and VMware platform or/and Microsoft Hyper-V. configure and manage antivirus on servers and computer using Kaspersky Security center hosted on one of our servers.  ~    Providence, RI 02907 ? 401-808-2613 ? rafaeldisla@Verizon.net Network Systems Specialist Lesley University - Cambridge, MA 2014 to 2014 Provided hands-on operation, installation, and administration of the University's network.  ? Collaborated with the Network Systems Engineer to coordinate and implement changes to the network infrastructure and provided expertise in the operation and administration of network facilities.  ? Established and implemented the network configurations that provided the necessary functionality for daily usage. Collaborated with the technology staff and the University community to assess special networking requests, to procure the necessary resources and to develop the necessary processes and procedures to meet their needs. Helpdesk/Tech Support Newport Harbor Corporation - Newport, RI 2013 to 2014 Provided remote support and on-site to all our business units, desktop, network and server support and administration.  ? Created and managed Active Directory Users and created and troubleshot MS Exchange emails.  ? Server, desktop and laptop hardware/software installation and/or upgrade.  ? System updates, patches and configuration changes, phone support, setting up email and troubleshooting emails issues on mobile devices. Helped Users with folder permissions and file sharing.  ? Re-imaged windows desktop to Linux system desktop such as Ubuntu, fedora, Linux lite, 2x OS.  ? Modified configuration on Cisco firewall, ASA 5505/5508/5510/5512/2016, also switches such as Catalyst 26/27/28/32.  ? Managed tickets for support requested and follow up Via SysAid, also use as system management.  ? Supported Point of Sale systems, replaced or fixed POS terminal. Created and maintained virtual servers and desktop running and VMware platform or/and Microsoft Hyper-V IT Technician My Technology Specialist, Inc - Norton, MA 2011 to 2013 Provided remote support and on-site to all the business clients, helpdesk, network and server administration. Created and troubleshot exchange and emails. Server, desktop and laptop hardware/software installation and upgraded and troubleshot. PBX and IP phones support. ]  ? Created and managed tickets for support requested and follow up Using N-able Technology, and LabTech, also used as system management. Modified script like VBScript, and Batch file for software and patches installation, and file download.  ? Provided residential in-home support, also in-store, windows installation, virus removal, data recovery, data backup/restore, laptop and desktop hardware/software installation and/or upgrade. Created and maintained virtual servers and desktop running and VMware platform. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Information Technology/ Network New England Institute of Technology - East Greenwich, RI September 2012 Additional Information • Windows 7, 8, 10  • CISCO, Enterasys, Extreme, Ruckus, Fortinet, Cisco Duo Security  • Desktop operation system troubleshooting  • Desktop application and troubleshooting  • Server 2003, 2008, 2011, 2012, SBS Administration  • Active Directory, User Permission, Group Policies, DNS, DHCP, Azure  • POS, Aloha  • Microsoft Office Suite: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Exchange, Outlook  • Microsoft Office 365  • Macintosh, Mac OSX  • IPhone, Blackberry, Android  • PBX, IP phones, VoIP  • VMware, Virtualization, VPN, ESXi, Hyper-V, SAN  • MS Remote Desktop, Connect wise, join.me, LogMeIn, TeamViewer, GoToMeeting, WebEx, SysAid, LabTech, N-able Technology, ConnectWise, Freshservice  • Barracuda Backups, Spam and web Filter  • Bilingual Spanish and English