Laborer/Carpenter Laborer/Carpenter Jacksonville, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Laborer/Carpenter Tyler Construction - Camp Lejeune, NC May 2019 to August 2019 • Performed maintenance and construction work for Cherry Point, New River Air Station, and Camp Lejeune base housing in conjunction with Atlantic Marine Corps Communities, housing more than 8500 service members and families.  • Dealt with moderate carpentry, plumbing, and electrical work concerns.  • Routinely checked on all light fixtures, air conditioning systems, electrical systems and piping/ plumbing systems which increased quality assurance.  • Removed all debris, supplies, garbage and dangerous materials from work sites while ensuring accountability of all tools and operating equipment.  • Consistently followed all OSHA regulations and safety precautions. Installation Technician Aeon Inc. - Jacksonville, NC January 2019 to May 2019 • Provide installation and repair services to residential and business customers, including data, POTS, internet service and Spectrum internet/cable equipment.  • Climb telephone poles and use ladders to renew services and connect communication lines.  • Flexibility to work in a variety of environments, from construction sites to finished corporate offices  • Install new phone and internet connections per service call  • Post secondary education in carpentry when needed to install cable outlets, wall fishes and aerial drops. Network Administrator United States Maine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC December 2017 to July 2018 Install, operate, and maintain Local Area Networks (LAN) and Wide Area Networks (WAN) to enable  command and control missions.  • Duties include routing/switching configuration, premise wiring and installation of network  components which established technical control sites, helped conduct fault analysis, circuit testing and end to end troubleshooting.  • Supervised a team of 20-30 Marines at any given time ensuring proper procedures and training were  accomplished in a timely and efficient manner. Tactial Switching Operator United States Marine Corps - Okinawa, JP August 2014 to December 2017 Successfully performed and carried out the duties as platoon Sergeant where I supervised, trained  and mentored 28 Marines.  • Supervised and documented the daily maintenance on (7) military vehicles including preventative  maintenance and general repair inductions.  • Worked closely with the platoon commander to establish training schedules and evaluation of combat  readiness of the platoon.  • Conducted training classes and demonstrated principles, techniques, procedures and methods of leadership, supervision and evaluation. Field Wireman United States Maine Corps - Twentynine Palms, CA February 2011 to August 2014 Constructed, operated, and maintained wire networks to link key outposts, control points, and headquarters which provided reliable paths for the transmission of telephone, facsimile, and digital  data messages.  • Duties included installation of telephones and switchboards, laying of wire and cable, recover wire,  locate wire system faults and operate switchboards. Education Sociology Coastal Carolina University - Conway, SC June 2008 to June 2009 Skills Technical Support, Customer Service, Power Tools, Carpentry, Construction Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Expert August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yxclt1z3c4ccezt Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zd93dalo6vs6rn0y Basic Maintenance and Repair — Highly Proficient August 2019 Performing basic repairs and maintenance for apartment complexes, office buildings, and other facilities. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/w9vsvxugg4bxkwzm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.