Field Technician III, Northern Field Technician III, Northern Middletown, NY To obtain a position in computer support, where my technical, organizational and problem solving skills can be utilized. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Field Technician III, Northern Charter-Spectrum - Manhattan, NY 2017 to Present • Perform installations, troubleshooting and maintenance for voice, Internet and TV services  • Assist a range of clientele in understanding Spectrum products features and functionality.  • Test signal levels and investigate possible culprits of signal loss and service issues.  • Keep customers in the communication loop until problem is resolved. System Administrator Arch Auto Parts - Hollis, NY September 2011 to June 2017 • Manage system network consisting of 150 computers, both UNIX and Windows servers across 12 locations.  • Installed and configured workstations for IP/IPX based LAN  • Maintain VOIP Phone system, configure extensions, auto attendant, call groups and perform firmware upgrades.  • Provide daily server maintenance, load catalogs and barcodes with Barcode Expert and monthly software updates.  • Backup Management, Reporting and Recovery  • Configure Jet streams and dumb terminals.  • Configure and implement Remote Access Solution: VPN, ISDN dial up, Fractional T1 Network Technician II Guyana Telephone & Telegraph Company - Georgetown, GY 2001 to 2003 • Supervised installations of fiber optic line throughout various geographic regions.  • Tested telephone lines using Frame Network technology.  • Opened and closed trouble tickets, as well as built and improved existing reports in the AS400 network.  • Prepared quality control reports upon satisfactory completion. Education Associate in Computer Science University of Guyana - Georgetown September 2001 to June 2003 Skills AS400 (3 years), JAVA (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (10+ years), MS OFFICE (10+ years), POINT OF SALE (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support, Comptia, Field Service Additional Information SKILLS    Proven ability to lead under pressure, successfully take on challenges and learn new concepts quickly.    COMPUTER SKILLS    • Microsoft Office  • AS400  • Ultimate POS  • Java  • ARRIS, RIO, and WorkAssure