Automotive Account Specialist Automotive Account Specialist Cockeysville, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Automotive Account Specialist SINCLAIR BROADCASTING GROUP - Cockeysville, MD May 2018 to June 2019 * Managed all communication between field sales and fulfillment teams  * Handled all campaigns over tickets, phones, and email for digital marketing products, such as Email Marketing, OTT professional and outreach services  * Proactively communicated with Regional Auto Sales Manager and Onboarding Manager  * Monitored SEM campaigns and aided in technical support aspects through life cycle of clients  * Ensured all dealer and TV station issues are documented through CRM platform   * Delivered and hosted platform trainings and refreshers to new and existing account holders via face to face and/or Skype related software Licensing Associate ELEMENT FLEET MANAGEMENT - Sparks, MD June 2016 to May 2018 * Successfully handled title transaction processing and became the designated subject matter expert for the organization.  * Cultivated and fostered professional relationships with clients and external agencies for organizational development and process improvement.  * Maintained internal communications and remained abreast on each step in the title transaction process; exhibited profound teamwork by assisting in various projects.  * Lead assistance to manager as key point of contact to the team  Vendor Coordinator (Accounts Payable)  * Conducted extensive research to identify solutions while managing processes for accounts payable; resolved problems and engaged with customers.  * Communicated policies and standards to ensure a consistent and compliant environment; utilized tact while communicating with vendors and clients.  Quality Analyst (Accounts Payable)  * Performed internal audits and initiated data driven queries to accurately respond to customer requests; analyzed vendor reports to ensure compliance.  * Communicated findings to Accounts Payable and adhered to all procedures in a high-volume environment.  * Utilized Microsoft Office Suite including Excel and Word to organize, view, and distribute data. Associate PHH FLEET - Sparks, MD December 2013 to October 2015 * Facilitated titling and registration of vehicles for numerous options including lease backs, ownership transfers, and title follow up.  * Strategically fostered networks to achieve optimum results and success during processing; remained as a reliable associate by completing projects within said deadlines.  * Key point of contact to the team of about 10-15 people Services Administrator ( Network Supplier) PHH FLEET - Sparks, MD May 2013 to December 2013 * Efficiently responded to supplier requests and managing multiple inquiries via mail, email, and phone.  * Negotiated contracts with suppliers and strategically made sound decisions to advance the organization.  * Managed projects assigned from senior leadership and processed items with a keen sense of urgency. Customer Service Representative PAYPAL - Hunt Valley, MD December 2008 to March 2013 Test Center)  * Collaborated with supervisors and fellow representatives on new test projects; embarked on new items with a target-driven mentality.  * Consistently placed external and internal phone calls to clients to resolve inquiries; handled customer account items and performed functions to support account relationships and customer satisfaction. Education Master of Arts in Communications Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH 2017 Bachelor of Arts University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT 2004 Skills INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS, ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT, CLIENT RELATIONS, STRATEGIC PLANNING, CUSTOMER SERVICE, QUALITY ASSURANCE, Business Development, Outlook, Marketing, Data Entry, Sales