System Support Representative System Support Representative System Support Representative - International Business Machines Mountain Home, ID High energy with 8+ years experience in computer hardware support, information technology support, and customer service. Strong team player who is always willing to learn new skills. Positive leadership skills developed as a member of the US Marine Corps, NMCI, and IBM. Over 5+ years in computer hardware repair, computer software troubleshooting and server support, along with experience in multiple programs. Extensive knowledge on laptop, desktop, and other computer systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Support Representative International Business Machines - Boise, ID May 2015 to Present Duties: Server and Computer Hardware Technician for IBM and other company Servers, Desktops, Laptops, and Networks. Customer Support Representative MAXIMUS Inc September 2013 to February 2014 Duties: Assist consumers over phone applying for Health Insurance Marketplace. Network Administrator Strategic Data Systems, NMCI, Hewlett-Packard - Boise, ID January 2013 to June 2013 Duties: Operate maintenance on Users and Programs in the US Navy. Active Directory, Email, Software Support, and submitting Hardware Support tickets. Education High School Diploma Caldwell High School - Caldwell, ID Associates Degree Stevens-Henager College - Nampa, ID Skills Microsoft Windows, Linux Support, AIX Support, Microsoft Office, Active Directory, Computer Hardware, Computer Repair, Server Support, Desktop Support, Customer Service, Ethernet/Fiber Cabling, System Admin, Linux, Vmware, System Administrator, Red Hat Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-3 Additional Information During my work with IBM, I covered server, computer, and Point of Sale maintenance coverage for areas from Burns, OR to Twin Falls, ID. I worked on servers for IBM, NetApp, HP, Dell, and Lenovo. I worked on operating systems including Windows, AIX, Linux, and IBMi. I performed hardware service for Lenovo desktops, laptops, and point of sale devices from IBM and Toshiba. My training included IBM POWER servers, tape libraries, disk storage systems, flash systems, and cabling for ethernet and fiber.