Project Coordinator for Scrip program Project Coordinator for Scrip program Project Coordinator for Scrip program - St Louise Parish School Work Experience Project Coordinator for Scrip program St Louise Parish School - Bellevue, WA May 2018 to Present Lead 10 resource to manage the program software. Assist in managing inventory and customer records within the system. Lead a small team in the process of sales and marketing the products. Plan budget for program. Manage the Scripware program for users. Create monthly or on demand reports for stakeholders.  • Account management of 300+ customers and Inventory management of over $500,000 of product and 750 brands.  • Maintain a detailed, organized file and record system  • Create various reports about Sales, Inventory and customers activity  • Budget planning for the program  • Track quality, effectiveness and efficiency of program  • Manage annual sales of about $1MILLION  • Develop a technical understanding of products and communicate effectively with customers and internal personnel.  • Work with teams for promotional and marketing tools to increase orders and enrollment  • Prepare Financial Statements for the stake holders  • Problem Solving for unexpected risk for program  • Plan and anticipate project risk and develop risk management strategies  • Assist in implementing new plans and procedures  • Distribution reports to customers and Committee members  • Assist in the development of study administration procedures, training materials and administration of team training  • Research for products external to program  • Customer Support Project Manager/Leader Methanol Holdings Trinidad Limited July 2002 to December 2007 Led teams for various projects Software\ Hardware in the organization. Involve in planning and budgeting for various projects. Project Lead on a Multi million $ Shipping Software for the Oil/Gas Industry.  • Involve in the evolution of the shipping application.  • Project lead on the development of a new marketing and shipping application.  • Involve in the development of the Scope of the project from inception.  • Collaborated with managers and stakeholders on authorizing requirements  • Liaised with developers to provide clarification on the application requirements.  • Evaluate KPI'S to ensure alignment of projects and organization.  • Project Manager for upgrades and redesign of the IT Infrastructure  • Developed and managed the IT budget for a small network of 50 employees. Involve in the planning, management and implementation of various IT Projects.  • Committee member of the strategic planning team for the IT department and RISK management of the company network and the development of the business continuity plan for company on the IT perspective. Systems/ Network Administrator Methanol Holdings Trinidad Limited October 2001 to November 2007 Maintained, upgraded and troubleshoot network.  • Supported, diagnosed and provide solutions for Windows OS 2000, XP and 98 clients and for Server Networks of Windows 2000/2003 Server and Exchange 2003 and ISA server 2004  • Customer Support for marketing/shipping database and the financial database.  • Managed an Intranet Portal Solution and Company Website.  • Member of the Website committee  • Ensures that network and databases meet the demand of auditors  • Troubleshoot software and user interface issues on the network and applications Education Project Management Certificate Bellevue College BS in Computer Science and Mathematics University of the West Indies Skills Sales coordinator, Satisfaction, Budget, Financial statements, Customer support, Requirement analysis, Team management, Training, Inventory, Excel, Microsoft excel, Microsoft office, Project Management, accounting, Scheduling, Outlook, Quickbooks Links http://linkedin.com/in/marsha-rampersad-pmp-22792112 Additional Information SKILLS    Software application product launches  Project & Release Management  Requirement Analysis  Define and Evaluate KPI'S  Proficient in Microsoft Excel and Project  Proficient in Microsoft Office suite  Team Management  Inventory Management  Sales Coordinator  Budget and Cost Planning  Financial Statements Preparation  User and Management Interaction  Customer Support & Troubleshooting  Leadership Presentation  Customer Satisfaction Analysis  Employee Training and Development