Technical Support Engineer Technical Support Engineer Roseburg, OR IT Professional with experience in System and Network Administration, Technical Support, Semiconductor Manufacturing, etc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Engineer FCR - Roseburg, OR July 2018 to March 2019 I provided technical support for a leading video conferencing company and provided excellent service to everyone from the individual user to Fortune 500 Companies. Phlebotomist American Red Cross Biomedical Services - Roseburg, OR September 2016 to June 2018 I was a Phlebotomist at the American Red Cross. People come to donate  blood out of the kindness of their hearts and I had the privilege to assist them  in this process. I was responsible for following all standards and procedures in order to ensure donor/recipient safety. System & Network Administrator Sunrise Enterprises - Roseburg, OR September 2012 to July 2016 I installed and managed company servers running Windows Server 2008R2  (x2) and Windows Server 2012R2(x1) with VMware vSphere Hypervisor. I personally ran all of the CAT6 cabling throughout our new location. I installed Ubiquity wireless equipment as needed. I also Installed and maintained our ShoreTel VOIP system. Additionally, I was the sole help desk technician and I installed, upgraded and maintained over 80 client computers throughout the company.    From October 2014 to March 2015 I was unable to work due to a very bad  motorcycle accident. From March 2015 to July 2016 I was a Direct Support  Professional instead of the System/ Network Administrator because the system administrator position had been filled. As a Direct Support Professional I worked with individuals who had intellectual/developmental disabilities providing them opportunities for community integration and employment. Dean of Students Canyonville Christian Academy - Canyonville, OR September 2010 to August 2012 As Dean of the boys' dormitories I had the privilege of working with international youth and I was able to be a mentor to them and in many ways this position was that of an overseas parent. I was responsible for their safety and well-being, enforcing campus and dorm specific rules, and providing a safe and fun environment. I also chaperoned many outings and trips with the students as well. Manufacturing Technician Intel Corporation - Hillsboro, OR August 2008 to February 2009 I worked in FAB-20 located in Hillsboro, OR. I worked in the area of dry-etch where I was responsible for running Wafers In Production (WIP). Additionally, I was responsible for daily preventive maintenance on a variety of machines used in the fab. Manufacturing Technician Intel Corporation - Hillsboro, OR October 2007 to April 2008 I worked in FAB-20 located in Hillsboro, OR. I worked in the area of dry-etch where I was responsible for running Wafers In Production (WIP). Additionally, I was responsible for daily preventive maintenance on a variety of machines used in the fab. Education Associate's Degree in Digital Systems Technology Umpqua Community College Skills Network Administration (2 years), Help Desk (5 years), Active Directory (2 years), System Administration (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/tyler