Assistant Research Business Analyst Assistant Research Business Analyst Assistant Research Business Analyst Austin, TX • Master's in Information Studies from The University of Texas at Austin  • 6+ years of total IT experience in the field of telecommunication: VOIP Network (Cisco Devices) and technical business analysis. Experienced the height of achievement and recognition by stepping into the field of technical troubleshooting and customer service  • Extensive hands-on experience of Unified Communication and Video Conferencing including Cisco Communications Manager, Unity Connection, Gateway protocols MGCP, H323, SIP, Cisco IM&Presence both on-premises and over the cloud, Jabber client, Cisco Telepresence, Voice and Video Endpoints  • Provided live VoIP technical assistance to Cisco customers with a focus on prompt resolution  • Managed the 24/7 monitoring of the VoIP Cisco Managed Network for 15+ Cisco clients and prevent network issues  • Ability to write and communicate system descriptions and specifications for both technical and non-technical audience  • Analyzed performance data of the team and provided recommendation for service improvement  • Strong knowledge of SDLC methodology and project life cycle, including Analysis, Design and Review of Business and Software Requirement Specifications.  • Excellent requirement elicitation skills increasing Business Specifications, Functional Specifications  • Proficient in data visualization, data modeling and data mapping using BI tools Tableau and Power BI  • Experienced in translating business requirements and user expectations into detailed specifications.  • Designing and developing User stories, Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Data Flow Diagrams Work Experience Assistant Research Business Analyst The University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX January 2019 to May 2019 Core involvement in pipelining and formatting the raw data collected from various sensors and surveys using python scripts, building a dashboard using Tableau for each participant data to determine the factors effecting the mood of the mother and their children for a total of 52 participants. Automating the process, so that the new participant data is included automatically into the dashboard. Writing the knowledge base document regarding the making and functioning of the dashboard, for easy use in future.    • Collected raw data from various sensors and past surveys using python scripts, to build a dashboard.  • Created the dashboard using Tableau, for each participant involved in the program in the given database.  • Conducted various requirement walk through sessions to help end to end users and participants.  • Analysed existing requirement documents and conducted sessions to better understand current reports.  • Translated business requirements, enabling it to be converted into understandable data for the functioning of dashboard.  • Analyzed user requirements, procedures, and problems to identify reuse opportunities of existing data elements and risks.  • Participated in data analysis process, designed and created data mapping documents.  • Reviewing and updating functional requirement documents use cases, scope change documents and mapping specifications.  • Gathered Business, Functional and Use Case Requirements.  • Involved in Requirement Gathering and analysis by interviewing users and participants of the program.    Environment: Reporting and BI, Insights and business analysis, defining the KPI's Senior Technical Specialist (Cisco Managed Services) HCL Technologies - Noida, Uttar Pradesh July 2015 to July 2017 • Analyzed performance data of the team and provided recommendation for service improvement  • Managed the 24/7 monitoring of the VOIP Cisco Network for 15+ Cisco clients  • Worked with cross functional teams and clients to develop business processes to streamline operations  • Assigned and guided the work of three support teams comprised of 15+ members in every shift across three countries    Environment: Cisco Unified Call Manager, Cisco IM&P, Cisco Jabber for Windows, MAC, iPhone, iPad, Cisco Unity Connection, Telepresence endpoints Business Operations and Product Manager Rohit Enterprises - Delhi, Delhi January 2012 to January 2017 • Managed all business operations and products for wedding card company  • Sales and Product Analysis of the new product designs introduced  • Added new clients resulting in increased profit by 20%  • Conducting requirements analysis and user interviews for requirement gathering, product designing and user experience    Environment: Requirement gathering, product design, cash-flow management, client-relationship management Associate Network Engineer Cisco TAC - Gurgaon, Haryana December 2012 to September 2014 • Provided live VoIP technical assistance to Cisco customers with a focus on prompt resolution  • Point of escalation for the team and mentor to the new trainees  • Creating tickets for customers and forwarding the cases and reports to the higher escalation team.    Environment: VOIP, CISCO switches, CISCO routers, H.323, MGCP, SIP, Call routing, CISCO Jabber Network Administrator Go Green Data Solution Pvt. Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2011 to June 2011 • Performed basic troubleshooting to provide SIP/SCCP phone issues to the customers within the provided turnaround time.  • Provided administrative resolutions to MACD issues.  • Performed bulk addition, deletion, modification of features for various users in the cluster for CISCO devices. Education Master of Science in Information Studies The University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX May 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Guru Tegh Bahadur Institute of Technology - Delhi, Delhi May 2012 Skills Mysql, Cisco, Clustering, Dns, Ipad, Iphone, Tableau, Ftp, Sip, Power bi, Predictive analytics, Html, Php, Python, Css, Linux, Business intelligence, Bi, Mac, Excel Additional Information SKILLS  Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint  Business Intelligence Tools: Tableau, Qlik sense, Power BI  Languages: HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, Basic knowledge of Python and R  Analytics: Clustering, Predictive Analytics, Picture Analytics, Gephi, NodeXL, LightSide, Sentiment Analytics  Linux and Datacenter: SAN, Arrays, Nexus7k, virtual machines, FTP, NTP and DNS  Networks: Cisco Unified Call Manager, Cisco IM&P, Cisco Jabber for Windows, MAC, iPhone, iPad, Cisco Unity Connection and Cisco VCS servers and gateway protocols (MGCP, H.323, SIP)