Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Ames Taping Tools Work Experience Network Administrator Ames Taping Tools - Suwanee, GA November 2018 to Present - Configure setup and maintain the main network infrastructure using Cisco ASA firewalls, Cisco Catalyst and Dell s4048 Switches in a VM environment  - Troubleshooting, diagnosing and resolving hardware, software, and other network and systems problems.  - Assist with configuration and changes of Citrix NetScaler 5550  - Assist with configuration and changes of VMWare 6.5  - Management and Administration of network connectivity of more than 80 stores nationwide.  - Document network changes, policies, procedures and drawing using Microsoft Visio and Excel. IT Analyst Ingenico Group - Alpharetta, GA November 2015 to November 2018 - Responsible to and monitor Server and Workstation backups, making sure DR tasks are in place as well as offsite replication using tape libraries and Exagrid Disk Storage appliances.  - Configure and Troubleshoot LAN/WAN traffic across all 3 local branches with Dell and HP switches as well as Meraki devices for wireless solutions  - Maintain and perform necessary changes on firewalls with Cisco ASA 5505 and PaloAlto series devices.  - Plan and assist in current and new network infrastructure changes.  - Document network changes, policies, procedure and drawings.  - Responsible for McAfee antivirus scans, monitoring, policies and procedure using ePO server and ENS clients.  - Setup and configure network and server monitoring using WhatsUp Gold and Dell Open Manage. IHG technical Analyst Level 2 Intercontinental Hotel Group - Atlanta, GA November 2013 to November 2015 - Provides support of LAN/WAN/VPN Networks  - Installs and configure software, build new servers, network monitoring, migrate data  - Troubleshooting of switches, routers, backing up and rebooting Servers windows 2003, 2008.  - Point of escalation for Tier 1 Support for all Hardware, Holidex, Perform, Network and Application issues  - Monitor backups on servers using Symantec Livestate Recovery and Shadow Protect. IHG Technical Analyst Saint Phillip Church - Atlanta, GA June 2013 to August 2013 IHG Technical Analyst  - Installs, Configuring and maintaining Desktop workstations, Laptops and Peripherals, including printers.  - Troubleshoot and resolve Issues with holidex Central reservation system  - Usage of Citrix for Active Directory, Ping trace and Iphone/Ipad/Blackberry solutions.  - Monitor and troubleshoot with Perform Revenue system for IHG.  - Usage of Bomgar for remote accessing, File transfers, command lines, jumping into client systems.  Saint Phillip Church, Atlanta, GA June 2013 - August 2013  Network Administrator Support (Externship)  - Microsoft Active Directory running on Windows Server 2003  - Active Directory User/Group/Printers Management  - Windows Server Builds  - Routing and Switching Configuration Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Networking and Communications Management Devry University - Decatur, GA November 2016 to June 2019 Associates Degree in Computer Information Systems in English as a Second Language Interactive College of Technology - Chamblee, GA January 2011 to August 2013 Associates Degree in Sound Engineering in Sound Engineering Fernando Sor University - Bogota, CO February 2008 to December 2009 Skills Networking, Active Directory, Vmware, Windows, Technical Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/juancaballero1