IT Site Administrator Supervisor IT Site <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Supervisor IT Site Administrator Supervisor - Lennar Homes Irvine, CA Work Experience IT Site Administrator Supervisor Lennar Homes - Irvine, CA 2015 to Present IT team support leader for 200 full time local employees and 200 remote employees throughout the West from administrative  staff to C-level executives. Evaluates, directs and manages support for enterprise desktop applications, messaging, web,  servers, audio visual and VoIP systems.    Administers desktop training, implements equipment standards, instruction of internal IT policies and procedures and best  practices for all staff including orientation for new hires nationally. Implements operating systems, hardware and software  upgrades and network infrastructure.    Strategic planning and execution during acquisitions and mergers. Manages non-Lennar equipment acquired and merged into compatible corporate standards.    Supervises and oversees policies in collaboration with all Lennar I support infrastructure groups. Hires, trains and evaluates IT  staff implementing best policies and procedures to accomplish maximum workflow and achieve excellence in customer  service. Desktop Support Tier II CenturyLink - Santa Clara, CA 2013 to 2015 Sole IT support leader for the West Coast branch consisting of over 60 local employees and 1,000 remote employees.  Educated users on technical solutions and provided reliable technical support. Directed and managed hardware, software and network system for cloud storage users. Managed operating systems providing analysis for the organization by identifying  needs for upgrades and replacements. IT Support Technician Central New Mexico Community College - Albuquerque, NM 2012 to 2013 Provided remote and telephone technical support for approximately 500 community college staff and 28,000 students.  Trained non-technical users through email and phone delivering user support including web, desktop and messaging  applications. Network Technician New Mexico Educators Federal Credit Union - Albuquerque, NM 2010 to 2012 Maintained physical network. Managed and monitored servers. Assisted with the installation and maintenance of various  backup servers, VoIP telephone systems, and data systems. Acted as the first level of network department support serving as a liaison between the Help Desk department and all employees. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX Skills Acrobat (8 years), Active Directory (8 years), audio visual (8 years), desktop applications (8 years), Troubleshooting (8 years)