Sr. Security Analyst Sr. Security Analyst Sr. IT Security Analyst Houston, TX Experienced, highly certified analyst looking to branch out to a new industry that will allow me  to use and further enhance my skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Security Analyst Cheniere - Houston, TX June 2018 to February 2019 Sr. IT Security Analyst HCC Service Company July 2012 to February 2018 Promoted to Sr. Analyst after 1 year. I was respected by upper management for my high  technical skill level and ability to work through complex problems under high pressure,  calmly. Also acknowledged for my ability to troubleshoot any technical issues. I obtained  most of my certifications here while being able to be hands on and responsible for all areas of IT Security.  • Loyalty Network Security Analyst Alertlogic - Houston, TX September 2011 to July 2012 Where I gained a lot of my cyber security and pen testing knowledge by working with really intelligent people. We managed the IPS/IDS for nearly 3,000 customers. IT Administrator Diamond Visionics - Vestal, NY June 2010 to August 2011 The start of my career where I started as an intern. This was a small company that allowed  me to be the "goto" person for all things IT related.  SKILLS  • Intrusion Analysis - Experienced in TCP/IP examination along with many years of managing and reviewing IPS, IDS alerts. Able to create custom snort rules for accurate  detection. 7 years  • SIEM / Log Review - Administered and reviewed events from to major SIEM players.  Created custom correlation rules. 6 years  • Computer Forensics - Certified in the forensics field where I worked closely with legal  to handle both internal and external cases. 5 years  • E-Discovery - Managed our E-discovery suite of tools for legal and was the lead analyst  for Edisc cases that didn't fall under forensics. 6 years  • Incident Handling - Experienced with handling small to major incidents in a large  corporate environment from start to finish. 7 years  • Web Filtering / Proxy - Designed and deployed our corporate web filtering and proxy  environment. I am trained and skilled with using Cisco WCCP for transparent proxies.  • Windows Active Directory - Strong understanding of all the MS related Windows server  functions such as AD, DNS, DHCP, ASDI Edit, RSAT, etc. 8 years Education High School Diploma Broome Community College - Binghamton, NY 2009 to 2011 University of Advancing Technology - Tempe, AZ 2007 to 2009 Skills AIR COMPLIANCE (Less than 1 year), compliance regulations (Less than 1 year), Corporate Security (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Security (7 years) Additional Information • Operating Systems - I am a heavy Linux user who understands how to navigate and  administer servers and clients via the CLI. I also have extensive Windows knowledge  given the high end user use of Windows.  • Corporate Security Policies and Compliance - Certifications and on the job experience  has given me the skills needed to understand both internal security polices, and  external compliance regulations such and PCI, SOX, etc. 7 years  • Technical Writing - Strong technical writing skills from years of having to create policy  and procedure docs. 8 years