Network Engineer Intern <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Intern Network Engineer/Information Security Specialist Saint Paul, MN To secure a challenging position as a Computer Network Engineer where I can be a member of a team and utilize my computer knowledge and customer service skills to the fullest. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Intern BlueCross BlueShield of Minnesota - Eagan, MN September 2018 to Present • Cisco 9300/9400 switch refresh project to replace multiple Cisco 3650/3700/4500 switches nearing end of support.  • Minor configuration of Cisco 9300/9400 switches.  • SSL enterprise certificate monitoring and management.  • Network traffic monitoring using SolarWinds to generate weekly, monthly, yearly, and historical reports for IT management.  • Work ServiceNow incident tickets to assist internal clients with open issues. Billing Specialist BlueCross BlueShield of Minnesota - Eagan, MN August 2016 to August 2018 Work alongside operations managers, business analysts, and coworkers to develop and implement  software to streamline daily workflow.  • Assist customers with inquiries regarding their current health insurance policy and payments daily while maintaining a high level of accuracy.  • Audit production work to ensure accuracy. Loss Prevention/Claims Administrator Manna Freight Systems - Mendota Heights, MN March 2013 to April 2016 • Responded to daily claims emails and client phone calls to ensure customer satisfaction while maintaining company quota.  • Prepared and entered daily claim packets into company database with a high level of accuracy.  • Audited and monitored accuracy costs of Vizio brand television for analytical reporting to top  company executives. Accounts Payable Specialist Midwest Carriers, LLC - Eagan, MN May 2012 to March 2013 • Promoted to Accounts Payable Specialist position within first two months of employment.  • Reconciled and tracked accounts payable transactions for truck driver salary and daily expenses.  • Researched and resolved account discrepancies and issues.  • Prepared analysis of accounts and provided reports to Management.  • Ensured documents to be in compliance with policies of the company and accepted practices of accounting. Education Associate in Cyber Security Saint Paul College-A Community and Technical College - Saint Paul, MN August 2017 to Present Associate in Computer Network Engineering Saint Paul College-A Community and Technical College - Saint Paul, MN August 2017 to May 2020 Skills ACCESS (Less than 1 year), CUSTOMER SERVICE (5 years), DATA ENTRY (6 years), EXCEL (4 years), Cisco (1 year), Cabling (1 year), Networking (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate December 2017 to December 2020 Microsoft Technology Associate Certified - Networking Fundamentals Microsoft Technology Associate May 2019 to May 2022 Microsoft Technology Associate Certified - Cyber Security Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/va1ijnmghwbzt7-q Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bl-uj0jo00iwnszr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills & Proficiencies:  • Currently working on CCNA certification  • Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) Certified (Networking/Cyber Security)  • Microsoft Suite (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Access), 10 Key Data Entry  • Excellent computer networking and desktop computer hardware knowledge.  • 5+ years customer service experience.  • Bilingual in Hmong and English.