liaison between patients and care coordinators to assist liaison between patients and care coordinators to assist liaison between patients and care coordinators to assist - Dedicated Nursing Associates, Inc Reliable, focused state tested nursing assistant with excellent patient care and practical skills developed over the last 8 years. Willing to deliver superior clinical skills to any residential or health care facility. Work Experience liaison between patients and care coordinators to assist Dedicated Nursing Associates, Inc - Columbus, OH April 2019 to Present Columbus, OH April 2019 to Current  STNA  ? Travels to different facilities weekly to serve patients in hospitals and nursing facilities.  ? Acted as a liaison between patients and care coordinators to assist with patient needs or concerns.  ? Helped patients tend to daily needs (personal care, activities of daily living, transfers and transport). Medical Staff Network - Columbus, OH June 2018 to Present STNA Medical Staff Network Medical Staff Network - Columbus, OH January 2018 to Present Travels to different facilities within Medical Staff Network daily to assist patients.  ? Trains new employees and maintained effective communication with other healthcare professionals.  Able Home Heath - Columbus, OH January 2018 - Current  STNA  ? Assist patients with eating, restroom visits, bathing, walking and other ADL's.  ? Provided guidance with IADL's (Transportation, shopping, preparing meals, managing medications etc.) Claims administrator Garden City Group July 2014 to December 2017 Assisted claimants within a settlement class.  ? Answered claimants' questions regarding their claims.  ? Performed quality assurance on other representatives in the call center to confirm accuracy across the center. Youth leader, Supervisor Pomergrante Health - Columbus, OH February 2012 to June 2014 Worked with children with mild to severe behavioral and physiological challenges.  ? Organized therapeutic groups and meetings which help the children cope with their issues.  ? Supervised youth daily.  ? Held children responsible of their actions and taught best life practices.  ? Supervised staff and maintained a high level of safety and security at all times on the premise. Education LPN Central Ohio Technical College August 2018 to August 2019 College Prep Reynoldsburg High School Skills Cpr, Medical terminology, Patient care, Hipaa, Excellent communication skills, Documentation, Scheduling, Microsoft Excel, Organizational Skills Additional Information Areas of expertise  CPR and first-aid certified (2019) Knowledgeable in medical terminology.  Patient and environmental safety. HIPAA and patient privacy.  Proficient in basic skills of patient care. Excellent communication skills.  Vital signs and patient observation. Use of proper documentation standards.