Interface Support Specialist Interface Support Specialist Interface Support Specialist - Nextgen Healthcare Lansdale, PA Work Experience Interface Support Specialist Nextgen Healthcare - Horsham, PA February 2019 to Present Responsibilities  Troubleshoot technical issues and escalate bugs appropriately by live chat, email and phone support. Document and manage customer interactions via SalesForce CRM. Cultivate customer engagement and proactively seek opportunities to educate and enable user's software. configure solutions for electronic health records (EHR), practice management. Manage and assist in the configuration of HL-7 and other interfaces between HISP, particularly NextGen. Participate in interoperability projects as identified and implemented within Center Applications projects and/or other product environments - such as HIE, HISP, Direct, CCD-A, etc.Collaborate with Insight team and external vendors on QA and end to end testing.Monitor, manage and maintain connectivity status via Rosetta Interface engine in NextGen.Troubleshoot system issues with HISP and communicate issues and resolutions to Insight team and others appropriately and in a timely manner, working as the Insight team liaison to the IT team, including updates to SharePoint lists, identifying need for NewsFlashes and urgent communications to team members and/or end users.Investigate and resolve internal application issues as related to NextGen including BBP reporting, Rosetta Interface Agent, File Maintenance and System Administrator, template editor, template import/export. Quality Assurance Analyst Windstream - Little Rock, AR March 2017 to August 2017 Responsibilities  Specifications (requirements, design) User documentation. Test plans, test design, case, and procedure specifications, Test data and test generation procedures. Support software used in development, even though not part of the delivered software product. Involved in gathering requirements from users and translated in to system requirements and specifications. Involved in developing Test Cases, Test Scripts and Test Scenarios from business, technical and functional requirement documents. Create test cases from requirements. Directing the entire configuration management effort. Resolving all problems and situations that arise during the effort. Using the SCM system as its primary decision-making resource. Testing and data validation of web services, libraries, API endpoints, SQL and none SQL databases. Develop product test strategies from product inception through roll-out of maintenance releases. Create reports and update management on status of QA, test results, plans, and schedule changes. Performed Functional Testing with the Web Service and overall system testing. Used ALM/Quality Center to maintain the test documents. Analyzed application, system, and security errors. Escalated issues to developers and verified fixes. Used SQL Queries for data validation. Attended weekly defect report meetings and presented progress updates to defect review board.Collaborate with Insight team and external vendors on QA and end to end testing.Monitor, manage and maintain connectivity status via Rosetta Interface engine in NextGen.  Implement and manage product, network and interoperability monitoring tools to assist in monitoring of unplanned inactivity. Tester/Business Analyst Northrop Grumman - Little Rock, AR April 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  Involved in preparing Test plans that included Testing strategies, test scripts and test data for Integration, Functional, User, Security requirements of the application. Created Scenarios and performed scenario based testing. Designed, updated and reviewed Test Cases. Plans, arranges and controls meetings and relations with the State and project team(s) during test planning and throughout subsequent development and testing activities. Involved in Functional, System, Integration, Regression and User Acceptance testing. Created test data, executed test cases & test interfaces. Performed End to End Testing.  Logged and tracked defects in Quality Center or MTM that include business impact and track testing progress. Reported bugs, communicated notifications to the developers using defect tracking tool Quality  Center. Co-operates with the State and project team(s) as required; maintains awareness of testing alternatives at a level where they can be analyzed and the most effective testing strategy selected and agreed. Generated detailed bug reports, pass/fail reports and comparison charts using Quality Center.  Extensively used SQL Queries for data validation. Used TFS to generate Reports, worked on testing status, reporting to the higher management and retesting the fixes. Worked with developers and project managers to prioritize and resolve issues during testing phase. Developed and conducted system and user acceptance test plans on completion of system testing before Installation of the application on user environment. Interacted with developers and team leaders on defect status and review of defects in daily meetings. Quality Assurance Analyst Direct Student Aid - Delray Beach, FL December 2012 to March 2015 Responsibilities  Involved in preparing test plans that included testing strategies, test scripts and test data for Integration, functional, User, Security requirements of the application. Test routing and wireless performance. Measure speed testing. Provide metric backed performance tuning recommendations to both infrastructure and applications teams. Created Scenarios and performed scenario based testing. Designed, updated and reviewed test cases. Performed End-End Testing manually before automated testing. Worked on testing status, reporting to the higher management and retesting the fixes. Manage and monitor the regression and performance test documentation, SDLC documentation and risk related materials define, implement, and evangelize performance testing best practices. Created test data, executed test cases & test interfaces. Performed Functional testing and System testing using HP service test. Performed Positive testing, Negative Testing and Boundary testing. Provides oversight/approval of vendor unit/system integrated test plans and test results Education DDS Monroe College - Bronx, NY Skills Ehr, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Qa testing, Configuration management, Deployment, Software configuration, Software configuration management, Hl-7, Application testing, Software development, Xml, Sdlc, Ui, Soap, Billing, Functional testing Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    ? 5 years of experiences in Functional testing in Agile and waterfall environment  ? Experience in full software development lifecycle SDLC using agile methodologies such as Scrum.  ? Government healthcare system.  ? Database: Oracle, SQL Server, MYSQL.  ? Experience in all stages of application testing, including backend testing, functional and regression testing.  ? Preparing Financial Statements.  ? Clearly communicates job expectations to team members and holds them accountable for results.  ? Supports strategic planning activities.  ? Financial/Billing Analysis.  ? Able to communicate and make presentations.  ? Well organized, self-motivated, efficient time management.  ? Works on resolving a wide range of issues in an imaginative and practical way.  ? Uses discretion and independent judgment in their area of responsibility.  ? Significant in the training and/or development of others.  ? Web Service testing using Soap UI with basic XML knowledge.  ? Analytical skills and Logical reasoning.  ? Strong judgment and instincts.  ? Highly collaborative & influential.  ? Experience in Software Configuration Management Plan.  ? Able to prioritize in complex fast-paced environment.  ? Highly Motivated, Adaptability, Consistency, Positivity.  ? Willingness to learn and suggest process improvements.  ? Ability to rapidly pick up new technologies and platforms.  ? Agile project management experience in a similar environment with respect to small teams, projects of 1-3 month duration, working closely with development, business analysts, other testers and infrastructure teams regarding product deployment and testing in all stages.  ? Familiar with creating and reviewing test plans, defect management, and executing test cases  ? Proficiency using automated test tools to create and conduct QA testing.  ? The ability to effectively coordinate communications and planning with stakeholders and client QA teams.  ? NEXTGEN SHARE.  ? Rosetta  ? Mirth Connect  ? EHR Connect Interface  ? HL-7  ? HISP  ? Datashare- care quality short script service  ? CCD- it contains patient data that can be imported.  ? OpenVPN  ? NextGen Webservice