Network Engineer IV <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer IV Network Engineer IV - Hexagon US Federal Madison, AL To further advance as a senior Network Engineer in Huntsville AL, and lead a team in providing a customer-first support environment. To utilize all of the expertise I have gained through years of experience with commercial and other government organizations such as ACE-IT, DYNETICS, and HQAMC.    Security Clearance:  Cleared for Secret information. Work Experience Network Engineer IV Hexagon US Federal - Madison, AL August 2017 to Present • Establishes network specifications by conferring with users; analyzing workflow, access, information, and security requirements.  • Maintains network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting network problems; escalating problems to vender.  • Deployment on Windows and Linux servers for DHCP, DNS, and NPS.  • Maintaining a heuristic monitoring solution providing security and DLP.  • Upgrading and standing up new sites and datacenters with L2 switching infrastructure. Using protocols such as BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, and Edge Routing.  • Secures network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation; maintaining documentation.  • Establishes network by evaluating network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput, and latency, planning and executing the selection, installation, configuration, and testing of equipment; defining network policies and procedures; establishing connections and firewalls.  • Protects organization value by keeping information confidential.  • Deploying PKI and two factor authentication for DFARS requirements in complex environments.  • Update job knowledge by participating in educational opportunities; reading professional publications; maintaining personal networks; participating in professional organizations.  • Creating VPN tunnels per request via Palo Alto, JUNOS, or Fortinet firewalls.  • Administration, maintaining, and performance of all network based hardware, such as Avaya switches, JUNOS, SCREENOS, Palo Alto, Juniper, Fortinet firewalls, Asterisk VoIP systems, Switchvox, and Windows DHCP servers.  • Adding new desk/patch locations by running cable from the patch panel to desired location.  • Setting up new offices and office moves by configuring firewalls, switches, VoIP and servers.  • Traveling to multiple locations within and outside of the US to setup remote offices, conferences, and events.  • Accomplishes organization coals by accepting ownership for accomplishing new and different requests; exploring opportunities to add value to job accomplishments Senior MIS Analyst/ Network Engineer Intergraph/Hexagon - Madison, AL June 2014 to August 2017 • Establishes network specifications by conferring with users; analyzing workflow, access, information, and security requirements.  • Maintains network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting network problems; escalating problems to vender.  • Secures network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation; maintaining documentation.  • Establishes network by evaluating network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput, and latency, planning and executing the selection, installation, configuration, and testing of equipment; defining network policies and procedures; establishing connections and firewalls.  • Protects organization value by keeping information confidential.  • Update job knowledge by participating in educational opportunities; reading professional publications; maintaining personal networks; participating in professional organizations.  • Creating VPN tunnels per request via Palo Alto, JUNOS, SCREENOS or Fortinet firewalls.  • Administration, maintaining, and performance of all network based hardware, such as Avaya switches, JUNOS, SCREENOS, Palo Alto, Juniper, Fortinet firewalls, Asterisk VoIP systems, Switchvox, and Windows DHCP servers.  • Adding new desk/patch locations by running cable from the patch panel to desired location.  • Setting up new offices and office moves by configuring firewalls, switches, VoIP and servers.  • Traveling to multiple locations within and outside of the US to setup remote offices, conferences, and events.  • Accomplishes organization coals by accepting ownership for accomplishing new and different requests; exploring opportunities to add value to job accomplishments Onsite System/ Network Administrator Gigaparts - Huntsville, AL February 2014 to June 2014 • Imaged laptops with Windows XP/Vista/7 via a bootable USB flash drive. Provided a seamless, behind-the-scenes network refresh to extremely cut back customer involvement.  • Initial configuration of applications for laptops and workstations to include Microsoft Outlook, NIC configuration, mapping network drives, and VPN Connections. The personal interaction was an important part of providing customers a comfort level with the new Operation System.  • Installation of hardware, & peripherals.  • Tier II troubleshooting of initial hardware outages involving keyboards, mice, printers, monitors & video cards.  • Support the software technicians by ensuring reliable network connectivity to push desktop images from the network PDC to each individual workstation. Saved team countless hours of troubleshooting.  • Remove malware, spyware, trojans, backdoors, and other malicious files from computers.  • Exercise clear communication skills with customers, ensuring their computers are secure in my care.  • Repaired all types of electronic devices, such as: Printers, scanners, fax machines, phone systems, cell phones, and radios.    • Helped maintain, customize, and build DoD servers and workstations.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Maintain network servers such as file servers, VPN gateways, intrusion detection systems.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  • Support LANs, WANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Maintain system efficiency.  • Ensure design of system allows all components to work properly together.  • Troubleshoot problems reported by users.  • Make recommendations for future upgrades.  • Maintain network and system security. System Administrator Dynetics inc - Huntsville, AL May 2013 to February 2014 • Support LANs, WANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Maintain system efficiency.  • Ensure design of system allows all components to work properly together.  • Troubleshoot problems reported by users.  • Make recommendations for future upgrades.  • Maintain network and system security.  • Analyze and isolate issues.  • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.  • Evaluate and modify system's performance.  • Identify user needs.  • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.  • Design and deploy networks.  • Perform network address assignment.  • Assign routing protocols and routing table configuration.  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Maintain network servers such as file servers, VPN gateways, intrusion detection systems.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.    Onsite Support: Printer Technician Xerox Services - Huntsville, AL October 2012 to May 2013 • Maintain Remedy trouble-ticket system to track system restoration progress and keep record of various problem/ resolution scenarios. This operation is vital in maintaining quality assurance and avoiding future outages for the HQAMC.  • Carry out regular preventative maintenance checks on client fleet of machines  • Proactively resolve and escalate issues  • Order and replenish consumables  • Maintain log of all activities including on-site parts inventory  • Maintain clean and tidy devices and surrounding environment  • Repair on the full line of black and white or color digital copiers.  • Interface with Customer Service Organization Help Desk Desktop Support EMCO Technologies - Huntsville, AL November 2011 to April 2012 • Maintain Remedy trouble-ticket system to track system restoration progress and keep record of various problem/ resolution scenarios. This operation is vital in maintaining quality assurance and avoiding future outages for the ACE DOIM (Army Corps of Engineers).  • Use SCCM to remotely troubleshoot local system outages. Minimized the amount of travel time required to support customer throughout ACE, AL and allows for more staff to facilitate in-house trouble calls.  • Manage network computers via Active Directory interface to install new workstations and monitor user profile information and permissions.  • Meet all Information Assurance prerequisites for US Army network vulnerability prevention.  • Tier I/ Tier II troubleshooting of hardware outages involving keyboards, mice, printers, monitors & video cards, etc.; software outages to include MS Office 2003/ 2007 applications, Army Gold Master images, device drivers, and other mission-specific software. Minimized system downtime for ACE senior leadership and their immediate staff by up to 20 hours.  • Well acquainted with CAC readers, certificates, device drivers, and operability.  • Work with DOIM Server Team, and Network Services Group to restore outages related to MS Exchange Mailboxes, network switch port security, local-group policies. This improved customer moral by cutting back the amount of interaction involved by the customer. IT Technician Gigaparts - Huntsville, AL February 2011 to November 2011 • Imaged laptops with Windows XP/Vista/7 via a bootable USB flash drive. Provided a seamless, behind-the-scenes network refresh to extremely cut back customer involvement.  • Initial configuration of applications for laptops and workstations to include Microsoft Outlook, NIC configuration, mapping network drives, and VPN Connections. The personal interaction was an important part of providing customers a comfort level with the new Operation System.  • Installation of hardware, & peripherals.  • Tier II troubleshooting of initial hardware outages involving keyboards, mice, printers, monitors & video cards.  • Support the software technicians by ensuring reliable network connectivity to push desktop images from the network PDC to each individual workstation. Saved team countless hours of troubleshooting.  • Remove malware, spyware, trojans, backdoors, and other malicious files from computers.  • Exercise clear communication skills with customers, ensuring their computers are secure in my care.  • Repaired all types of electronic devices, such as: Printers, scanners, fax machines, phone systems, cell phones, and radios.  • Helped maintain, customize, and build DoD servers and workstations. IT Manager Staples - Huntsville, AL November 2010 to February 2011 • Managed a team of PC Support Technicians to provide excellent support among all customers.  • Assisted with sales, and provided peer coaching on selling new technologies.  • Maintained a work environment that invited customers into a clean department with reliable service.  • Obtained profitable sales and achievement of goals while performing other related duties as assigned.  • Aligned own work plan with core plans and processes of the department.  • Practiced management execution by making sure work was completed within the specified time and quality parameters, and built to requirements.  • Projected a positive image in hopes of serving as a role model for others.  • Innovative problem solver that can see both the business and technical sides of a problem  • Built adaptation skills by remaining calm during tense situations.  • Troubleshooting laptops, desktops, PDAs, hardware peripherals, and laptop related software. Education Associate Skills Cisco, Active Directory, Exchange, Security, Vmware, Juniper, Avaya, Fortinet, Firewalls, Palo Alto, Netgear