PreSales Engineer PreSales Engineer PreSales Engineer Mars, PA I will always bring a good attitude to any task put in front of me. I will always work towards excellence and providing the best service possible. I work effectively as part of a team as well as individually. I am motivated and will strive to make any situation I am a part of better. I am very passionate about meeting people and building professional relationships that last. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PreSales Engineer Applications2U - Pittsburgh, PA June 2019 to Present • Working with the PreSales team to provide solutions to our customers that our methodically approached and delivered  • I work closely with our Sales Team to understand their needs and provide them with support while building relationships with our customers  • Meeting with customers to learn about their environments and then working towards the best possible solutions  • Constantly learning about new technologies and strategizing on how to bring them to our customers in ways that will streamline the customers workflow Systems Engineer Applications2U - Cranberry Township, PA September 2018 to June 2019 • Currently monitoring six different MSP contracts at a level 2 systems engineering level  • Using tools like N-Central and Connect wise Automate to patching schedules and reporting on hardware and software thresholds for all servers in their environment  • Managing customers Office365 environments at a high security level, reporting on intrusion detection and current vulnerabilities  • Strategic planning at a high level of network architecture for new and existing clients.  • Mentoring lower tiered staff to ensure the company is in a strategic position to hire from within and continue knowledge of existing customer environments  • Ability to work remotely or on site with the customers. Professional and well groomed with the ability to explain technical issues to non technical executives so they can make informed business decisions about their networks and continued technology growth  • some of the systems we are responsible for are Cisco Merak's, SonicWalls, ESX hosts, Citrix servers, Datto disaster recovery solutions, Windows servers 2008 R2 to 2016 Data center, DNS changes, DHCP scoping, Certificate renewal and installation, Active Directory(Building new forests or supporting existing forests), Symantec,   • I have been mentored in my IT career by executives and IT managers who have put me in a fantastic position to make informed IT business solution decisions with reporting and documentation to support Systems and Network Administrator I Family Services of Western PA - Pittsburgh, PA November 2014 to September 2018 - Server Maintenance(Microsoft Server 2008, 2012, 2016, Office365)  - Creating and maintaining Active Directory forests and Microsoft Exchange Migration from On Prem to Office365.  - Maintain current Asset management records and all the IT equipment ordering for an Agency of 1200+ employees.  - All hardware maintenance and repairs or contact with the Warranty Vendor to have it remotely fixed and shipped back. Also doing a lot of the hardware repair myself.  - Oversaw a site addition of 220 workstations and handled the $350k lease and implementation of said equipment.  - Worked on a complete conversion from a Microsoft Exchange Server to Office365.  - Workstation deployment and troubleshooting.  - Troubleshooting technical issues with Network Printers (TCP/IP issues) and basic troubleshooting on Xerox Printers.  - Maintenance of Wireless Access points and twenty different Sonic Wall Locations.  - Supported End User issues remotely and on site and implemented a call tracking system to log each issue as it came in.  - Oversaw an encryption project of over 160 mobile devices.  - Implemented the conversion to Ubiquiti Access points and switches to have a seamless transition of WiFi for all users across all of our 40 sites.  -Oversee our mobile device account consisting of 300+ mobile phones and MiFi devices.  -Currently working through a merger with another agency and building out a new domain as well as bringing the new agency into Office 365. Included with all the documentation and process sheets for these steps. Customer Support Specialist I Mosaix Software - Pittsburgh, PA September 2013 to November 2014 • Customer Service  • Technical support of over 15 web based applications used by state and federal  governments  • Strong oral and written communication skills  • Day to day troubleshooting of user and technical errors Education Associates in Information Technology Westmoreland County Community College - Youngwood, PA May 2013 Skills Microsoft Office (4 years), Microsoft Exchange Server (2 years), Active Directory Server (2 years), Microsoft Server 2012 (2 years), Windows 7 (6 years), Windows 10 (1 year), Active Directory, Windows, Technical Support, Customer Service, Networking, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses Certified SonicWall Security Administrator Present Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fre7unblhp3rfpjn Email — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/y2a75fd08jwstzm6 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ikmnmeybacgcojym Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.