Lead Technician at Berkshire Local Schools Lead Technician at Berkshire Local Schools CO-OP, PCC AIRFOILS Painesville, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Technician at Berkshire Local Schools Lake Geauga Computer Association - Concord, OH March 2019 to Present Provide support to students and staff on all forms of technology.  Oversee health and replacement of all technology including iPads, chromebooks, Windows laptops and desktops, and network and server equipment.  Deal with vendors and purchasers to provide school district with as many of the best options possible.  Saved the district over 30,000 dollars on a large laptop purchase. CO-OP, PCC AIRFOILS PRESSENT June 2018 to January 2019 * Team member responsible for day-to-day technical troubleshooting at three local locations and one remote location. This includes working on desktops, laptops, printers and various other office equipment to ensure proper function for employees and staff.  * Responsible for all printers across all locations, including dealing with service contract.  * Actively working to improve networking knowledge and skills wherever applicable. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR NEWBURY TECHNOLOGIES March 2017 to June 2018 * Responsible for day-to-day technical troubleshooting at numerous local business in Lake, Cuyahoga, Ashtabula and Geauga counties.  * Worked daily on desktop and laptop computers, phones, tablets, printers and office equipment to ensure proper function.  * Maintained an advanced understanding of computer hardware, operating systems and network infrastructure.  * Administrator of Active Directory; work with OUs and Group Policy  * Work frequently with Linux terminal. TECHNICAL SUPPORT MANAGER & CUSTOMER SERVICE MANAGER DATA RECOVERY CORPORATION May 2016 to March 2017 * Responsible for all customer service actions including complaints, refunds and company reviews. Interacted regularly with office personnel to resolve customer issues.  * Managed technical support specialists and technical escalations.  * Performed administrative actions such as elevating client's cases through the next phase of contract and making refund request decisions.  * Performed troubleshooting for clients and personnel remotely within the office. Education ASSOCIATES DEGREE in IT & COMPUTER SCIENCE LAKELAND COMMUNITY COLLEGE December 2018 Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE (4 years), Linux (2 years), RECEPTIONIST (1 year), Team player (10+ years), Networking, Active Directory, Vmware, Windows, Technical Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jacob-walendzik-bb0659a1/ Additional Information SKILLS  • Team player  • Quick learner  • Leadership    • Strong knowledge of Linux CentOS  • Strong knowledge of Windows 10  • Strong customer service