IT Technician IT Technician IT Technician - HRD Aero Systems Inc Valencia, CA IT Support Technician with system maintenance and consulting background. Experienced in hardware and software troubleshooting and analysis of diverse problems. Ability to quickly analyze, diagnose and fix problem. Analytical and detail oriented problem solver, good team player and ability to handle multiple projects. Excellent in cost reduction, productivity and improvement projects. Strong communication skills, self motivated and ability to work in challenging and stressful environments. Keeps current with new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Technician HRD Aero Systems Inc - Valencia, CA May 2017 to Present - Provide complete tech support for all users: Maintain up to date software, troubleshoot computer and network related issues  - Manage end user computer/software images for each different computer model  - Deploy, troubleshoot, repair, and upgrade workstations    - Provide orientation to new employees on their computer systems    - Providing staff with proper software training for better productivity    - Maintaining all computer related inventory    - Planned and researched new technology requirements Technician II Consolidated Data Services - Woodland Hills, CA October 2014 to February 2017 - Provide complete tech support for all users: Maintain up to date software, troubleshoot computer and network related issues.  - Maintain Footprints IT ticketing system for all IT related issues/requests.    - Manage all computer leases and equipment, new leases and lease end equipment. Swap out computers.  - Manage end user computer/software images for each different computer model.  - Manage Mimecast Spam server requests: releasing emails, whitelisting specified domains.  - Manage weekly offsite Iron Mountain backup and all shadow backup file retrieval requests.  - Creating/Deleting, modifying accounts within Active Directory.    - Managing all FTP requests for new accounts, password resets, deleting unused accounts.  - Processing all PGP file transfer requests between agency and vendors.    - Providing staff with proper software training for better productivity.    - Providing all new employees with orientation.    - Documenting all equipment assigned to users.    - Setting up presentations for employees and guests in conference rooms.    - Providing printer maintenance across all printers, changing toners, removing paper jams, calling service.  - Managing all personal printers in offices.    - Setting up company email on employee personal devices. Network Administrator AGM - Van Nuys, CA December 2012 to October 2014 - Running all facets of the day-to-day IT operations including but not limited to hardware and software systems.  - Troubleshooting both hardware and software issues.    - Maintaining and managing all IT inventory including monitors, printers, and peripherals.  Network Administrator Malakan Diamond    Oct 2006 - Apr 2011 Fresno, CA  - Identified, researched, and recommended Server exceeding company's demands while cutting cost by 30%  - Planned and researched 15 new Workstations 20% under budget    - Tasked with ordering all networking equipment including Servers, Switches, UPSes  - Deploy, troubleshoot, repair, and upgrade workstations    - Performing daily/incremental backups with EMC*2 Networker    - Applying Microsoft Windows operating system updates, patches, and configuration changes  - Adding, deleting, modifying user accounts in Active Directory    - Weekly monitoring of Server and Workstation performance    - Insuring that the network infrastructure is up and running    - Assist personnel of other departments as a computer resource    - Provide computer orientation to new company staff    - Aiding foreign SQL developer with Windows SQL Server 2008 based ERP solution Desktop Technician Elite Fashion Accessories April 2004 to June 2006 - Installed 5 new Desktops utilizing identical hardware increasing workflow by 10%  - Identified, researched and recommended new internet service provider, cutting the company's online costs by 20%  - Performed daily Tape Backup    - Maintaining network performance between Workstations and Server Education Associate of Science Heald College 2003 to 2004 Associate of Science Heald College 2003 to 2003 Associate of Science in Computer Science Heald College 2000 to 2002 Skills Vmware, Android, Ios, Imaging, Imaging software, Desktop Support, Information Technology, Network Support, It Specialist, Help Desk Assessments Technical Support — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ua8tlorj-vierdfh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.