Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Eugene, OR To work closely with a strong team of people who have the same passion I do for planning, implementing, and maintaining technology in ways that best serves the organization's needs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer StepUP IT Services - Eugene, OR May 2017 to Present • Managed services provider for more than 50 SMB and government clients with more than 200 servers and 1,200 workstations to include service desk support, onsite service and project implementation.  • Dedicated field engineer for the company's largest client as well as lead engineer for a dozen other clients.  • Extensive experience with the Autotask PSA and I.T. Glue documentation systems.  • Hypervisor deployment, configuration, support and recovery with VMware ESXi systems.  • Windows Server deployment, configuration, advanced setup, advanced diagnosis of issues with 2003 through 2019 in complex Active Directory environments.  • Mailbox creation and support for user and public mailboxes in Exchange 2007 through 2016.  • Workstation, user support, and management on Windows 7 through 10 providing high quality customer service via phone, e-mail, and in person to include creation and maintenance of basic group policy as well as malware diagnosis and removal.  • Systems support in Office 365; Datto RMM; Cisco ASA; Ubiquiti Networks UniFi; Cisco AnyConnect; Veeam Backup & Replication, Datto Backup; Webroot SecureAnywhere; ESET; Mitel phone systems, and more.  • Service desk duties to include help desk support, Active Directory maintenance, mobile device management, and more.  • Project scopes including site surveys, system engineering, scheduling, and execution.  • Staff development including new employee onboarding, systems walkthrough, on the job mentoring, and more. I.T. Administrator Total Network Designs - Louisville, KY February 2016 to May 2017 • Managed services provider for more than 75 SMB clients with 50 servers and 500 workstations to include monitoring, maintenance, service and project implementation.  • Strong skills in exceeding customer experience expectation, process documentation, project timeliness, team communication, help desk escalation, remote management systems, etc.  • Daily monitoring to include local and offsite backups, patch management, system optimization, security check compliance, etc.  • Local and remote support experience including Dell SonicWALL; HPE Aruba; Acronis; Nextiva.  • Project scopes including network and security audits, domain migrations, Office 365 migrations, network upgrades, mass workstation implementations and more.  • Staff development including technical procedures, customer service, project scheduling and best practices. Account Coordinator Courier-Journal Media - Louisville, KY October 2015 to February 2016 • Accurate order entry, design and fulfillment of both print and online classified advertising for real estate service providers.  • Consultative selling of made-to-fit advertising services. Operations Manager Like Family Lawn Care - Shelbyville, KY April 2015 to October 2015 • Project manager for small business providing professional lawn care, grounds maintenance, landscaping and various outdoors needs for wide range of commercial and residential clients.  • Daily account service involving scheduling as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance. Account Manager Creative-image technologies - Shelbyville, KY February 2011 to March 2015 • Inside sales with heavy emphasis on customer service, product consultation and account coordination.  • Dedicated manager for the company's two largest education accounts, as well as all customers in Indiana, with additional spot support for others as needed.  • Streamlined existing procedures for improved efficiency and filled policy gaps.  • Improved the quality assurance process for the order management systems.  • Develop and perform new-hire training. Education None in Professional Aviation Major Indiana State University - Terre Haute, IN September 2002 to December 2003 None in Professional Aviation Major Southeastern Oklahoma State University - Durant, OK September 2001 to May 2002 High school or equivalent in General Studies with Theology Major Christian Liberty Academy - Arlington Heights, IL September 1999 to May 2001 Skills Exchange (3 years), Active Directory (3 years), VMware (2 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Windows Server (3 years), Windows (10+ years), DNS (3 years), VPN (2 years), Networking (3 years), LAN (3 years), firewalls (1 year), Cisco (1 year), Datto Unified Continuity (1 year), Veeam Backup & Replication (2 years) Military Service Branch: U.S. Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant September 2003 to September 2009 Combat Weather Technician serving as a Non-Commissioned Officer. Commendations: • Indiana Commendation Medal for Exceptional Meritorious Service  • Air Force Achievement Medal for Outstanding Achievement  • Air Force Commendation Medal for Meritorious Service  • Honorable Discharge Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ May 2016 to May 2019 Datto Technical Specialist I July 2019 to Present CompTIA Network+ In-progress with completion by 2020. Microsoft Windows 10: Deploying Devices (MD-100) March 2019 to Present Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1dlgfzpgr-gfvkzr Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/oc6pfxu2j5hab651 Problem Solving — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yagofwnmfswb8wwt Attention to Detail — Proficient June 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/adq738q50bzxzrj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.