Production Supervisor Production Supervisor Process operator looking to develop skills and be contributing team member that brings leadership and experience. Rosharon, TX SUMMARY: 10 years experience in manufacture environment served various roles from technical support to system/ network administration, as well as production supervisor who led and managed night shift to 25% increased production and reduced re-work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Production Supervisor Piping Technology & Products - Houston, TX August 2018 to Present 1. Direct tasks for project in manufacturing expansion joints through engineer print interpretation.  2. Enforce company safety policy and quality control ISO 9001 adherence.  3. Management of employee conducts through verbal warning and write-up reprimands.  4. Conduct safety talk and inspections of cranes, forklifts, departmental area,, and work booth area.  5. Verification of tolerances for each job and correct issues for testing phase and final QC release on daily deadlines. Electrical Technician Hyundai Rotem - Philadelphia, PA 2010 to 2014 Electrical Craftsmen (Septa Silver Line Railcars)    * Inspected work station train for safety and quality controlled previous work completed for wire damages and correct termination.    * Reported daily issues and missing parts to team management and worked with engineers hands on to correct new issues and update to new schematic print revisions.    * Performed termination of wires ranging from 10-16 AWG into various plugs, which often requires special tools for soldering, crimping, and heat shrinking labels for verified wires, as well as proper routing of wires on systems such as, terminal boards, brake light indicators, friction control brake units, emergency access doors, HVAC, Fire smoke detection system, external speaker wires, and DC, AC, Signal wires installation.     • Conducted inspection and reported on completed installations and quality checked to meet or exceed compliance for client approval. IT System/ Network Administrator Rieker Inc - Aston, PA 2007 to 2009 * Analyzied configurations, monitored networks (WAN AND LAN), troubleshoot hardware and software within an SBS 2000 and 2003 enterprise server environment.     * Experienced with Active Directory, Exchange 2007, IIS 6.0, DHCP, Blackberry Server, SQL 2005 database, daily backup and recovery through image snapshot.    • Engaged and tracked priority issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, maintained backup logs, and reported to management of issues and recommended network improvements.    • Implemented security measures with group policies, user rights and access permissions, physical firewall to close unnecessary ports, and limited broadcast of Wi-fi SSID.  • Initiated project, budgeted, and purchased hardware and software equipment for transition from  SBS 2003 to Enterprise 2003 environment. Education Associate in Process Technology Alvin Community College - Rosharon, TX June 2016 to December 2017 TELECOMMUNICATION in Fiber-optics, Cabling, Home entertainment, Residential Electric, Phone Systems, Fire Stopping Orleans Technical Institute - Philadelphia, PA 2009 to 2010 Security Specialist IT NETWORK/System Administrator Orleans Technical Institute - Philadelphia, PA December 2007 to November 2008 Skills System Administrator (3 years), Network Administrator (3 years), Security (3 years), Telecommunication Phone PBX system (2 years), Telecommunication Electrical Craftsmen (2 years), Manufacturing Certifications/Licenses COMPtia A+, MCSA, Hardware & OS +, Security, CCNA, Network + February 2010 Residential Electric, Fire stopping, fiber optics, copper cabling, home & audio entertainment, avaya phone messaging November 2012 Paralegal September 2010