Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Reserve Bellerose, NY • Solutions -focused, versatile management professional offering a comprehensive background supporting U.S. military operations in roles of increasing responsibility during a 7-year career in the Marine Corps. Effective communicator who quickly masters new roles and technologies to achieve positive results. A dedicated and experienced professional who troubleshoots network issues, both promptly and proficiently to provide maximum uptime for customer service. Equally capable of working alone or as a member of a team and can accomplish tasks with minimal supervision. Strives to tactfully maintain great relationships with customers and is able provide exceptional initiative when solving problems. Work Experience Network Administrator Reserve - Brooklyn, NY December 2017 to Present • Install operate and maintain Local Area Networks and Wide Area Networks.  • Duties include routing/ switching configuration, premise wiring, installation of network components.  • Establish control sites, conduct fault analysis, circuit testing and end to end troubleshooting.  • Additional duties include, network monitoring to maintain adequate bandwidth utilization. Telephone Switch Operator Reserve - Brooklyn, NY April 2012 to December 2017 • Installing and maintaining wire/cable/telephones/switches/media converters.  • Adjusting equipment for proper operations.  • Recovering wire/cable.  • Operation call service positions.  • Telephone Systems Installer. Senior Operations Manager GoPuff - Manhattan, NY August 2016 to June 2017 • Use computers for various applications such as database management or word processing.  • Perform payroll functions, such as maintaining timekeeping information and processing and submitting payroll.  • Answer telephones and give information to callers, take messages, or transfer calls to appropriate individuals.  • Create, maintain, and enter information into databases.  • Operate office equipment, such as fax machines, copers, or phone systems and arrange for repairs when equipment malfunctions.  • Provide services to customers, such as order placement or account information.  • Order and dispense supplies.  • Train and assist staff with computer usage and job advancements.  • Maintain the sales. Education Associates in Criminal Justice in Criminal Justice Queensborough Community College September 2009 to Present High School Diploma Forest Hills High School June 2009 Skills PROBLEM SOLVING, DATA MANAGEMENT, SECURITY, BILINGUAL, Microsoft Office, Networking, Windows Additional Information SKILLS  • Secret Government Security Clearance  • Complex Problem Solving  • Active Listening  • Extremely Organized  • Strong Verbal Communication  • Judgement and Decision Making  • Effective Team Leader  • Data Management  • Bilingual (English and Russian)