Series of promotions to Cloud Operations Lead Series of promotions to Cloud Operations Lead Series of promotions to Cloud Operations Lead - Smartronix Inc Greensboro, NC Work Experience Series of promotions to Cloud Operations Lead Smartronix Inc January 2015 to Present Facilitate multiple large-scale projects focused on migrating customer enterprise workloads from legacy infrastructure to cloud at this multi-domain IT and engineering solutions company; provide end-to-end project support from customer onboarding to go-live phases while operating remotely. Lead a team of 20 junior, mid-level, and senior engineers and collaborate with project management, solution architecture, security, and operations teams to streamline project execution and provide infrastructure support to 50+ commercial and federal clients. Maintain regular customer engagement throughout the project lifecycle ensuring 100% satisfaction.    • Transition customers to Cloud Assured Managed Services providing consistent, responsive, and cost-effective daily IT operations solutions including alerts notification and handling, incident response, SLA management, advanced security, billing advisory, website monitoring, and 24x7x365 availability. Manage various customer operating systems.  • Analyze customer environments to determine the viability and necessary migration strategy for running workloads in cloud. Educate clients on and eliminate associated risks.  • Ensure timely task delegation and help team members meet aggressive timelines, budgets, and critical deliverables by creating and implementing a real-time ServiceNow Scrum Board. Hold daily scrum meetings to discuss project updates.  • Conduct weekly status meetings with customers and project managers to address unmet requirements, escalate tickets, provide feedback, and offer tailor-fit error mitigation solutions. Monitor billing operations to ensure financial accuracy.  • Help customers configure IT systems and public-facing web and application appliances within AWS, MS Azure, and Google Cloud. Schedule and perform hardware/software installations and upgrades and maintain them in accordance with established policies.  • Support technicians and engineers with customer ticket escalation by creating customized knowledge base articles.  • Implemented the SaaS-based PagerDuty tool to monitor 50% of IT environment and notify on-call responders and stakeholders regarding critical incidents. Help the operations team with ticket generation and change request management using ServiceNow.  • Arrange for AWS training and conference attending opportunities for staff. Manage employee schedules using Shift Planning. Service Desk Technician Smartronix Inc July 2013 to January 2015 Coordinated incident handling with users and IT groups for classified and unclassified equipment at the Marine Corps Operations Center. Created government directed actions (GDAs) to seamlessly address incidents in collaboration with tier-2 and 3 engineers and NMCI and HP. Developed and trained team members on SOPs to streamline MCNOSC service desk operations. Managed cross-domain logical and H-drive moves for the Enterprise Directory Messaging (EDM) section.    • Addressed service anomalies affecting multiple users through event, incident, and problem management processes; coordinated with the MCNOSC Watch Team and government representatives.  • Contributed proactively towards the implementation of new software rollouts by conducting extensive testing and training team members on new tool utilization. Network Administrator Smartronix Inc August 2012 to July 2013 Acted as a central point of contact within the IT department, providing user assistance for usage of available software and hardware. Rendered tier-2 helpdesk support to 700+ onsite and offshore teams. Maintained and updated warranties and licensure.    • Saved 20% power usage and reduced downtime by introducing new Av Systems; created and presented a business case to generate buy-in from senior management.  • Re-networked infrastructure companywide by creating and installing custom cables and Cisco blades.  • Ensured services availability to authorized users by supervising the administration of systems and servers related network.  • Evaluated network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput, and latency; planned and executed the selection, installation, configuration, and testing of equipment. Defined network policies and procedures.  • Resolved operational issues and restored services by troubleshooting malfunctions in network hardware and software applications and telephone and security systems. Created a backup strategy using Symantec. Intern - Service Delivery Analyst Syngenta Inc January 2012 to August 2012 Supported datacenter and service operations by creating solutions to resolve support systems issues; interfaced with customers and vendors. Created daily backup failure reports for the Branch Datacenter Collaboration team.    • Assessed backup systems for 180+ remote sites by creating a central dashboard to gather regional backup reports and generate customized performance graphs. Education BS in Information Systems & Operations Management The University of North Carolina at Greensboro - Greensboro, NC 2012 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Iis, Remedy, Risk analysis, Splunk, Cloudfront, Ec2, Json, Visio, Data analysis, Database, Sdlc, Ms office, Budgeting, Best practices, Training, Mitigation, Campaign management, Needs assessment, Operation, Team Lead Links http://linkedin.com/in/imran-asif-a33b72b7 Additional Information Technical Skills    Key Skills: Project Lead, SDLC Management, Risk Analysis & Mitigation, Customer Needs Analysis, Best Practices Implementation, Project Status Reporting, Hardware & Software Installations, Cross-Functional Collaboration, Stakeholders Relationship Management, Client Needs Assessment Team Building & Training, Data Analysis, Program Analysis, System Installation & Upgrade, Database Management, Campaign Management  Project Management: Agile/Scrum, Project Management Lifecycle, Resource Management, Cross-Functional Collaboration, Stakeholders Relationship Management, Quality Assurance, Defining Scope, Budgeting, MS Office Suite  AWS Services: EC2, VPC, S3, IAM, Glacier, RDS, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudFormation, CloudCheckr, Redshift, AWS Workspaces  Monitoring Tools: Pingdom, EM7, PagerDuty, Service-Now, Remedy, Alertlogic, Splunk, Akamai, TrendMicro  Other Technologies: Windows Server 2008/2012, Exchange, Active Directory, IIS, GPO, WSUS, Scheduled Tasks, Microsoft Word, Visio, Project, JSON programming.    336.823.4892 miasif@outlook.com Greensboro, NC 27455 linkedin.com/in/imran-asif-a33b72b7 Remote work preferred