IT Support Analyst IT Support Analyst IT Support Analyst Cordova, TN Work Experience IT Support Analyst MAA - Memphis, TN January 2019 to June 2019 Contractor)  ? Supported Cisco wireless routers connectivity, MPLS, and Citrix XenApp  ? Supported and monitored network devices on the Cisco Meraki dashboard  ? Investigated technical problems and identified the solution needed to resolved the issues  ? Collaboratively supported the vendors, Information Security staff and end users to create and manage users roles  ? Provided analysis, implementation, maintenance and support for the enterprise-wide networking systems  ? Developed updates and audits network documentation  ? Administrated users access request or revoking access in MS Active Directory  ? Maintained and updated group policies  ? Provided first level of support in network security  ? Created new user accounts based on Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) requirements  ? Utilized Single Sign-On using Okta for ServiceNow IT Security Administrator American Home Shield - Memphis, TN September 2018 to December 2018 Created CyberArk vault accounts for users to access the Linux and Unix servers  ? Created CyberArk user accounts and permission based on user requirements  ? Provided detailed reports on CyberArk security activity to stakeholders  ? Created security groups with permissions in MS Active Directory to access CyberArk  ? Administrated Privileged Access Security via CyberArk  ? Administrated LDAP for Single Sign-On via CyberArk  ? Administrated Single Sign-On using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS)  ? Administrated and managed users accounts with Manager Identity Management (MIM) for provisioning end-users accounts  ? Communicated with Security team to provided reports on phishing emails Identity & Access Management Administrator ServiceMaster - Memphis, TN February 2011 to August 2018 Administered group policies, security and permissions in MS Active Directory, setup shared folders and maintain database administration  ? Performed and co-ordinated ad hoc administrative assignments  ? Worked closely with the Infrastructure Security and Governance teams in order to ensure that compliance and audits standards are met for regular month monitoring.  ? Administered applications such as: Remedy, Oracle JD Edwards 9.2, Microsoft Exchange  ? Administered Cisco AnyConnect VPN authentication & Cisco Jabber  ? Administered LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) application for setting up users in with LDAP and Siebel to sign on for user accounts  ? Administered Oracle Access Manager and Web Access Management with single sign on and web access control, Identity Federation as single sign on with admin actions and authentication management  ? Utilized SailPoint IIQ (Identity IQ) tool for provisioning & de-provisioning STAR database, Mission & Network accounts  ? Work collaboratively with business system owners, IT Infrastructure and Information Security department to create and manage user roles, permission based on job code and user profile management.  ? Utilized PowerShell to add users to security groups and service accounts  ? Administered Web Servers, WebLogic Application Servers, Oracle, Linux, Unix, and SQL with different applications and servers. System Analysis and Desktop Support Helena Chemical - Collierville, TN October 2011 to November 2011 Troubleshot desktop/laptops/applications  ? Provided outstanding quality customer service to clients  ? Implemented and supported Microsoft Office Outlook 2013/2016 for clients  ? Supported Multi-node sever in a VMware environment  ? Installed/Repaired desktops, printers and applications  ? Re-imaged desktops/laptops using Ghost and DISM Network Administrator Service Assurance - Memphis, TN September 2010 to March 2011 ? Troubleshoot DNS, DHCP and network connectivity issues  ? Provided remote support for desktops and servers  ? Maintained MS Active Director for passwords reset and account creation/modification  ? Provided quality international customer service and sales to customers  ? Supported Cisco and Blackberry technical issues  ? Administrated and supported Cisco AnyConnect VPN client  ? Implemented and supported Microsoft Office Outlook 2013/2016 for clients  ? Configured and supported VMware and vSphere client  ? Implemented Disaster Recovery/Data Replication concepts and procedures if a disaster occurred Help Desk Analyst Hilton Worldwide - Memphis, TN March 2010 to September 2010 ? Provided support for wireless network connectivity  ? Troubleshot desktops/laptops/applications  ? Provided outstanding quality customer service to clients  ? Provided documentation of issues/solutions in incident tickets  ? Assigned high priority incident tickets to escalation Tech using ServiceNow Education Bachelor's Degree in management information systems in management information systems University of Memphis 2009 Associate of Applied Science degree in Microcomputer Networking Jackson State Community College 2005 Skills Active directory, Citrix, Clustering, Dhcp, Ldap Additional Information Technical Expertise:  LAN / WAN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, VPN Support Windows 7/8/10 Macintosh, MS-DOS Unix, Red Hat Linux  Microsoft IIS, Microsoft Exchange 2007/2010/2013 Microsoft Office 2010/ 2016 Office 365 System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM), Intune Mobile Device MGMT  MS Active Directory, LDAP Oracle Database, SQL Server MS Open Database (ODBC) MS Clustering, Citrix XenDesktop  Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 CyberArk, Symantec Endpoint, McAfee, Norton PowerShell Scripting Ansible Playbooks