Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Elgin, TX Dynamic Computer Systems Analyst bringing more than six years in information systems. Customer-oriented and skilled at relating to and connecting with people from all backgrounds. Relocating to the Austin, TX area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator BryComm - Austin, TX June 2019 to Present • Research and make recommendations on system requirements and design solutions  • Ensure network security and connectivity  • Managed and monitored Office365 mail cloud environment.  • Cisco unified communications manager VOIP phone provisioning  • General PC and Network trouble shooting Network Administrator Payment Data Systems - San Antonio, TX April 2016 to June 2019 Implemented and maintained firewalls, series switches and security appliances.  Reviewed logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems.  Visually inspected temperature sensors to maintain health of servers and network devices.  Upgraded and expanded network systems and their components.  Diagnosed system hardware and software problems using advanced root-cause analysis.  DNS configuration and troubleshooting  IIS – site binding, SSL provisioning and installation Information Technologist Texas Med Clinic - San Antonio, TX March 2014 to April 2016 • Responsible for the upkeep, configuration, and reliable operation of the in house computer   system, (including multi-user computers and servers including over forty servers and 500 PC's)  • Running security system scans over the entire network with software such as Viper to find and remove threats such as Malware   • Setting up and removing users from the network, including Email configuration, Badges and Badge readers, and other client privileges.  • Network setup and maintenance, (configuration of WAPs, Running Cat5 Cable and Line terminations, Server maintenance, VMware set up when needed  • Software maintenance and installation, and hotfix of various software across the companies entire network IT Specialist ANRC - San Antonio, TX June 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities  • Backup and restoration of computer operating systems using in house hard drive imaging software  • Editing Shell Scripts  • Minor equipment setup/repairs including router/ network configuration with VM Ware  • Packing and unpacking travel kits including inventory control of equipment items shipping and receiving  • Preparing laptops and course materials of Cyber Security Training    Accomplishments  Almost a full year working in a cyber security training industry    Skills Used  Scripting, Cyber Security Tier 2 Technical Support Aerotek Staffing - San Antonio, TX January 2013 to June 2013 • Help and support for AT&T U-verse, including setting up, customizing, troubleshooting and educating customers in how to use their U-verse Digital TV, Internet and Voice services.  • Extensive troubleshooting help for individuals regarding issues with Broadband, WiFi, Ethernet, Coax, Web Browser, CVOIP, WEP, WPA, Networking issues to name a few. Patient Care Technician Direct Patient Care - San Antonio, TX June 2011 to January 2013 • Working hands on with people. Addressing all needs and issues the patients might have  • Problem solving based on possible complications during patient treatment while maintaining a safe work environment for patients as well as others. Education Bachelor of Computer Science DeVry University - Chicago, IL Present Skills Networking, IT, CIS, 3DS Max, Windows, Linux,VoIP Knowledge, Microsoft Windows Server New technology and product Customer service specialist research Installation Operating System Network configuration and Assembling & Disassembling of a support computer Exceptional troubleshooter TCP/IP and Subnetting Installation Application Software Knowledge of Linux Project management Ms-Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook) (7 years), Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Active Directory, access, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Customer Service, Vmware, Security Additional Information My accomplishments include:  • 3.5 GPA  • Made the Dean’s List 7 times