Admin Clerk and Helpdesk Technician Admin Clerk and Helpdesk Technician Systems Administrator and Helpdesk Technician Kingsland, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Admin Clerk and Helpdesk Technician US Navy- NCTS San Diego - San Diego, CA 2017 to Present ? Operated and maintained C4I connectivity to COMTHIRDFLT and Navy Region Southwest, global strategic communications relay node, and Tier II KMI custodian for Navy Region Southwest units  ? Coordinated processing of department administration, training and correspondences  ? Conducted records management for 107 sailors and civilians Helpdesk Technician and GCCS-M Administrator US Navy-USS Iwo Jima - Mayport, FL 2016 to 2017 ? Provided technical and troubleshooting assistance related to hardware, software, and products  ? Responsible for the administration and management of Global Command and Control System- Maritime which provided location and attribute information on friendly, hostile, and neutral land, sea, and air forces, and integrated this data with available intelligence and environmental information to support command decisions.  ? Obtained skills in UNIX, Active Directory, Remote Desktop Protocol and Windows Exchange Server  ? Progressed while at this job and in the top 96 percentile of all Naval personnel  ? Processed NIPR/SIPR account creation for over 700 Navy and Marine personnel  ? Responded to requests for technical assistance in person, via phone, or email  ? Managed in-coming calls, prioritizing and resolving problems and issues.  ? Tracked and documented all problems and solutions using various problem tracking tools  ? Supervised and coordinated daily activities of a team of 4 IT Specialists in installing, configuring, and maintaining complex state-of-the-art military information systems, networks, and DoD communication technology systems.  ? Oversaw the collection and evaluation of system and application data, compiling and distributing reports to support decision making processes.  ? Trained teams to understand procedures and completed all assignments to the highest quality standards.   ? Served as point of contact in educating end-users and staff on the proper use of applications. Network Operations Center Technician and Network Administrator US Navy-NCTAMS PAC - Pearl Harbor, HI 2014 to 2016 ? Directed daily operations of 3 subordinate Commands, 2 Detachments, and 16 Activities across 17 time zones  ? Provided vital C4I Warfighting services afloat/ashore Naval, Joint, Agency, and Coalition Forces in  the Pacific and Indian Ocean areas of operation  ? Monitored, maintained, and troubleshot NIPRNET/SIPRNET/SCI/CENTRIX IP connectivity and electronic mail queues of 181 fleet units  ? Obtained skills in Windows server 2003, Active Directory, and Windows Exchange server  ? Coordinated and conducted 10 VTCs weekly with several different commands on a classified network  ? Managed and maintained group policies for 150+ users on classified systems  ? Processed NIPR/SIPR account creation for over 300 personnel  ? Maintained an outstanding record of technical support service to the Naval Pacific fleet units, resolving 88% of all tickets within 24 hours. Closed an average of 115 tickets a month in addition to supporting other department projects. Decreased time-to-close tickets by 44% Lead Communications and Network Administrator US Navy-USS Chafee - Pearl Harbor, HI 2012 to 2014 ? Supervised 11 personnel, managing of communication circuits and network procedures on classified and unclassified networks  ? Provided leadership, guidance, and direction to new sailors on board USS Chafee  ? Performed daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly updates, backups and required maintenance on computers, software, servers, switches, routers, and telecommunications equipment  ? Trained and qualified over 60 personnel in Naval qualifications  ? Generated 15 Telecommunications Simple Operation Procedures  ? Generated 25 Network Simple Operation Procedures  ? Administered updates and installation of 400+ Windows and IAVA updates  ? Provided technical support for 300+ users and ensured proper maintenance of workstations, printers, and peripherals  ? Deployed new workstations and printers. Installed operating systems, applications, and drivers. Configured network properties and hardware  ? Supported disaster recovery plans and performed regular backups Help Desk Technician US Navy(A-School) Corry Station - Pensacola, FL 2011 to 2012 ? Maintain and provide support of LANs, WANs and telecommunications systems  ? Installation, configuration and management of Windows XP installation  ? Perform maintenance and configuration of desktop applications in network environments  ? Executed planning and implementation of windows networking concepts including architecture and tools  ? Established Windows based networks and workstations, user and email administration, network topology, tools and Microsoft Office suite Education High school Camden County High School - Kingsland, GA August 2008 to May 2011 Skills Linux (2 years), System Administration (5 years), Unix Administration (1 year), Active Directory (5 years), Exchange Server (4 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), Remote Desktop (4 years), Command Prompt (3 years), Windows Xp (2 years), Windows 7 (3 years), Windows 2000 (1 year), Windows 10 (3 years), Networking (2 years), Technical Support (4 years), Windows (4 years), Firewalls (1 year), Customer Service, Vmware Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 June 2011 to Present Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2011 to January 2022 License# COMP001020337394 CompTIA Security+ January 2016 to January 2022 License# COMP001020337394 MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional December 2011 to Present Certification# D582-0243 Department of Labor Apprenticeship Computer Operator June 2016 to Present Department of Labor Apprenticeship Computer Operator - 2000 hrs Department of Labor Apprenticeship Radio Station Operator June 2014 to Present Department of Labor Apprenticeship Radio Station Operator - 8000 hrs Department of Labor Apprenticeship Internet-working Technician June 2017 to Present Department of Labor Apprenticeship Internet-working Technician - 5000 hrs Additional Information Currently still in the military until September 2019. I am stationed in San Diego, CA and will be moving to Kingsland, GA at the end of my Naval contract. I will be able to start work in Georgia September 23, 2019.