Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer NETWORK ENGINEER Austin, TX Highly experienced computer engineer with a rich background in developing, implementing, and managing IT infrastructure, providing technical solutions, and with strong project management skills in leading large scale implementations efforts with big budgets. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Engineer Dell EMC - Austin, TX July 2018 to Present • Part of the team that is responsible for supporting networking infrastructure for server lab environment.  • Direct support of network infrastructure for 100+ racks, each with a unique VLAN. Managed Lab connectivity to other Dell engineering across the globe.  • Creating multiple core environment with VRRP and vPC configurations supporting IPv4 and IPv6.  • Successfully upgraded lab infrastructure to a 100 Gbits backbone connectivity.  • Provided support to new testing equipment giving maximum uptime and reliability.  • Monitor network and systems health, responding appropriately to network alerts and events (syslogs).    • Experience with Cisco switching, firewalls, and routing.  • Experience with SolarWinds monitoring tools, including Orion.  • Broad-based familiarity with network design and architecture.  • Advanced proficiency in Unix and Microsoft server networking environment.  • Strong knowledge of TCP/IP networking, routing, server load balancing, and network architecture.    • Experience with Open Network Linux Senior Systems Engineer Dorado Beach Owners LLC - Dorado, P.R May 2012 to April 2018 • Managed and configured ~30 physical/virtual servers (Active Directory, iSCSI storage, Mail, Apps, Patching etc.), routers and switches, 200+ desktop clients, 100+ access points, 250+ IP cameras, and 50+ IP phones across 8 sites.  • Assemble and configure firewalls, switches, routers, and related equipment.  • Design, evaluate, and promote new network security standards by developing operating procedures and streamlining related operations.  • Perform ongoing maintenance of global network including device replacement, ACL cleanup, and subnet migrations.  • Achieved Defense in Depth by implementing Intrusion Prevention/Detection Systems (AlientVault USM, OSSIM, Fortinet Firewall), Network/Host Intrusion Detection Systems (Wireshark, Antivirus, logs). Performed constant network/physical security audits/tests.  • Adhere to Change Control, Change Log, and Downtime Log procedures for all critical services.  • Monitor network and systems health, responding appropriately to network alerts and events.  • Provide technical leadership and guidance in IT security matters to projects inside and outside the department.  • Provide documentation of projects, installations, and prepare network diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Created and configured a proactive/passive network and client monitoring service to identify and prevent network and user violations based on company security policies.  • Leads over 20 IT medium ($20K) to large ($100K) projects annually from start to completion   Major Accomplishments  • Overhauled network security by implementing PCI compliance IT policies.   • Reduced manual labor by about 20% through automated batch files and python scripts  • Upgraded Data Center infrastructure by adding redundancy, upgraded core switches, added VLANs and firewalls, and created a DMZ for server farms  • Migrated our email server from Outsource exchange to MS Office 365 platform.  • Completed and obtained the Microsoft Self-Audit Certification statement for all our Microsoft Clients and SW to be compliant with Microsoft Licenses  • Designed and implemented the company’s first intrusion detection system (IDS) and remediation policy to mitigate security threats and attack vectors across the network Network Engineer/System Administrator Prisagroup - Dorado, PR April 2011 to May 2012 • Key contributor to a $150M IT infrastructure project that included fiber optics cabling, facility construction, and the development of a Data Center, and all of the IT infrastructure for the first Ritz Carton Reserve in the Americas located in Dorado, PR.  • Installed, troubleshoot, supported a plethora of computer systems, servers (DELL, HP), data centers, MDF, IDF and distribution facilities.  • Lead IT technician in supporting over 150 users across 5 sites, and successfully resolving 500+ tickets annually  • Configured, deployed and managed the entire wireless, point to point and mesh network.  • Led a ten-member team that was responsible overseeing and developing the physical infrastructure of wiring Cat 6, 6a and optical fiber(SM/MM).  • Managed and configured all of the IP Telephony (Mitel) VoIP switchboards.  • Examined logs, reports and other outputs from IT infrastructure-monitoring tools to ensure information confidentiality, integrity and availability.    Major Accomplishment  • Led and deployed first ever IT ticketing system that improved ticket accountability, ticket resolution, and improved customer satisfaction. Education BA in Computer Engineering Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR 2005 to 2012 Skills Windows Server 20012 R2 (5 years), Active Directory (5 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), VMware 5 (3 years), Fortinet Fortigates (4 years), TCP/IP Networking (5 years), Firewalls (5 years), Bash (3 years), Linux (2 years), Powershell (2 years), Hyper-V (5 years), Cisco (5 years), Cisco Catalyst (5 years), PCI (4 years), VPN (5 years), VOIP (5 years), Switches (5 years), udp (5 years), vmware (3 years), SAN (4 years), NAS (5 years), Solarwinds (5 years), TCP/IP networking (5 years), OS X (5 years), SIEM (Less than 1 year), SYSLOG (3 years), DNS, Ospf, LAN, Networking, Hsrp (6 years), Vrrp (7 years), Lacp (5 years), Ipsec (4 years), GRE, Vlans, Spine and leaf, Dhcp, EtherChannel, Snmp, VTP, VPC, Orine, Nexus, BGP, Spanish (10+ years) Links https://pr.linkedin.com/in/francisco-ramos-57837721 Additional Information Spanish and English    Completed 35 hours of Project Management (PMP) Education: 2013