Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Pacifica, CA Work Experience Network Administrator Guangdong Vavic Technology Company - Guangzhou March 2004 to June 2006 .Tester of a SOHO-VPN router during the stage of developing. Design and establish VPN tunnel test environment, test the device stability at heavy load capacity, and authentication process. On-site data capture and analyze, report results to firmware bug fix team.  .Customer Technical Support: In charge of technical support for the company a SOHO router and enterprise multi-wan gateway. Help the customers troubleshooting device malfunction and configuring network device. Support the customers through phone, remote desktop, or onsite.  . Network Device Repair: Delivery Repairing Equipment Service. Test various brands of repair routers and switches, including Cisco, 3com, D-Link, and Netgear. Implement firmware restore, upgrade, reflash, and test the fixed devices.  . Network Administrator: Provided day-to-day support for office equipment and network. In charge of maintain and troubleshoot the office network, Cisco routers and switches, servers, and around 100 workstations. Windows workstation and server maintenance and upgrade. Education Certification in Network Technology Skyline College - San Bruno, CA 2016 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Science Guangdong University of Technology - Guangzhou September 2000 to July 2004 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Guangdong University of Technology - Guangzhou, CN 2000 to 2004 Skills System Administrator (3 years), Cisco (3 years), Vmware (1 year), Python (2 years), Active Directory, DNS, Security Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2018 to June 2021 CCNA September 2018 to September 2021 Additional Information ·     Deploy, administer, and configure router and switch, Linux Windows Server, wireless, WCL.  ·     Knowledge of OSPFv3, EIGRPv3, NAT64, STP, VLAN, DNS, DHCPv6, ACL, HSRP, 6-4 tunneling, CIDR.  ·     Troubleshoot from layer one using cable tester to higher layer using Wireshark.  ·     Computer hardware, software installation, configuration, and troubleshoot.  ·     MS-Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, MS-Office , Antivirus, VMware, Active Directory, GPO, SQL.  ·     Python, HTML5, CSS, AutoCAD, Photoshop  ·     Experience with Premises cabling.