Network Administrator II <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Network Administrator II San Antonio, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator II ASM Research - San Antonio, TX November 2018 to Present • Part of a team that manages the network in a highly available environment across multiple data centers.   • Experience includes using technologies such as Cisco, Palo Alto, F5, NSX, Infoblox, and Tufin to analyze, troubleshoot, secure, and maintain the network.  • Utilize the CLI and GUI to manage F5 LTM to modify and make changes to node, pools, virtual servers, configurations, etc. on a daily basis.   • Utilize the GUI to manage palo alto firewall, adding rules, creating objects, and monitoring traffic flow.   • Utilize the Cisco CLI to manage VLANs, IP schemes, SPAN, troubleshoot network issues.   • Utilize Tufin to analyze network traffic flow.   • Utilize Wireshark to perform packet captures to analyze traffic for any network issues that may occur.  • Utilize Ansible and Ansible Tower to create playbooks and roles for F5 and Palo Alto devices to automate tasks and increase productivity.  • Rack and stack new network devices and run cable to those devices. Server support analyst II Globalscape - San Antonio, TX October 2017 to Present • Provide top notch technical support to users, researching issues, troubleshooting, and documenting solutions.  • Interact with customers with via email and phone to gather relevant information, and escalate if necessary.  • Troubleshoot system configurations and replicate customer environments to aid in troubleshooting.  • Complete, maintain, and process paperwork related to case management.   • Take ownership of support tickets and works to find solutions to resolve customer issues.  • Maintain daily contact with customers for submitted support tickets until all issues are resolved while providing excellent customer service.  • Establish remote sessions with users to look at their environment and troubleshoot any issues they are having. Explain technical solutions in easy to understand terminology and detail the solution in an email to share with their teams to make them more knowledgeable about the product. Asset Protection Investigator Saks Fifth Avenue - San Antonio, TX August 2014 to December 2016 • Protected company assets both internally and externally, used analytical thinking and problem solving  to make investigative decisions and do investigative research daily  • Setting up IP cameras, troubleshooting, and maintaining all data and connections  • Served as point of contact for all computer and IP camera troubleshooting  • Facilitated active shooter trainings designed to help the store and staff of nearly 200 associates,  determine resource utilization and best practices during emergency situations  • Researching and detecting fraudulent credit card transactions Loss Prevention Associate Sears Holdings Corporation - San Antonio, TX August 2011 to October 2014 Monitor CCTV surveillance equipment and utilizing it to apprehend shoplifting suspects and employees  engaged in theft  • Use and enforce merchandise protection standards to maintain low shortage in high theft departments  • Maintain stock counts of merchandise and assures that all on hand counts are accurate. Education CCNA Rackspace Open Cloud Academy - San Antonio, TX June 2017 Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice St. Mary's University - San Antonio, TX December 2010 Skills ACLs (Less than 1 year), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), EIGRP (Less than 1 year), IPv6 (Less than 1 year), Technical Support, Networking, Customer Service Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthew-barrios Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) June 2017 to June 2020 Network+ December 2017 to December 2020 Security+ June 2018 to June 2021 F5 Certified Administrator January 2019 to January 2021 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Networking:  • Configuring and troubleshooting Cisco 1921 series routers and 2960 series switches  • Configuring OSPF, EIGRP, and RIP routing protocols  • Basic configuration of ASA 5520   • Configuring NAT and PAT  • Configuration of VPNs   • Configuring ACLs  • Configuring DHCP   • Basic F5 load balancer configuration  • DNS protocol and server operation