Process and Product Consultant Process and Product Consultant Process and Product Consultant - InSight Global LLC Peoria, AZ IT professional with over 8 years of diverse experience in IT service management, operations, and business  process design. I am looking forward for the opportunity to work with colleagues in delivering solutions to a  challenging job. Work Experience Process and Product Consultant InSight Global LLC February 2018 to Present Setup monitoring and organization reporting for Incidents.  • Governed compliance to Incidents, Problems and Changes in the ITSM space.  • Delivered change quality target for the changes happening in the environment.  • Made adjustments as needed in collaboration with cross-functional teams.  • Partner with product owners for tracking and resolution of replication issues.  • Delivered change review and infrastructure and service availability report for the enterprise.  • Maintained relationships between partners and colleagues of the Knowledge, Problem and Change  Processes by providing expert opinion of the Incident Process for American Express ITSM.  • Driving initiatives to support product strategy direction and changes within GTOS organization  Management -  • Managed rapid and stable delivery of Enhancements and Defect fixes to the ITSM Platform (Servicenow)  using agile development methodology.  • Partnered with different colleagues and respective technology teams to analyze and provide a solution for integration of monitoring tools and application with Servicenow.  • Collaborate with Business partners, Process owners and technology teams at American express to improve  their performance. One such advising teams of preemptive activities to reduce and improve incident  management.  • Ensure effective practices of Incident Management procedures  • Analyzed and advised on continual service improvement of the process and practices for support teams Application Support/Project Manager Syntel Inc September 2014 to February 2018 Analysis -  • Identified and recommended solution for reported Incidents  • Followed changed control procedures and processes  • Industry experience with database concepts and system management.  • Project Manager overseeing scope, schedule and cost on company separation project  • Experienced in multiple applications including but not limited to Splunk, Solace, SoapUI, and MS Project  • SAFe® Agile Practitioner certification  • Oversee and control other tasks as assigned. Network Administrator San Joaquin Valley College June 2011 to August 2013 Techincal Support  • General desktop support for 1000+ users, assist in Active Directory administration, and other technical  tasks as requested.  • Install a variety of software, hardware and equipment.  • Monitored and maintained wireless LAN.  • Diagnose hardware & software problems, repairing and remediating as appropriate.  • Run and configure network cables, troubleshoot connectivity issues Education Bachelor's Degree in Technical Management in Technical Management DeVry University - Fresno, CA June 2012 Associates Degree in Computer Support Administration in Computer Support Administration San Joaquin Valley College - Visalia, CA November 2010