System Administrator II System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II System Administrator II - Ntiva, Inc Centreville, VA Work Experience System Administrator II Ntiva, Inc - McLean, VA 2018 to Present - Provide tier I and II technical support for users at client sites.  - Work with a wide range of technologies including cloud environments (Azure, AWS), virtualization  (VMware), firewalls (Cisco, Juniper, Watchguard), and switches.  - Provide escalation support for Remote Help Desk Technicians.  - Provide scheduled on call and after hours support.  - Conduct root-cause analysis for recurring problems.  - Update and maintain infrastructure documentation and SOP's.  - Laptop, desktop, and mobile system setup and deployments.  - Manage user setups and terminations.  - Manage Active Directory groups and users at client sites. I.T. Specialist City of Manassas - Manassas, VA 2017 to 2018 Provided support and administration to all city departments including utilities and public works,  city police, fire and rescue, airport, museum, voter registration, and city hall.  - Performed installation, configuration, and maintenance of information technology systems and applications.  - Managed the imaging and deployment of computer systems in the field.  - Managed the troubleshooting and repair of computer systems including desktop, laptops, and mobile devices.  - Managed software installation and maintenance.  - Managed user accounts in Active Directory.  - Provided tier I and tier II technical support for users.  Centreville, VA - 571-723-0211 - seyyedroghani@gmail.com Information Security Systems Engineer Prince William County Public Schools - Manassas, VA 2014 to 2017 Lead firewall admin managing information security systems and controls (IPS, firewall, antivirus,  patching) for over 40,000 systems and users.  - Conducted security assessments on systems using NIST Framework.  - Developed, reviewed, and updated Information Security System Policies, System Security Plans  and Risk Assessment reports in accordance with NIST and FISMA.  - Managed Cisco ASA firewalls (configuration, backup, logging, ACLs, and VPN) deployed  throughout the network perimeter and interior.  - Managed Cisco VPN configurations and remote access for staff and vendors utilizing Cisco ASA  firewalls and Cisco Secure Access Control Server (ACS).  - Monitored Sourcefire IPS appliances, responding to security incidents and creating reports.  - Monitored antivirus protection, deployment, and rule updates utilizing Trend Micro enterprise  software.  - Managed the implementation of Group Policy for Windows Server 2012 environment, as well as auditing of group policy changes.  - Monitored connections on BlueCoat content filter proxies.  - Performed audits on system and network controls to maintain up to date, best practices.  - Provided after hours support for system outages, planned maintenance events as well as responding to emergencies affecting IT related operations.  - Provided tier III technical support for the helpdesk, server, and network teams within the IT  department. Network Administrator Bernstein Management Corporation - Washington, DC 2010 to 2013 - Managed company's network and computer assets.  - Provided tier I and tier II technical support for over 300 employees spread across the DMV (DC,  Maryland, and Virginia) Metropolitan Area.  - Configured and maintained servers running Windows Server 2008.  - Configured, deployed, and maintained network security controls including WatchGuard firewalls  deployed at satellite offices.  - Responded to information security incidents, troubleshooting and auditing systems as needed.  - Lacking a ticketing/issue tracking system, I created a web-based ticketing system utilizing  Zendesk software to track, analyze, and create metrics for information technology related tasks and issues which was used to generate reports for senior management. Network Administrator Orbonet, LLC - Manassas, VA 2008 to 2010 - Managed tier II support for Windows Server 2003 network environment.  - Assembled, configured, and maintained Windows servers used for training courses.  - Provided technical support to staff, resolving hardware and software issues.  - Managed Active Directory and Group Policy services. Education Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University September 2020 Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) GIAC Certified Enterprise Defender (GCED) GIAC Security Essentials (GSEC) A+ Certified