NOC Engineer II NOC Engineer II Information Technology Regional Manager - Broward County Miramar, FL Multi-talented Systems Administrator with over 10 years of experience in providing technical assistance through high-quality service and support. Works well independently, or in a group setting providing Tier 2 assistance in all facets of IT support such as network management, Desktop Support, scheduled back-ups, Active Directory Administration, e-mail systems deployment/troubleshooting, applications support and field repairs. Prided on orderliness, detail mindfulness, consistency and quality. Seeking detail-oriented and proactive atmosphere, where IT objectives are taken seriously. Work Experience NOC Engineer II Interval International - Miami, FL November 2018 to Present ?Provide technical support for on-site and remote clients such as Vacation resorts  ? Monitor multiple client/application servers, along with supporting different teams such as network, windows, and Linux etc.  ? Use computerized system for tracking, information gathering, and/or troubleshooting.  ? Configured nightly incremental backups with the AS400 environment in addition to a daily tape management for the IBM TS tape storage system.  ? Utilize monitoring programs such as Orion, Solar winds, Nagios, Wily, and Splunk to monitor Hyatt and Marriott resorts across the world.  ? Troubleshooting with network devices such and juniper boxes, ISP modems and switches.  ?Monitor Ca Workloud automation jobs, run and rerun certain failed jobs, in addition to monitoring AS400 production and development environments.  ?Monitor subsystems such as mimix within the AS400 environment as well as Troubleshoot and resolve errors. Information Technology Regional Manager Broward County - Fort Lauderdale, FL June 2018 to November 2018 Managed and trained technical support staff of more than 30 technicians in field repairs, deploying network infrastructure for sites throughout Broward County, advanced networking concepts and software configuration for Windows XP, 7 and 10 systems.  ? Configured, updated and frequently tested SQL database of all registered voters within Broward County to ensure a 100% error free election.  ? Managed deployment of Windows 10 images on more than 1500 systems used for site deployment, Early Voting and IT Support Call Center.  ? Managed the dispatching of technical staff all throughout Broward County to assist with Election Day technical support in addition to handling all tier 2 technical issues within managed region from Election Day Call Center.  ? Configured Citrix application VPN's on Windows Systems to be deployed at all Early Voting Sites and trained technical support staff on proper deployment and use. Helpdesk Support Technician LexisNexis - Boca Raton, FL August 2016 to June 2018 Provide technical support for on-site and remote clients using many different types of RMM software.  ? Monitor multiple client/application servers, along with supporting different teams such as network, windows, and Linux etc.  ? Lead technician in Rack Server management including removing/installing drives, raid configurations, server rack installation, 110 punch-down, and patch panel installation.  ? Assisted in VPN setup/configuration, Active Directory Management, Password resets, group policy deployment, patch management etc.  ? Use computerized system for tracking, information gathering, and/or troubleshooting.  ? Configured incremental backups for all user and server information in addition to a once a week full backup and tape storage. Network Support Specialist Global Response - Margate, FL May 2014 to June 2016 Provide technical support in organizing, modifying and supporting the company's Network Access Control Servers, Network Telecommunications Infrastructure, new Server systems installation/upgrades and Layer 1 installation(Cat 5, fiber, RG6 etc.).  ? Created and managed images for new computers entering internal networks to ensure systems meet company regulations.  ? Managed company wide deployment of patches, hot-fixes and updates through SolarWinds PM.  ? Deployed and observed IDS alerts using Snort, and Suricata.  ? Monitored and managed e-mail spam filters, firewalls, anti-virus systems, and vulnerability scanners and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements. Junior Network Administrator The Leona Group - Coral Springs, FL July 2010 to April 2014 Manage Charter School Application Servers, as well as Tier 1 Desktop Support and new installations.  ? Installed and managed Charter Schools security camera systems.  ? Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  ? Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Management Keiser University - Pembroke Pines, FL May 2010 Skills DEPLOYMENT (4 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (1 year), SOLARWINDS (2 years), LAYER 1 (2 years), TELECOMMUNICATIONS (2 years), Ccna, Operation, Cisco, NOC, Linux Additional Information Skills  ? Active Directory Management(Server 2008, 2012)  ? Hardware Systems troubleshooting/Repair  ? RMM(ConnectWise, SolarWinds, Atera etc.) Management and Support  ? Experienced in computer optimization, virus/spyware removal and prevention  ? Telecommunications Server installation and Support  ? Data Server management    ? Technical Staff/end-user development and training  ? Adroit in picking up new Technical Concepts  ? Prided on detail attentiveness  ? Superb skills in Layer 1 troubleshooting, deployment and repair  ? Exceptional IT management and logistical organization skills  ? Great with Smartphone(android) troubleshooting and support