Remote Support Technician Remote Support Technician Remote Support Technician - Support Dot Com Ashland, WI Possess strong analytical skills with the ability to diagnose complex system-level issues and implement resolutions. Team oriented with excellent customer service and interpersonal communication skills. Work Experience Remote Support Technician Support Dot Com - Ashland, WI October 2016 to Present Assist customers with their internet and network issues. Remote into modems with proprietary software. Scheduled service technicians to customer's residences. Referred other work or issues to correct departments. Remote and repair customer equipment and setup new in store computers. Technician/ Administrator Lakeshore Computer - Ashland, WI August 2015 to September 2016 Small to large business administration solutions/support. Diagnostic and upgrades to networks. Installed security camera systems. Computer hardware/software diagnostic and repairs. Imaging and upgrading business computers and servers. Provided personal support for home/business systems. Satellite internet installation and repairs. Network and System Technician/Call Staff Wisconsin Indianhead Technical College - Ashland, WI June 2012 to August 2015 Create and deploy images to campus computers utilizing Ghost32. Diagnostic and repairs to networks including end user support. Implement Active Directory, Windows Deployment Services and Group Policy. Perform server installations/upgrades to server rooms, racks and cabling. Systems Administration Intern C.G. Bretting Manufacturing Co - Ashland, WI January 2015 to May 2015 Utilize System Center Configuration Manager to deploy: software, updates, customized images, and user profile transfers. Network and server upgrades minimizing downtime during production hours. End user support with the use of in-house ticketing system providing technical support for hardware and software related issues including remote desktop. Tier system rotation of desktops, laptops and servers. Documentation, recycling and disposing of hard drives containing sensitive data. Network Administration Intern Ashland County Courthouse - Ashland, WI January 2014 to May 2014 Upgraded network cabling and switches for better throughput and redundancy. Monitor network traffic and usage to diagnose possible bottlenecks or peak system load issues. Provide end user support regarding network or software/hardware issues. Education Associate of Applied Science in Information Technology Wisconsin Indianhead Technical College - Ashland, WI May 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, VMWARE, EXCHANGE, INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES, NAS, NETWORKING, VIRTUALIZATION, DEPLOYMENT, IMAGING, HYPER-V, SECURITY, SHAREPOINT, APS, BACKTRACK, WIRESHARK, PYTHON, MICROSOFT ACCESS, SQL, FIREWALL Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fj-aviwrhu-br5ur Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nhdlyqh-1b9ihwpu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills    Well versed hands-on experience with VMware ESXi, VMware Workstation, VMware infrastructure and VSphere management. Production level implementation of System Center Configuration Manager: deploying customized images, software and transferring user profiles. Network proficiency and implementing security at all levels of a network including Active Directory, file permissions and Group Policy. Provide end user support using in-house ticketing system and remote desktop.    Technical Proficiencies    • VMware Virtualization  • Microsoft Administration  • Active Directory/GPO  • SAN/NAS Storage  • Fault Tolerance/HA  • Imaging Processes  • Cisco Networking  • Firewall Security  • Wireless LANs  • Hardware: Rack Servers, Cisco Switches/Routers/Wireless APs, Desktops/Laptops, Printers  • Operating Systems: ESXi, VSphere, Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012 (including Core), Openfiler, Ubuntu, Ubuntu Server, Windows 7-10, Vista, XP, Backtrack, PFSense, Redhat  • Software: System Center Configuration Manager, Microsoft Hyper-V, VMware, Windows Deployment Services, Microsoft Access and SQL, SharePoint, Exchange Server/Microsoft Outlook, Internet Information Services, PowerShell, PowerCLI, BashShell, Python, WireShark, ImageX, Ghost32