Director of IT Director of IT Director of IT - Xcel Brands Manville, NJ Work Experience Director of IT Xcel Brands - New York, NY July 2016 to Present Direct the deployment, maintenance, and support of the IT Infrastructure and applications throughout the company.  ? Establish and maintain the IT budget. Saving 60% on consultant fees, 50% on ISPs, 20% on telecommunications cost.  ? Establish professional guidelines, standards, and practices to improve support, operations, security, and compliance.  ? Maintain and monitor VMWare ESXi Environment, and virtualized 3 remaining physical servers.  ? Resolve security and data compliance issues found during security and insurance audits.  ? Deployed backup and archive solution leveraging local and Azure cloud storage.  ? Redesigned and properly tiered switch stacks and upgraded network to take advantage of 10GB capability.  ? Manage Office 365 environment.  ? Implemented Microsoft SharePoint, OneDrive, and Teams to help securely manage projects and workflow.  ? Setup and oversee LastPass Enterprise password manager to save passwords company-wide securely.  ? Installed and maintain Munki server to keep software and OS updates in line for Apple computers.  ? Introduced incident and request management system to centralize technical issue reporting, track hardware, and software usage trends.  ? Integrated user workstations (Mac and PC) with Microsoft Active Directory to allow centralized user management.  ? Federated Azure AD and onsite AD environment to provide SSO across multiple applications. Senior IT Technician SOULCYCLE - New York, NY November 2014 to July 2016 Resolved escalated issues from technical staff and managed G Suite, JAMF Pro, and many business-critical IT projects.  ? Trained IT staff to effectively use and troubleshoot newly implemented technologies such as JAMF Casper Suite (JAMF Pro), Microsoft Server services (AD, DNS, DHCP), and Aruba wireless technologies.  ? Refined JAMF Pro environment to allow reliable inventory records, faster imaging of machines, and improved management of settings on company hardware.  ? Configured and deployed a self-service application to allow user to quickly solve common issues on their own.  ? Tested and created custom bash scripts to be deployed with JAMF Pro  ? Documented network configurations, package and image creation, and issue resolutions for IT staff and management.  ? Maintained and monitored networks in 60 retail and office locations.  ? Configured and deployed network infrastructure for headquarters expansion. Network Administrator McGarryBowen - New York, NY May 2012 to November 2014 and configured network backbone of Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery plan across New York, Chicago, and London offices.  ? Managed network integration of newly acquired businesses as well as bringing new offices up to standard with current network guidelines.  ? Designed and installed Aruba Networks wireless solutions in New York and Chicago offices.  ? Managed Ecessa Powerlink load balancer in New York and Chicago offices.  ? Monitored network uptime using PRTG, Pingdom, and other applications.  ? Configured two-factor authentication for VPN using Duo Security.  ? Managed and monitored virtual servers for the network team in the ESXi environment.  ? Maintained Avaya PBX phone system. Desktop Support Analyst McGarryBowen - New York, NY November 2009 to April 2012 Created and managed Windows and Mac OS images using Acronis True Image, DeployStudio, and Casper Imaging.  ? Researched and evaluated new hardware and software technologies.  ? Served as liaison between Network and Desktop support teams.  ? Deployed and maintained Fiery workstations, and Canon, Sharp, HP, and Konica Minolta network and USB printers.  ? Deployed and troubleshot mobile devices. (Blackberry, iPhone, and Android devices Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, System administration, Vmware, Dns, Firewalls, Network administration, Voip, Wireless, Ms office, Mac, Microsoft windows, Budget, Vendor management, Budget management, Brocade, Brocade switches, Training, Exchange, IT Management, Excel, Strategic Planning, Customer Service Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  ? Network administration ? System administration ? Hardware & software selection  ? Project management ? Budget management ? IT policy creation and technical writing  ? VOIP phone systems ? Vendor management ? End-user & technical team training    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  ? Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Windows Server, Apple Mac OSX  ? System Technologies & Applications: Microsoft Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, DNS Made Easy, MS Office, Office 365, Microsoft Azure services, Sophos Enterprise Console, G Suite (Google Apps), PaperCut, ManageEngine OpUtils, ManageEngine ADManger, JAMF Pro (JAMF Casper Suite), VMWare ESXi, PRTG Network Monitor  ? Network Hardware: Cisco Firewalls and Switches, Ecessa Powerlink Load Balancers, Aruba wireless devices, HP Switches, Dell SonicWALL Firewalls, Meraki Switches and Firewalls, Brocade Switches