Production Controller Production Controller Wellhead assembler and tester - United State Marine Corps Stephenville, TX Work Experience Production Controller TechnipFMC - Stephenville, TX February 2019 to Present • Assist in production activity control to meet business and financial objectives.  • Work with Managers to plan and manage production tasks to improve runtime.  • Review production plans to identify and report potential risks to Manager.  • Develop inventory control techniques to avoid shortages and excesses.  • Assist in processing customer orders and shipments according to the established schedule. Network Administrator United State Marine Corps Reserve July 2014 to Present • Installation of cat5 and cat6 wiring  • Installation and maintenance of telephone systems  • Programming routers and cisco switches Material Handler/Forklift Operator TechnipFMC December 2018 to February 2019 • Maintain inventory by identifying, labeling, and placing materials and supplies in stock; recording location of inventory.   • Preparing finished stock for shipment by identifying, pulling, packing, crating, loading, and securing product.   • Document product shipment by recording units shipped. Wellhead assembler and tester TechnipFMC July 2017 to December 2018 • Ensure compliance with all applicable quality, health, safety and environmental regulations  • Assemble, repair, and test wellhead equipment.  • Perform wellhead pressure tests to ensure quality of equipment  • Provide training and technical support of newly hired individuals when needed    Awards and Acknowledgements Education Glen Rose High School August 2010 to May 2014 Skills SAP Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4 July 2014 to Present Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills Summary  An ambitious performance-driven individual that is able to identify the causes of operating errors and making a decision on how to handle the situation efficiently, ability to monitor and assess performance to make improvements to take corrective actions, and effective negotiating skills with an ability to manage a team.