Sr. Hardware /Security Technician Sr. Hardware /Security Technician Sr. Hardware / Network Technician - Ameris Bank West Palm Beach, FL Work Experience Sr. Hardware /Security Technician Ameris Bank - Jacksonville, FL September 2016 to Present • Manage and configure Ameris Bank systems hardware and mobile devices. Using SCCM 2012 and Azure. Image, patch. And update. HP Laptops and desktops.  • Manage Google G Suite enterprise for the corporation by creating, configuring and managing OU's and apps. Config Terminals for Kios deployment.  • Team lead for hardware and desktop support. Assign tasks to other techs and verify tickets are completed by SLA.  • Push software installs via SCCM2012 configuration manager for laptops and desktops.  • Configure manage and deploy Apple mobile products via Intune.  • Manage Verizon mobile company account for mobile devices.  • Troubleshoot and resolve elevated level 2 networking, security and priority tickets.  • Configure hardware for branches and offices for the South East Region. Including 140 Branches and Remote offices.  • Use security applications for Malware, Phishing, and virus scanning. Sr. Desktop/ Helpdesk Administrator PGA Tour HQ - Ponte Vedra Beach, FL June 2016 to September 2016 • Responsible for providing PC hardware and software support to approximately 800 users at PGA TOUR Headquarters, PGA TOUR Entertainment, and World Golf Village, as well as remote tournament staff, staff at 17 Tournament Players Clubs and 10 Championship Management sites across the country.  • Configure and Manage Office365 migrations. Troubleshoot Office 2013/2016 issues.  • Troubleshoot network issues and resolve in a timely manner.  • Provides clear, consistent, and timely response & resolution to end-user trouble calls into the PGA Tour.  • Configures and delivers end-user laptops, PCs, software & peripherals.  • Coordinates timely repair of PC, laptop, printer & Point-of-Sale equipment covered by third-party maintenance agreements.  • Owns and addresses technical issues from inception to resolution. Desktop Support / LAN Admin Jacksonville, FL October 2013 to April 2016 Support 400 + users in a corporate office: Windows 7/ Windows 10/ Mac/ Office 2010 and 2013 Configuration and management. Windows File Server, Print Server, Active Directory management, Exchange 2010, Backup products, McAfee Antivirus products, DNS/DHCP, TCP/IP, Ethernet, wireless router and Firewall Configurations.  • Use of Symantec Altiris for patch management.  • Use of imaging tools like Symantec Ghost and Win PE.  • ODBC driver setup and database configurations.  • Network printers, Video and Voice conferencing set up and maintenance.  • Remote support with Funk Proxy, TeamViewer, and Go to assist.  • Support Dell laptops, Desktops, iPads, Surface Pro, iPhone, Android, and Mac. Network Specialist Information Display Systems January 2013 to October 2013 Network and security specialist for specified sporting events worldwide.  • Securing private networks with Cisco firewalls and implementing Access Control via IP and Domain.  • Onsite Network admin to set up internal network including Windows 2000, 03,08 Servers.  • Configured Cisco Catalyst switches, Vlan configurations and trucking.  • Configured and set up access points with Ethernet and Fiber Optics.  • Monitored networks, troubleshoot and repair desktop and laptop hardware on site if needed.  • Setting up honeypots during events to detect and deflect unauthorized use.    Fluent in English and Spanish.  Refences available upon request. Education B.F.A. in Computer Animation Digital Media Arts College / Lynn University - Boca Raton, FL May 2010 Skills Android (2 years), Backup exec (Less than 1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), Citrix. (Less than 1 year), Dns (2 years), Exchange (2 years), imac. (Less than 1 year), ipad (Less than 1 year), iphone (2 years), Linux (Less than 1 year), Mac (2 years), Ms office (Less than 1 year), Nas (Less than 1 year), Network attached storage (Less than 1 year), switching. (Less than 1 year), Veritas backup exec (Less than 1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (2 years), Hardware Support, Desktop Support, Hardware Certifications/Licenses CCENT July 2019 to July 2022 Cisco ICND1 certification. CompTIA A+ September 2017 to September 2020 CompTIA Security+ September 2017 to September 2020 CompTIA Linux+ July 2016 to July 2019 CompTIA Network+ May 2017 to May 2020