Customer Service Representative Customer Service Representative Customer Service Representative Katy, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Service Representative Alaska Marine Lines - Seattle, WA March 2018 to May 2019 • Analyzed freight dimensions, weights and diagrams to determine the most cost efficient and feasible  methods for shipping freight to Alaska and Hawaii.  • Provided customers with shipping rate estimates as well as delivery time frames for freight destined to Alaska and Hawaii.  • Processed Bills of Lading to ensure proper shipper, consignee, and billing information. Assistant to University Network Administrator Texas A&M Galveston Information Services - Galveston, TX September 2014 to December 2017 • Created detailed maps of the University internal ethernet network for internal use of the network  department.  • Installed new network equipment as well as running and terminating cable for data drops.  • Provided IT support to both students and staff that encountered problems with personal devices as well as classroom equipment.  • Scheduled appointments for IT services between customers and other technicians. Salesperson Boot Barn - Katy, TX January 2013 to August 2014 • Aided customers with questions about the brands and products available for purchase in our store.  • Achieved the highest monthly sales amongst the sales staff on three separate occasions.    LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE Education Bachelor of Science in Maritime Administration Texas A&M University - Galveston, TX December 2017 Skills Customer Service, Customer Care, Call Center Groups Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo Junior Rodeo Committee Team Captain  • Volunteered approximately 30 hours every year to ensure the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo ran smoothly during the three week operation.  • Oversaw personal data entry for committee members during the onboarding process.  • Provided general assistance to maintain an enjoyable guest experience during the show. Engineers Without Borders Project Lead  • Assisted in the year long project planning efforts to provide a clean water system to the people of a small village outside of Chichigalpa, Nicaragua.  • Served as an intermediary between the organization and our contacts in Nicaragua before, during, and after the build.  • Coordinated flight and hotel schedules for the 6 members traveling to the project site for the building process.