Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Colorado Springs, CO Highly-motivated military personnel looking to apply my skills in various environments. I am ambitious, hardworking and want to find a company that I can grow with as I achieve mine and the company's goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Valdez International Corporation - Colorado Springs, CO March 2018 to Present Brief Summery:  Maintains computing environment by identifying network requirements; installing upgrades; monitoring network performance inside of a NOC. Aerospace Medical Technician USAF 2012 to Present Secret level security clearance  Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) of Non-Fly  Brief Summary:   Plans, provides, and evaluates routine patient care and treatment. As well as supervise and train airman. Performs duty's which include EMT, CNA, LVN.    Security Forces Trained  Brief Summary:   Force protection and law enforcement duties, guarding weapons, air bases and Air Force personnel from possible dangers. Traveling PC Technician (Contractor) Apex Systems September 2017 to February 2018 Installs, configures computers, microcomputers, workstations and/or peripheral equipment, upgrades machines, handles deployments, ghost's machines, upgrades networks that are out of date. Monitor, operate and maintain hardware, software, and networks for a computing platform for all military installations supported by NMCI (Navy Marine Corps Intranet). Emergency Medical Technician Memorial Hospital - Colorado Springs, CO 2015 to November 2017 Brief Summary:   Plans, provides, and evaluates routine patient care and treatment to assist doctors, and nursing staff. Volunteer Firefighter Cripple Creek Fire Department 2012 to November 2017 Brief Summary:   Responsible for responding to fires, accidents and other incidents where risks are posed to life and property. Education AAS in Information Sciences and Technology Pikes Peak Community College AAS in Allied Health Community College of the Airforce Skills SECURITY (5 years), EMT (7 years), INSTRUCTOR (6 years), Installing, Configuring, Managing, and Troubleshooting of Various Computer Related Hardware and Software Technologies, Excellent Verbal and Written Communication, Multitasking, Prioritizing, Organizing assigned tasks, Able to Implement Security Configuration Parameters on Network Devices and Other Technologies and Troubleshoot Security Issues, Computer Technical skills Hardware and Software, Creatively Adapt Problem Solving and Critical Thinking Skills, training, Active Directory, Microsoft Office, testing Military Service Branch: Airforce Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 SSgt Present Commendations: - Airman Leadership school (ALS)  - Senior Enlisted Joint Professional Military Education (SEJPME)  - National Defense Service Medal  - Global War on Terrorism Service Medal  - Basic Military Training Honor Graduate  - AF Training Ribbon  - Expert Marksman Awards Military awards - National Defense Service Medal  - Global War on Terrorism Service Medal  - Basic Military Training Honor Graduate  - AF Training Ribbon  - Expert Marksman Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Present Security+ Present Secret Clearance Present EMT-B IV Present MCSA Server 12 Present Additional Information Skills & Abilities    - A+  - Security+  - MCSA 12  - Solarwinds  - Nmap  - EMT-IV  - EMT Instructor  - BLS instructor    - Linux+  - CSA+  - Network+    - Installing, Configuring, Managing, and Troubleshooting of Various Computer Related Hardware and Software Technologies  - Excellent Verbal and Written Communication  - Multitasking, Prioritizing, Organizing assigned tasks.  - Able to Implement Security Configuration Parameters on Network Devices and Other Technologies and Troubleshoot Security Issues  - Computer Technical skills Hardware and Software.  - Creatively Adapt Problem Solving and Critical Thinking Skills  - Dependable.