Facilities Technician Facilities Technician Artist, Hands-on, Great memory, Visual, Technical Huntsville, AL • Military Experience in the Signal Corp.  • Security Clearance.  • Ability to operate scanner, printer, fax, Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Office and Adobe Suite.  • Works well under pressure, in time sensitive environments and can work independently with little to no supervision or with a team.  • Experience with Satellite, Radio, and Information Technology (IT) Communications equipment.  • Ability to read technical blueprints and operate complex electronics and machinery. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Facilities Technician APT Research - Huntsville, AL July 2017 to Present • Assisting in performing routine maintenance on main facility: Toilets, audio visual repairs, electrical outlet replacement, ballast replacement and update.  • Scheduling facilities upgrades  • Gather cost estimates  • Taking service calls Test Support APT Research Inc - Huntsville, AL January 2017 to Present • Setting up and managing audio/visual devices: video cameras, still cameras.  • Setting up and managing thermocoulples and thermometers.  • Managing test outcome documentation Junior Network Administrator / Help Desk APT Research - Huntsville, AL January 2017 to Present • Configured end user devices such as laptops/desktops, printers, and shared office equipment.  • Adding /removing and setting up phones using Cisco Call Manager  • Familiarity with Active Directory 2003, 2008, 2016  • Responding to Help Desk Tickets (Spiceworks)  • Worked with Active Directory to build user network profiles, reset passwords, unlock accounts, etc. Advance Training Aid Assembler A-P-T Research, Inc June 2015 to Present • Support of Counter Improvised Explosive Device (C-IED) operations and training programs.  • Assisting instructors with Basic Electronics / Homemade Explosives courses.  • Extensive traveling to military bases across the Continental United States (CONUS)  • Assisting instructors with classroom set up, training soldiers, and logistics.  • Assembling training aids for use by military and law enforcement personnel.  • Working from blue prints to build electronic devices  • Basic electronics knowledge and soldering.  • Re-purposing electronic devices and fabricating prototypes.  • Reading and understanding detailed technical drawings and instructions.  • Developing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for product development and manufacturing.  • Operate light machinery and working with hands.  • Responsible for purchasing and pricing supplies, cost to build, estimated hours required.  • Shop foreman over a few part time employees.  • Maintain a safe and clean work environment.  • Working closely with customers to meet their needs, swiftly and accurately Nodal Network System Operator/Maintainer US Army January 2011 to January 2015 • Trained on the Tactical Communication Node (TCN) communications equipment and assisted in the fielding of this equipment to one of the first units in the Army to ever receive it.  • Joint Network Node (JNN) Operator/Maintainer. Graduated with Honors in my class at Fort Gordon, GA.  • Supported Warfighter Information Network - Tactical (WIN-T) in the developmental testing and fielding of new network (WIN-T Increment 2, CS-13) equipment on mobile platforms (Point of Presence (POP) and Soldier Network Extensions (SNE) and provided influential input to the Department of the Army on functionality, usability, and reliability of the WIN-T in regards to improvements and use in actual real world environments.  • Knowledge of HCLOS and LOS radios, CPOF, TIGR, VOIP, Chat, (Portal) SharePoint, JBC-P.  • Configured and maintained: Cisco switches, Tier 2 routers and Call Managers, Security encryption devices like KIV-7M and Taclanes, Multiplexers and Modems.  • Installed TFOCA fiber optic cabling and Cat5e with RJ45s for computers, routers, and phones.  • Acted as the Company's Master Driver, ensuring that the company was within compliance for future inspections and safety guidelines by re-establishing the Master Driver's Program and ensuring all licensed operators had valid documentation and training.  • Supervised, trained, and conducted monthly performance reviews for 9 personnel.  • Controlled and responsible for 1.5 million dollars' worth of sensitive equipment.  • Operated 2.5 Ton Medium Tactical Cargo Trucks (LMTV) and Multi All-Terrain Vehicle (M-ATV)  • Designed Company's T-shirt/Coin using Photoshop and Traditional Art Techniques. Education Basic Leadership Course NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY - Fort Polk, LA 2013 SAVANNAH COLLEGE of ART AND DESIGN - Savannah, GA 2006 to 2010 Associate of Arts in Art/Art Studies NORTHEAST ALABAMA COMMUNITY COLLEGE 2003 to 2005 Skills Microsoft Offie (5 years), Adobe Suite (4 years), Network Administration (4 years), Military (4 years), Security (4 years), Logistics (4 years), Technical Support (4 years), Training (4 years), Hand Tools (8 years), Electrical (2 years), MS Office, Maintenance Links http://adamcbrown.daportfolio.com/ Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SGT January 2011 to January 2015 Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2013 to December 2016 Network+ December 2013 to December 2016 Windows 7, Enterprise Desktop Support Technician Present Driver's License Portable Fire Extinguisher July 2018 How to handle small, all purpose and portable fire extinguishers. CPR/AED June 2018 Explosive Saftey Assessments Basic Maintenance and Repair — Proficient July 2019 Performing basic repairs and maintenance for apartment complexes, office buildings, and other facilities. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dlu2hkwaenbdvddt Mechanical Skills: Monitoring — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to monitor machine indicators in order to ensure safe and appropriate operation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xosho6qu7bo03nes Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dpt-thrfzomzlzda Organizational Skills — Highly Proficient July 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wag1jgjomdiwukzq Verbal Communication — Expert July 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ujwhgjjp8rja21-o Hydraulic Technician — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply mechanical reasoning when repairing malfunctioning hydraulic, pneumatic, and electrical systems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qlagcuqp-nir2ny2 Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient July 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xedti2fcfttvkouz Workplace English — Highly Proficient August 2019 Understanding spoken and written English in work situations. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cb0ffqq3oykqwvot English Communication Skills: Typing — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zmr1rc1a-gxx2ptl Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rq9s7slpxdmywptw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.