IT Administrator, Infrastructure IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Infrastructure IT Administrator, Infrastructure Saint Petersburg, FL To continue into a position within a professional environment that enables me to maximize and advance my current computer knowledge and experience. Leveraging my skills in a fast-paced, highly sensitive environment is where I excel. Work Experience IT Administrator, Infrastructure AquaCal AutoPilot - Saint Petersburg, FL August 2016 to July 2019 IT Administrator and Project Manager installing all hardware upgrades. Current projects include Stage Two hardware update, SonicPoint AC WAP Update, Adaptive GPU processing sever with Open CL, High Availability SSD Hyper-V Cluster, and POC on PLC/IoT security management for a new product line. Completed projects include Mitel VoIP conversion, Office 365 hybrid migration with AD purge / consolidation, medium range Wireless-AC link setup and management, 40Gb Fiber network upgrade, Stage One company wide hardware update, remote interface management for a consumer product in development, and a temporary call center relocation with zero downtime. Systems Administrator / Implementation Lead / Trainer Rand Technology - Clinton, TN September 2015 to June 2016 Local Administration and Support role for 50+ user ITAD / ITAM facility, and Remote Administration of offices in Gyor, Hungary and London. Full stack implementation using ESXi w/ VSphere hosting Windows 2008-2012, Exchange 2013, Active Directory, SQL Server 2013, and VoIP via Asterisk and FreePBX. VPN Access via Citrix XenApp and Cisco AnyConnect. Project lead on Makor Recycling Manager web and software integration for hardware identification and asset management. POC Lead for In-House Pick & Pack/Storage system. Assisted with full domain migration of 200+ users and company-wide hardware refresh. Designed and implemented mass hardware imaging solution for the Microsoft Authorized Refurbisher (MAR) program to image up to ninety-six machines in 35-45 minutes. Began hardware identification training for employees to quickly identify high-value assets and parts. Mentored junior associates in technical degree fields on how to adapt current curriculum to real world situations. IT Support Analyst SAIC - Oak Ridge, TN May 2015 to September 2015 Active support role for a full AD Domain consolidation project, combining three domains into one. Assisting with client support for applications and hardware, and general support for Exchange, VMWare, SharePoint, as well as a SQL based proprietary financial database system. Remote assistance provided via Bomgar, RDP, and Citrix Receiver. Network Administrator Tellico Village POA - Loudon, TN February 2015 to April 2015 Networking, Hardware and Software support for Local and Remote users. Assisted with design and implementation new ESXi 5.5 server for hardware mirroring and data redundancy. Setup and Administration of Ubiquiti Wireless Access Points with EdgeMax Routers. Established and preserved PCI-DSS Compliance for all credit card handling systems. Maintained the distributed Voice and Data network infrastructure, as well as the 172 camera security system, across eleven isolated locations. IT Support / Network Administrator / Lead R&D Analyst Sentry Surveillance - Kennesaw, GA July 2013 to February 2015 Networking, Hardware and Software support for Local and Remote users supporting Proprietary Surveillance Equipment built in-house. Utilizing Sugar CRM for Ticketing and Account Documentation; GeoVision Software, Cameras, and Capture Cards on Custom Built and Configured Desktop / HTPC Surveillance Servers. Using DualDesk and UltraVNC for remote systems support; as well as CNet and EnGenius Wireless Technologies being deployed for configuring point-to-point Remote Cameras and Systems with high uptime requirements. IT Security & Support Archdiocese of Atlanta - Smyrna, GA April 2014 to September 2014 Enterprise Support for 250+ Local Users and over 40 Remote parishes with Hosted Email and IT Support using Bomgar and Kaseya Remote tools. Mostly Windows Server 2012 environment, with ESXi hosted virtualization of Remote Desktops and Servers for users; Windows 7 and 8, with some XP in remote locations. Windows Administration including Exchange 2010, 2012, Active Directory, SharePoint 2013 and Print Server Administration and billing through PaperCut. Remote Access support through Barracuda and SonicWall Appliances. Setup and Administrated ShoreTel VoIP phone system for new associates. IT Consultant, Insight Global Walgreens - Smyrna, GA April 2012 to May 2013 NOC / Support Role for Pre-Production, Production, and Development Teams using full ESXi Architecture with various OS Configurations. Used Remedy, Mantis and JIRA ticketing systems for resolution and documentation. Initial Support for the Loyalty Project (Balance Rewards) and worked with NextGen POS Integration; Supported connectivity, applications, and configurations in VDI including Xceedium, MSOffice, Eclipse, and various other development and production tools across multiple platforms in an extremely large enterprise server environment. Tier 2 IT Support, Internship Aon Hewitt - Lincolnshire, IL April 2011 to October 2011 Software, Network, and Hardware Troubleshooting for local and virtual user accounts, as well as becoming proficient with Microsoft Office Suite, Communicator R2, Outlook 2007 and 2010 as well as Lotus Notes. Used Remote Desktop to assist offsite users, and worked with secure tunneling via RSA and Citrix. Documented calls using Remedy and assisted with user migration onto Server 2008 from a Novell 4 environment and Windows XP to Windows 7. Contractor Motorola - Customer Center for Solutions Integration - Schaumburg, IL October 2010 to January 2011 Building racks and server cabinets for public safety projects worldwide. Worked mostly with Juniper firewall systems, Cisco routers and switches, HP Blade Servers and integrated them with proprietary Motorola communications equipment. Also ran cabling with Category 5e, Category 6 and fiber optic cables. EasyTech Associate / Customer Service and Support Staples - McHenry, IL May 2010 to October 2010 Custom diagnostics and support for Windows-based Operating Systems as well as diagnosing intricate hardware and software conflicts on personal systems. Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Information Systems and Cybersecurity ITT Technical Institute - Kennesaw, GA 2012 to 2014 Associate of Applied Science in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - Mount Prospect, IL 2009 to 2011 Skills MITEL, VOIP, WIRELESS, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, EXCHANGE, NETWORKING, REMEDY, TCP/IP, INFRASTRUCTURE DESIGN, JUNIPER, LAN/WAN, TCP, VMWARE, SECURITY, ETHERNET, CRM, MANTIS, FIREWALL Links http://linkedin.com/in/jeanpaulmiller1