Store Supervisor Store Supervisor Jersey City, NJ Industrious, skilled IT professional with diverse experience, ranging from the design, implementation and troubleshooting of a technically demanding, city-wide infrastructure project, to providing technical support and solutions for office IT issues. BA in Electrical Engineering and MS in Information Technology. Moved from Pakistan in 2018. Fully authorized to live and work in the US.    Seeking: Full-time network administrator or IT support role in a dynamic company in any industry with room to advance within the organization. Work Experience Store Supervisor Hudson Mall - Jersey City, NJ 2018 to Present Datacom Network Engineer, Punjab Safe City Project Huawei Technologies - Lahore, PK January 2017 to February 2018 • Engineer on the largest surveillance project in Asia: Safe City, Lahore.  • Hired while a graduate student, part-time, and was offered full-time job.  • Designed, implemented, tested and provided troubleshooting of network solution, low-level design (LLD), High Level Design (HLD), scripting of devices and patching of Optical Distribution Frame (ODF).  • Developed and deployed IP routing schema using static and dynamic routing protocols.  • Collaborated with subcontractors for solution deployment on site.  • Designed and implemented Enterprise and hosted IP Network in High Availability environment.  • Configured Camera (IPC6625 series) at IPNV sites and conducted trouble shooting of network.  • Designed, configured and conducted troubleshooting of IP network for Data Center devices including Access Switches CE5855 & S2700, Access Router AR531, AR550, Distribution Router AR2240, NE20, Core Router NE40, Core Switch CE12808.  • Configured ANPR Cameras, Box 6225 Cameras and Dome 6525 Cameras.  • Documented network specifications/designs and technical issues for future reference.  Various Construction and Electrical Projects, Falls Church, VA June 2014 to May 2015  • On-sight supervision of family home construction project. Coordinated with contractor and subcontractors. Reviewed construction plans and building materials. Ensured timely completion of project. Network Administrator Rana Group of Companies - Lahore, PK November 2008 to May 2014 • Engages external vendor support as required.  • Created and maintain detailed network documentation.  • Managed the development of new internal programs or modifications of current system.  • Configuration for logical or physical changes to maintain service integrity.  • Performed Cisco Routing/Switching, Network upgrades and configuration.  • Member to a team of professionals responsible for the installation, configuration, maintenance, monitoring, resolving hardware/software issues related to the IT infra-structures to include system efficiency and enterprise application. Education M.S. in Advanced Database Management Systems Superior University - Lahore, PK 2016 to 2018 Bachelor of Technology (Honors Degree) in Electrical Engineering PIMSAT Institute of Higher Education - Lahore, PK 2009 to 2013 Skills Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Vmware, Active Directory