Helpdesk Analyst Helpdesk Analyst Helpdesk Analyst - Acadia Healthcare Lebanon, TN Work Experience Helpdesk Analyst Acadia Healthcare July 2018 to Present I am a level one desktop support for Acadia Health Care. Duties include end support for local corporate  users and remote support users around the country. Responsible for the monitoring ticket que and working tickets to completion or escalating to next level if needed. Also, to dispatching tickets to other  groups for resolution. Some things responsible for installation of printers, mapping network drives, and troubleshooting issues and resolving if possible. Installation of software for end users. Assisting  local users with issue with PC's in the form of software and hardware installs. Junior Network Administrator Advance Med an NCI Company - Nashville, TN July 2016 to May 2018 I work at a local facility in Nashville Tn and I support about 100-200 onsite users along with about  100 work at home users. I am responsible for insuring network connectivity of my site to the internet  and also, our internal network. I support my user with desktop support for their laptops or thin clients  used to access our network this includes the hardware and most software that is installed. I am  responsible for make sure local servers are up to date and patch along with our laptops. I also help with the backing up of the servers in the form of changing out tapes in our tape library. The way we handle  request from our users is through our ticketing system and through phone calls we receive. I was  responsible for the imaging of new systems and their deployment. I also create new user accounts in Active Directory and create user email accounts in Exchange. I would change permission via Active  Directory if needed for user to access need network assets. Helpdesk Analyst Acadia Health Care October 2015 to July 2016 I am a level one desktop support for Acadia Health Care. Duties include end support for local corporate  users and remote support users around the country. Responsible for the monitoring ticket que and working tickets to completion or escalating to next level if needed. Also, to dispatching tickets to other  groups for resolution. Some things responsible for installation of printers, mapping network drives, and troubleshooting issues and resolving if possible. Installation of software for end users. Assisting  local users with issue with PC's in the form of software and hardware installs. EMR Technician - Computer Repair Technician Genco -Insight Global January 2015 to October 2015 I am responsible for tearing down and replacing parts in systems. Trouble shoot, diagnose and determine the most cost-effective course to repair hardware and software issues for a wide range of  Servers, Desktops, Printers, Chromebooks, and Notebooks. I perform cosmetic repairs on Servers, Desktops, Chromebooks, and Notebooks systems. Updating and confirming software image, firmware  version, and BIOS configuration according to build spec for projects assigned. Load and unload product in an efficient and safe manner. Co-op Contractor Cooperative Education-State of Tennessee - Nashville, TN July 2013 to August 2014 Asset management: responsible for entering new physical and virtual servers into Asset management  program (Remedy8). I would also make changes to existing servers.  Tracking of documents and tracking them through the workflow process.  Processing of surplus and old equipment. Education AAS in Computer Networking Technology Nashville State Community College - Cookeville, TN August 2012 to May 2014 Skills Desktop Support, Tech Support, Service Desk, Help Desk, Active Directory