Senior Engineer Senior Engineer Senior Engineer Dallas, TX I have a passion for mobile technology and information systems and enjoy researching the latest innovations and exploring ways to utilize emerging technologies to improve business efficiencies. Work Experience Senior Engineer CVENT - Dallas, TX March 2017 to June 2019 Served as the point of contact engineer for the Dallas Office in the CVENT organization, and was in charge of making sure all SLA's are met on a timely matter from service desk associate that worked for the organization remotely    ? Was POC for all network outages and server maintenance in accordance with other level 3 engineers    ? Managed masergy VOIP phone system by adding devices in to cisco system as they needed to be added    ? Ensured that SLA's were met and that internal employees reviews of service desk associates was in accordance with company policy  ? Windows server admin in charge of configuration of servers and making sure everything was done to company policy.  ? OSX admin for all OSX machines in the organization  ? Office 365 admin in charged of administering accounts and distribution list through powershell and the UI  ? Was the point of contact for restoring needed mailboxes  ? Provided 2nd and 3rd level administrative and hardware support for 65+ onsite employees and 550+ remote employees using remote software and by holding training classes on certain in house operational software. Tier 2 Network Analyst T-Mobile - Frisco, TX September 2015 to February 2016 Performed batch operations for DBA and UNIX teams. Executed SQL scripts, batch jobs, Web Server restarts, etc. Organized production deployments/patch updates and coordinate the efforts between Business Operations and the Support groups.    ? Served as liaison between various support groups during system outages, and worked with third party vendors or service providers to remediate outage issues.  ? Ensured SLA's are achieved and client expectations are met (or exceeded)  ? Created scripts to test all device/phone functions to run on Mobile Complete software. Monitored functionality of in-house mobile applications and third party applications during peak usage hours. Provided statistics for test runs for review by Business Operations Department.  ? Interfaced directly with service providers, customers, field technicians, service contractors, and field service coordinators to troubleshoot issues within the network Technical Support Administrator Smilebrands / Monarch Dental - Plano, TX February 2015 to September 2015 Listened to technical issues and researched resolutions to support multi-unit dental offices nationwide.  ? Resolved issues and maintained documentation, recommending devices and procedures to ensure compliance with service agreements.  ? Updated job knowledge by participating in educational sessions with the goal to accomplish information systems and organization mission.  ? Resolved dental equipment technical questions regarding functionality such as DexCam and OP's  ? Maintained Servers for all dental Offices nationwide when server went down made sure it was back up in a timely matter  ? Used Unix servers such as Redhat to maintain stability between the DexCam and databases Technical Support Administrator United Central Bank - Hanmi Financial Corporation June 2014 to February 2015 Supported and maintained Fiserv financial applications such as Integrated Teller, Supervisor and S.I.R. to enable continuous real-time performance of new services to our customers.  ? Developed and deployed SCCM packages to speed up distribution of software packages to ensure quality user experience.  ? Addressed technical questions, troubleshooting Windows workstations to deliver consistent resolutions.  ? Supported a variety of different operating systems from Mac OSX to Unix and including Windows Skills Ios, Fiserv, Deployment, Customer service, Integration Additional Information Key Skills  * Good Listener and Problem Solver * Fiserv Financial Applications Deployment  * Excellent Customer Service * SCCM Integration  * Motivated Team Player  * Determined to succeed in everything    * Desktops, Laptop, Server Troubleshooting  * OSX, iOS, OSX Server Troubleshooting