Help Desk Representative II Help Desk Representative II Brimfield, IL Dedicated IT professional Work Experience Help Desk Representative II Innovative Technology Solutions, Inc - Peoria, IL July 2019 to Present Provided solutions for clients with regard to network connectivity issues, Active Directory  configuration, productivity application configuration, multi-factor authentication  troubleshooting, Citrix application troubleshooting and general networking troubleshooting. Legal Assistant Hasselberg Grebe Snodgrass Urban and Wentworth - Peoria, IL January 2018 to July 2019 Successfully saved the firm over $10,000 annually in web hosting fees by analyzing web  hosting market, aggregating data and bids and providing recommendations for services. I  maintain the firm's website and write any custom HTML, javascript, or CSS that may be  needed. I have increased productivity by coordinating with the Municipality Analyst, a dataset which I import, alter and finally use as a datasource for our ordinance violation notification  system, which utilizes Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word and other technologies. I assist the  firm in marketing with the production of a quarterly newsletter which I produce with Microsoft  Publisher, Microsoft Paint and other software solutions. Senior Programmer Direct Logic Solutions, Inc May 2007 to May 2009 Peoria    Successfully developed ASP.NET MVC web applications, web services, and manual  application security tests, and SQL databases for Fortune 500 companies to increase  consumer participation, sales and brand awareness. I worked with a team in developing a Triggered Email System which used relational brands, targeting and datasets to launch  multi-week email campaigns which drove sales and brand awareness. I also developed a solution that gathered shopping data from various online API's and aggregated the data to  inform business decisions. Senior Programmer Accenture Technology Solutions - Bloomington, IL May 2005 to November 2005 Assisted in the development of enterprise solutions for operations support of Fortune 50  client increasing productivity by utilizing Visual Basic, DB2 data mining, java and other  software solutions. Network Administrator EPIC - Peoria, IL January 2003 to April 2005 Successfully supported and maintained Windows Server farm, maintaining Active Directory, utilizing Citrix software supporting on-site employees and remote connectivity. Maintained  backup software, software licensing, software installation, system enhancements and increased productivity across the company. Successfully repaired computers, printers and  performed network diagnostics and resolved connectivity issues. Education Paralegal Certificate Illinois Central College - Peoria, IL January 2017 to January 2018 Associates in Applied Science in Computer Programming Illinois Central College - Peoria, IL January 2003 to May 2005 Skills Active directory, Citrix, Api, Javascript, C#, MYSQL, CSS, MYSQL, CSS, HTML 5, ASP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bill-seipel Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate May 2019 to Present Software Development Fundamentals