Service Desk Manager Service Desk Manager Service Desk Manager - Highpoint Solutions LLC East Norriton, PA Technical Support Professional with a Network Engineering background and Technical support experience of more than 8 years experienced in:  • Active Directory and Windows Server Administration.  • Cisco Network Device installation and configuration.  • PC and Macs break fix problem resolution.    TECHNOLOGY PROFICIENCIES Work Experience Service Desk Manager Highpoint Solutions LLC December 2018 to Present • Supervised a team of 26 Service Desk Analyst Tier and 2 Analyst as well as a team of Desktop Support Technicians supporting 30 clients and consistently meet all set SLAs.  • Performed staff scheduling to ensure Service Desk coverage for a 24x7x365 Service Desk exceeding the Abandon Rate SLA.  • Worked closely with other managers in the department to achieve a cohesive, collaborative working relationship between the Service Desk Teams which led to the department meeting all Client SLAs consistently.  • Handled Service Desk staff management including interviewing and hiring new personnel, performance evaluations, promotions, and disciplinary responsibilities.  • Spearheaded the Service Desk Technician's training and development and successfully developed a team that consistently received positive feedback from end user surveys and archived all the Quality Assurance standard goals.  • Developed a Tier 1.5 level of support to act as a backup team for the Tier 2 teams that resulted in the team meeting all incident response SLAs.  • Actively contributed to IT Projects such as the ServiceNow ticket system upgrade project as a Subject Matter Expert.  • Presented and Demonstrated Service Desk support tools and applications to clients such as the Help desk chat feature and oversaw successful implementation of the features. Service Desk Lead Technician Highpoint Solutions LLC March 2017 to November 2018 • Acted as the primary back up to the Service Desk manager and assisted with service desk staff management.  • Technical expert for the Service desk Tier 1 team and assisted with new hire interviews and evaluations.  • Analyzed all request, incident and problem tickets to identify ticket trends. Managed and coordinated urgent and complicated support issues.  • Provided technical support through phone, email and chat to end users for hardware and software, desktop related break fix issues and other network systems troubleshooting.  • Performed Mobile device management through the Maas360 platform and AirWatch.  • Performed Active Directory Administration, Office 365 and Single Sign On administrations via the OKTA platform  • Performed installation and troubleshooting of PC and Mac applications such Microsoft Office, Adobe Acrobat Pro.  • Provided training to Service Desk Analysts and created Knowledge articles as required for the various applications supported by the Service desk. Network Administrator BoxTechs, LLC - Doylestown, PA September 2016 to February 2017 • Active Directory administration that included creating new users account creation, resetting passwords, unlocking user accounts and setting permissions to network resources.  • Microsoft Exchange administration that include tasks such as creating new and updating current Distribution lists.  • Office 365 administration; Creating new users and email accounts, configuring email forwarding and migration of user accounting from other versions of outlook like 2010 to Office 365.  • Hardware provisioning that included Imaging new laptops for new employees and re imaging current user computers.  • Diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving a range of software, hardware and Network connectivity issues.  • Installed and Configured of Network devices such as Routers and Switches and Firewalls.  • Setup and Configured both Physical and Virtual servers and Virtual Desktops. Technical Support Analyst Sicom Systems - Doylestown, PA March 2016 to August 2016 • Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting of point of sale system issues,  • Documented Help desk tickets/resolutions  • Assisted with training sessions for other support agents IT Consultant WebMax, LLC - Norristown, PA September 2013 to February 2016 • Performed repair and preventive maintenance on personal computers, laptops and related peripherals.  • Designed and implemented home and small office wired and wireless networks.  • Installed and upgraded software including Operating Systems such as Window 7-10, Linux and antivirus software.  • Performed virus detection and removal while simultaneously securing vital data for clients.  • Mobile devices repair and upgrading including iPads, iPhones, Android phones and tablets.  • Installed and configured network devices such as Routers, Switches and Access points. Advanced Products Lead Technical Support Specialist Comcast Corporation - Newark, DE August 2009 to June 2011 • Provided technical support to customers via telephone regarding technical issues with their cable, Phone or Internet services.  • Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting of cable, Phone and Internet system issues and documented help desk tickets/resolutions.  • Exceeded issue-resolution targets 90% of the time and achieved exemplary customer satisfaction  • Promptly Setup and/upgraded client cable, telephone and Internet Services as required. Network Support Technician Dialnet Communications Systems Ltd May 2005 to April 2007 • Responsible for installation and configuration of Cisco network hardware which included Routers, Switches, wireless access points.  • Performed installation and configuration of applications such as Antivirus software and Operating systems software and upgrades.  • Repaired and replaced PC hardware components and resolved PC related break fix or network connectivity issues.  • Provided end users support on a variety of PC related technical issues and Applications such as Microsoft Office Suite via telephone calls, emails and personnel requests for technical support  • Assisted in implementing and maintaining policies, best practice procedures and programs for ensuring the security and integrity of company network and Window server system.  • Performed Installation, configuration and deployment of user PC workstations and peripherals such as Network printers. Education Master of Business Administration in Network and Communication Systems Management Keller Graduate School of Management Bachelor of Science in Electrical & Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Moi University Associate of Applied Science in Network Engineering and Administration Delaware County Community College Skills Cisco, Exchange, Remote access, Wireless, Mobile devices, Visio, Linux, Backup exec, R2, Ms office, Mac, Mac os, Windows 7, Microsoft visio, Printers, Pcs Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelowuor Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ August 2009 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s41rdyskwnkntviw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Software Applications: MS Office, Microsoft Visio, Backup Exec, Acronis Backup and Recovery  Operating systems: Windows 7, 8 &10, Linux, Mac OS, Server Operating Systems:  Windows Server (2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2012 R2, 2016), Exchange, Linux  Hardware: PCs, Laptops, Printers, Servers, Cisco Routers, Switches, Wireless Access points  Ticket systems: ServiceNow, Samanage, KACE, Zendesk  Mobile Devices Management applications: MaaS360, AirWatch.  Remote Access: RDP, LogMeIn, Bomgar, TeamViewer.