Administration Manager Administration Manager Administration Manager - D J White Welding and Construction Work Experience Administration Manager D J White Welding and Construction - Eastham, MA May 2018 to Present • Coordinate and distribute invoices using Freshbooks  • Managing administration for company  • Manage all marketing materials, including website, designing business cards and social media  • Organise company involvement with community events Network Control Centre Admin Support Veripos February 2017 to Present • Coordinating Travel for Service Delivery Group including VISA's.  • Liaising with clients in relation to the supply of services and logging of queries.  • Enabling and disabling clients GNSS units.  • Updating and maintaining accurate client records. Membership Coordinator Oil and Gas UK - Aberdeen February 2018 to May 2018 • Working with the team to maintain accurate and up to date records in our Microsoft Dynamics CRM system  • Coordinated membership materials and reached out to clients for up to date contacts Receptionist EY December 2014 to March 2016 Temporary Office Manager Calculus Capital Investment - London October 2015 to November 2015 Managing the day to day admin of this investment banking firm, including setting up for meetings, diary management and help with investment administration such as formatting spread sheets and helping with fund distribution. Administrator/Receptionist Pinsent Masons LLP February 2015 to April 2015 • Worked on reception at an international commercial law firm.  • First port of call for clients and employees.  • Organized meeting rooms, admin and deliveries and booked travel. Administrator/Receptionist Blackadders Solicitors LLP August 2014 to November 2014 • Provided administration support for Solicitors in a busy Law firm, as well as being the face of company.  • Handled sensitive information and made sure information went to its right port of call, often under time limits. Administrator/Receptionist Mearns & Gill October 2013 to March 2014 • I covered employee's sick leave at an Advertising and Marketing company.  • Ad Hoc duties such as press cuttings, assisting in the financial monthly report, and preparation for corporate events.  • Involved in prestigious events for major oil companies such as TAQA, Total and Chevron. Office Clerk Maurice's Campground June 2012 to September 2012 Education BA in Sociology Newcastle University 2010 to 2013 Sociology University of Aberdeen 2009 to 2010 Modern Studies Meldrum Academy 2003 to 2009 Skills Marketing, Maximize sales, Witness, Presentation skills Additional Information SKILLS AND ACHIEVEMENTS  Young Enterprise  • Developing a product, marketing it and acting on feedback to improve the product if required.  • Communicating with the customer to maximize sales.  • Encouraging the team to work together and resolve conflict.    Competed in Bar National Mock Trial Competition  • National Competition between schools, it consisted of mock trials held in official crown courts in Glasgow, Scotland.  • Played role of witness 2 years running in mock trials, further developing presentation skills and the ability to keep cool under pressure.    Prefect at Meldrum Academy    Haddo Children's Theatre  • I performed in nine different shows, over 9 years.  • These include Bugsy Malone, Around the World in 80 days, Annie Get Your Gun and My Fair Lady.  • Helped backstage and designed part of the logo for the organization.