PC/ Network Technician PC/<span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Computer Engineer Orlando, FL With a bachelor's degree in Computer Engineer and eight years of experience in the field, I'm looking for an opportunity to utilize my experience, competencies, and technical skills acquired throughout my career in a company that is willing to invest in international talent in computer engineering for managing software and hardware computer systems including basic networking following strategic goals, vision, and mission of the company. Work Experience PC/ Network Technician Communications Test Design Inc. (CTDI) - Orlando, FL September 2017 to Present Managing and supporting PCs and network infrastructure. PC and peripherals hardware/software support. System's Administrator Renault Venezuela C.A (Automotive Company) - San Diego, Carabobo, Venezuela March 2011 to March 2014 Manage organizational systems in order to ensure the integrity and quality of the information handled always with a good performance in the various existing applications. A comprehensive view of infrastructure, telecommunications and systems used in the organization applying mostly the following functions and activities:  Keep information systems updated Document, maintain and optimize network connections.  Ensuring data integrity in order to guarantee the accuracy of the data organization. Keep file and database backups following established procedures in case of loss.  Suggest new development according to the needs of the departments. The developments in VB.NET made were:  ? P. O. M (Purchase Orders Mailer)  ? List of dispatch audit  ? Packing list    Technical and help desk support to different areas of the Organization    Keep printing and data servers in optimum performance and updated Ensure the safety of the data from all areas of physical and logical organization. IT Analyst K.L.G Comercializadora - Guacara, Carabobo, Venezuela November 2010 to March 2011 Help Desk of office applications, network and computer equipment support from headquarter to branches. Technology and Systems Analyst Semprenoi International Group - Valencia, Carabobo, Venezuela September 2009 to October 2010 Help Desk of office applications, network and computer equipment support Computer Engineering Intern Renault Venezuela C.A (Automotive Company) - San Diego, Carabobo, Venezuela August 2008 to July 2009 With a duration of 24 weeks full time.  Help Desk of office applications and Development of an application of business intelligence for the delivery of spare parts for automobiles in pending applications as graduation project. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Universidad José Antonio Páez July 2009 Skills .NET (4 years), ACCESS (Less than 1 year), Cisco CCNA (Less than 1 year), CISCO CCNA (Less than 1 year), SQL (3 years), Desktop Support, LAN, Pc Support, Help Desk, Hardware, Help Desk Support, Deployment Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Currently studying for getting certified. Additional Information ? Competencies  ? Knowledge in Computer Hardware Maintenance and Repair  ? Excellent Communicator both in English and Spanish  ? Computational thinking  ? Cisco CCNA Exploration (4 Modules Local Certified) Networking Formation  ? Knowledge in language programming such as Visual Basic .NET, SQL Server, PHP.  ? Transdisciplinary & Multitasking  ? Proficient user of Excel, Word, Power Point, Access, Publisher  ? Novel & Adaptive thinking  ? Excellent performance working as a team  ? Resourceful  ? Scrum and Kanban scheduling tasks  ? Empathic and enthusiastic  ? Effective tools for strategic planning  ? Develop/Suggest effective solutions  ? Effective collaboration with all areas of the company