Business Education Instructor Business Education Instructor Oil City, PA Professional with 28 years experience in multi-disciplinary environments including business and educational settings. Solid skill set, excellent organizational, analysis, communication and inter-personal skills. Demonstrated success in training, Information Technology, and relationship management, with ability to quickly build genuine rapport and a reputation for dedication, creative problem solving, and outstanding service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Education Instructor State of Pennsylvania, Department of Corrections - Cambridge Springs, PA July 2015 to Present Adult Education Teacher for Business Information and Technology classes which includes Microsoft Office instruction, Typing and Keyboarding, Accounting, and Entrepreneurship. Responsible for creating and maintaining course information and materials, syllabus, lesson plans, and curriculum. Also responsible for monitoring inmate behavior and establishing classroom rules and procedures, and maintaining attendance, inventory and payroll records.  Finally, Selecting and/or developing a variety of teaching techniques and approaches in presenting materials on an instructional level to meet the needs of the learner. (SCI Cambridge Spring - Cambridge Springs, PA). Information Technology Generalist State of Pennsylvania, Department of Corrections - Mercer, PA October 2011 to July 2015 Functioned as a Systems Administrator for staff and inmate hardware and software including support and implementation of work stations, laptops, and printers. Served as a Network Administrator performing infrastructure and server management in a Microsoft 2003/2008 environment. Additional tasks encompassed end user training and support on applications and operating systems, hardware and software support on Biometric and Time Clock systems, and support for Parole computer systems. (SCI Mercer - Mercer, PA). Network Administrator/Instructor Erie Business Center - New Castle, PA May 2011 to October 2011 Responsible for network management, support, and administration in a Microsoft Server 2003 environment. Also perform and direct hardware and software support and implementation and repair of work stations, laptops, and printers for staff and students. Additional tasks encompass end user training and support on applications and operating systems. As an instructor per semester, tasks comprise creation of syllabus and lesson, and lab plans, administering tests and tracking grades, and updating course materials and texts. Technology Professional Oil City Area School District - Oil City, PA January 2010 to January 2011 Oil City, PA    Beginning as an intern and continuing as a technology professional, was responsible for network administration, engineering, and special projects. Additional tasks encompass end user training and support on district applications and operating systems as well as troubleshooting and support of work stations, laptops, and printers. Also conducted network surveys for permissions configuration to make corrections to security structure and provided network support for Macintosh OSX based machines on the districts' Windows Server 2003 network. Education Bachelor of Science in Liberal Studies Clarion University of Pennsylvania - Clarion, PA December 2010 Associates of Science in Liberal Studies/Business Clarion University of PA - Clarion, PA December 1986 Skills TRAINING (10+ years), CUSTOMER SERVICE (10+ years), MENTORING (10+ years), RECEPTIONIST (Less than 1 year), RETAIL SALES (6 years), Supervisory Skills (5 years), Analytical Skills (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), problem solving, Teaching, Team Building, CPR, Public Speaking, CPR, Microsoft Excel, Public Speaking, Team Building, Customer Service Skills, Teaching, problem solving Additional Information SKILLS  IT Management  Supervisory Skills  Analytical Skills  Negotiation Skills  Project Coordination  Training/Mentoring  Administration  Customer service  Manage expectations    "John has been a strong asset to this department. He is motivated, takes pride in his work and presents himself as a professional in all aspects.    John takes his education and craft seriously and is constantly exploring avenues to expand his knowledge base. It is without hesitation that I recommend Mr. John Riley to you for an employment opportunity."    Dr. Joseph Caricco  Superintendent  Oil City Area School District    "John has very strong communication skills in addition to his impressive technology background.  Employed in the school setting John has worked at all educational levels with students and  staff. Reports on him and his work have all been stellar.    It is without reservation that I recommend to you Mr. John Riley. He is someone I believe will  be a tremendous asset to any organization."    Mr. Scott Stahl  Principal  Oil City High School