Maintenance Technician Maintenance Technician South Dennis, MA Work Experience Maintenance Technician Newport Group - Hyannis, MA October 2018 to Present • Give responses to all visitors in an effective and prompt manner.  • Carry out inspection on public areas on a daily basis in case of problems arising unexpectedly.   • Offer maintenance and repairs to public areas, guestrooms and administrators office buildings.   • Carry out consistent preventive maintenance programs on rooms and regularly updates records on files.   • Engage in flexible work schedules to be able to perform well during emergencies.   • Carry out assessment of requirements for completion of reports, or work orders to the management as stated by standard procedures. Maintenance Technician Bluegreen Corporation - Dennis Port, MA July 2015 to September 2018 • Performing testing of water samples to monitor pool water chemistry and making adjustments to maintain the quality standards.  • Supervising the working of the pool filtration system and maintaining its efficiencies .  • Offer maintenance and repairs to public areas, guestrooms and administrators office buildings.  • Carry out consistent preventive maintenance programs on rooms and regularly  updates records on files.  • Assist in remodeling and construction of new projects as may be required.  • Carry out assessment of requirements for completion of reports, or work orders to the management as stated by standard procedures. Help Desk Technical Support VIVACOM, Bulgarian Telecommunications Company EAD October 2013 to June 2015 Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues  related to Internet Services such as Optic, ADSL, Satellite Internet, and television (DTH, IPTV).  • Respond to and satisfy queries from customers via telephone.  • Solicit information to determine nature of customers' issue.  • Identify procedure to walk customer through solution to issue.  • Follow up with customer to ensure all issues have been resolved.  • Respond to email messages for customers seeing assistance with issues.  • Monitor IT Network to ensure that all users have availability on Network.  • Run reports to identify any malfunctions that may impact system utilization. System Administrator, Network Operations MANDRA Ltd December 2010 to August 2012 Maintenance of 20 client computers running Windows XP Professional SP3, Vista Ultimate and  Windows 7 Ultimate.  • Configuration and maintenance of network resources, performance oversight, server units' maintenance,  conducting maintenance task operating system Windows Server R2.  • Network equipment, routers, switches, and UPS device maintenance.  • Maintenance of Printing workgroups, assigning network IP addresses, configuration of large scale network  printers. Education Masters in Economics Tsenov Academy of Economics October 2007 to June 2010 Bachelor of Economics in Accounting and Control College of Economics and Management September 2004 to July 2007 Skills Windows Server (1 year), Windows (5 years), Help Desk (2 years), Technical Desk Support (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) June 2015 to June 2018 Additional Information • Computer Networking  • Keyboarding 60WPM  • Strong trouble shooting  • Critical Problem Solving Skills  • High level of organization sills to administer client services needs