IT / Network Administrator IT / <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT / Network Administrator - Five Rivers Services Fort Myers, FL Over 6+ years of enterprise level experience. I'm a technical U.S. Marine Corps Veteran with years of experience who is looking to provide added value by contributing both military and civilian education and experience in an Network Administration role. Work Experience IT / Network Administrator Five Rivers Services May 2018 to Present o Maintain network performance of LAN/WAN by evaluating availability, utilization, throughput, and latency.  o Installing configuring and administer network technologies for all Cisco products.  o Implement and managed Cisco VoIP products and network including Cisco Unified Call Manager.  o Provide customers with solutions to more complex issues, and solving outages and anomalies as required for over 1,000 users and  400 pieces of networking equipment.  o Manage and modify core, distribution, and access layer equipment to maintain STIG standards.  o Utilize Orion SolarWinds performance monitoring to identify, diagnose, and resolve problems affecting network  performance.  o Develop and modify DICAS (DOD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation process) on Microsoft VISIO. Update  IOS on Cisco access and distribution layer switches.  o Conduct enterprise level technical support, triage, and resolution of troubleshooting for 656 incidents and requests for enterprise systems/services.  o Provision, modify, and delete over 1,000 Enterprise email accounts leverage the DISA Enterprise Provisioning Online (DEPO)  web portal.  o Create, modified, and deleted users, computer objects and MABs within Active Directory.  o Assign user rights to security groups to determine what members can do within the scope of a domain or forest.  o Provisioned and Supported Existing infrastructure of Cisco Voice Adds, Moves, and Changes to Voice Gateways, Call  Routing. Upgrade and configure network components as newer technology becomes available.  o Troubleshoot Microsoft OS issues on Army Gold Master/Universal Gold Master along with setup and Microsoft Office  Suites. Troubleshoots all other site authorized software with IMOs and users.  o Create logon and email accounts using Microsoft Exchange Server and User Manager. Manages Network Services with Server Manager, Print Queue Management and CISCO VMPS administration.  o Perform daily administration of Exchange 200X servers and Outlook Web Access.  o Install, configures, and maintains DOD-approved communications software on government computers and configures the network to allow proper user access. Telecom & Network Infrastructure Technician The Select Group - San Diego, CA January 2018 to April 2018 o Successfully migrated over 800 assets to Windows 10.  o Performed daily back-ups of sensitive encrypted information with data loss prevention support.  o Serves as liaison with clients, participating in meetings to ensure client needs are met.  o Ensures end users received a new laptop and a validated Windows 10 baseline image (overlaid with Office 365) receive the required advanced communication and technical support to facilitate a positive upgrade experience.  o Assists in planning, training, communications, and end user support. IT Specialist - Intern New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Orlando, FL November 2017 to December 2017 o Established tomato and DD-WRT on routers, along with router QOS and MAC based blocking.  o Configured secure thick and thin desktop images for migration from Windows 7 to Windows 10.  o Managed daily network operations for local and remote internal and external users consisting over 20 switches and 100 Aps  o Executed classroom PC set up for technical courses from Microsoft, Cisco, VMware, CompTIA and more.  o Set up user accounts in Active Directory, and install and configure printers. Lead Network Technician Hotwire Communications - Naples, FL January 2017 to November 2017 o Designed and installed 456 well-functioning computer networks, connections and cabling.  o Recorded and analyzed test results for daily work reports.  o Locating faults using optical time-domain reflectometer and light measuring devices.  o Used troubleshooting skills to identify system failures to ensure long term reliability of networks; Designed and implemented home networks using IP addressing.  o Installation and servicing of video and home networking equipment; Fiber Optic troubleshooting with 1310, 1490, and 1550  nm wavelength.  o Testing, configured, and repaired hardware and peripheral devices. LAN Manager / Instructor of Radio Equipment U.S. Marine Corps - Palms, CA July 2011 to July 2016 o Configured and maintained Cisco Unified Communication platform to include router routers, switches and VOIP  technologies.  o Maintained 100% accountability and serviceability of assets worth over $6 million and conducted routine inspection and quality tests to judge efficiency of equipment, instruments, and network devices.  o Assisted administrators on active directory and in creating groups, giving permissions and approved user access to the network.  o Established lifecycle strategies, ensuring that new equipment was appropriately distributed and old assets was properly  retired.  o Instructed 205 entry level subordinates through CISCO IT Essentials classes.  o Migrated over 20 email accounts between several domains without any data loss.  o Diagnosed errors or technical problems and determined proper solution and documented repairs to the work stations.  o Instructed the operation and maintenance of Tropospheric Scatter Radio Multi-channel Equipment's  o Assisted clients with analyzing and resolving hardware and software issues that allowed the continuation of an efficient  work environment.  o Trained 88 subordinates and superior in formal course of instruction for Multi-channel Equipment and provided instructions in fundamentals of installing, operating, and maintaining tactical radio equipment.  o Assisted in the development, correction, and improvement of courseware and ensure course material reflects current  doctrine and operating forces standard operating procedures. Education High school or equivalent Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DHCP, EIGRP, IPV6, ORION, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, LAN (5 years), WAN (5 years), Cisco (5 years), Windows 10 (5 years), Microsoft Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sgt Certifications/Licenses CCNA MCSA MCP MTA Networking MTA Security Security+