Senior Systems Administrator Senior Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Community Care of North Carolina Apex, NC Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Community Care of North Carolina - Raleigh, NC 2018 to Present • Manage VMware environment.  ? Took environment from dozens of individual VM hosts with local storage to a clustered environment utilizing EMC vMax.  • Manage Active Directory environment  ? In charge of all Active Directory activities, permissions, and organization.  ? Setup new domain and designed Active Directory structure.  ? Headed up project to migrate company to new domain.  ? Migration of Domain servers from 2008 to 2016.  • Manage FTP sites  ? Manage two FTP servers, accounts and file shares.  • Manage firewall  ? Adding, maintaining IP whitelist and access rules for Cisco Firewall.  • Manage EMC Data Domains  ? Write and maintain PowerShell scripts for file shares and Active Directory.  • Manage all NTFS and File Share Permissions  ? Cleaned, organized file share structures and audited all permissions across file shares.  ? Created new protocols for permissions and file shares including security groups. Radiologic Technologist UNC Rex - Raleigh, NC 2015 to Present • Daily responsible for managing the x-ray workload for the Emergency department at Rex Hospital.  • I handle all traumas, outpatients and portables within the Emergency department.  • Rex is a teaching hospital; I assist with the education of Wake Tech students  • Daily QA of x-ray equipment. Lab Administrator/Engineer NetApp - Morrisville, NC 2016 to 2018 • Build out of time sensitive testing platforms using Netapp, Cisco, IBM, HP, and Fujitsu servers  • Installation and configuration of ESXi, VMWare, and corresponding VMs.  • Responsible for the timely completion of multiple simultaneous customer facing projects.  • Responsible for inventorying all of the Lab equipment and decommissioning unused equipment across five different lab environments.  • Implemented new inventory system using QR codes to more accurately track equipment.  • Setup and configuration of new equipment and infrastructure. Systems Administrator Town of Cary - Cary, NC 2012 to 2013 • Support of all Netapp filers, Cisco blade centers.  • VMware installs and maintenance.  • Backups for all servers on the network and data across the storage arrays.  • Administered all servers across the network at multiple sites.  • All levels of phone support.  • Travel when needed to Police and Fire stations around the city for hardware support. Systems Engineer NetApp - Morrisville, NC 2010 to 2012 • Work with an SLA based ticketing system supporting multiple engineering groups.  • Work includes Operating System installs for Windows W2K3 & W2k8, Linux (Ubuntu, Fedora, RHEL), ESX, ESXi, and OnTap.  • Responsible for the timely completion of multiple projects involving: installation, cabling, and configuring NetApp filers and disk shelves, blade centers, Linux, Windows, and ESX servers.  • Versed in Netapp's own OnTap operating system in both 7-mode and C-mode. ITC Imaging Engineer Lenovo - Morrisville, NC 2008 to 2009 • Communicated with global customers and representatives assisting in the timely facilitation of project completion.  • Utilization of imaging tools at hand, including Microsoft ImageX and Symantec Ghost.  • Proficiency in disassembling, repairing and debugging laptops and desktops.  • Ability to locate and fix problems that arise within a customer's image as well as the company's imaging tools and convey the information successfully to the company representatives and customers. IT Manager, Network/Systems Administrator Fowler Contracting - Cary, NC 2005 to 2007 • Administrate and maintain Active Directory.  • Create and maintain all Active Directory scripts.  • Create and maintain multiple SQL server databases.  • Maintain all on and offsite servers and network hardware.  • Maintain all desktops, laptops, printers and plotters.  • Assisted in the creation of vendor relationships.  • Test all hardware and software on network for compatibility issues. Education Associate Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DHCP, NFS, VMWARE