Delivery Driver Delivery Driver Experienced Support Technician Seeking Full Time Opportunities Milwaukee, WI Customer Service focused Technical Support Expert with 4 years career experience in help desk and IT environments. Highly adept in systems analysis, diagnostics, troubleshooting, and conflict resolution. Exhibits excellent organizational and problem-solving skills. Works well in team environments and displays strong work ethic. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Delivery Driver Amazon.com - Sussex, WI May 2019 to Present • Drives a standard cargo van to deliver parcels for Amazon.com  • Loads and unloads vans based on route itinerary.  • Delivers packages at a rate of 20+ parcels per hour with a 100% attempt rate on all parcels that I depart the warehouse with.  • Survey areas and delivers packages to a secure location to prevent possible package theft. Acting Customer Service Manager Walmart - Phoenix, AZ March 2019 to Present • Prevented loss by monitoring excess bills in cash drawers and pulling excess bills to be deposited into our cash recycler.   • Monitored associate breaks and mealtimes to ensure proper coverage on the front end often covering associate breaks myself.   • Sorted and managed returns and ensured that they were returned to their proper department.   • Advocated for both customers and associates with whatever they may have needed by making sure I had the tools I needed to succeed, and by going above and beyond to find a solutions.   • This position also required me to close the store most nights so my closing duties included generating EOD cash count reports to refill Self Checkout machines, and pull register tills so that the cash could be deposited into the cash recycler and reset for the next business day. Overnight Customer Service Lead Circle K - Phoenix, AZ June 2018 to December 2018 • Performed cashiering, stocking, cleaning, and customer service duties in a manner that developed good customer relations, grew store sales, maximized profits, and protected store assets.   • My goal was to provide all of my customers with a service level that exceeded their expectations.   • Supported the companies goals by focusing on personal accountability, customer service and work efficiency. Senior Network Administrator Silver Spring Church of God - Milwaukee, WI August 2013 to June 2018 • Performed day-to-day administration of the company's network infrastructure.   • Monitored and troubleshooted security and hardware issues.  • Implemented operations critical changes and upgrades to networking equipment.  • Managed a team of IT Personnel and assisted them with department projects.   • Provided training to non-employee network users who were not tech savvy. Stage Manager Destiny Youth Plaza - Milwaukee, WI September 2011 to January 2013 • Coached and developed a team of 10-20 individuals, trained my team to operate various lighting, sound, and video equipment.   • Coordinated with department executives to plan, organize, and run events.  • Performed evaluations based on department performance expectations. Education High school James Madison High School - Milwaukee, WI September 2011 to June 2015 Skills Windows Server 2008, Windows 7, Windows XP, Microsoft Office, Help Desk, Windows 10, Mac OS X, LAN/WAN support, Backup and Restore, Customer Service Skills (3 years), Technical Support (3 years), Customer Service, Helpdesk Support, Tech Support, Service Desk, Active Directory, Desktop Support, MAC, Customer Support, Call Center Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/trevon-hall-49866290 Groups FIRST: First Robotics Competition (FRC) September 2011 to September 2013 FIRST is an international robotics competition in which teams of high-school students from across the world are given 6 weeks to design, build, and program a functional robot which is able to fulfill the unique and complex challenges specific to that year’s game. Extremely involved high school participant as the lead programmer. Experience gained in design, metal fabrication, wiring, systems integration, programing and testing.