System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Barkley Court Reporters Los Angeles, CA Multitasking Solution Oriented Fast Learner Team Player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Barkley Court Reporters - Los Angeles, CA November 2017 to Present Essential Duties and Responsibilities include.  • Manage Windows Servers 2012 and 2008.  • Manage Active Directory.  • Hands on tasks to Administer, manage migrations and maintain Office 365  tenants.  • Developed Company Intranet on SharePoint. Managing and Administering  Company SharePoint Farm, Sites, Lists and Libraries on SharePointOnline  • Manage and administer Exchange Online(0365)  • Administer Azure Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange services.  • Troubleshoot and resolve issues with user access to cloud services.  • Maintain a highly secure system through proper configuration and system  access monitoring.  • Assist with the creation of policies around the proper use of Office 365  services and support.  • Administer and manage Salesforce  • Manage and process Back (Veem and One Drive)  • Administer Other Business Operation Softwares such as Reporter Base, Zoom and many others  • Manage Office Printers Systems Support Specialist Providence Health & Services September 2016 to November 2017 • Project Coordination; Technical Assessment of newly acquired clinics.  • Worked on all phases of the EPIC Migration Project from assessment, validation, configuration, installation, and support of PCs and printers.  • MIGRATION: Providence healthcare software to EPIC. Windows XP to Windows 7 and Domain change.  • DESKTOP SUPPORT: Image and validate PCs and laptops, restore user's  documents and ensure functionality.  • LEAD: Assessment of PCs to meet EPIC requirements, coordinate all  equipment and installation logistics.  • ASSET MANAGEMENT: Audit Epic deployment inventory, reconcile  purchase orders with packing slips received, investigate discrepancies and report to Manager. Coordinate and manage timelines and distribution  schedules of Epic deployment equipment to the different health care facilities within the California region.  • Deployed, Installed and configured workstations and laptop computers  connecting them on the LAN and WAN networks.  • Desktop support to users ranging from installation, migrations of Windows  7 and other operating systems, Microsoft Office software, Internet browsers, device drivers, modems, printer and network connectivity.  • Citrix and VMware  • User data backup and retrieval during migrations  • Active Directory;- o Configure users, groups, group policy objects, service accounts, application  layer services and other objects, often coordinating with software developers.  o Handled user account transfers from one field site to another moving client  data to different servers, to ensure user accessibility.  o Using SCCM to deploy and install/re-install software  Rugaba Holdings LLC, Van Nuys Desktop Support Rugaba Holdings - Van Nuys, CA November 2013 to August 2016 Maintenance of data integrity within the company by setting a windows 2008  server, which increased efficiency and thus  optimizing the access and use of shared information, and providing upgrades and changes to the company website.  * Installed and configured workstations and laptop computers connecting them  on the LAN and WAN networks.  * Designed and setup the permanent company LAN for five workstations and connected hubs and switches which  created capacity for additional of more workstations.  * Provision of support for issues which included installation and support of Windows XP, 7 and Windows 8  operating systems, Microsoft Office software, Internet browsers, device drivers, modems, printer and network  connectivity.  * Installation of windows 5.0 workstation operating systems and configuration  of TCP/IP network, including DHCP, settings using windows server 2008.  Problem Solving  * Researched and resolved problems on workstations and LAN, including IP  resolution, cabling problems, and peripheral malfunctions.  * Designed and management of the company website to enable customers  process transactions online easily.  * Providing customer support by responding to calls and helping with transaction issues as raised.  * Automated routine backup and maintenance of the data on the main server and performing operating system  upgrades and patches.  * Training and assisting users with hands-on troubleshooting of workstation  equipment and peripherals. Network Support Engineer Revival Power Ministries January 2014 to January 2016 Implementation of LAN and WAN network design, which included software and hardware specifications,  Configurations and upgrades by monitoring and diagnosing issues of connectivity, performance and speed of both  intranet and internet.  Networking  * Routine maintenance and configuration of the both the LAN and WAN networks  to maintain efficiency and stability.  * Performed regular backup of network resources, and archival of user data to avoid data loss and damage caused  by hard drive failures, power outages.  * Setup the vpn and which increased the wireless security this helped to reduce risks of identity theft.  * Identifying and analyzing security and weakness within the network which increased data integrity.  * Maintenance of the Microsoft windows network system to suit the specific  needs of the organization which involved setting up user accounts and network security. Network Support Administrator Presto Accounting Services January 2011 to January 2013 Managing the local area network, servers, and communications connections to different departments within the  hospital. Installed network routers and switches, configured network servers  and trained the department staff on the standard network server procedures which involved virus protection and other  security measures as well as trouble  shooting computers to increase efficiency.  Networking  * Administering Active Directory and DNS Servers  * Configured and maintained the windows server for department of 30  accounting professionals.  * Performed regular backup, maintenance, and archival of user data and trained users on shared server resources.  * Assigned user accounts and granted permissions to shared resources by assuring senior management of data  protection by demonstrating permission settings.  * Conducted security analysis to identify and address weaknesses on the network.  Technical Administration Highlights:  * Implemented precise tracking tools ensuring accountability for all purchase  orders and inventory record  keeping.  * Facilitated hardware repair and maintenance through LAN administration  support of windows workstations, HP's and Macintosh fileservers.  * Scheduling tape backup system which manages overall backup costs  because tape is the most cost-effective way to store data.  Project Management Functions  * Defined requirements, then planned, implemented and managed software to ensure safe, stable environment.  * Administered lifecycle of multiple projects, assessing needs, writing  proposals, setting goals, managing daily  scheduling, and formulating closeout plan.  * Coordinating which involved planning and organizing activities of the department, by planning sessions using the  project management software. IT Technician Genex Enterprises January 2008 to January 2009 Provided technical support for specialized hardware and software systems for clients both for servers and workstations.  Installed mother boards and drives, as well as Windows NT 5.0 and Windows  Server NT 5.2 by configuring software according to each client's needs.  Customer Management  * Troubleshooting, administration and support of Windows Operating systems  and applications  * Installing and configuring peripheral devices.  * Championed innovative solutions to customer issues, increasing customer  satisfaction and retention.  * Forged strong alliances with cross-functional teams, to ensure efficient and timely completion of projects. Support Technician Netsoft Solutions January 2006 to January 2007 Experience in installing, troubleshooting and repairing hardware, software and peripherals, plus training of end  users.  * Upgraded computers from Microsoft Office 2000 to Office XP and trained end  users on new software changes and additions which in increased customer relations.  * Provided clear and simple explanations and works closely with people to  develop solutions to their computer  problems. Education DIPLOMA in NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Aptech 2015 to 2016 Diploma in Systems Administration Makerere University 2005 to 2007 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DHCP, DNS, EXCHANGE, MCSA, SCCM, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/paul-kirungi-7097b011?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BYaLfw%2FN9QryrgUY3Wx6C0g%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Certifications/Licenses MCSA - Office 365 Present MCSE - SharePoint Productivity