Technical Support Representative Technical Support Representative Systems/ Network Administrator Springfield, OR • Strong customer service and communication skills, able to work with coworkers at various levels of  technical expertise.    • Self-motivated, detail-oriented, organized, adaptable, and able to work with constant change.    • Strong ability to lead and motivate others in a fast paced environment.    • Enjoys working as a team member as well as independently.    • Deals effectively with culturally, and skillfully diverse customer base.    • Proven ability to perform efficiently under stressful conditions.    • Eager to perform work to maximize internal and external customer satisfaction.    • Creative, analytical thinker with strong ability in regards to troubleshooting, developing  deployment strategies and quick resolution to systems issues.    • Skilled with PC Hardware, software, and network equipment and continually learning and  refining skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Representative First Call Resolution - Veneta, OR July 2019 to Present Responsibilities: Provide Technical Support in Veneta Oregon; assisting clients with remote  management, configuration/setup, and platform maintenance of cloud SaaS (Software as a service) in a socs2 compliant security environment. Desktop Support Engineer Innovative Technology Solutions - Springfield, OR November 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities: Provide software, hardware, and network support for a 1000 seat cruise-line call center, in a mixed environment of local and virtual desktops. Additional responsibilities include ordering parts, keeping strict inventory of parts-on-hand, and being on call to keep systems up and running in a 24 hour Windows 7/10 sales and support environment. Sysadmin/Desktop Support Coos County Library Service District - Coos Bay, OR November 2010 to August 2017 Responsibilities: Set up, maintain, and configure Windows 7/10 workstations alongside Linux  workstations and centralized servers for staff and public use across 9 libraries in Coos County, working alongside the IT manager to troubleshoot network problems, assess current state of technology in the county, make recommendations, order parts and equipment, train staff, and host classes on new technology for both the public and staff. Systems and Network Administrator South Coast Shopper - Coos Bay, OR November 2011 to March 2016 Responsibilities: Set up, maintain, and configure Windows 7 staff workstations, PCs, network, and documentation for the SCS home base office building. Additional responsibilities included researching more efficient and cost-effective ways of maintaining shopper systems and processing of data between workstations and server; coordinate meetings between software engineers and staff for system backend upgrades, and provide on-call support for downed systems in a time-sensitive delivery environment. Education AAS in repair and customer service Southwestern Oregon Community College 2005 to 2008 Skills Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows 95, Novell, Excel, Exchange, Intranet, Lan, Microsoft office, Microsoft office 2003, Office 2003, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Frontpage, Publisher, Visio, Splunk, Linux, Red hat, Customer Service, Call Center, Help Desk, Tech Support, Troubleshooting Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ November 2013 to October 2020 CompTIA A+ is the preferred qualifying credential for technical support and IT operational roles. It is about much more than PC repair.  • Candidates are better prepared to troubleshoot and problem solve.  • Technicians understand a wide variety of issues ranging from networking and operating systems to mobile devices and security.  • A+ supports the ability to connect users to the data they need to do their jobs regardless of the devices being used.  Code: TVQM5FTDTLQEKP9Q  Verify at: http://verify.CompTIA.org CompTIA Network+ October 2014 to October 2020 Network+ ensures an IT professional has the knowledge and skills to:    • Design and implement functional networks  • Configure, manage, and maintain essential network devices  • Use devices such as switches and routers to segment network traffic and create resilient networks  • Identify benefits and drawbacks of existing network configurations  • Implement network security, standards, and protocols  • Troubleshoot network problems  • Support the creation of virtualized networks  Code: MQ96W77F3C1EQN99  Verify at: http://verify.CompTIA.org CompTIA Server+ October 2017 to Present CompTIA Server+ certified candidates can work in any environment because it is the only vendor-neutral certification covering the major server platforms. It is the only industry certification that covers the latest server technologies including virtualization, security and network-attached storage.  CompTIA Server+ certification validates the skills necessary to be a server administrator. Successful candidates will have mastered the following concepts:  • Virtualization  • Storage  • Security  • Troubleshooting    Code: C2VYW79PEHB1Q9SL  Verify at: http://verify.CompTIA.org CompTIA Cloud+ August 2017 to August 2020 CompTIA Cloud+ validates the skills you need to maintain and optimize cloud infrastructure services.    • Cloud+ covers the increased diversity of knowledge, skills and abilities required of system administrators to validate what is necessary to perform effectively in data center jobs.  • CompTIA Cloud+ views cloud-based infrastructure services as an increasingly important piece of an organization’s IT systems.  • It is the only vendor-neutral, performance-based certification covering more than a specific vendor or a single function like security or networking to help you better realize the return on investment of cloud infrastructure services.    Code: 34K04BKMQC4Q165E  Verify at: http://verify.CompTIA.org Assessments Technical Support — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/krgtc5x02ahr9gwp Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pz-vjtoyor5u4lkd Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7iagksle8urmkay5 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.