Delivery Driver Delivery Driver Technology Expert St. Louis, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Delivery Driver Insomnia Cookies - University City, MO April 2019 to Present Delivered cookies, ice cream and other various things to people all around the Delmar area. Assisted with store operations between deliveries. Field IT Technician GFI Digital - St. Louis, MO October 2017 to April 2019 Performed networked copier and printer installations for customers located from Kansas City to Springfield Illinois. Deployed badge based print tracking solutions in schools, hospitals and corporations  primarily in the St.Louis area. Network Storage Administrator Centene Corporation - Springfield, IL January 2017 to October 2017 Centene Corporation St. Louis, MO  Network Storage Administrator January 2017 - Oct 2017  Responsible for coding on-the-fly fixes for customers purchasing server space. Helps respond to and resolve incidents from customers needing immediate remedies. During downtime, assists in monitoring  current server warehouse and upgrading materials. Director of Technology Office Source, Inc - Fenton, MO September 2015 to January 2017 Specialty sales liaison responsible for guaranteeing technology purchases by customers were cleanly  implemented and maintained. Typical jobs included setting up and refurbishing Freelance IT Manes IT Repair and Consultation - St. Louis, MO January 2014 to September 2015 Freelance computer specialist for personal and business computer fixes. Received additional commission  work to help build and upgrade custom PCs for individuals Associate Vintage Stock December 2012 to January 2014 Vintage video game, music, and book specialist responsible for bartering rare items for trade-in and resale. Responsible for maintaining collection as well as repairing electronic pieces not immediately  functional enough for resale.  ANALYTICAL ? QUICK ? EAGER TO LEARN Education High school or equivalent Skills Technical Support Additional Information : Sales, Customer Etiquette, Phone Etiquette, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook