Staff Instructor Staff Instructor Staff Instructor - Naval Nuclear Power Training Unit Galway, NY Work Experience Staff Instructor Naval Nuclear Power Training Unit - Ballston Spa, NY July 2017 to Present Instruct new sailors on the safe operation, maintenance, and procedures required for operating a Nuclear Reactor plant. Ensure proper knowledge is maintained and demonstrated by the students on their path to qualification. Supervised and trained students during on-watch evolutions and casualty drills while maintaining safe and predictable conditions. Senior Maintenance Technician USS GERALD R. FORD - Naval Station Norfolk, VA August 2013 to June 2017 Performed preventative and corrective maintenance on reactor instrumentation and control systems. Utilized test equipment, schematics, and technical manuals to diagnose system malfunctions to the component level. Supervised and trained technicians on proper maintenance principals and techniques.  • Performed troubleshooting and repair operations on microprocessor based and solid state nuclear power indication systems and reactor control rod systems.  • Performed maintenance on pressure and temperature instruments, water level and flow control systems, alarm and radiation detection circuitry, and reactor protection systems.  • Performed major test procedures such as reactor rod control system testing and initial physics testing both prior to and after ship's delivery. Distributed Control System Administrator USS GERALD R. FORD - Naval Station Norfolk, VA August 2013 to June 2017 Supervised operation and access of the distributed control system through preventative and corrective maintenance, troubleshooting, and technical upgrades.  • Performed calibration and maintenance on over 5000 pieces of electronic equipment throughout two reactor plants, shaft alleys, and other critical areas of the ship.  ? Types of detectors and equipment include, but are not limited to:  * Flow Meters, Temperature Detectors, Water Level Detectors, Pump Vibration Sensors, Pressure Detectors, etc.  • Ensured no unauthorized access to the backbone of the system by use of proper username and password controls.  • Assisted system experts in the installation and design of this First-in-Class system.  • Proficient in maintenance, calibration, and installation of Allen Bradley/Rockwell based I/O Drop Boxes.  • Proficient in the installation, calibration, and operation of Alcatel brand fiber/Ethernet network switches  • Maintained all watch stander workstations and performed extensive troubleshooting to protect their ability to safely operate the reactor plants. Network Administrator USS GERALD R. FORD - Naval Station Norfolk, VA August 2013 to June 2017 Supervised the maintenance and control of the confidential propulsion plant local area network through preventative and corrective maintenance, troubleshooting, and technical upgrades.  • Managed 550 user accounts on a daily basis with 135 client computers and printers using server tools such as VMWare and Microsoft SQL Server.  • Proficient in the following computer hardware and software: PC Clones, Microsoft Office 2010 and 2016 (Excel, Access, Word, Power Point, and Outlook).  • Engineered and installed several branches of the newly designed network during ship's construction.  • Installed, administered, and performed troubleshooting on the Navy's first on-board confidential Wi-Fi network.  • Maintained 9 different virtual servers in operation at all times to ensure proper functionality for critical reactor plant programs. Reactor Operator USS GERALD R. FORD - Naval Station Norfolk, VA August 2013 to June 2017 Four years' experience operating two reactor plants during critical, shutdown conditions. Performed First-in-Class testing on two brand new reactor plants with zero discrepancies. Performed reactor startups and shutdowns while monitoring plant parameters to ensure reactor safety. Was relied upon to take action in the event of an abnormal condition to ensure operating limits were not exceeded and personal safety was not jeopardized. Education Nuclear Power Naval Nuclear Power School 2011 to 2012 Electronics Technician Nuclear Field "A" School 2011 A.S. in Network Administration McCann School of Business and Technology 2007 to 2009 Skills MAINTENANCE, CONTROL SYSTEMS, PROGRAMMABLE LOGIC, CALIBRATION, POWER GENERATION Additional Information KEY SKILLS    Engineering operations • Power Plant operations • Administration • Quality Assurance • Safety compliance • Electrical power generation/distribution • Thermodynamics • Team Collaboration • Trend analysis / Failure prediction • Leadership and Supervision • Programmable logic controllers • Networked engineering control systems • Detector Calibration • Maintenance • Windows-based Network Administration