TIBCO Consultant TIBCO Consultant TIBCO Consultant - Nordstrom San Francisco, CA • Over all 6+ years of total IT experience in analysis, design, development testing and implementation of various client/server and integration applications.  • Expert level skills in Tibco Active Enterprise Suite - ADB adapter, File Adapter, Hawk, Tibco Active Matrix Business Works.  • Experience and familiarity with latest W3 standards HTML, CSS, Java script, WSDL, XML, XSD, XPath and XSLT.  • Experience building integration and SOA based solutions using TIBCO Business Works6.x /5.x, Enterprise Messaging Service (EMS), Business Works Plugins and Active Enterprise Adapters.  • Extensive Experience in installation, configuration, deployment and troubleshooting of TIBCO Active Enterprise Suite of applications TIBCO Business Works, TIBCO Designer, TIBCO Rendezvous, TIBCO EMS, TIBCO JMS TIBCO Administrator and TIBCO Hawk, TIBCOADB adapter, TIBCO File Adapter 6.x/5.x.  • Having experience with TIBCO Business Connect and Implemented SOAP and EDI protocols.  • Experience in handling EDI transaction.  • Tuned the performance of EMS for load and memory optimization.  • Developed heavy processes in TIBCO Designer involving business rules/logic.  • Application integration with EDI-X12, EDI-EDIFACT, EDI-TEXT protocol  • Configured Web services in TIBCO Active Matrix Business Works for customer interaction through SOAP over HTTP and SOAP over JMS.  • Excellent hands on experience in Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and Schemas XSD with strong skills in understanding and implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Adaptable to highly dynamic work environments and experience in working various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Methodologies including Agile, Waterfall.  • Hand on experience in TIBCO REST Service in TIBCO BW.  • Up gradation of TIBCO BW 5.6 to 5.9 for all the components  • Worked on PL/SQL Development and Implementation.  • Worked on various business modules like Health Insurance, Sales, and Procurement to analyze and create reports.  • Experience working and analyzing concepts, scorecards, state modelers, functions, rules, channels and destinations of business.  • Experience with SQL concepts and written many triggers, tuned databases for getting best performance.  • Experienced in software development life cycle of real-time systems including requirements.  • Experience in using messaging standards such as EMS, JMS and TIBCO RENDEZVOUS for developing ESB solutions.  • Experience in complete SDLC with hands on involvement in Requirement gathering, Design, Development, Testing and migration to Production along with Application Production Support.  • Strong skills using SQL queries on Oracle, DB2, and SQL Server.  • A self-starter with positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of challenges.  • Excellent team player and team leader with strong problem-solving and troubleshooting capabilities, ability to work efficiently in both independent and team work environments.  • Extensive hands-on experience with message-oriented Middleware, Tibco, Java, and other relevant technologies. Work Experience TIBCO Consultant Nordstrom - Seattle, WA August 2018 to Present Nordstrom Inc. is an American upscale fashion retailer company. The company began as a shoe retailer and has since expanded its inventory to include clothing, accessories, handbags, jewelry, cosmetics, and fragrances. Nordstrom Product Service (NPS) is restful API which maintains USA and Canada product data. NPS is a highly available service and supports backward compatibility. It is highly scalable service and zero downtime during deployment.  Nordstrom B2B Gateway migration from E2open to Business Connect. Business Connect would be used as B2B gateway to send and receive documents from its partners in different domains such as logistics, sellers, buyers etc.  Responsibilities  • Installed TIBCO Business Connect on Linux and Unix machines for all non-prod environments.  • Configured trading partners with both Rosetta Net and EDI Protocols  • Developed private process to receive and send messages to Business Connect.  • Worked on EDI Maps to convert EDI to XML and XML to EDI.  • Configured Hawk Web Console to monitor all non prod environments.  • Create TIBCO BW process to subscribe to each product change message validate and process it.  • Developed Technical design documents for the interfaces developed in TIBCO BW  • POC's has been developed in TIBCO BW 6.x for some services.  • Created initial loader process to load product data from Oracle MDM.  • Developed rest API client to invoke the requests from consumers.  • Configured TIBCO JMS Server for Fault Tolerance.  • Created Error handling and auditing processes using TIBCO Business works  • Responsible for debugging production issues in minimal time.  Environment: TIBCO Business Works 5.x, 6.x TIBCO BC, TIBCO Administrator, TIBCO EMS Server, TIBCO Hawk, TIBCO AS, Linux, Splunk, Dynatrace, GitHub, Jenkins, WinSCP, SOAP, GEMS. TIBCO Developer GRSi - Baltimore, MD August 2016 to July 2018 The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is a federal agency that ensures health care coverage for more than 100 million Americans. The CMS administers Medicare and provides funds and guidance for all of the 50 states in the nation, for their Medicaid programs and Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The CMS works together with the CMS community and organizations in delivering improved and better coordinated care.  Responsibilities  • Design, Build and manage TIBCO domains including resources management, security policy management and application management.  • Configure TIBCO EMS highly available/fault tolerance servers, setting up queues, topics, routes and factories.  • Experience with TIBCO applications by troubleshooting, Bug Fixing, testing and deploying the code fixes and enhancing the existing processes.  • Involve in developing business services using JMS and SOAP/RESTful web services.  • Involve in developing the orchestration services using TIBCO business works and TIBCO AMX  • Administrator to ensure TIBCO Services are configured correctly tuned for stability and  • performance including Managing nodes and hosts.  • Involve in deploying the services in dev, VAL and Prod environment and involve in Production support environment of the interfaces. Resolved the issues during production environment to make sure the interface connectivity is done.  • Developed and implemented the Audit and Error handling standards for all interfaces.  • Prepared test samples for regression testing  • Involved in Production Support of all developed Interfaces.  Environment: TIBCO Business Works 5.x, TIBCO BC, TIBCO Administrator, TIBCO EMS Server, TIBCO Hawk, TIBCO AS, Linux, Splunk, GitHub, Jenkins, WinSCP, SOAP, GEMS. Tibco Developer US Foods - Tempe, AZ January 2016 to July 2016 US Foods is one of the USA's leading Foodservice distributors. Integration of Order management, Warehouse management, Shipping and Handling management systems is implemented. TIBCO Business Works formed the core integration agent while TIBCO EMS was used as the messaging backbone. The project involved the integration of Order management and Product management services with Inventory system, Billing, and Shipping modules.  Responsibilities  • Review Functional Design Specification (FDS) and clarify requirements from the FDS writer  • Approve the FDS after all queries, gaps in the FDS have been incorporated  • Create Solution Design Document (SDD) and artifacts such as activity diagram, sequence diagram etc.  • Based on the approved FDS and present the design to the review board for approvals  • Implemented B2B Communication using TIBCO Business Connect Rosetta Net Transaction for Purchase Order, Invoice and Advance Shipment Notification.  • Designed, Developed and tested the Inbound Process for all B2B processes.  • Designed, Developed and tested the Outbound documents for all invoice and shipment notification.  • Designed the B2B Alert management application for all failures and success scenarios,  • Create TIBCO BW process framework to be implemented by developer  • Review the TIBCO BW code  • Create Unit Test Plan for execution by the developer  • Review the Unit Test Plan after execution of the test cases  • Raise deployment request for deployment in DEV environment and provide support for end-to-end testing of the interface  • Provided a request/reply handshake process for sending requests and fetching details of Immunization from Texas Immunization registry Database.  • Task assignment, status reporting, scheduling, and development team management.  Environment: Business Works 5.X, Business Connect 6.X, TIB/EMS 6.x, Active Database Adapter 5.x, Administrator, UNIX/Linux, Oracle 10g database. Network Administrator Philadelphia Telco Credit Union - Trevose, PA January 2014 to November 2015 • Managed Novell 5.1, NT Server 4.0, and Windows 2000, Win 9x/NT, and Linux  • Migrated from Novell 5.x to Windows 2000 Active Directory, and Microsoft Mail to Exchange 2000. Coordinated this two-phase move involving infrastructure and equipment enhancements with zero percent loss of productivity  • Maintained Active Directory, DNS, WINS, Exchange 2000, IIS, SQL 2000, Checkpoint Firewall, and VPN services using SecurID and Z.E.N Works for Netware  • Manage LAN/WAN (TCP/IP and IPX/SPX), Printers, Switches, Routers, ISDN, CAT5 Cabling  • Installed and maintained imaging system for document management  • Implemented a client/server-faxing solution.  • Implemented network security, Anti-Virus Software, and System backups  • Tested and implemented new hardware for network infrastructure and software  • Installed, upgraded, configured, and ordered new computers and related materials  • Imaged PCs using Symantec Ghost  • Maintained user access to the Windows NT domain  • Provide technical support to 250+ users Anti-Virus Administrator Hewlett Packard - Monument, CO November 2012 to December 2013 • Managed, administered, and supported Trend Micro and Symantec Anti-Virus enterpriseproducts for Weyerhaeuser and KONE companies.  • Utilized and implemented Microsoft recommended security best practices and hardening techniques on Windows based servers and workstations in a large enterprise environment.  • Participated in firewall intrusion analysis, audits, and security event investigations with top level client account security team members and Trend/Symantec engineers.  • Managed Level II resources in India to meet team objectives. Windows Support Engineer Hewlett Packard - Colorado Springs, CO June 2012 to October 2012 • Responsible for supporting and troubleshooting desktops, workstations, servers, switches and routers, and storage devices in an onsite hosted datacenter environment for Agilent Technologies.  • Experience with HP, Dell, IBM, and other manufacturer's enterprise business hardware.  • Effectively able to communicate and document technical issues to end users and management, both written and verbally.  • Experience working various shifts in an on-call, 24x7, maximum uptime environment. Education Bachelor's Skills Apache, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Unix Additional Information Technical skills  TIBCO Integration  TIBCO Business Studio 6.x, TIBCO Active Matrix Business Works 5.x, TIBCO Designer 5.x,TIBCO Administrator, TIBCO Integration Manager(4.x, 5.x), TIBCO Smart Mapper, General Interface, TIBCO Active Matrix Business Works 6.x. TIBCO Runtime Agent(TRA), Designer, EMS, Rendezvous Administrator, Hawk, Business Studio, TIBCO Spot fire, TIBCO staff ware process TIBCO Adapters TIBCO SAP R/3 Adapter, TIBCO Active Database Adapter 5.x, TIBCO File Adapter 7.x, MQ Series Adapter and TIBCO smart mapper Messaging TIBCO Rendezvous, TIBCO Enterprise Message Service, MQ Series. B2B TIBCO Business Connect Server/Client, EDIFECS spec builder.    Web Tools JSP, XML, XSD, XPATH, XSLT, JavaScript  Databases Oracle [9i/10i/11i] SQL Server, DB2, MS Access, MS-Access  Languages Java, J2EE, .NET, HTML , JavaScript, C ,C++, XML, XSLT, X-PATH, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g  Operating Systems Windows [2003/2009/XP/7/8/10] UNIX/Linux/Sun Solaris, MS DOS. MS-DOS  XML Technologies XML, XSD, XPATH, XSLT  Software and Tools MS Office, Visio, Project, SQL Developer, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, TOAD, WinSCP, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project, MS Visio.