Level 2/3 Support Desk Technician - Faculty/Staff IT Help Desk Level 2/3 Support Desk Technician - Faculty/Staff IT Help Desk IT Professional with Ten Years of Experience in Software Support/Administration Hamden, CT Self-taught IT specialist with 10+ years of experience in network/system administration. Highly detailed and recognized for the ability to work with very diverse clients and staff, troubleshooting and administering systems. A fast learner; can easily become an expert of a wide variety of networking and operating system software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Level 2/3 Support Desk Technician - Faculty/Staff IT Help Desk University of New Haven - West Haven, CT February 2018 to Present • Support full-time IT Staff members in the installation, configuration and on-going maintenance and troubleshooting of University-owned technology devices and software, including Windows and Apple desktops and laptops, tablets, printers, and scanners.  • Fill Network/Systems Administrator Roles as needed. Tasks include working with PowerShell scripts to manage Active Directory, scripted installations and software deployment, Server configuration and maintenance.  • Assist IT staff in the setup, configuration, and on-going maintenance and troubleshooting of academic computer lab hardware and software. Highly praised for the ability to solve complex problems.  • Improve software and hardware knowledge by taking advantage of all resources made available to the IT staff.  • Create and deploy desktop and laptop software images, installing additional software and configure devices to join a Windows Active Directory environment.  • Provide professional, courteous, prompt and accurate support and solutions to users, following up and communicating with users when appropriate.  • Prioritize workflows using a support ticket system. Student Coordinator for Technology, Systems Analyst - Study Abroad Office University of New Haven - West Haven, CT February 2018 to Present • Administer Terra Dotta, a globally recognized SaaS-Hosted Platform for Study Abroad programs, which includes student support, program design and configuration via HTML and software interfaces.  • Act as a liaison between the Study Abroad Office and the Information Technology Office at the University, assisting with department purchases, computer and network device setup/configuration.  • Design and improve office procedures to utilize technology, streamlining signature documents, workflows, student communications and notifications.  • Support staff and students with any issues that may arise, including password resets, technical documentation, and user guides and training documentation. Network Administrator/Accounting Clerk Petrovits, Patrick, Smith & Company, LLC - Torrington, CT September 2008 to November 2010 • Designed, installed and maintained a Windows Server and Active Directory Structure.  • Installed and configured their domain and webpage using Microsoft IIS and administered a Microsoft Exchange server.  • Installed and maintained programs including Microsoft Office, ProSystemFX Tax Suite, QuickBooks, Adobe Acrobat, and others.  • Provided technical support to employees, solving basic and more advanced user hardware and software problems or questions involving desktop computer hardware, software and enterprise system software.  • Built and repaired hardware as necessary.  • Instrumental in technology purchases and network design, including the implementation of a firewall and a networked printer/print server.  • Performed audits of internal controls, technology and financial data to determine areas of strengths or weaknesses.  • Worked with diverse client base, ranging from manufacturing to healthcare industries. Network Administrator/Administrative Assistant Barron & Company, LLP - Torrington, CT September 2002 to June 2008 • Installed and maintained programs including Microsoft Office, ProSystemFX Tax Suite, QuickBooks, Adobe Acrobat, and others.  • Influenced technology purchases.  • Support of Microsoft Windows systems and office technology, including repairs and upgrades.  • Network virus removal. Education Master's in Computer Science University of New Haven - West Haven, CT August 2017 to May 2020 Bachelor's in Biological Sciences & Management/Pre-Med University of Saint Joseph - West Hartford, CT September 2009 to May 2013 Skills Dns server, Exchange, Html, Active directory, Cisco, Networking, Security, Web server, Wireshark, Sql server, Firewall, Malware, Android, Ios, Apache, Linux, Information Technology, Desktop Support, Help Desk, It Specialist, Network Support Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E3 July 2002 Sonar Technician Commendations: National Defense Service Medal Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Planned (Spring 2020) HDI Desktop Advanced Support Technician Planned (Spring 2020) Assessments Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/llxgcyslqil8x1zq Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/u-p-uuurh46isibc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Publications Digital Forensics in the Next Five Years https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3232813 2018-08 Cyber forensics has encountered major obstacles over the last decade and is at a crossroads. This paper presents data that was obtained during the National Workshop on Redefining Cyber Forensics (NWRCF) on May 23-24, 2017 supported by the National Science Foundation and organized by the University of New Haven. Qualitative and quantitative data were analyzed from twenty-four cyber forensics expert panel members. This work identified important themes that need to be addressed by the community, focusing on (1) where the domain currently is; (2) where it needs to go and; (3) steps needed to improve it. Furthermore, based on the results, we articulate (1) the biggest anticipated challenges the domain will face in the next five years; (2) the most important cyber forensics research opportunities in the next five years and; (3) the most important job-ready skills that need to be addressed by higher education curricula over the next five years. Lastly, we present the key issues and recommendations deliberated by the expert panel. Overall results indicated that a more active and coherent group needs to be formed in the cyber forensics community, with opportunities for continuous reassessment and improvement processes in place. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • SECURITY: SonicWall and Barracuda Firewall, Bitdefender Anti-Virus, Group Policy configuration, Autopsy Drive Forensics, Virus/Malware removal, Sophos Enterprise Edition.  • NETWORKING: Wireshark/packet analysis, DNS server configuration, CISCO switches and routers, Microsoft Exchange Server/Office 365 Administration, Active Directory Configuration and Administration.  • OPERATING SYSTEMS: Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10; Windows Server; Mac OS X, Sierra, High Sierra, Mojave; and Catalina (Beta), iOS/Android, Linux/Kali.  • OTHER SYSTEMS: Apache Web Server, Microsoft IIS, SQL Server, Amazon AWS  • ADDITIONAL SKILLS: Adobe Creative Cloud, Visio, Scripted Installations, PowerShell Programming, Terra Dotta Software, Bomgar, Zoom Meetings, CAT5/6 Cable Maintenance and Installation; HP printer repair and troubleshooting; Expert in assembling/repairing PC and televisions, Installing and upgrading software; Webpage design and maintenance, including Facebook page administration and HTML.    RELEVANT COURSEWORK  • Intro to Programming/C  • Operating Systems  • Intermediate Programming C/C++  • Introduction to Cyber Forensic Science  • Data Structures  • Introduction to Scripting/Python  • Introduction to Computer Security  • Database Systems  • Computer Networks & Data Communications  • Wireless Networks  • Advanced Databases (Fall 2019)  • Algorithm Design and Analysis (Fall 2019)  • Object Oriented Analysis and Design (Fall 2019)