Stocker/Receiver Stocker/Receiver Network Administrator Guthrie, OK An experienced network administrator dedicated and committed to sorting out IT network related issues to ensure effective flow of information.  Strong background in managing IT network services including:    Installation of network components.  Configuration and set-up of network h/w and s/w application services.  Network maintenance – scheduling of maintenance procedures.  Technical support.  Administration of security essentials. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Stocker/Receiver Walmart - Oklahoma City, OK August 2017 to November 2017 • Manage all lifting of goods efficiently and maintain store floor at times and ensure cleanliness in same.  • Coordinate and prepare reports to be submitted to manager.  • Organize all store shelves and maintain cleanliness of store at all times. Maintence Worker Quality Inn and Suites - Chickasha, OK April 2016 to March 2017 • Notified managers when major repairs or additions to building operating systems were needed.  • Maintained the uppermost standard of sanitation in the building by shampooing and cleaning carpets with a heavy duty steamer.  • Upheld building appearance standards by stripping, sealing, finishing, and polishing the floors.  • Performed nocturnal wellness checks for residents. Cook/Prep Jack in the box - Oklahoma City, OK October 2010 to June 2015 • Upheld the highest standards of sanitation while cooking and preparing food.  • Stored food in designated containers and storage areas to prevent spoilage.  • Managed the entire kitchen during night shifts. Network Administrator ITT Technical Institute - Oklahoma City, OK May 2013 to August 2013 • Implemented Microsoft Deployment Toolkit Imaging system to streamline deployment and restoration of workstations.  • Maintained and serviced Dell & HP servers; Lenovo, HP & Dell workstations; Lenovo, Dell & Asus laptops.  • Enhanced Mobile Device Management policy for remote management of handheld devices.  • Analyze and inventory all key network infrastructure assets for planning of corporation wide infrastructure upgrade.  • Maintained and configured SonicWall and Cisco-Meraki network appliances at 20+ sites for intrusion detection/protection, content filtering and remote access.  • Ensured corporate and department objectives were accomplished in accordance with outlined objectives and mission statements.  • Conversion of servers to VMWare ESXi & VMWare vSphere for system redundancy. Taco Bell Crew Member Taco Bell - Oklahoma City, OK April 2012 to August 2012 • Upheld the highest standards of sanitation while cooking and preparing food.  • Stored food in designated containers and storage areas to prevent spoilage.  • Managed the entire kitchen during night shifts.  • I also kept up on dishes Education Associate in System and Administration ITT Technical Institute OKC - Oklahoma City, OK March 2011 to October 2014 High school or equivalent in N/A Guthrie High School - Guthrie, OK May 2003 to May 2006 Skills Patience, It and technical, Problem solving, interpersonal, Enthusiasm, Teamworking, Initiative, Attention to detail, MS Windows Server 2000 / 2003 Dell servers MS SQL Server SAN architecture Citrix TCP/IP Networking – Cisco switches, routers Security – firewalls and Security applications Windows OS, MS Office, MS Exchange and MAC OS X (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Food Handler Assessments Retail Skills: Shelf Stocking — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to receive and store merchandise or product. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ibsix6in23p9rd2r Visual Merchandising — Completed August 2019 Planning and maintaining commercial displays, interpreting planograms, and building relationships with store personnel. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rdtg4ocxemqgkfv5 Attention to Detail: Inventory — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply systematic processes for managing and storing products and merchandise. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7uy2fcl70zzk-0vu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.