IT Network Administrator IT <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Special Services Associate Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Network Administrator Cook Legal Group - Houston, TX March 2019 to Present • Responsible for maintaining the network server and individual workstations of the business.  • Troubleshooting and diagnosing malfunctioning hardware and software.  • Optimizing outdated or ineffective systems.  • Liaising with tech service providers to solve any issues.  • Updating and editing the various business websites.  • General administrative tasks. IT Manager Tennis Express - Houston, TX May 2018 to March 2019 -Responsible for maintaining the technical services of physical brick-and-mortar store and cloud-based online store.  -Developed an understanding of the physical and cloud-based network in order to assess and improve web services.  -Worked to bring the company hardware and software to a standardized platform.  -Managed and coordinated a variety of projects with software providers and server hosts.  -Routinely coached employees in basic troubleshooting in order to empower them and curb minor incidents.  -Monitored in-store security system and reviewed footage for criminal activities.  -Diagnosed and repaired salvageable PC's in order to reuse them and discovered cost-effective software alternatives to mitigate operation costs.  -Worked with each department to discover the most common recurring tech problems and obstacles affecting them. Special Services Associate Home Depot - Tallahassee, FL March 2017 to May 2018 Assisted customers with returns, exchanges, special orders, and general sales, in upwards of 250 transactions per  week.  - Developed rapport with regular DIY customers and contractors in order to foster trust and lasting business  relationships.  - Deescalated situations with dissatisfied customers and acted as the liaison for management.  - Trained and advised incoming Special Service associates in order to maintain team productivity.  - Volunteered for community service projects through the company including home improvement for veterans and storm relief for Houston after hurricane Harvey. Professional Receptionist Tresta/PATLive - Tallahassee, FL September 2016 to February 2017 - Acted as a personable representative for a variety of company clients needing receptionist services.  - Recorded incoming messages, transcribed phone messages and maintained communication with clients.  - Advocated for companies by studying their scripts and presenting them naturally to callers. Sales Consultant Flow Automotive - Winston-Salem, NC September 2015 to July 2016 - Studied and utilized extensive and highly specialized product knowledge in order to better inform customers.  - Presented vehicle features and specifications in walk around demonstrations, catering each one to the customer.  - Informed customers about the different financing and purchasing options available to them.  - Acted as liaison between the customers and sales/finance managers to facilitate transactions.  - Maintained relationships with customers and followed up on sold customers to ensure their satisfaction. Digital Evidence Management and Technical Support Case-Closed Investigations - Winston-Salem, NC January 2015 to August 2015 - Compiled and edited investigator's daily case notes into chronological narrative reports.  - Monitored multiple GPS units in active cases and reported suspicious activity to field investigators.  - Maintained communication with clients and investigators throughout investigations.  - Edited video footage taken by investigators and extracted still frames to be presented as case evidence.  - Perform background research on subject's social media accounts to establish routines and locations.  - Oversaw the Case Management System overhaul and established the company's social media profiles. Education Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in Psychology Baylor University - Waco, TX Skills Administrative Assistant (2 years), Customer Service (7 years), Active Directory, Service Desk, Adobe, Recruiting, ADP, Scheduling, Human Resources Additional Information Skills and Interests    Administrative:  Organization and Filing (3 years), Presentation Organization (4 years), Customer Account Management (2 years),  Administrative Assistant Work (2 years), and Client Communications (7 years).  Sales and Marketing:  Customer Service (7 years), Photography (4 years), Video Editing and Production (2 years), Carpentry (2 year), Sales  and Retail (7 years), and Social Media Management (1 year).