Sr. SYSTEMS ENGINEER Sr. SYSTEMS ENGINEER Melbourne, FL I am a seasoned engineer and systems administrator with 9+ years of industry experience. Recognized for demonstrating a natural aptitude for team collaboration and management, as well as for creating innovative third-party relations and end-user support programs with a corporate presence, I have a history of contributing to company growth throughout my career. Professional focal points include IT infrastructure administration and maintenance, network design and improvements, third-party contracts and vendor relations, technical tools and solutions, business process documentation and improvements, and numerous facets of team collaboration excellence. Delivering superior administration on the latter areas of expertise requires utilization of effective communication and negotiation skills, business acumen, systems analysis, and resource management to support efficiency and maximum returns.    Currently, I am the lead engineer with an Automotive Group. Under my leadership, I build and maintain information technology infrastructure for a multi-store automotive group. Furthermore, I liaise with fellow IT professionals and departmental teams to ensure the company's support structure is driving the business forward with minimal expenditures. Work Experience Sr. SYSTEMS ENGINEER Dallas, TX May 2018 to Present • Architect and Deployed Full Office 365 stack, utilizing Teams, Sharepoint, email, OneDrive, Flow for automation of tasks, etc. for multi-store environment.  • Architect and implemented Azure AD for workstation control across 4 domains.  • Designed and Built Azure IaaS file server for redundant backup hybrid system, integrated with on prem storage.  • Created policies and deployed CISCO Systems Manager for MDM for approx 100 devices  • Built and maintained the IT infrastructure for a multi-store automotive group consisting of 120+ end users across the State. Supported all end-user issues throughout the organization.  • Worked with vendors to develop POC and choose the best solutions for infrastructure based on cost and performance  • Designed and implemented proper networks for all locations based on security policies and access control using CISCO Meraki.  • Worked with management teams at each store to develop processes for IT and HR on-boarding, off-boarding, and other business critical routines to save time.  • Worked with Phone, ISP, and other infrastructure providers during acquisitions to insure a smooth transition from one service to another.  • Managed all website changes, CRM, DRM, Domains, 3rd party inventory sites, lead aggregation tools.  • Managed all 3rd party contracts ensuring we obtained the best contractual rates possible.  • Implemented a helpdesk (Zendesk) along with business process changes to have all issues, IT and otherwise, be submitted through a helpdesk system. Automated as much as possible.  • Designed and built Sharepoint Online sites and segregated permissions based on Department, Location, etc. Utilized Microsoft Flow to automate redundant tasks between MS Products.  • Lead meetings to create and document processes throughout the organization. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Susan G Komen - Race for the Cure - Dallas, TX September 2016 to May 2018 • Built and supported a PCI compliant environment.  • Responsible for all Windows servers, physical and VM, at our HQ, Colocation, and Azure.  • Performed multiple migrations, virtualizing and bringing up-to-date legacy systems.  • Managed Azure. Comfortable in PowerShell and Visual Studio.  • Maintained daily back-ups using Commvault, Evault.  • Advanced understanding and troubleshooting of Active Directory and DNS.  • Worked exclusively with VMWare and Azure Hypervisors. Designed Dell blades, HP Switches, and Fortinet Firewalls.  • Multi-tenant Office 365, including OneDrive, Sharepoint for Business, and Email.  • Built a new environment in Azure to provide Proof of Concept and cost analysis for database, IIS, and other PaaS that will soon replace current production infrastructure.  • Migrated all corporate mailboxes from the internal Exchange server to Office365 with no downtime for users.  • Worked with all Komen affiliates across the country to manage their public DNS, Office 365 tenant (OneDrive, Mail, and Sharepoint File Sharing), VPN, and network connectivity.  • Migrated on-prem datacenter to colocation and Azure with no impact to production.  • Upgraded internal phone system, switching from XO to RingCentral with no downtime for users.  • Phased out 2003 Servers by migrating IIS / Apps / Services to either Azure or Colocation MS Server 2016.  • Brought all PCI related tasks in-house by creating a PCI environment for credit card processing, cutting costs exponentially.  • Completed multiple RFP's (including POC's) for projects such as network refresh, phone system upgrade, and backup systems. SYSTEMS ENGINEER ETTC - Richardson, TX February 2015 to September 2016 • Built and supported a PCI compliant environment.  • Responsible with my team to maintain a HA datacenter with 1500 servers, both physical and virtual. My primary role was Windows, but being a jack of all trades was necessary for this position.  • Maintained daily back-ups using Netbackup and Dell M6000 Tape Library.  • Advanced understanding and troubleshooting of Active Directory and DNS.  • Managed 63- HA ESX 6 hosts with approximately 3500 vm's in Vcenter located at 6 sites.  • Managed approx. 300 Cisco/Dell/Supermicro blades, combination of Windows and Linux  • Maintained multi-domain AD environment in Server 2008/ 2012 R2 for 800 users.  • Worked alongside EMC Storage Engineer, provisioning storage as needed and monitoring performance.  • Managed a hybrid Exchange 2010 and 2013 environment with multi-tenant configuration  • Worked with DBA's and Developers to build the infrastructure they needed to run and troubleshoot their applications.  • Migrated an entire internal datacenter across town to a Colocation in 3 months. This involved working with developers, DBA's, and application support personnel to coordinate timelines and meet very strict deadlines in a production environment with minimal downtime.  • Designed a Windows infrastructure from the ground up based on redundancy and scalability, while following strict PCI 3.1 protocols. This includes:  ? Building an Exchange 2013 cluster in HA with a DR si.te  ? A Windows forest that has multiple customer sub-domains with the appropriate logical separation to meet PCI requirements.  ? Creating GPO's based on each customer's needs.  ? Configuring Tripwire, Q-Radar, and PRTG for monitoring and log analyzing. IT MANAGER LiquidAgents Healthcare - Plano, TX May 2014 to February 2015 • Responsible for troubleshooting and repairing all servers, desktops, laptops, LAN, routers, switches, and configuring VPN's for remote users.  • Maintained daily back-ups, software/hardware upgrades for 65 company laptops and 4 servers.  • Maintained 70 users on 3Com VCX VoIP phone system.  • Maintained AD environment in Server 2008/ 2012 R2 for 70 users.  • Added/Edited GPO on as-needed basis.  • Corresponded daily with different vendors related to technology needs.  • Intermedia Exchange; Rackspace; Dell PowerEdge 2950; Watchguard Firewalls. SYSTEMS/ NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Rodessa Operating Company - Robstown, TX May 2011 to May 2014 • In-house Systems and Network Administrator. Responsible for troubleshooting and repairing all servers, networks, routers, switches, and configuring VPN's at 6 offices located in TX and LA.  • Maintained daily back-ups, software/hardware upgrades for 20 company laptops and 2 servers. Prior to my employment, there were no backups or redundancy.  • Maintained AD environment in Server 2008 for 20 users.  • Managed MS Exchange Server before migrating to Google Apps.  • VMware ESXi 5; Rackspace; Dell PowerEdge 2950; Sonicwall Appliances.  • Replaced ISP generic routers with Sonicwall Security Appliances.  • Set up VPN's between all of the offices and an FTP server for data access between all offices.  • Cost saving measure by configuring all printers to scan to FTP, limiting fax correspondence. STORE MANAGER / COMPUTER TECHNICIAN Data Doctors - Flower Mound, TX April 2010 to May 2011 • In-house/onsite computer technician. Responsible for troubleshooting, ordering parts, and repairing laptops and desktops.  • Virus removal, system optimization, upgrades, and custom PC builds.  • Customer service and sales were a key role in this position.  • Trained new employees with the company protocols.  • In-house acting manager.  • Responsible for handling of all financial transactions and banking.  • Cost effective measures by increasing turnaround time to client, and managing expectations.  • Increase number of customers served through customer satisfaction. Education Microsoft Azure Solutions, Network +, Server +, Security Collin College Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/zanebarker