Sr.DevOps/Release Engineer Sr.DevOps/Release Engineer Sr.DevOps/Release Engineer - Anthem Worthington, OH • 7+ plus years of experience in Engineering, Dynamics Simulations, Computer Networking, Programming, system administration, tutoring, leadership and mentoring, and problem-solving.  • Experience as DevOps Engineer with specialization in AWS, Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment and Cloud Implementations.  • Strong knowledge and experience in Jenkins Continuous Integration (CI) pipelines, Docker.  • Experience in administering and supporting the code versioning tools like GIT on Linux environment.  • Good Scripting knowledge on Bash, Python, Perl.  • Efficiently used Project management tools like MS project, MS SharePoint, JIRA.  • Working knowledge in several areas of AWS like EC2, EBS, ELB, S3, Glacier, Autoscaling, Route53 and Cloud watch, Filebeat and ELK stack.  • Good working knowledge of AWS IAM service, IAM Policies, Roles, Users, Groups.  • Experience in Kickstart installation, support, configuration and maintenance of RHEL, CentOS.  • Experience using MAVEN as build tools for building of deployable artifacts from source code.  • Manage Linux infrastructure using Ansible, Puppet, & Chef.  • Experience with Cisco UCS (Nexus, Blade/Rack), L2 switching and L3 Routing.  • Has knowledge with most LAN and WAN architecture including VLAN TCP/IP & QoS.  • Understand network-based ACL, HSRP and routing protocols like BGP, OSPF, EIGRP.  • Understanding of networking protocols like TCP/IP, DNS, FTP, SSH, SCP etc.  • Have understanding of communication protocols like REST and SOAP.  • I'm a self-motivated professional, capable of working independently or as part of a team.    Technical Skills/Knowledge    Operating System: Linux (RedHat, Ubuntu, CentOS), windows  Cloud Platform: AWS, Google Cloud  Build Tools: Maven, Ant, Gradle  Version Control: Git, GitHub, Code Commit, Subversion(SVN), Gerrit  Scripting: Bash, Python, Perl  Automation: Jenkins, CloudFormation  Configuration Management Tool: Ansible, Chef, Puppet  Virtualization Tool: Vmware, VirtualBox, Vagrant  Containerization: Docker, Kubernetes  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, WebSphere, WebLogic  Monitoring Tools: ELK stack, Filebeat, Nagios, Cloudwatch, Splunk  Ticketing Tools: JIRA, ServiceNow  Network Simulation Tool: VIRL, Cisco Packet Tracer, Mininet  Network Analysis Tool: Wireshark, Iperf  Databases: MariaDB, MongoDB  Networking: TCP/IP, NFS, SAMBA, SAN, NTP, SMTP, LDAP, DNS, DHCP, BGP, OSPF, EIGRP  Windows Tools: MS Office, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.DevOps/Release Engineer Anthem - Worthington, OH January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • This project involves Configure, validating, managing, repositories, process and designing SCM process and build tools. Responsible for the Plugin Management, User Management, and END-END build and deploy setup using Jenkins. Few responsibilities were  • Used MAVEN as a build tools on java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code Development and unit testing in Java.  • Setting up the Cron jobs using Jenkins.  • Learned different kind of tools like Ansible, cloud computing and other SCM tools.  • Providing inputs on improving the process speed and automating the process as much as possible.  • Implementing automation activities for all manual tasks.  • Build and Release Engineer Intern  • Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the physical security of the Configuration Items, maintaining change requests and tracking defects using CM tools like.  • Tracking changes to Configuration Items and maintaining reports on the changes made, later been submitted to the management and other CM users.  • Participated in Change Control Board and other Board meetings, presenting up-to-date activities in CM product, scheduling meetings with team members on regular basis and updates to Project Leader.  • Support and maintenance of the CM tools and related software and hardware components, administering other users on the network, who share the data from the repository.  • Response to the issues comes across in the product release and product built up activities, keep tracking the changes made to solve the issues.  • Maintenance and configuration of SCM tools like CVS and SVN in application development including the Build and Release Management, where in the check-out & check-in model is been implemented for the build process.  • Motivating team members and other CM users including Developers, Testing Team, and Quality Analysts for enhancements in the product Release.  • Upgrading of management tools to Rational tools was been an interesting task that innovated new technology skills and also working in Java atmosphere was an asset.    Environment: CVS, Subversion, SQL, Shell, Perl, Windows NT server, J2EE and WebSphere.  CEIPAL - Cloud Enterprise Information Portal - TH Ver 9.06 Network/System Administrator Capital One - McLean, VA October 2016 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Configure and maintain production and corporate Networks.  • Installation, upgrading, maintenance & troubleshooting of Linux servers with regard to OS, kernels, packages, user management, kickstart, jumpstart, log rotation, centralized log server, processes, auto start of daemons & services.  • Focused on building highly reliable, scalable system & process to ensure high availability of RHEL 5.x, 6.x, CentOS 5.x, 6.x & windows environment  • Worked on LAN/WAN, firewalls and routing for Internet and Intranet connectivity using different protocols like TCP/IP, DHCP, HTTP/s, FTP/SFTP, SMTP, NFS, SAMBA, iscsi SAN & SSH.  • Granted remote user access to corporate LAN with VPN Connectivity.  • Configured VLANs, Firewall and Routing (BGP/OSPF).  • Wrote & modified shell scripts for automating day to day repetitive administrative task & scheduling jobs through Cron jobs.  • Assist with administering and maintaining network infrastructure.  • Complete assigned projects and task to deliver service in accordance with established objectives.  • Ensure proper security controls, meet standards and company policies.  • Perform and assist with network design, network capacity planning, monitoring, reconfiguring, and tuning of network hardware.  • Configure and install new network equipment.  • Help maintaining network hardware/software up to date.  • Maintaining current network configuration backups.  • Maintain proper cabling management and labeling in datacenter facility.  • Perform in on-call schedule and participate in off-hours changes to address service outage and scheduled maintenance window.  • Any other duties as assigned by management. DevOps Engineer Grid Dynamics Inc - San Ramon, CA June 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Continuous Integration (CI) and deployment using various CI Tools like Jenkins, Chef, and Nexus.  • Develop and Modify Chef Cookbooks as Light Weight Resources Provider (LWRP) AWSEC2/VPC/S3/SQS/SNS based infrastructure automation through Terraform, Ansible, Python, Bash Scripts.  • Experience in working on source controller tools like GIT, Subversion (SVN).  • Extensively worked on Jenkins Pipeline, Docker for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments  • Configured GIT with Jenkins and schedule jobs using Poll SCM option and webhooks.  • Created Docker images using a Dockerfile and Docker Compose, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes.  • Experience as a Build and Release Engineering in automating, building, deploying, and releasing of code from one environment to another environment.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using CloudWatch.  • Designed and worked with team to implement ELK (Elastic Search, LogStash and Kibana) Stack along with Filebeat on AWS.  • Ability in development and execution of Shell Scripts, Perl Scripts.  • Excellent understanding of Network topologies such as LAN, WAN, VPN, and Firewalls.  • Areas of expertise include OSI Model, TCP/IP protocol suite IP, TCP, UDP, SMTP, FTP, and TFTP.  • Configure and ensure connection to RDS database running on MySQL/MariaDB engines.  • Troubleshooting the problems generated while building, deploying into production.  • Expert in Automation of Release and Deploy configuration management to different environments i.e. QA, Dev and production.  • Expertise in Configuring and troubleshooting various Networking, Hardware & Linux/ UNIX server's services issues and performing preventive maintenance.  • Experience of working with 24X7 in Production and On-Call Environments.  • Facilitated close collaboration with developers for all phases of code production, testing, and deployment.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal, intuitive, analysis and leadership skills with the ability to work efficiently in both independent and team work environments.    Environment: GIT, Jenkins, SVN, MAVEN, Nexus, AHP, Ansible, Concord, looper, JIRA, Docker, AWS, CloudWatch, Filebeat, Shell scripting. Linux/DevOps Engineer DXC Technology - Fairfax County, VA August 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Administration, Installation, Configuration and troubleshooting of Linux servers (Red Hat & CentOS 6.x, 7.x) including VMs within Vmware ESXI or AWS environment.  • Hands-on experience on provisioning AWS services such as EC2, AMI, EBS, EFS, ELB, IAM, S3, Route53, Snapshots, Security Groups & Autoscaling groups.  • Developing and modifying the cloud formation templates for automated provisioning of AWS infrastructure  • Worked along-side DevOps engineers for continuous automated build and release management, automating delivery & deployment to dev, staging and production environment.  • Automation & maintenance of CI/CD pipeline using GIT, jenkins & Maven to facilitate the agile development methodology enabling developers to continuously deploy code to dev & staging environment hosted on AWS or on-premise sever nodes.  • Used Ansible as an automation & configuration management tool, replicating the configuration of prod servers to our dev & staging environment for environment consistency.  • Use of GIT as a version control for Ansible Roles & playbooks  • Administration & maintenance of the CI server (Jenkins), Nexus Artifactory server and Ansible Server.  • Building production ready servers (Apache, Tomcat & MongoDB) in AWS environment  • Monitoring the state of the servers, securing them, automation of health monitoring through Nagios/CloudWatch & modifying alerts to appropriate threshold.  • Troubleshooting tickets, which included system, network, storage, incident, change management through Jira    Environment: GitHub, Bit Bucket, Maven, Nexus, looper, Target Management, Config Management, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker, Kubernetes, Splunk, Nagios. DevOps Engineer Fresh Direct - New York, NY October 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on projects involved with complete Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) and gained knowledge about agile work environment.  • Implemented Automated Application Deployment and written Deployment scripts and automation scripts.  • Configured and managed systems and images for workstations and servers.  • Build Continuous Integration environment (Jenkins) and continuous delivery environment  • Manage hardware request and support from developers and infrastructure  • Implemented Automated Application Deployment and written Deployment scripts and automation scripts.  • Implemented a CD pipeline involving Jenkins, Chef to complete the Automation from commit to Deployment.  • Implemented a clustering solution using Docker containers and Hazel cast Data Grid which will allows our solution to scale to a large number of devices  • Experience working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker Registry.  • Experience working on Docker hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations.  • Worked on Docker container snapshots, attaching to a running container, removing images, managing Directory structures and managing containers.  • Use of Docker and OpenShift to manage micro services for development and testing.  • Develop and maintain a repository of Microservices through OpenShift pods  • Support integration of Openshift and Cloudforms  • Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins  • Experience with cloud management tool like Puppet.  • Refactored puppet manifests to reflect best practices. Wrote Puppet modules for Managing cowbuilder environments for building packages.  • Wrote puppet manifests for deploying, configuring, and managing collected for metric collection and monitoring.  • Build automatic provisioning system with kickstart and Puppet.  • Create team specific Agile process flow in JIRA to move tasks from one activity to another.  • Confluence JIRA used to track progress on infrastructural activity Splunk tool used for reporting and documenting changes over behavior of servers.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript  • Supported AWS cloud instances and used AWS command line interface to manage and configure various AWS products.  • Experience on Terraform a tool for building, changing, and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently.  • Experience in Python and Shell scripting including but not limited to writing scripts to automate AWS Administration tasks viz., tagging instances, volumes etc.,  • Performed Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balance and AMIs and utilized EBS to store persistent data and mitigate failure by using snapshots.  • Developed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT, EC2 instances, ELB, Security Groups  • Worked with Terraform to create AWS components like EC2, IAM, VPC, ELB, Security groups.  • Implemented SCM tools i.e. Subversion/GIT, Stash Repositories, Source tree, views, and the access control strategies.  • Implemented JavaScript validations in frontend.  • Experience with Django framework created views, Templets and experience using MVC architecture.  • Performed Database Tasks as executing DML's in MySQL  • Riak distributes data across nodes with hashing and can provide latency profile, even in the case of multiple node failures.  • Ability to work independently as well as a team member.  • Quick learner with sound technical and analytical skills.  • Synchronized data between frames using r-sync and Open Migrator Tools Worked with native multi-path on RHEL 4/5 Installed packages and patches on VCS nodes    Environment: Ansible, AWS, Docker, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, Python, Confluence Education Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication Enginering Advanced College of Engineering and Management affiliation Tribhuwan University Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering Louisiana State University