DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer Oviedo, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Engineer SOLUTE - Orlando, FL November 2018 to Present • Automation, maintenance, and development of core systems for large frameworks  • Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery Pipeline development (CI/CD)  • Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) Satellite Server configuration  • RHEL system automation, development, packaging, and deployment  • Ubuntu system development, packaging, and deployment  • Ansible development for automation of core components (YAML)  • Terraform development for automation of RHEL systems (HCL)  • Jenkins pipeline configuration and development (Groovy)  • Python development for testing frameworks   • Consul, Nomad, and Vault usage and development  • Chef InSpec development for security and compliance rules, auditing, and testing  • Robot Framework exposure and testing  • OpenSCAP STIG automation, deployment, and customization  • Jira and Confluence project tracking and workflow optimization  • Slack and Microsoft Teams usage for collaboration and communication  • Experience with Scrum development process and deadline-focused delivery  • Research and complex system analysis of cutting-edge solutions  • Workflow documentation and deliverable documentation Systems Engineer Icon Computers - Pinellas Park, FL June 2018 to November 2018 • Administration, Maintenance, and Monitoring of the IT systems of over 150 corporate clients spanning the state of Florida  • Server Administration, Migration, and Provisioning in both Windows and Linux  • Consulting for business IT needs, including custom solutions and preferred products  • Server, Workstation, and Endpoint upkeep  • Migration of Remote and On-Premise systems  • Inventory Management and Asset Tracking  • Experience with ticket-tracking systems including Jira, Connectwise, and ToDoYu  • Workflow and documentation experience  • Customer service skills and sales  • Deadline and customer management  • Active Directory provisioning/administration  • User account creation and removal  • Office 365 and 2016 Provisioning  • Exchange Administration  • Server Essentials and SBS Administration  • Print Server setup and administration  • IT Forensics and Password recovery  • Network Provisioning and Administration  • KVM Management and Provisioning IT Security Engineer Chargebacks911 - Clearwater, FL December 2017 to May 2018 • Endpoint Security administration.  • Active Directory administration.  • Data security administration for sensitive data.  • Server management and administration.  • Print-server administration and maintenance.  • PowerShell, CMD, and Unix scripting for administration and upkeep  • Analyzing complex computer systems, identifying problems, and developing solutions.  • Cloning and reviving cloned images of workstations to retrieve sensitive information.  • Creation, deployment, and monitoring of user accounts.  • G Suite administration and deployment  • Jira and Confluence experience.  • Experience in the Kanban method of development.  • Manage tracking of company equipment and asset-management lists.  • Deploy software to meet company goals.  • Repairing hardware resources on-site.  • Documentation and support materials for tasks and technologies.  • Remote troubleshooting for off-site employees in places around the world. UX Designer Bogen Communications March 2016 to February 2017 • Worked with high-profile clients in the Orlando area to help facilitate their usability needs before release of their products  • Critiqued and suggested changes and fixes for the front-facing UI of products in the electronic paging system industry  • Utilized usability tools such as Morae to track user testing.  • Worked alongside a team of usability consultants to generate suggestions for user acceptance testing, blind trials, and heuristic analysis of products for high-profile clients  • Experience with Agile and Scrum software development  • Developed Competitor Benchmarks for clients.  • Generated Heuristic Task Analyses  • Organized professional Personas for design guideline usage.  • Created Cognitive Walkthroughs for client products. Lab Manager ADLAB UCF July 2014 to June 2016 • Managed equipment of the Advanced Design Laboratory (ADLAB) within the School of Visual Arts and Design of the University of Central Florida (UCF) including computers, 3D printers, laser cutters, CNC routers, and shop tools such as saws, drills, and presses.  • Facilitated the use of 3D Design tools of UCF for professional use, and local maker spaces in Orlando.  • Utilized tools: Maya, Blender, TinkerCAD, CURA, ReplicatorG, Slic3r, SketchUp, and MeshMixer  • Designed and built projects including prosthetic limbs, acoustic enclosures, soundproofing equipment, statues, mechanical components, and artistic components for larger projects.  • Worked alongside several high-profile clients in the Orlando area to design massive-scale attractions and tools for entertainment or mechanical use.  • Aided students in learning the fundamentals of design and advised them on how to improve.  • Guided students and professionals in proper usage of lab equipment.  • Held risk-assessment and safety lectures on lab equipment for interested professionals. Network Systems Administrator LHS, PCSB August 2010 to July 2012 • Presented the Electronic Hall-Pass System to the Microsoft board of directors  • Was part of the team that won first place in Microsoft’s Partners in Learning Global Forum in 2012 alongside Louis Zulli Jr.  • Managed the upkeep and administration of a system of computers, servers, routers, switches, projectors, and smart tools for Pinellas County Schools  • Deadline-based development for in-house applications to simplify daily school processes including the Electronic Hall-Pass System, Interactive Asset-Tracking Map, and SharePoint-Backed website design and services  • Developed in JAVA, C#, HTML and CSS, .NET, and InfoPath  • Utilized tools such as Windows Deployment Services, WireShark, and Windows Server Manager  • Maintained the computing resources in classrooms, auditoriums, and meeting rooms for the entirety of Lakewood High School.  • Troubleshooting complex issues between professional-grade and student-designed tools.  • Asset Management of over 500 computers, 120 routers, 300 switches, 50 projectors, and 30 smart tools Education B.S. in Information Technologies University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL April 2017 Skills Network Administration (3 years), Information Security (3 years), System Administration (3 years), Network Security (3 years), Web Development (1 year), Web Design (4 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Computer Repair (8 years), Computer Hardware (3 years), Usability Testing (1 year), Linux (2 years), Unix Administration (1 year), Programming (4 years), Windows (10+ years), Servers (3 years), PCI, IT Security, Devops, Jenkins, AWS, Git, Devops, Jenkins, AWS, Git, Bash Links http://www.andrewstyrcula.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/andrewstyrcula/ Additional Information DevOps System Proficiency  • Jenkins, Ansible  • Terraform, Consul, Vault, Nomad  • VirtualBox, VMWare, Chef InSpec  • Red Hat Enterprise Linux Satellite    Security System Proficiency  • OpenSCAP, AlienVault, Nessus, Qualys  • Metasploit, WireShark, Packet Analyzer, NMap    Operating System Proficiency  • Linux: Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu, Kali, BackTrack,  • Servers: Windows 2016, 2012 R2, Exchange  • Windows: All Iterations (10, 8, 7, etc.)  • Mac: High Sierra, Sierra, El Capitan    Programming and Scripting Proficiency  • Groovy, YAML, HCL  • Unix, PowerShell, CMD  • HTML, CSS, JavaScript  • Python, Java, C#, C++    Office Tool Proficiency  • Jira, Slack, Microsoft Teams  • Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, etc.)  • Visio, CAD, Blender, MeshMixer  • Adobe Creative Suite