Network Administrator / Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator / Systems Administrator - Indiana Air National Guard Terre Haute, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator / Systems Administrator Indiana Air National Guard - Terre Haute, IN June 2015 to Present • Visually inspect temperature sensors to maintain health of servers and network devices.  • Review logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems.  • Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including switches, routers and firewalls.  • Document all server and network problems and other unusual events in detail. Monitor system logs for all site computers and devices to maximize uptime.  • Maintain multiple systems at once, by opening up logs and monitoring changes on each system in depth. Moved an entire building's hardware to another building and established 100% connectivity. Cameraman and Film Technician WTHI-TV - Terre Haute, IN September 2014 to May 2015 • Worked with several different TV types of equipment including cameras, soundboards, digital splicing machines and additional equipment.  • Worked hand in hand with station GM and Director to generate with new ideas for stories and camera angles to make the viewer more interested.  • Represented the station at several community based volunteer events.  • Maintained cleanliness and presentation of production floor and maintained good working relationships with all coworkers. Assistant Sales Manager Radio Shack - Terre Haute, IN February 2013 to August 2014 • Trained and directed 3 new hires during department orientations.  • Helped many customers with IT related issues from simple network connection issues up to complex hardware issues.  • Led all associates in sales production achievement.  • Trusted with more responsibilities than my senior co-workers and given the keys to the store within 60 days of working at the store.  • Handled all cashflow in and out of the store and trusted with depositing revenue at shift end. Education High School Diploma in engineering and electrical trades Terre Haute North Vigo High School - Terre Haute, IN 2014 Skills SYSTEMS ANALYSIS, REMOTE ACCESS, SECURITY, MAINTENANCE, Networking, Active Directory, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ January 2019 to January 2022