iOS Engineer iOS Engineer iOS Engineer - Finn by Chase, JP Morgan Chase & Co., NY New York, NY • Software engineer with 6+ years of experience as an IT Professional  • Over 1+ Years as a Software Engineer  • 4+ Years of iOS Engineering Experience  • Write efficient, maintainable and reusable code prioritizing privacy and security  • Write technical documents, user guides and support documentation  • Adapt existing methods and procedures to create specialized solutions to intricate software problems  • Developed front-end UI and back-end web services  • Added e-commerce functionality to existing applications  • Collaborated with team for architectural decisions  • This individual is also responsible for maintaining and contributing to a cutting edge approach to the mobile presence  • Experienced in developing Mobile Learning Applications, including video recording and playback, device registration based login for internal staff, etc. Experienced in using Cordova Child Browser and Mobile Offline Player.  • Responsible for engineering best practices leading to excellent overall quality of software  • Learn and absorb new technologies quickly, be a strong team player and rapidly adapt to changing business and customer demands  • Working with stakeholders and a UX team to collaborate on product vision  • Works with the iOS team and Senior Technical Project Manager and the Product Lead to prioritize, define and size new service  • Project Management Professional with full understanding of various PM Frameworks such as: Agile, Scrum, TDD, Jira, Asana, Slack, and many more  • Clean and concise coder who writes well documented code as per best practices  • High level communicator, comfortable working with stakeholders, design teams, QA teams, product teams, etc.  • Developed Hybrid Mobile Application for Android and IOS platform in Ionic v2 framework(Cordova) using Angular JS, typescript, HTML 5 and SCSS.  • Experience with Apple Guidelines, Certificates, Provisioning, and App store submission  • Work with other team members to investigate design approaches, prototype new technology and evaluate technical feasibility  • Work in an Agile/Scrum environment to deliver high quality software against aggressive schedules  • Experienced in developing consumer ready Native Android Applications Hybrid Mobile Applications Android/iOS/Mobile Web using Phonegap, Javascript, JQuery.  • Solid understanding of Object-oriented design, MVC, Delegate, Singleton, Chain of responsibility and other design patterns  • Demonstrable iOS-specific architecture skills, across mobile/tablet form factors, understanding of languages applicable to iOS (i.e. Obj.C/Swift). Knowledge of iOS technical frameworks, best practices: Mastered  • Developed Web API using NodeJS, ReactJS and React Native and hosted on multiple lead balances API instances.  • Participate in the full development lifecycle, work with user experience design, development and test teams to automate testing and deployment  • Commensurate experience with code base management including versioning, subversioning, and Git/Github and repository management  • Demonstrable iOS-specific architecture skills, across mobile/tablet form factors, understanding of languages applicable to iOS (i.e. Obj.C/Swift). Knowledge of iOS technical frameworks, best practices: Mastered Work Experience iOS Engineer Finn by Chase, JP Morgan Chase & Co., NY June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Collaborate with a team to define, design, and ship new features  • Identify and correct bottlenecks and fix bugs  • Help maintain code quality and organization  • Ensure the performance, quality, and responsiveness of applications  • Migrated from using MVC (Model View Controller) to MVVM-C (Model View View Model - Coordinator).  • Continuously discover, evaluate, and implement new technologies to maximize development efficiency.  • Helped the team update the project from swift 2 to swift 4.  • Reduced the usage of a storyboard.  • Created these pages from scratch by myself:  • Refer a Friend  • New Features Intro  • Helped the team find bugs that they had previously created by accident & fixed them myself. iOS Engineer Spark by Readdle inc June 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked passionately with the Mobile App & iOS team to create the product that solves people's needs the best and the most successful way.  • Developed custom UI and product animation.  • Participating in Swift-based Spark Core development for iOS, Mac and Android platforms.  • Created a lot of parsers to deliver fast and effective Smart search, Smart Hints and Smart inbox.  • Developed awesome Spark2 Email for iOS  • Contributed to top open source email frameworks (MailCore2).  • Integrated customized PDF Expert by Readdle, to easily fill in, sign and reply with PDF attachments.  • Collaborated with my teammates using the real-time editor to compose professional emails.  • Created secure links to a specific email or conversation. Share the link on Slack, Skype, CRM, or any other medium so your team can see it and collaborate around it.  • Integrated popular 3rd party in Spark: Reminders, 2Do, OmniFocus, Things, Wunderlist, Todoist, Asana, Trello, Bear, and Files.  • Edited the Outbox while offline. Where one can edit email in Outbox while not connected to the Internet and all of the changes will be saved and sent once you're back online iOS Engineer Venmo, NY February 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • iOS Engineer for a digital wallet app touching all aspects of app development and lifecycle  • Implemented designs, including experimentation and multiple iterations.  • Rapidly prototyped new capabilities to confirm feasibility.  • Integrated Venmo code to quickly find others profile, or share yours with others to get paid.  • Integrated Apple Pay technology for account management by users to seamlessly pay bill and account balances as needed  • Integrated emoji - skulls, candy corn, magic tricks to make Venmo a bit prettier.  • Developed Application Support for FaceID for authentication to view your bill and transactions.  • Worked to integrate new instances of UI/UX to increase app responsiveness  • Integrated Core Data functionality provided in the iOS SDK  • Fixed the crashes/bugs reported by QA by removing memory leaks iOS Developer Foursquare Swarm, NY February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Foursquare City Guide and Foursquare Swarm apps used to discover new places explore the world and check in.  • It powers location data for Snapchat, Apple, Uber, Twitter and 125,000 other developers.  • Integrated Pinpoint, Attribution, Pilgrim SDK and Foursquare Analytics, which empower brands to understand and connect to targeted audiences as well as measure foot traffic and advertising success  • Translated design and UX specs into fully functioning ios app  • Collaborating with project management to align on milestones and deliverables, as well as with architects and user experience teams to address ongoing design questions as they arise.  • Integrated power efficient location technology, that will increase your battery life  • Handled team management, projects/tasks scheduling and prioritization, and risk management to ensure on-time delivery and quality control.  • Improved the application efficiency with multi-threading.  • Integrated check-in map, makes it easy to reflect on past check-ins and filter by country, state, city, or specific place. iOS Software Development Internship Summer, NY Trello, Inc July 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed, implemented, test and support movie making software for Apple computers and products  • Collaborate effectively with a team of engineers, QA, Build, UI, Doc and Project Management  • Partner with artists and technicians to provide world-class software development  • Experience in Swift, Objective-C, OSX and/or iOS development  • Strong problem solving skills with high attention to detail and quality  • Experience with 2D or 3D graphics and interaction techniques Network Administrator NYCDOE, NY January 2013 to June 2014 Education High School Diploma Queen High School 2012 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Mac (1 year), Mac OS (Less than 1 year), Model View Controller (Less than 1 year), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (Less than 1 year), MVC (Less than 1 year), MySql (Less than 1 year), Objective-C (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), SOAP (Less than 1 year), Visual Studio (Less than 1 year), web services (Less than 1 year), Xcode (Less than 1 year), XML (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Objective-C, Swift4, C, C#, C++, PHP, Java, MySql, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript    Operating Systems: iOS11, Mac OS X  Software: Xcode 8, Visual Studio 2012, Github/Bitbucket,  Web Services: RESTful, SOAP, XML  Frameworks: SCRUM, Agile, MVC, GoogleFirebase Mobile App Experience