Adjunct Instructor at Mesa Community College Adjunct Instructor at Mesa Community College San Tan Valley, AZ Reliable leader with experienced computer know how and over 15 years of computer experience in Linux Operating Systems. Lead developer and maintainer of http://unity-linux.org Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Adjunct Instructor at Mesa Community College Mesa Community College - Mesa, AZ October 2017 to Present Adjunct Instructor at Mesa Community College for their CIS126RH and CIS238RH Courses (Red Hat System Administration I - RH124 and Red Hat System Administration II - RH134) Sr. Linux Administrator/DevOps Glynlyon - Chandler, AZ June 2017 to Present Currently working with a great group of people and utilizing fun technologies like,Kubernetes, Terraform, Packer, SaltStack, Jenkins, Rundeck, along with assisting in a move into AWS and the deployment of microservices into AWS. Sr. Linux Administrator/DevOps Early Warning Services - Scottsdale, AZ 2017 to Present Worked on the Platform and Cloud Engineering Team, Built and deployed servers in VMWare using various Automation tools like Chef. Roled out Applications company wide via cookbooks. Gave feedback over changes to deployment pipeline and assistant team with Linux inquiries and knowledge. Sr. Linux Administrator/Cloud team IO - Scottsdale, AZ 2016 to 2017 Gave feedback and consultation in Planning a DCaaS Cloud Solution. Researched Cloud Technologies with a Focus on OpenStack. Learned SaltStack and other various automation technologies. Helped find Linux machines that posed a potential security risk Sr. Linux Administrator SRA Intl. - Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts, Testing Services Division. - Phoenix, AZ 2015 Managed RHEL/CentOS 5 and 6.6 Servers   Troubleshot network issues that pertained to testing web based applications (Tomcat).  Installed and Maintained a APC Temperature System.  Managed HP MSA Storage appliances.   Maintained and deployed VMWare View Desktops  Worked with testers to troubleshoot, report and even fix issues with Software  Helped deploy and test Juror Kiosk systems to multiple U.S. Courts. Sr. Linux Administrator U-Haul Intl 2007 Managed Snort on RHEL for network intrusion detection.  Troubleshot network issues that pertained to VOIP, Linux and VMWare.  Maintained a Linux (CentOS) based NTP Server and Internal SMTP Server.  Responsible for research and development and administration for Open Source application integration and deployment.  Strong skills in testing and development for Linux based appliances.  Built and maintained an Asterisk based VoiceMail system on custom built Linux builds.  Developed a Linux based KIOSK Job application system.  Created a Windows Imaging System based on a Linux ramfs (AUFS at the time) and PXE Boot to image machines in the field.  Wrote PHP and MySQL based inventory tracking system that ran on a Linux based Apache System.  Created an in-house RHEL based distribution (called Synergy-Linux), maintaining, updating and patching every package (Xorg, Kernel, etc..) using mock, custom scripts (BASH and Python) and various other Red Hat based tools. Data Center Technician GoDaddy Software, Inc 2007 Responsible for over 3,000 Servers a majority of which were Red Hat Enterprise Linux 2 and 4, CentOS 4 and Fedora 2, 4 and 6.  Worked with support representatives to solve customers connection and hardware issues with their web servers.  Specialized in solving Linux issues, was the "go-to" guy on multiple occasions.  Worked with Dell Servers also, mostly Dell 1850 and Dell 1950 Power Edge Products running multiple environments through virtualization using Virtuozzo. Linux Support Representative TOLIS Group 2006 Provided technical phone support for multiple operating systems with a special emphasis on Suse, RedHat, and Debian based Linux Systems.  Troubleshot kernel issues that could lead to incompatibilities with certain hardware.  Lead other System Administrators other the phone in patching and re-compiling the Linux kernel with various patches needed for hardware compatibility that the company's software worked on.  Troubleshot and Tested backup applications for on multiple Operating System Platforms, with special emphasis on Linux platforms.  Did some minor troubleshooting and development with applications running on Linux that were written with RealBASIC and Python.  Maintained a community website for the company for the testing and the certification of tape devices on Linux.  Certified hardware on Linux, matching compatibility with known working kernel drivers and hardware. Lead customers blindly through configuring and troubleshooting various network and DSL Call Center Technical Services - Tempe, AZ 2005 2Wire, Tempe, AZ July 2005 - June 2005  Provided network troubleshooting over the phone for SBC/DSL customers and 2wire Modems.  Lead customers blindly through configuring and troubleshooting various network and DSL connection issues.  Troubleshot with multiple operating systems Mac/Windows based.  Helped users set up encrypted wireless networks for home network use.  Jtagged various Unix based 2-Wire modems. Command and Control Specialist U.S. Army - Fort Bliss, TX 2004 Conducted training operations successfully that depended computer know how and troubleshooting for network, computer and radio operations.  Was depended upon for training of new personnel in such areas as, troubleshooting ThinNet networks and Linux/Unix based systems. Operations and Intelligence Assistant U.S. Army - Fort Polk, LA 2003 Responsible for Internet Café while stationed in Baghdad Iraq.  Kept maintenance of a satellite based Internet service provider in conjunction with over three dozen desktop computers.  Planned and maintained a Gaming Café separate from the existing Internet Café for soldier recreation.  Provided constant ability for hundreds of soldiers to contact family members while deployed.  Awarded Army Commendation Medal for upkeep and system maintenance of the Internet and Gaming Café while still maintaining security for the compound by conducting regular patrols and guard shifts. Education Associate in Applied Science in Linux Networking Administration Mesa Community College - Mesa, AZ 2015 to 2016 Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified 2005 to Present A+ establishes best practices in troubleshooting, networking and security across a variety of devices to set the stage for IT careers. The certification also matches professional tech skills with communication skills. CompTIA Linux+ LX0-103 & LX0-104 AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner (CLF-C01) March 2019 to March 2022 Additional Information Reliable leader with experienced computer know how and over 15 years of computer experience in Linux Operating Systems.    Lead developer and maintainer of http://unity-linux.org