Independent IT Consultant Independent IT Consultant Independent IT Consultant - Robb Technology Group Lubbock, TX Experienced professional with a demonstrated history of working in the technology and electronics industry. Skilled in Linux, Windows, MacOS, networking, security, virtualization, scripting, data assurance, and management. Strong professional with a Bachelor of Business Administration focused on Management Information Systems from Texas Tech University and a veteran of the United States Marine Corps. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Independent IT Consultant Robb Technology Group - Lubbock, TX April 2018 to Present IT consulting practice based primarily out of the Permian Basin serving clients such as Chevron and Moravcik Threadgill Law Firm. Providing business operations support ranging from disaster recovery to email support. Owns and operates ASIC and GPU cryptocurrency miners. US Operations Manager Cracked But Not Forgotten - Lubbock, TX January 2019 to June 2019 Small electronics importing business, primarily specializing in mobile device displays. Duties involve managing Lubbock warehouse including fulfillment operations, managing inventory, managing returns, e-commerce software management, and customer service. Networking and Systems Administrator Reliant Holdings LTD - Midland, TX October 2017 to April 2018 Ensured high availability of networking and server systems across nationwide sites. Maintained onsite emergency generator. Monitored and maintained virtualized server architecture, VOIP infrastructure, networking, and information assurance. Network Administrator Expanse Energy Solutions February 2017 to June 2017 Provided all on-site operations support for the West Texas area and remote support to several states. Managed Office 365 deployment, troubleshooting networking issues, setup VPN connections, wrote scripts to automate support tasks and built a Sysprep image of Windows 10 to aid in deployments. Managing Partner Robb Systems, LLC - Midland, TX June 2014 to January 2017 Retail store providing West Texas with the highest quality cell phone, laptop, computer repair, and business IT services. Responsibilities included accounting, payroll, inventory, training, procurement, recruiting, taxes, social media marketing, and employee management. IT Resident Google Inc June 2013 to March 2014 Supported and scaled Google's technology from the corporate infrastructure to end users. Supported all major desktop and mobile operating systems. Worked with networking, infrastructure, internal voice, and video conferencing systems, multi-platform system administration, and serviced desktop and laptop hardware. LVS Operator United States Marine Corps December 2007 to April 2010 Operated the Logistical Vehicle System, electronics equipment, and onboard weapon systems. Maintained a first-class physical fitness test and received two meritorious promotions during service. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems Texas Tech University Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration - Tech, Texas, US May 2013 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/philiprobb