Network Engineer (Global Network Routing and Security Administrator) <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer (Global <span class="hl">Network</span> Routing and Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span>) Network Engineer (Global Network Routing and Security Administrator) - Guess?, Inc Cypress, CA Based on the emails i receive, i have to say i am not interested in contract or short term positions at this time. I am also not a software programmer. tha ks Work Experience Network Engineer (Global Network Routing and Security Administrator) Guess?, Inc - Los Angeles, CA September 2015 to Present Manage day-to-day network management tasks (wired and wireless), i.e., network monitoring, troubleshooting outages, pushing new scripts and configurations as needed. Analyze and troubleshoot traffic. Monitor for Intrusion and Mitigate requests that could result in PCI contamination. Migrated Core firewalls from Fortinet to Palo Alto Globally (Currently upgrading Asia Pacific Global Firewalls, completion date is Early August 2018). Rolled out hardware upgrades to all North America retail locations, which included configuration design, constant contact with site installation contractors, troubleshoot failed installations, contact with ISP's to resolve connectivity issues, monitored and fixed scripting from corporate side (controllers, etc). Rolled out new set up for offsite international distribution center, with Server and cluster management, troubleshooting and break-fix resolutions, as time permitted and as needed. Assisted Store-POS helpdesk with troubleshooting and resolutions as it pertains to network, vpn tunnels, cabling and users at remote sites. Assisted Helpdesk direct or guided troubleshooting and resolution of internal user connectivity issues. Maintained Network Control after Lead Engineer left. Trained my Manager on existing network infrastructure. Lead Asia offices, Canadian Offices, Remote North America Offices in Network related issues and resolutions. POC for Asia Team as it pertains to Asia Retail connection to North America Data Center(s), including monitoring and remediating of 'bad' traffic (intrusion attempts, DDoS attempts and blocking troublesome sources). Assist current Security Team with auditing, compliance checks, securing critical 'zones' within the corporate network and I am one of the first hurdles to clear (first to notice) when it comes to requests that could potential allow traffic outside of protected (PCI, PII) zones. Helpdesk Supervisor Guess?, Inc - Los Angeles, CA April 2014 to September 2015 As previous, with additional duties to lead helpdesk team (including directing one remote user) in efficient handling of work orders, make certain operational decisions on my own, or in consultation with Helpdesk Manager and/or MIS Client Services Manager. Moved Print servers with help of MIS Network Services, to a virtual server (deactivating 2 physical servers). First Responder on most malware and virus infections and related cleanings. First point of Contact for Encryption related issues and/or Setup. Helpdesk Technician Guess?, Inc - Los Angeles, CA February 2013 to April 2014 Invited to) Returned as a Member of MIS Corporate Help Desk team after a 2 year Hiatus out of state. Performed workstation installs, upgrades, migrations, optimizations, malware and virus removal, data recovery, and assisted Infrastructure team, both onsite and remotely. Supported for 500 internal users and additional user support in Canada, Hong Kong, Italy, as well as Kentucky and New York. Maintained users accounts in AD, set up and deactivated user accounts as needed in AD, assisted with AD reorganization, assisted with Exchange troubleshooting, assisted with GPO development and deployment, responsible for Corporate WSUS server, assisted in Managing Fire-eye Malware detection Server, managed deployment images for desktops, maintained local NAS for software packages and software licenses, Upgraded desktops to Win 7, maintained WRQ Reflections setups (as/400 interface), Maintained Citrix accounts and Citrix installs, setup and maintained Fortinet tokens for VPN access, setup switches per guidance from Network Infrastructure team. Setup up print queues/drivers and the appropriate access levels assigned in AD. Assisted with mapped-drive maintenance, access rights and effective NTFS permissions. Tested and deployed partial Disk encryption strategies for Key employees. Brought 50% of Printer break-fix issues in house.    **Can provide Experiences/History prior to returning to Guess?, Inc., upon request** Education High school or equivalent Skills data recovery (1 year), malware (2 years), Security (3 years), vpn (5 years), wireless (3 years)