Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Health Care Partners of South Carolina Sunset Beach, NC I am a highly-motivated Systems Engineer with over 10 years of experience in a mixed Windows and Linux environments. I have broad knowledge of LAN, WLAN and VPN networking, and customer service with some sales experience. I have provided oversight and management of multiple networking projects for localized expansions to state wide expansions and acquisition management. Work Experience Systems Administrator Health Care Partners of South Carolina - Conway, SC January 2019 to Present I manage the entire network including the firewalls, switches, servers and eClinicalWorks. I completely revamped the entire network increasing its capacity by more than 3x's across all locations. Also, I performed a full security audit and domain migration to ensure we are compliant and secure. Security Infrastructure Engineer Century Link - Columbia, SC June 2017 to Present Currently I am a level one security operations engineer, utilizing IBM Q-Radar and SNORT data to monitor traffic and offenses, my position is to collect relevant data for offenses and determine if they are potentially harmful or not to networks and companies around the globe. Senior Systems Administrator Colonial HealthCare - Sumter, SC September 2016 to May 2017 I managed our ISP contracts and assisted in the design of our network infrastructure, in addition to this I assisted our MSP with on-site support when they did not have the capacity to assist our users. I supported nearly 30 sites across the state of South Caroline and about 525 employees. I assisted in the management of our servers as which includes all Windows Server 2012 OS's and two separate VMWare ESX hosts. Upon employment I analyzed the phone contracts, internet provider contracts and negotiated deals for 18 locations that save over $9,000 per month, additionally after performing a Greenway audit saved over $3,800 in user cost per month. Network Engineer HillSouth iT Solutions - Florence, SC March 2016 to September 2016 I was a client facing administrator that supported multiple companies and users. I handled all client issues from desktop applications to advanced firewall and routing problems. My goal is to ensure high up-time of our clients that we manage. Our main customer base was 80 percent healthcare related and the rest being hotels and other business across the state. EMR's that I have serviced include PrimeSuite, Success EHS, Athena and ECW. At-Home Tier 2 iOS Advisor Apple Inc - Florence, SC September 2014 to May 2016 I provided support to Tier 1 advisors as well as customers when the issue needed to be escalated. I would help the user troubleshoot their Apple products and determine if they had a hardware or software issue and work to resolve it for them. It was my goal to make sure I could do everything to assist the customer even if it involved making exceptions to ensure customers were satisfied. Client Systems Technician Supervisor United States Air Force - Grand Forks AFB, ND November 2010 to July 2014 I managed and maintained both unclassified and classified Local Area Networks for. 2,100+ users and 3,000+ computers and servers. Also in charge of classified public key infrastructure. Performs and manages client software and hardware (information systems/technology mgmt.) tasks and functions. Sustains administrative network and provides computer support for the $76M Local Area Network. Oversees, configures, and troubleshoots Virtual Private Network (VPN) systems for key base personnel. Utilized Remedy ARS, MS Active Directory and NetIQ DRA. I also oversaw the supervision of 3 other Airman in my office to ensure they were equipped with the knowledge to assist users on base without intervention. System Administrator Intern Horry Telephone Co-op - Conway, SC October 2008 to June 2009 Intern duties included imaging of computers and basic network and workstation troubleshooting. Education BS in Computer Science University of Southern New Hampshire December 2019 AS in Computer Science Community College of the Air Force July 2014 Aynor High School - Aynor, SC June 2009 Skills Network troubleshooting, Vmware, Comptia, Firewall, Voip, Avaya, Engineer, Microsoft windows Additional Information Professional Skills & Certifications  Network Troubleshooting: Advanced  VMWare vSphere & ESXi: Advanced  Microsoft Windows & Server: Expert  Avaya VOIP Systems: Advanced  IPTV Solutions: Advanced  Comptia A+  Comptia S+  Apple Certified Support Professional  Sophos Firewall Engineer