Consultant Consultant Carey, OH I have extensive knowledge in many facets of IT but feel that my strengths lie in my engaging and respectful communication with a focus on empowering and educating those reaching out for support. I believe that your demeanor and work ethic prove to others that they are in good hands and can rely on you. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant Carey Public Library August 2018 to Present • Updated patron pc's and monitors  • Advised upgrading switches and wireless infrastructure  • Discussed need for re-wiring and cleaning up CAT5 wiring  • Advised on upcoming trends and sources to assist with technology needs.  • All work and discussions done on volunteer time Owner Trausch Properties-Wyandot Counseling Associates July 2014 to Present • Re-wired bottom floor of building with Cat5e and installed a patch panel and unmanaged 16 port POE gigabit switch  • Installed small business SonicWall firewall and established external static IP to meet with standards for Medicaid.  • Installed 3cx phone system to replace antiquated PBX as well as installed new VOIP phones.  • Installed Ubiquiti AP throughout building for wireless access.  • Continuously looking to upgrade and maintain the building such as looking to upgrade switch and install a server soon  • Identify and deal with building issues such as plumbing and air conditioning and develop relations with vendors you can count on  • Act as landlord and provide good living conditions and service to my tenants  • Installed a non-invasive camera system for perimeter of bottom floor that doesn't violate HIPAA standards  • Work within a defined budget and decide needs vs. wants Systems Administrator University of Findlay August 2016 to April 2019 • Administered all servers in organization as well as upgrading, maintaining and patching and administered 5 physical hosts running ESXI 6.7 and running 170 servers ranging from 2003 to 2019.  • Assisted in the migration of staff data from SunIDM (Identity Management System) to our new ERP application, Workday.  • Assisted with creating scripts to pull data from Workday to integrate with Azure AD and AD Manager.  • Administrator for O365 environment particularly dealing with Exchange and email accounts as well as pulling data through PowerShell scripting for reporting.  • Proactively implemented measures to reduce accounts being compromised as well as actively monitoring for and purging suspicious emails.  • Through SunIDM, ensured student accounts were created correctly  • Administered the University's GSuite  • Created policies for off boarding accounts as well as running scripts to ensure a clean AD.  • Administered the University's OneDrive accounts through SharePoint.  • Responsible for ensuring that backups were created and ran on monthly and daily incremental through the use of Veeam.  • Assisted in the creation of a 1 to 1 Disaster Recovery off campus at the University of Dayton Colo site by upgrading our old storage architecture in our datacenter and migrating old hardware to DR site.  • Worked with vendors to stay abreast of hardware licensing, trends, maintenance agreements and ensuring our hardware adhered to a 5 year lifecycle.  • Provided level 2 support to our helpdesk through the university's ticketing system.  • Setup and assisted in the testing and upgrade of the University's old analog PBX system to an in-house VOIP system.  • Active Directory maintenance, forest upgrade, administration and monitoring data was correctly migrated to O365 through ADFS.  • Responsible for the upgrade of the Transact BBTS system which is the underlying software responsible for student ID cards and all of food services transactions as well as POS devices.  • Using SCCM, kept servers updated through patch management.  • Assisted with the transition of many of the University's core programs to using SSO.  • Established conditional access rules through Azure AD to better secure the accounts of the University's staff, faculty and students.  • Administered Palo Alto firewall.  • Established conditional access rules to better secure the accounts of the University's staff, faculty and students.  • Assisted when needed to replace Aruba AP's, layer 2 Aruba switches, running cat6 and fiber replacements as well as maintenance of UPS devices for closet stacks.  • Established and maintain vendor contracts for Data Center for cooling systems, generator and any physical maintenance. IT Manager Findlay-Hancock County Public Library September 2014 to April 2016 • Administration of VMware ESXi, Windows Server, Exchange Server 2013, File Services, DNS, DHCP, GPO, Barracuda backup, Cisco switches, SonicWALL firewalls.  • Decommissioned two existing Windows Server 2003 VMs and consolidated to one Server 2012 R2 VM.  • Migrated user home shares to Server 2012 file server using folder redirection.  • Upgraded VMware vSphere ESXi host from 5.5 to 6.0.  • Implemented What's Up Gold for systems and network monitoring.  • Maintained Barracuda Backup appliance and cloud replication.  • Support McAfee Virus Scan Enterprise and ePO for endpoint security.  • Administer IP camera video surveillance system using Axis Camera Hardware and Milestone Xprotect application.  • Lockdown and provide persistent public PC's using DeepFreeze.  • Administer workstations using tools such as WSUS, Deepfreeze Enterprise Console, GPO, and Solar Wind's Dameware.  • Installed and maintained core network consisting of Cisco 2960s switches, and SonicWALL NSA2600 Firewall.  • Replaced SonicPoint wireless AP at Arlington branch library with Aruba IAP 215 using integrated controller.  • Installed new and replaced existing CAT5 structured cabling with CAT5e.  • Upgraded IOS code on Cisco network equipment, including switches and wireless APs.  • Active Directory clean-up and reorganization, including purging stale accounts, and revising GPO security policies.  • Mentoring area youth volunteers seeking to explore careers in the information technology field.  • Responsible for converting computer workstations to Windows 10 via in place upgrades or new purchases.  • Create and maintain workstation images using FOG imaging/cloning solution.  • Purchased various end user devices to create a technology petting zoo for staff to develop training programs for library patrons.  • Coordinate and maintain maintenance agreements with vendors for printers, software and services as well as maintained software licensing.  • Created network and PC policies for our staff and administered acceptable computer use policies for patrons. Jr. Network Administrator\Helpdesk Technician Intern Commercial Savings Bank February 2010 to September 2014 • Assisted network administrator in the creation of the DR site by decommissioning old production blade chassis and using it for the DR site to replicate and virtualize Exchange, business critical servers, SAN and terminal servers.  • Led on ATM hardware and software upgrade for two sites; provided front end support and back end coordination.  • Supported software and hardware including replacement of Blade Chassis, firmware updates, SAN and tape drive.  • Assigned and coordinated the flow of departmental projects.  • Adhered to strict standards of documentation and keeping logs for audit trails.  • Administered terminal server environment and ensured server integrity  • Managed security access\access control of all individuals entering the operations center and the many bank branches and its premises.  • Assisted in investigations by providing video footage and access records when requested.  • Built and configured Windows Server 2008 R2 servers.  • Converted old Windows Server 2003 servers to Windows 2008 R2 VMs as needed.  • Maintained cluster of 15 VMs onsite and 4 VMs through the DR site.  • Provided mobile support and ensured company phones and tablets were secured and connected to Exchange.  • Ensured servers were current with updates and patches and facilitated audits on network security.  • Troubleshoot, setup and supported IP Phone systems through Cisco Call Manager software.  • Migrated bank from XP to Windows 7 on staff thin clients and service desk computers.  • Assisted users, ensured End of Day processed and completed. Performed end of year process to close accounting for core system embedded in AS400 environment.  • Coordinated and maintained IT assets through an asset software with tracking tags attached to items more than $100 in value.  • Maintained e-mail filter, firewall and IPS in conjunction with CentraComm.  • Assisted in researching and implementing a cloud based email archiving solution that allowed us the ability to keep emails for up to 10 years. Education Bachelor of Science in Network Administration in Network Security Westwood College - Denver, CO December 2012 Associates in Microcomputer Business Systems in Microcomputer Business Systems Owens Community College - Findlay, OH June 2002