Integrated Project Manager Integrated Project Manager Integrated Project Manager - THE BOEING COMPANY Ladson, SC Motivated IT business professional experienced with communicating with leadership, strategy execution, developing metrics, and service management. Capability to engage with management and work on cross functional teams to complete business objectives. Work Experience Integrated Project Manager THE BOEING COMPANY - North Charleston, SC January 2019 to Present Provide End-to-End integration and accountability of partner processes and system implementation activities, supporting multiple domestic and international sites and programs  ? Initiate Software Implementation Authorization and trigger software deployment to Partners  ? Lead Partner Relationship Management for all IT issues for assigned global suppliers  ? Collaborate with Supplier Management to onboard new global suppliers: New Global Application Readiness Assessment, New Software Request, and New Partner/Supplier Registration  ? Collaborate with developers to submit change requests and provide functional testing for the Configuration Management Database  ? Lead team in deploying newly released content to all suppliers by creating schedule and documenting process  ? Facilitate Collaboration with Partners Information Exchange Meeting by identifying relevant content for all suppliers Network Designer October 2017 to January 2019 Corresponded with IT Business Partners to identify problematic areas and pre-visit requirements for scheduled Wi-Fi Assessments  ? Designed, configured, and troubleshot passive RFID factory solutions  ? Coordinated with vendor to configure and troubleshoot UWB RFID factory solutions  ? Revised Cisco Prime Maps using data collected during Wi-Fi Assessments to ensure accuracy of access points for future troubleshooting  ? Fulfilled and tracked service requests' lifecycles using IT Store  ? Collaborated with team to document L-C-M process by defining operating rhythm for submitting BOMs, engaging Tier 2 support, and ordering, configuring, deploying new devices  ? Assisted with planning and facilitating Network Business Preparedness and Disaster Recovery Exercises  ? Created, implemented, maintained and documented basic network designs that conform to architectural and security standards and policies  ? Provided basic assistance with research, design, maintenance and implementation of network designs  ? Collected data to provide project cost estimates  ? Prepared bulk network design packages for compliance configurations, ISO staging and device reboot  ? Integrated Tech Bulletin content in HPNA/Configurator tools - Regex/plain syntax  ? Developed templates and scripts based on latest tech bulletins to support remediation of updated content Process Analyst June 2016 to October 2017 Produced metrics to encourage strategic decision making  ? Led weekly service performance meeting for leadership team to discuss the Network Connectivity's operations workload  ? Developed Request Fulfilment metrics using Cognos platform in order to define baseline metrics to track performance  ? Established areas of improvement by using metrics and monitored suppliers' performance against internal KPIs  ? Identified process escapes for the Incident Management and Request Fulfilment processes by analyzing data  ? Supported International peers with handling critical devices to improve Incident Management metrics and process  ? Contacted network designers about aging tickets to prohibit the SLAs from being breached  ? Provided assistance with ticket handling processes (HPSM & IT Store) to enhance ticket quality to increase data integrity  ? Co-authored Business Preparedness Plan with primary author to capture organizational changes  ? Triaged IT Store requests to determine if additional information is needed before assigned to network designer  ? Updated relative documentation when processes were modified to ensure seamless communication    Information Technology Career Foundation Participant (ITCFP) Project Manager Program Management Office June 2015 to June 2016 Monitored and updated BSC headcount to ensure IT Infrastructure is on track to meet year end targets  ? Controlled and assigned seating and peripherals for BSC IT Infrastructure's existing and new employees  ? Supported P-B-R alignment by facilitating biweekly meetings with managers to receive status and any help needed  ? Interviewed tool architects to document tools' functionality to be able to create the Tools Rationalization Blueprint  ? Evaluated tools with architect to determine major and minor capabilities to identify overlaps and gaps in ITI Tools Portfolio  ? Tracked status and workload in GIDE - Team Foundation Server for daily Scrum Process Analyst Enterprise Tools &Automation February 2014 to June 2015 Gathered requirements to launch and streamline the BUILD COE website to communicate current news within Boeing IT  ? Supported customers by providing weekly metrics and configured scripts to insure the integrity of the metrics  ? Collected metadata on IT Infrastructure tools to analyze ITIL services and ITI processes in order to identify cross functionality and reduce costs  ? Structured tools taxonomy into ITI Tools Portfolio to create awareness in the IT Infrastructure data print  ? Collaborate with team to develop more efficient ways to utilize the data produced, such as burn down charts, heat maps, etc.  ? Maintained and updated the SharePoint platform upon request as well as design and create SharePoint forms in InfoPath  ? Provided functional requirements to Dell Partner to develop a tool (DWPA) to access and manage ITI Tools Portfolio  ? Performed functional testing in DWPA to provide feedback on tool and for customer acceptance Helpdesk Support UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA - Columbia, SC January 2013 to December 2013 Documented help desk trouble tickets/resolutions using Service Now to ensure students issues are being resolved efficiently  ? Replaced damaged hard drives and restored the data to ensure students documents are available for use  ? Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting of various pc systems in order to remove viruses, malware, cookies, etc. Internal Technology Intern GOOGLE, INC - Chicago, IL May 2013 to August 2013 Assisted employees with Google's corporate resources and applications to impact employees performance  ? Provided direct support for desktops/laptops and user access to corporate network and one-time-passwords  ? Documented IDF's devices and connections to provide clarity and backup resources to prevent down time Information Technology Assistant SOUTH CAROLINA VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION DEPARTMENT, SC August 2012 to May 2013 Provided Help Desk assistance through the use of virtual machines and Remote Desktop Connection  ? Worked with Active Directory to create and maintain domains, organizational units, bulk user list, and group policy Assistant to the Network Administrator BENEDICT COLLEGE - Columbia, SC August 2008 to December 2009 Administered and created usernames and passwords for network access by using the Novell Client Database  ? Imaged, installed, and performed set-up, break-down, and transport of agency equipment on an as needed basis  ? Regulated computer labs by maintaining equipment inventory lists without supervision  ? Communicated with supervisor to report daily audits on inventory to avoid theft and resource abuse Administrative Assistant DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL - Columbia, SC May 2009 to July 2009 Performed general clerical duties to improve efficiency in the office: printed labels, sent mail, filed documents  ? Organized the agency's information by managing content to categorized data, charts, graphs, and other visuals Education Doctorate of Information Technology in IT Capella University - Minneapolis, MN 2020 Master of Professional Studies in Technology Management Georgetown University - Washington, DC 2017 Bachelor of Science in Integrated Information Technology University of South Carolina - Columbia, SC September 2011 to December 2013 Skills Cognos, Microsoft sharepoint, Sharepoint, Microsoft team foundation server, Team foundation server Additional Information Skills  Windows Server 2008 R2, VM Ware, Microsoft Team Foundation Server, Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft SharePoint Designer, Active Directory, Visual Studio, HTML 5, CSS, Visual Basic, Agile Training Camp, Cognos V10, Cisco Prime, Zebra Ultra Wide Band (UWB) Technologies, HP Service Manager, IT Store, Impinj Passive Technologies, HP Service Manager (HPSM), IT Store, HP Network Automation (HPNA)