Network/System Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span>/System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network/System Administrator Staten Island, NY I am a highly motivated individual with a military background of discipline, high moral character, and dedication to duty. Effectively able to communicate  with all levels of management. Experienced in working under high pace and stressful environments. Open to learning new skills and do welcome any  challenges. Work Experience Network/System Administrator USMC November 2017 to August 2018 Maintained and managed networking devices such as routers and switches a well as provide system support for a forward deployable Command  and Control Center.  • Built important components of the system such as the Domain Controller, Exchange, and other virtual servers as well as configured the network  routers and switches from scratch.  • Managed a GPS program called C2PC from a Global Command and Control Systems based server to keep track of military ships, planes, and troops.  • Stream, managed, and analyzed drone feed.  • Created a backup network route for a Command and Control Center in case of connection loss of original network route in order to maintain  proper connection reliability and consistent secure communication.  • Responsible for backups of network devices such as routers and switches and virtual machines within the VMware program.  • Provided high security clearance help desk support for military personnel such as Major Generals, Colonels, Captains and high ranking enlisted.  • Imaged mass amounts of client and admin hard drives for security due to highly mobile missions. Administrator USMC May 2016 to January 2017 • Managed connectivity to Standardized Tactical Entry Point through encryption devices.  • Responsible for configuration, management, and backup of network devices such as routers, switches, and crypto devices.  • Troubleshooting and diagnosing network, hardware, and software issues.  • Monitored network functionality using SolarWinds and WhatsUp Gold to improve performance.  • Implemented proper system security configurations to secure classified military data. Administrator USMC September 2014 to August 2015 • Provided secure help desk support for over 500 high ranking military personnel from over four different countries in a joint task force operation.  • Managed over 50 virtual servers across four different enclaves such as classified, non-classified, non-government, and coalition networks.  • Installed system patches and updates to virtual servers in order to maintain an updated system which provided safe, consistent, uninterrupted  communication with base.  • Conducted backups of virtual servers and recovery of data or memory loss due to power outage issues. Education Bachelors of Science in Network and Communications Management DeVry University June 2020 Franklin D Roosevelt High School June 2013 Skills CISCO, NETWORKING, SOLARWINDS, WIRESHARK, VMWARE