Security Administrator/Tech Support Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Tech Support Security Administrator/Tech Support - Larimer County Human Services Department Fort Collins, CO Work Experience Security Administrator/Tech Support Larimer County Human Services Department - Fort Collins, CO March 2019 to Present Provides technical support for the Department of Human Services (DHS) state and locally administered computer systems. Serves as the main point of contact internally for security requests and access to all state and local computer systems with DHS staff.  Serves as the main point of contact for security-related issues, onboarding and offboarding of new staff with Larimer County  Information Technology Department. Communicates with Colorado Office of Information Technologies, and local County IT regarding service requests and outages.  ? Created process for role-based security in cooperation with the Director-level staff for all HS divisions.  ? Created a database for all current HS employees that describes all current access to state and local systems. Linux Systems Engineer Secure64 Software Corporation - Fort Collins, CO October 2018 to March 2019 Systems engineer for a company of ~50 employees, many of which are local but others are located in foreign countries. I  helped business critical systems have maximum uptime in order to best serve our clients around the globe.  Key Responsibilities:  ? Systems administration of over 50 servers, including managing backups, patches, and Nagios watchdogs  ? Network administration of three offices with multiple ISPs and an off-site co-location; security administration of servers, firewalls, VPNs, email, and websites; management of internal and external authoritative and caching DNS servers  ? Management of company-wide phone systems including VOIP switch management  ? Certification management for VPNs, email, https, DNSSEC, and website registration  ? Tier I and II IT support to non-technical and executive staff  ? Backup support engineer if the support team is overloaded, and also apart of the on-call rotation.  ? Migrated and managed all company email from three separated local-only services to cloud-based Microsoft O365 Network Intern Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO March 2017 to October 2018 Initially hired at the service desk, but was quickly promoted to the Network and Systems team. Managed over 250  switches in an enterprise environment to over 8,000 on-campus residents, and more than 2,500 staff and faculty. Assembled, configured, installed, and patched new switches as we transitioned from Cisco to Aruba. Also managed over 3,000 wireless access  points (WAP) across residence and dining halls. Responsible for keeping failed WAPs in the single digits, and the provisioning of new WAPs. Aided our service desk with completing many work orders relating to both networking and more mundane issues.  ? Created an efficient process and template for replacing individual switches and entire network closets  ? Created plan to replace all network closets including costs, downtime, parts, and other miscellaneous details  ? Created switch configuration template for new/replacement Aruba and Cisco switches Education Bachelor's in Applied Computing Technology Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO June 2016 to December 2018 Skills Cisco, Dns, Firewalls, Nagios, Networking, Tcp/ip, Tcp, Vpn, Css, C++, Html, Javascript, Perl, Php, Sql, Ethernet, Bash, Java, Lan, Crimping Links http://linkedin.com/in/jacksearl Additional Information SKILLS    WAN, LAN, VPN, TCP/IP, DNS, VLANs Ubuntu CentOS Windows Microsoft Office/Google Docs Cisco, Aruba,  HP, NetGear Switches Networking C++, C, Java, Bash, HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, SQL, Perl, GitHub Zimbra,  NetDisco, Cacti, Rancid, Nagios, Let's Encrypt Terminating and crimping Ethernet and Co-Ax pfSense, Untangle,  UFW/IPtable firewalls Tier I and II troubleshooting and customer support Patching, rebuilding, backing up and managing  users on virtual machines/servers