Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Tacoma, WA Systems engineer committed to maintaining cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge, with an extensive 5+ years of experience in internetworking, Windows Server, Linux Server, and a variety of virtualization technologies. Work Experience Network Engineer Ezra Systems Inc - Sacramento, CA April 2019 to June 2019 • Assisted in configuring Layer 2 and Layer 3 switched network including port-channel, VLANs, and switch stacking technology.  • Hardened switches to IRS level standards.  • Created documentation and backups of configurations for automation and ease of research.  • Configured OSPF across multiple routers and firewalls.  • Set up Palo Alto Firewalls with Security Zones, VLANs, and Virtual Routers. System Administrator DCS Corp - China Lake, CA April 2017 to December 2018 • Provide high level IT customer service for Navy pilots, engineers, and administrators in a timely manner.  • Internetworking troubleshooting and planning on all layers of the networking stack and a variety of operating systems and enterprise devices/servers.  • Administer Hyper-V virtual machines and VHDXs in a mission critical and redundant environment.  • Secure DoD information systems from multiple angles including physical security, data and media management, penetration testing, active directory account management, domain and local group policy, encryption and encryption key management, and server based anti-virus.  • Designed, upgraded, and troubleshot scripts for CMD and PowerShell.  • Active Directory management of accounts and Group Policy including troubleshooting and hardening.  • Resolve server power issues through load analysis and carefully planned upgrades.  • Experience in mixed Windows environment containing Linux servers, OpenVMS, and modern/legacy Windows client and server operating systems.  • Responsible for installing, maintaining, and troubleshooting issues for auxiliary networking appliances and software including networking printers, NAS, Software Client Configuration Manager, and Navy/Government proprietary software. Cyber Security Engineer Jacobs Technology Inc - China Lake, CA March 2016 to April 2017 Worked with labs to get credentialed Nessus scans of all required devices and cleared vulnerabilities found on a variety of systems including Cisco switches, Windows and Linux servers, and Windows workstations. Managed an LDAP database as part of supporting custom DoD security software.  ? Performed forensic analysis of government assets; examining logs, deleted files, and cached data etc., as part of a misuse case.  ? Successfully configured and maintained two standalone Security Center/Nessus scanners on RHEL and CentOS which were hosted on Oracle VirtualBox; as well as multiple Windows systems.  ? Created basewide-relevant documentation consolidating research of DoD security policies.  ? Promotion from Computer Network Defense Team to Incident Response Team. Recognized for dedication to meet deadlines, being able to work well with a team, and for my contribution to the CeDAR project. Network Engineering Intern Ezra Systems Inc - Sacramento, CA October 2014 to March 2016 Mentorship and training under tech lead. Topics include network design/architecture basics, network engineering software, and networking technologies.  ? Successfully updated/configured eighteen stacks of ICX 6610 switches' OS, licenses, and stack settings at DGS, Yolo County, by the designated due date. Assisted with architecture documentation.  ? Successfully completed project at Patton State Hospital, installed Nexus 2k switches into server room racks and interconnected them with their parent switches. Provided on-site support during maintenance and testing of layer-2 components. Installed new supervisor engines to core switches and assisted in firmware update. CompTIA Linux+ 2016 to 2016 Easy Tech Associate Staples Inc - Ridgecrest, CA January 2015 to September 2015 93555 ? 6816 E. Katella Rd. Cypress, CA 90630  ? Provided consultation for clients and translated business needs to IT solutions.  ? Performed diagnostics, testing, and troubleshooting for hardware and software issues.  ? Streamlined OS performance, applied firmware patches, installed OS's, and provided data backups.  ? Developed and updated technical documentation for all projects.  ? Primary onsite technician for at-home/office network configuration and workstation setup.    Certifications/Qualifications CCENT 2015 to 2015 Awarded 2016 Education Associate of Arts Cerro Coso Community College 2013 Skills Acls, Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Firewalls, Networking, Virtualization, Catalyst, Dhcp, Eigrp, Ldap, Ospf, Switching, Vm, Vmware, Security, Ipsec, Nessus, Linux, Hyper-v Additional Information Skills  Security: IPsec, ACLs, SMB, Nessus, Host-based security, Windows hardening, Palo Alto firewalls  Switching: RSTP, Spanning-Tree, 802.1Q, VTP, LACP, Etherchannel, switch stacking  Routing: OSPF, EIGRP, RIP  IP V4/V6 addressing: VLSM, NAT, route summarization, dual-stack  Microsoft Office suite: Visio, Word, Excel, PowerPoint  Troubleshooting: Extensive experience troubleshooting hardware, networking, and Windows OS issues.  Virtualization: Microsoft Hyper-V, VMware vSphere, Oracle VM Virtualbox  Networking Modules: Cisco Nexus 2000, Cisco Catalyst 2950, Brocade ICX 6610-48P  Scripting and Programming: Python, CMD, Bash, PowerShell  OS and Environments: Windows Client, Windows Server, Active Directory, LDAP, Linux, DHCP, DNS, SCCM, PowerShell, SQL