IT Consultant IT Consultant IT Consultant - Satellite Healthcare Austin, TX Work Experience IT Consultant Satellite Healthcare - Redwood City, CA February 2018 to Present 345 Convention Way  Redwood City, CA 94063 United States    02/2018 - Present  Salary: 57,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 45  IT Consultant  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  * Performed in the delivery of a full range of customer support services to the organization; inclusive of configuration, installation, and maintenance of IT equipment and systems such as switches, PBXs, desktops,  laptops, printers, and faxes as well as any other desktop support or any relevant work requiring a physical  touch.  * Monitors systems, identifies day-to-day performance deficiencies, degradation of service and/or capacity  issues. Recommends or takes corrective action related to software updates  * Responsible for performing computer or some network devices "Break/Fix" and simple to complex  installation, add, or change requirements of peripherals and device drivers  * Assist with risk assessments to identify and work with authorized stakeholders to mitigate identified risks.  * Leverage application security testing tool to perform dynamic application security testing to identify application security vulnerabilities and work with authorized stakeholders to mitigate such application security  vulnerabilities  * Assist on other security initiatives as needed in line with applicable security, compliance, regulatory requirements, and HITRUST certification requirements Liaise with security operations center, Satellite Healthcare  stakeholders to identify, respond, and mitigate security incidents.  * Establish and manage IT policies in line with applicable security, compliance, and regulatory requirements.  * Launch a Phishing campaign in line with best practices to increase end user awareness around malicious emails and related traffic.  * Used KnowBe4 to setup a security awareness training in line with best practices, security, compliance, and regulatory requirements with security operations center, Satellite Healthcare stakeholders to identify, respond, and mitigate security incidents.  * Established and managed IT policies in line with applicable security, compliance, and regulatory requirements.  * Launch a Phishing campaign in compliance, regulatory requirements, and HITRUST certification requirements.  * Conduct system analysis to design, document, develop, modify, test, install implement and support new and existing applications  Supervisor: Lokwsh Yamasani (4086368268)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Network Security Administrator Harmonic Inc - San Jose, CA March 2015 to January 2018 4300 North 1st Street  San Jose, CA 95134 United States    03/2015 - 01/2018  Salary: 50,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 45  Network Security Administrator  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  ? Knowledgeable to troubleshoot issues with systems and networks using good deductive reasoning skills.  ? Proficient in evaluation and installation of primary and peripheral computer and networking hardware, including, but not limited to: monitors, keyboards, mice, printers, facsimile machines, scanners, hubs, and switches  ? Responsible for some network administration including responsibility for configuring hubs and switches with technical directions; and installing network software fixes and upgrade    https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes/ 1/3  7/14/2019 Print Resume  ? Managed vulnerability management program using security infrastructure tool such as Nessus, Nmap and Malwarebytes to identify issues and develop remediation plans.  ? Responsible for security incident response program using SlashNext to identify security threats and work with staff to remediate issues.  ? Created database of world wide IP addresses for corporate network to improve overall management and security.  ? Audited manufacturing and lab systems to identify vulnerabilities and ensure remote access security.  ? Evaluated IT data center systems to ensure compliance with security standards.  ? Manage anti-malware program to ensure that system are updated to protect against latest threats.  ? Supported program to rollout RSA s  Supervisor: Allen Kirchof (14083060126)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Education Information Technology/ Network Security Arizona State University May 2021 Associate's Degree in Computer Information Systems/Infrastructure Security Merritt College - Oakland, CA May 2016 Skills Ccna, Metasploit, Nmap, Linux, Mac, Mac os