DRIVE TEST RF ENGINEER DRIVE TEST RF ENGINEER DRIVE TEST RF ENGINEER Edina, MN Work Experience DRIVE TEST RF ENGINEER Telnet-Inc August 2018 to August 2019 Drive Testing lead in the North-Central Market. Responsible for troubleshooting all types of drive tests, coordinate vehicles and other drive team members, equipment arrangements and setup driving tools with all types of scenarios and configuration. Exhibited excellent leadership & management qualities. Performed drive testing to analyze and benchmark network performance. Performed UMTS & LTE drive testing using XCAL wireless network optimization software. Collected LTE key parameters for planning and optimization of LTE coverage area. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Horizon July 2016 to May 2018 Established network specifications by conferring with users. Established network by evaluating network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput, goodput, and latency. Maintained network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning. Secured network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation. Upgraded network by conferring with vendors. Met financial requirements by submitting information for budgets. OFFICE MANAGER Ritechoice August 2014 to July 2016 Monitored budget and billing payments. Ordered medical and office supplies. Developed and implement office policies and procedures. Supervised office staff, including receptionists, secretaries and cashiers. Maintained medical and staff records. Liaised with doctors and nurses to identify potential office dysfunctions. Arranged cleaning staff and emergency maintenance services as necessary. Provided informative material for patients Generate inventory records. Ensured compliance with current healthcare regulations, medical laws and high ethical standards. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE University of Toledo 2009 to 2013 DIPLOMA IN GRAPHIC DESIGN in GRAPHIC DESIGN Owens Community College 2011 to 2012 HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA Rogers High School 2005 to 2009 Skills Rf, Circuitry, Rf design, Wireless, Site design, Wireless network, E911, Cell site, Cell site design, Excel, Microsoft excel, Problem-solving