STUDENT STUDENT STUDENT - Microsoft Software and Systems Academy USMC Veteran with 4 years of experience in Network/Systems administration and hold an Active Secret Clearance. I've had experience with many Microsoft systems ranging from client level applications to enterprise level domains with thousands of users. I also have a networking background and familiar with Cisco networking devices, and have often been the primary network administrator for training exercises. Currently I'm attending the Microsoft Software & Systems Academy in Colorado Springs and planning to graduate with the Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate and Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert certification in Microsoft Server 2016. Work Experience STUDENT Microsoft Software and Systems Academy - Fort Carson, CO March 2019 to Present Obtained the Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate certification while attending the Microsoft Software and Systems Academy. MSSA is an advanced 19-week technical training course developed by Microsoft and offered to transitioning military veterans. The program leverages college accredited courses and the goal of preparing transitioning service members for technical opportunities at Microsoft and their Enterprise Partners.    • Developed fundamentals of server administration through installing and configuring server 2016 with several different roles and features.  • Implemented Hyper-V services like Nested virtualization and live migration to maximize the effectiveness of a physical host server.  • Created and administered multiple different types of Azure storage accounts while providing users with a URI in order to access data. DATA SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR United States Marine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC March 2017 to November 2018 As a Systems Administrator my job was to set up, configure and maintain the server infrastructure that was used for training exercises, deployments and labs for coworkers to train on, as well as keep accountability and manage more than $1M of physical network/server gear.    • Maintained 2 networks of 15 virtualized servers and systems over 7 months supporting over 2000 users while deployed.  • Trained helpdesk staff on how to handle tier 1 and tier 2 helpdesk issues, as well as how to configure and administer domain controllers, Microsoft Exchange 2013, and DHCP servers allowing for a more balanced work environment.  • After my job field was split into two separate positions I prepared learning environments that were used to instruct peers on the procedures and responsibilities of their new position in order to ease the transition. CYBER NETWORK OPERATOR United States Marine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC August 2015 to March 2017 Responsible for overseeing a Help Desk of 20 personnel in support of a multinational field exercise with 1200+ personnel. Oversaw user support and working to resolve networking trouble tickets in a timely fashion.  • Configured and maintained a layer 2 Cisco 3700 series switched network supporting 1200+ users with an overall 99.99% uptime.  • Trained coworkers located in other sections on networking gear allowing quicker resolutions to user issues and resulting in over 600 completed tickets during the 8-week exercise. Education Microsoft Certified Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University - Fort Carson, CO 2016 to 2019 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/anthony-bohler Certifications/Licenses Security+ May 2019 to May 2022 Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) June 2019 to Present AZ-103 Azure Administrator July 2019 to Present