Network Support Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Support Engineer Network Support Engineer - Jubilee Consulting Grand Prairie, TX Results-driven and self-motivated Network Administrator with hands-on experience in supporting and growing managed service offerings, which include infrastructure monitoring and problem remediation while maintaining managed services infrastructure and field service calls from customers regarding requests and issues.    Multi-tasker who is able to work effectively on a team, as well as independently, with minimal supervision in an atmosphere of multiple projects, shifting priorities and deadlines; believes in sharing knowledge for the overall benefit of the team. Passionate about their work and understands how it fits into the business operations; takes an initiative in improving themselves and the work processes. Work Experience Network Support Engineer Jubilee Consulting - Cedar Hill, TX January 2018 to Present • Maximize network performance by monitoring traffic flow, troubleshooting network problems and outages, and scheduling upgrades.  • Corrected networking connectivity issues in wireless, routing, and switching using a layered model approach.  • Performed daily backups of all servers using Net backup Admin while enforcing the company's required standards and procedures.  • Maximize network performance by monitoring traffic flow, troubleshooting network problems and outages, and scheduling upgrades.  • Securing network system by enforcing policies and defining and monitoring access.  • Communicate effectively with clients via phone and email, responding to all requests and concerns in a timely fashion. Explaining resolutions, answering questions, and providing professional advice as needed. Network Administrator Mosam Auto - Arlington, TX February 2017 to November 2017 • Ensured that the LAN is operational and available to users at all times not including maintenance period.  • Troubleshoot and generating Cisco Routing protocols and Switch Configurations.  • Provided technical support to computer system users on reported issues and service requests.  • Maintained network security standards and escalation of situations requiring urgent attention.  • Created and maintained documentation relating to network configurations, network diagrams, LAN hardware and version records. Help Desk Support Royal M Consulting - Oklahoma City, OK June 2016 to December 2016 • Commended for quickly resolving complex issues including system crashes, network slowdowns, connectivity problems, security breaches, virus infections and more.  • Oversaw network and equipment upgrades to include IOS, image upgrades, and configuration changes.  • Developed technical support procedures to improve and prioritize technical requests.  • Set up secure WiFi, LAN, and VoIP networks at remote locations, leading client/server configuration and performance-tuning of crucial infrastructure to ensure seamless business operations.  • Offered troubleshooting of the LAN for the clients by configuring the network settings and deploying the cable, router, network printer and wireless devices, including access point and wireless router. Education Associate Degree in Psychology in Psychology Rose State College - Midwest City, OK May 2017 High School Diploma Harding Fine Art Academy - Oklahoma City, OK May 2010 Skills Cisco, Firewalls, Networking, Vlan, Bgp