F-35 Simulator Technician F-35 Simulator Technician F-35 Simulator Technician South Burlington, VT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience F-35 Simulator Technician Delaware Resource Group of Oklahoma - South Burlington, VT January 2019 to Present Currently operate and maintain F-35 simulators. I've gone to Florida for a month long training course and can operate and troubleshoot the simulators as necessary. Network Systems Administrator Vermont Air National Guard - South Burlington, VT June 2017 to January 2019 The IT Technician for the Vermont Air National Guard is a robust, multi-skill role that responds to various hardware, software, network, and used requests to make the mission happen on a day to day basis. Troubleshoots technical problems and issues with the network and user issues to include access and remote issues. Conducts technical training briefings with customers, peers, and leadership when needed resolving issues at lowest possible level. Fully and completely document all unusual operational/maintenance problems to support identifying emerging failure trends and then provide solutions to leadership. Determines technical solution in accordance with product and customer specifications and recommends actions to leadership to solve complex IT issues. Assesses customer’s needs in accordance with standard operating procedures and regulations. Education Bachelor's in Cyber Security Champlain College - Burlington, VT January 2016 to Present Skills Microsoft Office (2 years), Vulnerability Management (1 year), Flight Simulators (Less than 1 year), Windows 10 (2 years), Active Directory (5 years) Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant May 2014 to Present Currently a Network Systems Administrator in the USAF Commendations: Two achievement medals. One for my work while deployed and another while on a training mission to support the medical group in Hawaii. Certifications/Licenses Security Plus March 2018 to March 2021 Security Plus certified since March of 2015