Officer/Flex Security Receptionist Officer/Flex Security Receptionist Officer/Flex Security Receptionist - Allied Universal Security Services, Quad City area - Security Davenport, IA Work Experience Officer/Flex Security Receptionist Allied Universal Security Services, Quad City area - Security January 2019 to Present While working at Allied Universal Security Services I have learned how to use programs such as Avetta, Passage Point,  Access Control, and FOS Collins Aerospace as well as log truck and trailer information in and out of shipping yards. Working at Allied has broadened my clerical experience as I am logging and organizing physical and electronic copies of important documents on a daily basis. Because I am constantly logging information and dealing with customers, my typing and people skills have also improved.  Housekeeping Vonachen Services Inc October 2018 to Present While working at Vonachen Services Inc. I was in charge of maintaining cleanliness and sanitation of various work spaces and common areas. I worked 2nd shift and 1st shift in this position. While on 2nd shift, I needed to complete a more detailed job than on 1st shift, within the allotted amount of time given. On 1st shift I was mainly in charge of keeping track of the cleaning supplies, ordering more if need be, and taking care of any messes caused during the daytime. Vonachen enhansed my time management and manual labor skills during my time there.  Network Administrator USMC - Twentynine Palms, CA July 2017 to September 2018 While enlisted in the Marine Corps I learned to configure networks and lead Marines. I was fortunate enough to have had many opportunities to recognize the importance of communication and organization as well as lucky enough to have had several remarkable leaders and supervisors who made sure I acquired a broad range of skills, including organization, leading, setting up and maintaining networks, and working with others in order to achieve a common goal . Thanks to a number of challenging experiences, I learned how to better manage my stress and become a better leader as well as team player.  Hostess/Carside specialist Applebee's Inc - McHenry, IL July 2015 to April 2017 While working at Applebee’s, I was in charge of coordinating where to sit guests, cleaning off tables, greeting guests, prepping food, taking orders, and delivering food to tables and cars. After working at Applebee’s for a year, I  was promoted to neighborhood expert where I was incharge of training new employees and making sure they knew how to do their job efficiently and properly.  Education Cisco Networks University of Phoenix July 2018 to July 2020 High School diploma Johnsburg High School - Johnsburg, IL August 2014 to June 2017