Certified Caregiver Certified Caregiver Chandler, AZ Professionally trained Caregiver with experience in ensuring high standards of culturally competent care for a wide variety of patients with diverse needs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Certified Caregiver Majestic Rose LLC - Gilbert, AZ January 2019 to Present • Developed rapport with patients to create a safe and trusting environment for care.  • Administered medication as directed by physician.  • Worked to improve and enhance patient lives through effective and compassionate care.  • Maintained a clean, safe and well-organized patient environment.  • Completed all daily living tasks to enhance the quality of life of elderly patients.  • Assisted patients with bathing, dressing, hygiene and grooming.  • Took and recorded patients' temperature, pulse and blood pressure.  • Assisted residents with bathing, dressing, feeding, lifting and transferring.  • Provided all daily living tasks to enhance quality of life for elderly patients. Network Administrator Skylinks Cyber Cafe - Lagos September 2007 to March 2009 • Troubleshot failed drives, warnings and unscheduled reboots.   • Assigned application access, security roles and permissions.  • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.   • Monitored the stability of the network and wireless services to ensure comprehensive stability.   • Identified issues and implemented troubleshooting techniques to alleviate downtime and system failure.   • Managed and ensured the stability of all network and wireless services throughout the enterprise.  • Installed, configured, and supported the local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) and Internet system.  • Installed and upgraded internal and third party software.  • Maintained network hardware and software and monitored the network to ensure network availability to end users.  • Performed necessary maintenance to support network availability.   • Diagnosed and resolved hardware, software and network problems and replaced defective components.  Education Associate in Nursing Mesa Community College - Mesa, AZ May 2019 to Present High school in Science New Erral High school - Lagos September 2001 to July 2007 Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Uyo - Uyo April 2010 Skills Patient Care (1 year), Network Administration (2 years), Microsoft office (8 years), Computer Repair (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Caregiver Certification May 2017 to Present Food Handler May 2017 to May 2022 First Aid and CPR June 2019 to June 2020 Additional Information I have CPR/ First aid license.  I have level one Fingerprint clearance card.  I have Food Handlers card.