Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Livingston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Pedigo Furniture - Livingston, TX October 2017 to Present Customer Relations Manager JTN Solutions June 2015 to October 2017 Managed scheduling maintenance and assigning tasks to technicians .    Managing customer service reps below me Customer Service Associate RadioShack - Livingston, TX November 2015 to February 2016 My job included assisting customers find the correct items they needed for their projects as well as upselling on any potential needed items. I was also responsible for a section of the store when it came to cleaning, stocking and sorting. During my time at Radioshack, I was able to help other co workers have a better understanding of some of the products they were selling. Broadband Technician I Suddenlink Communications - Onalaska, TX April 2015 to October 2015 Installed cable and internet services. Repaired and replaced old installations. Answered various questions from customers. Ensured any major system issues were reported so they could be repaired. Customer Service Representative Valero - Onalaska, TX January 2015 to February 2015 My job was to do the basics of maintaining a store from stocking to cleaning. My time was short as I had received a better job offer from another employer. Computer Technician A Bit Personal - Onalaska, TX January 2014 to April 2014 Responsibilities  I cleaned computers of Malware and Viruses. Cleaned the "bone yard" that contained majority of the old computers that had hardware failures. Provided my knowledge of networking to help setup a network for just customer PC's and another network that was used just for the shop computers. Made conversation with clients about different PC related issues they were having.    Accomplishments  I was able to help him move things around where it would be more efficient and provided a better work environment for us as well as the customers. I cleaned a large number of computers from Malware and Viruses along with learning many new things while there.    Skills Used  Typing, Communication, Computer Networking. Education High School Diploma Onalaska Jr/Sr High - Onalaska, TX 2008 to 2014 Skills Typing (7 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Windows 7 (7 years), Windows 10 (1 year), Customer Service (3 years), Data Entry (2 years), Sales Support (2 years), Networking (2 years), Technical Support (5 years), Cable Installation (Less than 1 year), Cable Trouble Shooting (Less than 1 year) Additional Information References provided upon request. I have had incidences with my driving record. I would like to request you do not dismiss me for that reason. I am gladly willing to explain the causes of those incidences and you will understand better beyond just my driving record itself.