Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator at Eco Windows Systems Hollywood, FL Seeking an opportunity in a company that will utilize my skills to meet business objectives in the IT field or Telecommunications Industry. Graduate of the Networking Administrator Associates Program. Knowledgeable in networking computer and infrastructure, Cellular and Public Safety DAS, and Small cell experience, Customer Service, Client Relations.    Core Strengths    • Experience Windows Servers 2008 & 2012  • Knowledgeable in DHCP, DNS, WDS, Active Directory, DFS & Network Load Balance  . Demarc point, MDF and IDF installations.  • Headend Installation and amplifiers commissioning (ADRF, Andrew, Efemto, Solid, etc   •   • RF Knowledge.  • Ability to work in team environment.  • Bilingual: English and Spanish  • Strong knowledge in TCP / IP & Subnetting  • Analytical with excellent creative problem solving skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Eco Windows Systems December 2018 to Present • I'm responsible for maintaining computer networks and solving any problems that may occur.  • Maintaining existing software and hardware and upgrading any that have become obsolete.  • Monitoring networks and systems to identify how performance can be improved  • Checking daily systems backups.  • Review and update Group Policies. DAS & RF Installation Technician CellAntenna Corp November 2017 to December 2018 - Coral Spring, FL  • Running cables, put splitter and taps, mount indoor antennas and donor antennas.  . Demarc Point, MDF and IDF installations  • Built the entire Headend, racks, battery backups, amplifiers, annunciators, fibers, and commissioning.  • Small Cell, Cellular & Public Safety DAS.  • Service Call Satellite Installations Technician Mastec Advanced Technologies - Davie, FL December 2016 to December 2017 New Install, Services Call, Upgrade, and everything related with DIRECTV. Education Associates in Networking Administration in Alvarez Financial Services College of Business & Technology Skills Low Voltage, CCTV, Office 365, HTML & CSS, Active Directory, Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Vmware Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ September 2015 to March 2019 CompTIA Network+ March 2016 to March 2019 Associated Degree in Network Administration Present OSHA 10 Construction Present OSHA 10 General Industry Present CompTIA Security+ August 2019 to August 2022