Service Desk Engineer Service Desk Engineer Systems Administrator Shady Side, MD Customer service-oriented system administrator with 5+ years’ experience. Expertise in enterprise level system administration and support. Currently pursuing a BS in Cybersecurity. Seeking the next career step in enterprise system management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Service Desk Engineer Dataprise - Baltimore, MD May 2019 to Present Priority Support Plus MSP engineer, supporting large international and high-profile clients, as well as small businesses, across a variety of industries  Serving as direct remote support via call center, adhering to strict SLAs and MTTR goals within the ITIL framework.  Remediated incidents submitted through proprietary ticketing system, utilizing Kaseya and screen connect to resolve the full scope of IT incidents and requests.   Systems Administrator Towne Park, Ltd. - Annapolis, MD June 2017 to May 2019 Enterprise level system administration and helpdesk support serving 15,000 end users across 800+ sites throughout the US.  Duties including but not limited to: account creation and administration in an on-site/hybrid cloud environment via local exchange servers, domain controllers, and Microsoft 365 admin center, 365 administrator, Mimecast spam filter administrator, enterprise Verizon account administrator, Mitel phone administrator, Sophos MDM administrator, hardware image administrator, ServiceNow administrator, SharePoint administrator Kaseya administrator, and hardware asset administrator. Primarily worked through ServiceNow ticketing system adhering to the ITIL platform and SLAs.  Notable accomplishments  - Established and maintained centralized hardware asset tracking by leveraging Kaseya and 365 reporting, associating 1200+ end user machines to end users, including warranty and software information, as well as associating active cellular service connected devices to appropriate cost centers, thus enabling the basis for project planning for organization software migrations, system transitions, and hardware replacement.  - Championed policies and procedures for hardware, account administration, SLA, new hire onboarding and orientation, and folder level security administration.  - Contributed to the planning and execution of new hardware implementation, including transitioning the organization from Windows 7 to Windows 10 and Office 2013 to Office 365  - Project planning for the implementation of multi-factor authentication, Microsoft OneDrive for Business, Microsoft ATP, Kaseya, and Sophos AV/Anti Malware.  - Utilized 365 reporting and PowerShell scripting to manage Microsoft licensing in bulk  - Assisted in the organization's migration from Dell KACE ticketing system to ServiceNow.  - Created, tested, and implemented Windows 10 via image creation and in place OS upgrades.  - Served as escalation point and training resource to new team members through 4 management transitions. SENIOR TIER 3 HELPDESK ENGINEER INFOSTRUCTURES, INC September 2014 to June 2017 Started as Tier 1 Helpdesk Engineer  Enterprise level helpdesk support both remote and on site including but not limited to: account creation and management, email creation and management, advanced troubleshooting of Windows systems and applications as well as 3rd party applications including accounting and banking applications deployment of workstations including custom configurations and migration of data, backup setup and verification, inventory management, ticket management and escalation, physical deployment of workstations, laptops, docking stations, printers, servers, battery backups, firewalls, access points, patch panels and switches including all appropriate cabling, patching, mounting, and anything else was thrown at me. I also served as an escalation point, always available to assist colleagues with Tier 1 and 2 support. JUNIOR NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR INTERNSHIP ISG SOLUTIONS, LLC July 2014 to August 2014 Crash course in building virtual servers through VM ware and managing AV through ePO SALES CONSULTANT BEST BUY February 2013 to March 2014 WAITER APPLEBEES July 2012 to January 2013 ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT ISG SOLUTIONS, LLC August 2010 to August 2011 Education DIGITAL FORENSICS ANNE ARUNDEL COMMUNITY COLLEGE 2018 to Present CHEMISTRY PRINCE GEORGES COMMUNITY COLLEGE 2011 to 2013 HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA BOWIE HIGH SCHOOL 2008 to 2011 Skills Active Directory (4 years), Exchange Server (4 years), System Administration (4 years), Customer Service (6 years), Troubleshooting (4 years), Reporting (4 years), ITIL (4 years), Asset Management (4 years), Sharepoint (2 years), Microsoft 365 Admin (2 years), Powershell (2 years), Account Management (4 years), Training (4 years), Documentation (4 years), technical support, Linux, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified August 2014 to August 2017 Network + May 2019 to May 2022 Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  Desktop support, enterprise systems management, escalation, and advanced troubleshooting. Experience including but not limited to: ServiceNow, Kaseya, Sophos, Mimecast, Mitel, Microsoft 365, 365 SharePoint, Hybrid Environments, Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, Group Policy, VMware, Veeam, Virtual Servers, Accounting Software, Banking Software, Microsoft Office, Adobe Product Suite, Antivirus/Anti-Malware Software, Citrix, Email Spam Filtering Software, 3rd Party Software, Remote Monitoring Software, Remote Support Software, VPN Software MS Remote Desktop, Windows Desktop and Server OS, Printers, Scanners, Copiers, Servers, Switches, Firewalls, Modems, Laptops, Desktops, Tablets, Mobile Phones, Computer Hardware Components, Hard Drive Cloning, Building and Maintaining Images, Microsoft User Profile Cloning, New Computer Deployments, End User Training, Customer Service, Inventory Management and IT Audits.