LAN Administrator III/ Supervisor LAN <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III/ Supervisor LAN Administrator III - Johns Hopkins Carey Business School Abingdon, MD Seeking to obtain a Network Engineer Position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LAN Administrator III/ Supervisor Johns Hopkins Carey Business School - Baltimore, MD 2015 to Present Level II & III support for all faculty, staff, and students.     • Daily Duties: Server and Desktop support and implementation for over ~1500 PC, Mac, and Virtual Machines (VMWare & Parallels), MS Active Directory & Group Policy Admin, SCCM Admin (build and deploy packages), Identity Finder Admin, Alertus Admin, Blackboard Admin, Crestron AV Admin, Mediasite Admin, VTC Polycom support, Airwatch + JAMF support, and Citrix support. Creation and documentation of various spreadsheets and schema diagrams. Directly manage a team of up to 3 student workers and co-manage 4 full time level I technicians. Work directly with JHU Networking and Wireless teams on AP issues (Have Cisco Prime Infrastructure Access), switch port, and VLan issues. Running new cable, patching/tracing, and troubleshooting Ethernet devices.  •    • Notable Projects: Crestron SOHO router integration and network schema documentation, wireless and POE temperature sensor integration, Crestron Air Media setup, Alertus and Alertus POE beacons configuration and implementations, Identity Finder campus scans, Group Policy and security machine builds, AD Group security rights cleanup, Windows 7 to 10 upgrades, upgrading our imagining deployment server  •    • Have taken Cisco Network Academy for CCNA course (and refresher in 2017), as well as CompTIA Network + Course. Currently taking Leadership Management Class. Desktop/Help Desk Network Technician Crestron Air Media 2012 to December 2014 setup, Alertus and Alertus POE beacons configuration and implementations, Identity Finder campus scans, Group Policy and security machine builds, AD Group security rights cleanup, Windows 7 to 10 upgrades, upgrading our imagining deployment server    • Have taken Cisco Network Academy for CCNA course (and refresher in 2017), as well as CompTIA Network + Course. Currently taking Leadership Management Class.  Desktop/Help Desk Network Technician 2012 - Winter 2014 Level I-II Help Desk Personal Computers Incorporated PCI - Buffalo, NY 2013 to 2013 Desktop, Offsite, and NOC support.  • Daily Duties: Phone/Onsite Desktop Tech Support many different clients CSM&CORE, Microsoft Active Directory Admin, Citrix VM Servers Maintenance, Network management using Whats up Gold and Solar Winds monitoring (WAN and LAN support), Server/Switch/Router troubleshooting daily.  • Microsoft Exchange 2003 - 2013 and Lotus Notes Admin and troubleshooting, various models of phone setups (BlackBerry, Android, Iphone).  • VPN (Cisco, Nortel, Sophos/Astaro clients) and Citrix heavily oriented for our many different clients (Xenapp/XenDesktop). Citrix Access Management Console to present 7.5 version.    • Moring and Nightly checklist of servers, backup tapes, network monitoring    • Desktop(Dell, HP, Lenovo, Acer)/Thin client (Wyse, HP) troubleshooting and new builds to company and client standards.    • A+ Certified, taken Cisco Networking Academy    • Various out of state onsite desktop implementation projects Dell/HP. (American Water 300+ desktop/laptop upgrades).    • Daily uses of IP schemas and references company and vendor warranties for repairs/troubleshooting. IT Tutor/Lab Assistant Erie Community College Telecommunication Department - Orchard Park, NY 2009 to 2012 • Help college students in their network and telecommunications classes and labs.  • Maintain lab computers and hardware. Install, upgrade, reimage, and troubleshoot. Computer/ Network Technician Cycomm LLC - Amherst, NY 2009 to 2012 • On site customer P.C support.    • Perform software & hardware repairs and installs, upgrades, virus/spyware removal from    XP-Win7.  • Make future hardware and software recommendations to customers.    • Upgrade small businesses Ethernet cabled networks, cable pulls, jack termination, and testing. Education AAS in Telecommunications & Networking Cisco Network Academy May 2012 Erie Community College (South) - Orchard Park, NY September 2010 to March 2012 B.A. in Psychology University at Buffalo - Amherst, NY September 2006 to June 2010