Tier 2 Technical Support Tier 2 Technical Support Network Engineer Washington, DC An analytical and conscientious Network Engineer and Desktop Support Technician; able to maintain a high level of cultural sensitivity; able to coordinate and fulfill duties to complete projects with creativity and timeliness; a keen eye for details. Thrives in a fast-paced setting, but can adapt to a slower-paced setting. CORE COMPETENCIES INCLUDE:   • Intranet Infrastructure • Conflict Resolution • Problem Identification/Analysis • Server Architecture • • Configuration Management • Records Management • Client Satisfaction • Network Setup/Installation • • Information Management & Technology • Testing & Troubleshooting • System Administration • Business Process Optimization • Work Experience Tier 2 Technical Support National Institute of Health (NIH) - Bethesda, MD September 2018 to Present ? Provides on-site technical support for desktop computers and peripherals in a cross-platform environment.  ? Handles troubleshooting, repair, and installation of hardware, software, operating systems for Mac & Windows, patch management, and application level troubleshooting.   ? Supports and troubleshoots wired, wireless, and VPN connectivity for desktops, laptops, mobile devices, and adds/removes computers.  ? Responds to inquiries via email, phone, or ticketing system; documents all support incidents via ticketing system and closes tickets once issues have been resolved. Appropriately labels and codes all tickets.  NOC Technician National Library of Medicine (NLM) - Bethesda, MD May 2018 to August 2018 ? Monitored automated and end-user incident and outage reporting; troubleshot and resolved technical problems.  ? Implemented, maintained, and repaired routing, IP switching, firewalls, and remote access protocols; created reports on uptime, bandwidth usage, server utilization, and other key metrics.   ? Performed remote software cross-connects to establish service; assisted clients and technicians with the restoration of service.  ? Interpreted technical documents, manuals, circuit descriptions, and schematic drawings.  Network Engineer CSRA - Falls Church, VA April 2016 to September 2017 Installs and configures network devices. Interprets specifications and detailed drawings for network architecture. Conducts connectivity testing of networking devices. Provides technical expertise in relevant skill areas including routers, Ethernet switches, and security gateways. Executes approved changes for network device configurations. Exhibits the capability to resolve issues independently; coordinates and communicates changes and major issues with the client and team members. Works closely with both government and contractor members to achieve rapid, effective response to incidents affecting network/server infrastructure. FiOS Customer Support Analyst Verizon Communications - Silver Spring, MD January 2015 to July 2015 Responsible for assisting customers with resolving complaints, interpreting, and clarifying account statements, and correcting billing issues. Analyzed and isolated trouble conditions. Evaluated and satisfied customer needs and handles customer inquiries, complaints, and other issues to ensure customer satisfaction. Managed store inventory, processed equipment transactions, and handled high volumes of cash and other payment activity with a focus of maximizing the customer experience. Help Desk Specialist Metro Recruiting, Inc - Gambrills, MD May 2011 to June 2011 Provided technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware. Maintained daily performance of computer systems. Walked customer through problem-solving process. Installed, modified, and repaired computer hardware and software. Ran diagnostic programs to resolve problems. Resolved technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other systems. Ran reports to determine malfunctions that continue to occur. System Administrator MindSeeker - Ashburn, VA May 2010 to September 2010 Performed Windows Server installation, support, and troubleshooting in various deployments. Administered Microsoft utilities, including Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS, DHCP, and LDAP configuration. Performed Linux install, configuration, and troubleshooting. Managed server patching and upgrade maintenance. Maintained the configuration of switches, routers, firewalls, and VPN solutions. Implemented and maintained a VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure) environment. Administered monitoring and alerting tools. Supported workloads using both SAN and NAS technologies from NetApp, EMC, and others. Education Certificate in Certified Ethical Hacker George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 2009 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Howard University - Washington, DC 2004 to 2008 Skills Deployment (8 years), Exchange (6 years), Hardware Troubleshooting (9 years), HTML (4 years), Java (6 years), Desktop Support (9 years), Service Desk (8 years), Active Directory (8 years), Comptia (3 years), MAC (2 years), Tech Support, Customer Support, Customer Service Links http://linkedin.com/in/wesley-pace-34992625 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2017 to June 2019 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Hardware Troubleshooting and Upgrading • Software Deployment • Active Directory • Network Implementing • Expert Proficiency in Windows OS 9X, 2000, XP, Vista Ultimate, 7 Ultimate, 2003 Server Enterprise Edition, ISA, Exchange, Linux, Red Hat, Fedora, SuSe, HTML, XML, PERL, SQL, and Java • Intermediate Proficiency in Mac OS X •