Systems Engineer 2 Systems Engineer 2 Systems Engineer 2 - InnovaSystems International Virginia Beach, VA Seeking employment with an established company where I can use my experience to contribute to your company while continuing to grow and learn every day. Work Experience Systems Engineer 2 InnovaSystems International February 2019 to Present • Built Cognos instance/Analytics on virtual machine.  • Routine morning function checks for DRRS-N, NRR?•BI, GFM, NTIMS using PowerShell ISE.  • Troubleshooting specifically in regard to installing .Net applications, IIS, SQL, across multiple platforms(Win7, 2k3, 2k8, 2k16).  • Working in DoD environment (i.e. working with Hardened systems).  • Cloud computing via IaaS, Docker Enterprise Edition with managing dockers and containers Network Administrator Craig Technologies September 2018 to January 2019 • Windows Server administration and maintenance including Active Directory and Group Policy.  • Excellent troubleshooting and customer service skills to quickly meet their needs.  • Oversaw the local configuration of a new server/communications room and installed application servers as well as configured and deployed desktop hardware and software into the new network environment.  • Conversion of servers to VMWare ESXi & VMWare vSphere for system redundancy.  • Assisted in setting up government laptops for use on the network, as well VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) phone  • Managed Cisco Switches and Routers for network operations, utilizing network monitoring tools to optimize network efficiency  • Configured, tested and troubleshot routers, firewalls, LAN/WAN/VLAN/Wireless network.  • Configured 802.1x port-based Network Access Control (PNAC) at the access layer and distribution layer, providing an authentication mechanism for devices requesting to connect to the LAN  • Maintained 13 servers, four of which are Hyper-V. System Administrator/Database Analyst/ Network Administrator United States Navy December 2015 to May 2018 • Performed the following day-to-day NALCOMIS functions on two Servers:  • Coordinated the operations and upkeep of the NALCOMIS for OMA.  • Utilized two-way data replication as preferred means of data movement between Optimized NALCOMIS OMA activities and Naval Aviation IMA.  • Logistics Data Analysis for Configuration changes, Technical Directives, Work Orders and Flight Documents.  • Maintained and monitor complete network backups, along with regular restoration tests.  • Established and maintained network users, directories and security. Respond to the needs and questions of network users concerning their access to resources on the network and the operation of various software programs.  • Ensured system security, database integrity and configuration management were maintained.  • Assistant Leading Petty Officer of Maintenance Control Division. Assistant Leading Petty Officer for Admin Department Aviation Maintenance Administration August 2013 to December 2015 August 2013 - December 2015    • Performed high visual ceremonies with 300 to 400 foreign dignitaries, senior military personnel and President of the United States and his staff.  • Attended hundreds of burial ceremonies for military personnel.  • Assistant Leading Petty Officer for Admin Department. Education High School Diploma Red Bluff High School - Red Bluff, CA Skills .Net (Less than 1 year), audio visual (Less than 1 year), audit. (Less than 1 year), CHANGE MANAGEMENT (2 years), configuration management (2 years), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), Excel. (Less than 1 year), Exchange (Less than 1 year), FTP (Less than 1 year), maintenance (2 years), MS Office (Less than 1 year), organizational skills. (Less than 1 year), OSPF (Less than 1 year), problem solving. (Less than 1 year), RAID. (Less than 1 year), router (Less than 1 year), SECURE FILE TRANSFER PROTOCOL (Less than 1 year), security. (2 years), SFTP (Less than 1 year)