System Administrator - Help Desk Level II System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Help Desk Level II System Administrator - Help Desk Level II - RMON Networks Wells, ME Work Experience System Administrator - Help Desk Level II RMON Networks November 2017 to Present * Responsibilities include managing tickets coming into the Help Desk Queue by meeting SLAs, maintaining accurate notes and documentation, providing client communication via phone, email and face-to-face interactions to ensure excellence in customer service, and ensuring issues are resolved in a timely manner.  * Day to day tasks include managing and addressing the auto generated alert tickets that range from Anti-Virus, Backups and Server Alerts. Reconciling Existing Clients, Small to Medium Scaled Projects, Machine Rebuilds and Replacements, as well as Client Build Sheets.  * Additional responsibilities include On-Call Rotation, On-Boarding New Clients, Quoting, Strategic Road Maps for Existing Clients, and Training New Technicians on how to properly address tickets and user our applications.  * Types of clients managed include Fire Departments, Police Departments, Machine Shops, Town Halls, Law Firms, Medical Practices, Resorts, and more. System & Network Administrator Access Sports Medicine & Ortho March 2013 to October 2017 * Responsibilities included managing Active Directory, On-Premise Exchange, servicing and troubleshooting all software applications, desktops, laptops, servers, scanners, printers, phones, sound and network wire runs for all 7 Medical Offices.  * Work directly with the Doctors, End Users and Vendors for all technical needs. Worked as the POC for the MSP when hardware needed to be replaced on servers. The MSP provided support and backup only if the schedule required. Available to the company 24/7. Help Desk Service Technician Advantage MIS August 2010 to February 2013 * Responsibilities were to service desktops, scanners and printers for all clients remotely or onsite. Also worked within Active Directory and On-Premise Exchange servers to make User Additions, Changes and Removals.  * Additional responsibilities included running network wire, terminate lines, test lines, and trouble shoot for clients. Education Massabesic High School Certified Engineer York County Community College Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, DHCP, HYPER-V, IOS, SYMANTEC, CUSTOMER SERVICE, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, WINDOWS XP, MACOS Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/tylerjalbert