Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Systems Engineer - Perkins School For The Blind Work Experience Systems Engineer Perkins School For The Blind - Watertown, MA September 2018 to Present -GSuite admin for 400 users. Utilized GAM to script tasks.    -Administer Palo Alto Firewall. Setup policies, whitelisting websites, patching.    -Create Group Policies. Setup a Group Policy to automatically lock PC's after ten minutes.    -Configured 50 new Aruba switches on campus over the course of a year. I set up VLAN's, tagged the necessary ports and then installed the switch.    -Deployed Jabber messenger to the company including all VOIP calling features.    -Created a substantial knowledgebase of documentation including videos.    -Monitored virtual servers via VSphere and RVtools.    -Deployed preboot encryption on all laptops.    -Cisco CUCM and UCCX administrator. Experienced working with TAC and collecting logs with RTMT.    -Familiar with SSO. I've created ADFS certificates and have used SAML and LDAP to connect  applications such as Salesforce and Microsoft Dynamics    -Setup a self service password reset portal for remote employees    -Configured Knowbe4 to simulate phishing attacks on end users. Created campaigns and collected  reports.    -Used PRTG to monitor network and setup new sensors as needed.    -Perform server and desktop patching via WSUS    -Setup an SMTP relay for printers and UPS reporting.    -Setup email encryption for HIPAA compliance using Zix    -Perform data recovery via Storage Craft.    -Administer Synology and QNAP NAS devices.  -Deployed access points and managed them with Aruba Airwave Systems Engineer CMIT Solutions - Cambridge, MA September 2014 to September 2018 -Create and manage accounts in Active Directory.  -Create email accounts and distribution groups in Exchange and Office 365.  -Manage and support dozens of Microsoft servers by providing folder access to users and daily backups.  -Troubleshoot problems within the VSphere cluster; allocate more memory.  -Provide first line support for all VOIP problems.  -Supervise team of three engineers supporting over 500 endpoints.  -Setup new accounts in Active Directory and apply correct permissions and Group Policy.  -Updated base images for new PC's using Acronis and Dell Image Assist.  -Manage and assign help desk tickets in Autotask.  -Responsible for new employee onboarding - ordering equipment, imaging PCs, joining systems to domain, Setting up Outlook, updating global address book and general new employee setup.  -Participated in 24x7 on call environment. Systems Engineer Onsite Electronics - Boxford, MA May 2015 to September 2015 -Perform backups and integrity checks of customer NAS appliance.  -Create AD accounts, restart services, adjust permissions and reboot servers.  -Perform hardware and software repairs on desktops, laptops and cellphones.  -Created instructions and procedures to build a technician knowledge base.  -Specialized in repairs and support of Apple products.  -Perform advanced data recovery on hard drives; utilized a small clean room to open drives and make  mechanical repairs. T1L3 Technical Support Bask November 2013 to August 2015 -Performed general technical support in a high volume call center environment.  -Provide remote help desk support to our members on their PC, Mac and Android devices.  -Diagnose connectivity issues on routers and modems.  -Utilize LogMeIn to remotely view and troubleshoot customer machines.  -Facilitate data backup and recovery using Mozy software. Helpdesk Technician General Electric - Billerica, MA May 2011 to November 2013 -Install and configure Cisco 6021 wireless access points on site.  -Participate in a network refresh consisting in the installation of a new Cisco Aironet LAN Controller, Cisco  Firewall and associated cabling.  -Coordinate Dell warranty repairs by ordering parts and scheduling technicians.  - Administrator for all telecom work done on site. This involved servicing IP and digital phones as well as working with structured cabling technicians on maintenance tasks.  -Assigned new ports and extensions to users.  -Create a network map of the office using Microsoft Visio.  -Configure Xerox WorkCentre 2424 printers for network printing.  -Create Win 7 and Win XP bootable hard drive images using Symantec Ghost.  -Acquired expertise repairing all types of hardware such as desktops and laptops; particularly with Dell, HP, and Lenovo and Macintosh products.  -Provide remote technical support to employees through Webex. Network Administrator Intern EnerNOC - Boston, MA June 2013 to August 2013 -Responsible for remotely troubleshooting and repairing network related issues on EnerNOC's energy  management devices.  -Applied software updates to switches and coordinated reboots.  -Monitor network connectivity to customer sites.  -Analyze data and generate reports.  -Point of contact for technicians in the field.  -Familiar with Salesforce.com used to document changes and update customers. Advanced Repair Agent Geek Squad - Burlington, MA May 2012 to August 2012 -Perform repairs and preventative maintenance on desktop and laptop computers.  -Perform software maintenance roles: virus removal, data backups, OS updates and installations.  -Troubleshoot and repair hardware: power supply, motherboard and hard drive swaps, RAM upgrades  and LCD screen replacements. Education Bachelors in Information Technology University of Massachusetts Lowell - Lowell, MA Skills System Administrator, DNS, Active Directory, Vmware