Systems/ Network Administrator Systems/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems/ Network Administrator - US Army Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems/ Network Administrator US Army 2012 to Present Knowledgeable and reliable Information Technology Technician with a proven track record for administration of Military Intelligence information systems. Additional responsibilities included, configuring, maintaining, and design of innovative technology solutions to increase performance and productivity. Collaborate and coordinate for upgrades, maintenance, replacement schedules, and inventory management. Consistently conducted design, performance, and connectivity operations in preparation of field exercises (hardware and software). Training team members on root cause analysis troubleshooting/testing methods and help desk documentation procedures. Successfully handled the fast-paced environment with proven ability to adapt with positive attitude and patience while utilizing excellent communication skills.  • Army Accommodation Medal for achieving 99.3% uptime of all servers and networks while stationed in Korea.  • Provide guidance and coordination of IT operations for a team of 7(3 members receiving promotions.)  • Installed, configured, and manage multiple virtual and physical servers including (DHCP, DNS, LDAP) while administering over 100 user computers in a field environment with 24/7 operations.  • Process requests and provide technical support to clients remotely and face to face to quickly resolve issues.  • Established procedures and documentation related to IT standards, disaster recovery, and security policies.  • Implemented multiple large scale WANs consisting of firewalls, Cisco switches, routers and satellite communications. IT Help Desk/ Customer Support Dollar General 2007 to 2012 Information Technology support team member that provided efficient, and effective troubleshooting/ problem resolution of computer hardware, software, and network devices. Delivered courteous and friendly assistance to clients utilizing patience and successful listening skills. Assisted in the training of clients on multiple computer software and operating system functions.    • Provided computer help desk support services via remote access tools and telephone communications with end-users.    • Managed new technology implementation projects resulting in expanded capabilities for the organization.    • Over a 4-month process, facilitated the migration from Windows XP to Windows 7 for 200+ computers utilizing Windows Deployment Services and PXE clients, resulting in increased operating system capabilities.    • Worked with vendors for licensing and installation of upgrades for computer hardware and software.  • Verification and follow-up services to complete issue resolution and documentation. Education Bachelors of Applied Business in Information Technology Franklin University Columbus - Columbus, OH 2016 Microsoft Software and Systems Academy, St. Martin's University 2016 Associates of Applied Business Information Technology in Hardware Services Zane State College Zanesville - Zanesville, OH 2007 to 2009 Associates of Applied Business Information Technology in E-Commerce Zane State College Zanesville - Zanesville, OH 2007 to 2009 Microsoft Software and Systems Academy Skills System Administration (4 years), Hardware (10+ years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Software, Software (10+ years), Network Administration (4 years), Windows (10+ years), Mac, Mac (4 years), Routers (4 years), Cisco (6 years), Windows Server, Windows Server (4 years), Vmware (4 years) Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist / E-4 Certifications/Licenses Network+ May 2019 Security+ June 2019 MCP70-410 Installing and Configuring Microsoft Server 2012 Additional Information • Top Secret Clearance    • VMware    • Hyper-Visor    • Linux/Unix    • Windows & Mac OS    • Windows Server 2012    • Microsoft Office    • TFTP, FTP, PXE, SSH    • LAN, WAN, VPN    • Cisco Routers and Switches    • TCP/IP Routing, DNS, DHCP    • VOIP    • Active Directory    • Routing Protocols    • Help Desk Support    • Customer Service