IT Administrator IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Administrator - Foxconn Plainfield, IN Work Experience IT Administrator Foxconn - Plainfield, IN May 2018 to Present Plainfield, Indiana.  o Managing Warehouse Inventory Software and Applications across over 30 remote locations.  o Configuring, installing and Managing network devices such as Switches, Routers, Firewalls, Security Cameras,  Computers, Printers, and Wireless Access Points across over 30 remote locations.  o Managing, Installing and Configuring over fifty Windows and Linux Onsite Servers and Cloud Servers on VMware and Citrix XenServer.  o Installing, Configuring, and Managing FOG Imaging system for computers and servers.  o Managing Active Directory, DHCP, GPO's and Scripts, SMTP and EDI systems.  o Configuring, Installing and Managing several departmental IT infrastructure support systems and applications such as APS for HR, Point of Sale systems for Operation, Purchase Order Systems, Call Center systems, GP Dynamics for  Accounting, Supply Chain Systems and others.  o Configuring, Installing and Managing Phone and other VOIP systems such as Cisco Call Manager (UCCM), Cisco  Contact Center Express (UCCX), Quality Manager (QM), Wall Board, Cisco Reporting, Jabber, Skype, LogMeIn, and Cisco Unity for Voicemail.  o Installing, Configuring and Managing MYSQL server databases.  o Managing Helpdesk Ticketing and Report Systems. System Analyst/ Network Administration University of Kentucky, Medical Center - Lexington, KY October 2016 to May 2018 Kentucky  o Provided base level IT support to faculty members and admins staffs.  o Set up and installed PC software and hardware, printer's drivers and other computer labs IT infrastructures.  o Troubleshoot and resolved internet connectivity and general software and hardware issues.  o Managed Cloud storage, social media services, and websites for minor programs. Designed a Social media marketing plan  that increased the enrolment number considerably.  o Designed a secure file exchange system that connects faculty members. This improved collaboration among faculty  members.  o Provided an effective management for Network, Server and database. Ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data.  o Developed, analyzed, and maintained application integration and infrastructure. Provides training for new admin staffs.  o Automated previously manual, time-consuming processes to improve data tracking/accuracy, team efficacy and productivity.  o Effectively supported the implementation of IT Technical Infrastructure support applications, including multiple COTS, Web  Portal, Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), and data management reporting component applications. System Administrator British American Tobacco - Lagos, NG June 2013 to June 2014 Nigeria  o Supervised maintenance of hardware and software operations at organization on-site and remote data centers, including  more than six windows servers providing 24/7 services to staffs and partners and ensured data confidentiality, integrity, and availability.  o Developed, administered, and implemented service level agreements and information security policies, ensuring  compliance and quick resolution of specific issues.  o Amplified technical efficiency through implementation and training on new software apps and programs for health care.  Worked closely with nurse managers, therapy staffs, patient care techs, respiratory therapists, and physicians to enhance  their understanding of advanced medical technologies.  o Evaluated and selected appropriate anti-virus and IDS tools for windows server network to ensure uninterrupted flow.  o Performed penetration testing on systems to acknowledge loopholes and vulnerabilities while taking proper precaution.  o Led multiple projects including design and implementation of a secured BYOD solution, and migration from windows server  2008 R2 to 2012 R2.  o Monitored service results to ensure the delivery of proactive service support programs Documented workflows and implemented an all-inclusive training plan that improved EMR access.  SPECIAL COURSES AND TRAINING COMPLETED  o Economics for Lean Operations: Principles of lean thinking in modern systems, engineering economic analysis, risk and uncertainty management.  o Advanced Server Security: Windows Server networks, NTFS permissions, file and folder security and web server security.  o Microsoft Business Solution: Advanced SharePoint Business Intelligence, Advanced Solutions of Microsoft Exchange Server,  Cloud & Datacenter Monitoring with System Center Operations Manager, Administering Microsoft SQL Server Databases,  Administering Windows Server 2012, Core Solutions of Skype for Business, Managing SQL Business Intelligence Operations  o PC and MAC hardware and software training: Introduction to Windows OS, introduction to MAC OS, advance Windows OS  tools, advanced MAC OS tools, MAC and Windows hardware basics, recovery and backup tools, PC health management.  o Active Directory: Creating and managing domains, performing cross platform audits of Active Directory objects and user permissions, developing organizational units in Active Directory and managing user security with group  policies, preparing data for testing purpose to enhance systems, creating and maintaining email addresses and distribution lists in MS Exchange, and others.  o Industrial Operations Research: Development of fundamental deterministic analytical methods (linear/nonlinear, integer,  dynamic programming) and probabilistic methods (Markov chains, queuing systems, and digital simulation modeling).  o Foundations of Network Security: Cisco ASA and Sonic Walls, Penetration Testing, Security Applications (Sophos, Cisco,  security of cloud services, current threats, security events, risk management, business continuity and disaster recovery  planning.  o Security Auditing: Planning IT audit, auditing standards, Shared General and App. Controls, Database management  systems, Patch management, Web Applications Safeguards, access controls, disaster recovery, and change management.  o Creative Problem Solving: Role of technology in creativity, internal and external resources to enhance organization's  creative environment, and determining techniques for increasing creative thinking skills.  o Project Management: Concepts and solutions that supports the planning, scheduling, controlling, resource allocation of a project. Performance measurement activities required for successful completion of a project. Using project management  tools like MS project, Atlassian JIRA, and Podio to enhance project delivery efficiency.  o Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA Certified): Switching, Routing, WLAN, IP Addressing, Subnetting, Network  Address Translation (NAT), VLAN, STP and VTP, ACLs, VPNs, IP Access Lists and other CCNA topics. Education Master of Science in Information Communication Technology University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY May 2018 Bachelor of Science University of Ibadan April 2015 Skills Cisco (2 years), database. (2 years), DHCP (1 year), exchange (2 years), Security (2 years), VPN, Active Directory, LAN, Networking