Network Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Network Security Engineer Allen, TX • Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development and systems/ network optimization.  • Responsible for network security for different application for South West airlines like booking, ticketing, sales.  • Attended Incident management calls whenever DASH Tickets Severity comes up.  • Collaborate with server infrastructures and data center teams to effectively plan, install, configure and optimize IT infrastructures to achieve high availability and performance.  • Updated new application and services in different environment like Development, QA, Production. Work Experience Network Security Engineer Archetype SC, Tx May 2017 to September 2017 • Implementing and setup virtual Linux host servers for other teams and for data center which are based on tomcat, installation of CorbaAgent.  • Monitoring the health of the services and applications related to data center using tools like postman, Grafana, other UNIX based ping clients.  • Handling Change request for deployment of new services and applications on scheduled maintenance hours (after production hours).  • Managing the services for development, QA and production environment using Java Visual VM.  • Troubleshooting the services if down like Analyzing the logs, soap request, debug logs and taking corrective measures accordingly.  • Provided root cause analysis of incident reports during any downtime issues.  • Managing backups for critical data for production environment.  • Attend incident management calls.  • Start and stop security services, monitor queue depth, logs.  • Review and resolve the incidents DASH tickets.  • Handling the error feed. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Vinove Software & Services - Delhi, Delhi June 2013 to January 2016 • Assisted in creating, maintaining and installing network devices, troubleshooting logs for operating system and application software users  • Helped to develop several network administration policies that made support more efficient for users.  • Designed and implemented of customer's network infrastructure.  • Installed Cisco switches and configure routing protocol OSPF, EIGRP, BGP  • Handled switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, VTP and configuring Fast-Ethernet channel between switches.  • Created and managed VLANS, Port security, Trunking, Inter-VLAN routing, and LAN security  • Manage operating systems, application patching, backup applications, and antivirus software for workstations, laptops, and servers.  • Administer and support employee mobile devices for email, VPN, and communications.  • Maintain standard practices and policies for corporate LAN/WAN/WLAN environment.  • Configured, troubleshoot, and resolved network access issues with switches and routers.  • Administered network workstations using TCP/IP protocols in UNIX-based operating system.  • Set up and troubleshoot secured wireless access points (WAP) and wireless LAN controller (WLC) for broadband Internet.  • Used Wireshark to analyze and monitor the networks in large scale environments.  • Used wireless packet sniffers for monitoring and analyzing the network.  • Coordinated the setup and installation of corporate firewalls, CISCO routers and switches.  • Setup and installed hardware, software, patches, printers, and operating systems for 100 users.  • Documented network problems and resolutions for department reference.  • Develop weekly status reports and present to IT Director.  • Worked on Wireless Sensor Networks and Ad-hoc Networks Network in MATLAB.  Designed a cluster based routing protocol for efficient energy management  Short coming of LEACH and PEGASIS protocol (used as routing protocol in wireless networks) is solved i.e. cluster based routing protocol is implemented but selection of Cluster Head is based on residual energy concept rather than probability based selection which worked well in both homogenous and heterogeneous network.  • Worked on Wireless Access Point(WAP) and Client's authentication and association simulations with their different level of security techniques (WEP, EAP, WPA)  • Cisco Wireless Controllers and Wireless Access Point association ( Light weight and Autonomous) association.  • Cisco FlexConnect Installation with Wireless APs.    Thesis Work  • Worked on Wireless Sensor Networks and Ad-hoc Networks Network in MATLAB.  Designed a cluster based routing protocol for efficient energy management  Short coming of LEACH and PEGASIS protocol (used as routing protocol in wireless networks) is solved i.e. cluster based routing protocol is implemented but selection of Cluster Head is based on residual energy concept rather than probability based selection which worked well in both homogenous and heterogeneous network.  • Worked on Wireless Access Point(WAP) and Client's authentication and association simulations with their different level of security techniques (WEP, EAP, WPA)  • Cisco Wireless Controllers and Wireless Access Point association ( Light weight and Autonomous) association.  • Cisco FlexConnect Installation with Wireless APs. Education Master in Technology University School Of Information And Communication Technology - Delhi, Delhi June 2013 Bachelor in Technology Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University - Delhi, Delhi June 2011 Skills Bgp, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Ospf, Switching, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Wireless lan, Wireless network, Dns, Security, Wml, Linux, Cdma, Ethernet, Sip, Smtp, Wap Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching February 2017 to February 2020 Additional Information KEY TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Protocols and Services: OSI layer, TCP/IP, IP Addressing, Subnetting, Wildcard masks, RIP, BGP EIGRP, OSPF, Spanning Tree, Routing, Switching, ARP  • LAN Technologies: Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, and Gigabit Ethernet, SMTP, VLAN, Inter-VLAN Routing, STP, RSTP.  • WLAN Technologies: Standards 802.11 a/b/g, Cisco Wireless LAN Controllers, Wireless Access Points( Light weight AP, Autonomous AP), WAP and client association, Wireless Controller and access point association  • WLAN Security Technologies: WEP, EAP, WPA, WPA2.  • WAP Modes: FlexConnect(H-Reap), Reap, Bridges, sniffers  • Physical Layer Technologies: OFDM, DHSS, FHSS, CSMA/CA, CSMA/CD  • Adhoc and Wireless Sensor Networks CDMA, GSM, WiMAX  • OS products/Services: DNS, DHCP  • Basic Knowledge of IP Telephony: SIP, Cisco Unified Call Manager (CUCM)  • Languages: Basic: C, C++, WML(Wireless Markup Language for implementing WAP), HTML  • Tools: MATLAB and Simulink ( designed and modeled a wireless network and calculated its life and performance of routing algorithm), LabView, MS Office  • Simulators: NS2 ( Network simulator for Wireless Communication runs on Linux and support routing and IP Protocol TCP, UDP).    ADDITIONAL QUALIFICATIONS  • All INDIA level Exam Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering 2015 qualified in Electronics and Communication  • All INDIA level Exam Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering 2011 qualified in Electrical Engineering, Percentile: 94.92 Awarded Scholarship