Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Apex Systems/CSRA Inc/Raytheon Pensacola, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Apex Systems/CSRA Inc/Raytheon - Pensacola, FL November 2016 to Present • Conduct lifecycle support and configuration management for two multivendor enterprise networks consisting of Cisco & Juniper routers, switches, and firewalls.  • Identified and removed deprecated firewall policy objects and rules to streamline future policy implementation.  • Designed and implemented Juniper firewall cluster and VPN solution to securely extend customer services to new site. Systems Security Engineer RCM Technologies - Mobile, AL December 2015 to November 2016 • Implemented a centralized multi-context firewall to replace individual firewall clusters within the chemical park in order to improve security and ease-of-management.  • Worked with Plant Engineers and the production IT team to revise existing non-compliant network security policy in to a company-compliant network security policy.  • Hardened all firewall system and policy configurations to meet compliance guidelines set by the company. Network and Systems Engineer Hulcher Services - Denton, TX June 2015 to November 2015 • Hardened the corporate network environment by restricting management access to secure protocols.  • Analyzed current corporate VLAN assignment; implemented new VLAN assignment based on best-practice and corporate policies.  • Replaced/upgraded Cisco Nexus fabric switches for virtual environment connectivity at the corporate office and co-locations.  • Implemented a RADIUS server to permit centralized Active Directory-based authentication services on all switches within the infrastructure. LAN Technician HX5 LLC - Pensacola, FL October 2014 to May 2015 Replaced domain controllers, file servers, and print servers within a hospital environment. Network Engineer Consultis of Central Florida - Orlando, FL September 2013 to October 2014 • Performed ACL modifications to allow connectivity from multiple departments to critical network resources.  • Responsible for the oversight and coordination of new hospital campus wireless implementation; project completed two weeks ahead of schedule because of coordination efforts. Intermediate Boundary Protection Specialist/DNS Administrator DoD / Air Force - Montgomery, AL March 2012 to September 2013 • Migrated network security policy from Cisco FWSM and McAfee Sidewinders to Palo Alto Next-Generation Firewalls.  • Created tertiary gateway entries within the DNS environment for each Air Force base. Education MS in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance in Chemical Park Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT December 2015 to November 2017 BS in Information Technology in Security Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT November 2013 to October 2015 AAS in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Lurleen B. Wallace Community College - Andalusia, AL August 2006 to August 2008 Skills Cisco (4 years), firewalls. (3 years), Juniper (2 years), network security (2 years), Security (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/marvin-murphy-29b58728 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Cisco Switches/Firewalls  • Palo Alto Firewalls  • Bluecoat Proxy  • Juniper Switches/Firewalls  • Network Security best practices  • McAfee Email Gateways