Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Helena Indian Alliance Helena, MT Work Experience Network Administrator Helena Indian Alliance - Helena, MT June 2015 to Present • Provides service center support and resolves end users' requests for technical assistance such as computer hardware, software, network connectivity issues, mobile devices, audio visual equipment, website applications, and provides other technology support for computer users.  • Identifies, troubleshoots, researches and resolves technical problems.  • Consistently able to plan, organize, prioritize and complete short and long-term projects while working with limited time and resources.  • Regularly prioritize workloads using project due dates, considering complexity of projects and corporate directives.  • Good understanding of professional office procedures and practices.  • Effective at using my soft skills to teach and train a diverse group of end users with software and web-based applications.  • Possess the ability to multi-task and manage conflicting priorities with little disruption in workflow.  • Consistently display a positive attitude during stressful situations, both on the phone and in person.  • Builds strong long-term working relationships with clients and staff by establishing trust, credibility and rapport.  • Maximized cooperation and teamwork when working in groups or with vendors.  • Maintains documentation on all systems and basic troubleshooting steps.  • Installs and updates software and monitors network processes for software updates.  • Verifies customers are satisfied with the recommendations or solutions provided.  • Records all requests via incident management software; and refers higher tier network issues to network analysts if necessary.  • Provides timely follow up and communicates effectively with staff regarding the status of problems and communicates solutions to end users.  • Proficient with Microsoft Office applications, Microsoft Operating Systems, personal computers and peripherals.  • Proficient at operating general office equipment.  • Possess working knowledge of Local/Wide Area Network Communication principles.  • Basic knowledge of Active Directory.  • Attention to details, research, and analytical skills.  • Strong written communication skills when writing correspondence to vendors, clients, or staff members.  • Consistently handles in-bound calls, emails, and other requests without assistance.  • Record and maintain tracking/ticket information.  • Convey technical concepts in laymen's terms.  • Knowledgeable of HIPAA physical and data security policy and procedures. Front Desk Clerk Jorgenson's Inn & Suites - Helena, MT August 2011 to August 2013 • Greet, register, and assign rooms to guests of hotels or motels.  • Contact housekeeping or maintenance staff when guests report problems.  • Make and confirm reservations.  • Record guest comments or complaints, referring customers to managers as necessary.  • Compute bills, collect payments, and make change for guests.  • Transmit and receive messages, using telephones or telephone switchboards.  • Answer inquiries pertaining to hotel services, guest registration, and travel directions, or make recommendations regarding shopping, dining, or entertainment.  • Advised housekeeping staff when rooms have been vacated and are ready for cleaning.  • Perform bookkeeping activities, such as balancing accounts and conducting nightly audits. Front Desk Clerk Super 8 Motel - Butte, MT August 2006 to July 2007 • Greet, register, and assign rooms to guests of hotels or motels.  • Make and confirm reservations.  • Keep records of room availability and guests' accounts, manually or using computers.  • Review accounts and charges with guests during the check-out process.  • Record guest comments or complaints, referring customers to managers as necessary.  • Answer inquiries pertaining to hotel services, guest registration, and travel directions, or make recommendations regarding shopping, dining, or entertainment.  • Advised housekeeping staff when rooms have been vacated and are ready for cleaning.  • Effectively dealt with emotional customers using strong interpersonal skills.  • Solved customer problems using sound judgement and understanding of office policy. Education Associate in Computer Programming Helena College, University of Montana - Helena, MT September 2011 to December 2015 Certificate Career Training Institute June 2010 Diploma Gardiner High School June 1997 Skills Microsoft Office, Windows, Technical Support, Customer Service, Active Directory, Windows 7, Networking