IT Specialist/System Administrator IT Specialist/System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Consultant Guaynabo, PR Extremely dependable and diligent IT Systems Administrator professional with over 15 years of solid experience in a broad range of IT areas such as: network security, helpdesk operations, hardware/software upgrades, VMware infrastructure administration, and LAN/WAN administration. Extremely knowledgeable understanding the issues related to the hardware and software with the profound ability to resolve the issues and problems. Skilled in designing infrastructure and implementing technology to support large user groups, supporting users, and effectively managing IT budgets as well as IT staff. Proven ability to support the company's business objectives and to successfully manage all phases of IT projects from analysis and requirements definition to implementation and training. Work Experience IT Specialist/System Administrator Smartlogix Technologies - Guaynabo, PR March 2018 to Present • Installed, troubleshooting and repaired hardware, software and peripherals, plus training of end users. Able to apply consultative approach to resolving issues.  • Responsible for all aspects of systems administration including but not limited to managing servers, applications, routers, switches, firewalls, and databases. This includes implementation, configuration, coordination, control, maintenance, troubleshooting, security, usage monitoring and the development of specialized system procedures.  • Reviews and analyses departmental reports, addressing potential conflicts and/or mis information.  • Managed processes of interviewing, hiring and training employees; planning, assigning, and directing work; appraising performances; rewarding and disciplining employees; addressing complaints and resolving problems direct and manage staff to ensure efficient and effective use of their services and continuing professional development.  • Duties include planning and coordinating the implementation of switches into the production and staging network, with HP and Dell Servers including virtual servers using Hyper-V 6.0, VirtualBox, VMware, to supporting connections. These entire servers with Windows Server and Linux. IT/ Network Supervisor PREPA Networks, LLC - San Juan, PR 2012 to 2016 • Responsible for all aspects of systems administration including but not limited to managing servers, applications, routers, switches, firewalls, and databases. This includes implementation, configuration, coordination, control, maintenance, troubleshooting, security, usage monitoring and the development of specialized system procedures.  • Reviews and analyses departmental reports, addressing potential conflicts and/or mis information.  • Managed processes of interviewing, hiring and training employees; planning, assigning, and directing work; appraising performances; rewarding and disciplining employees; addressing complaints and resolving problems direct and manage staff to ensure efficient and effective use of their services and continuing professional development.  • Duties include planning and coordinating the implementation of switches into the production and staging network, with HP and Dell Servers including virtual servers using Hyper-V 6.0, VirtualBox, VMware, to supporting connections. These entire servers with Windows Server and Linux.  • Responsible for the configuration, administration and monitoring of the following network servers  ? Peachtree Accounting Windows Server  ? Kronos Payroll Windows Server  ? Web server Website Linux Server (SUSE)  ? Active Directory Network Windows Server  ? Groupwise Email Server Linux Server (SUSE)  ? Exchange Email Server Windows Server  ? Vibe Business Linux Server (SUSE)  • Design, administrate and implement all group and security policies, make certain they comply with company compliant policy and procedures. Create and maintain procedures that detail appropriate network operations and policies that document network operations with Salesforce.  • Direct design and administration of security, backup and disaster recovery procedures with Symantec Backup Exec. 12.5. Manage and administrate Loss Prevention system with 3 server Windows Server 2003 R2, 3 Drive Array Winchester System SX34025, 5 Dell Workstations and 174 cameras, using Indigo Vision System.  • Managing entire office relocation, setting up internal servers, and establishing a QA/Testing environment. Setup, deployed, and administered an Active Directory with Exchange Server 2007 supporting 50 users in the creation of users, email accounts, group policy and security policy. Chief Information Officer Comision de Desarrollo Cooperativo - San Juan, PR July 2008 to September 2009 • Administrated and managed more than 45 users, using 60 HP computers, 10 HP printers, Ricoh Xerox printers, 8 servers (HP, Compaq, IBM, and Dell) and 12 applications. Executed the creation of users and email account with Active Directory and Exchange Server 2003.  • Managed full design, installation, implementation, support, training, administration and management authority for LAN network services, application systems, PC Desktop systems support, database administration, UNIX system administration (SDS) and help desk operations.  • Directed design of the complete $125,000 Network and Communication infrastructure to connect 5 regions (brands), utilized Cisco technology to provide network connectivity in HP Systems and Windows Server 2003. Team Leadership in upgrading, organizing and replacing obsolete network systems technology and Loss Prevention system.  • Managed, upgraded, installed, and administrated all PC and Servers with Altiris. Daily administration of tapes backup for audit.  • Interacted with users, consultants, technical team and vendors for maximum guidance in determining the most appropriate type of hardware, software and performance needs.  • Documented all network resources, and monitored the performance of critical services and applications related to restaurant, casino and corporate system. IT Consultant Ahmed Technologies - Guaynabo, PR July 2004 to December 2005 • Administrated, implemented, organized and managed the functions in activities associated with a Local Area Network, server with Windows Server 2000 and Active Directory. Provided service to a Legal Division for the Puerto Rico Department of Education.  • Installed, troubleshooting and repaired hardware, software and peripherals, plus training of end users. Able to apply consultative approach to resolving issues.  • Duties included: administration, design, managing, troubleshooting, maintenance, installation, configuration of Active Directory, Exchange Server 2003, 2007, Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008, Windows XP, Vista, Local Area Networks, Switches, Routers, Access Points, Print Servers, Printers, Scanners, multifunction machines, antivirus, and loss preventions systems. Education Business Administration METROPOLITAN UNIVERSITY - San Juan, PR Skills Active Directory (6 years), Backup Exec. (4 years), disaster recovery (4 years), Exchange (6 years), firewalls (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  OS Platforms: All Windows for PC, All Windows for Servers, Linux SUSE, Red Hat MAC OS  Windows Infrastructure System: Active Directory, Domain controllers, DNS, DHCP, SOP, GPO, email services with Microsoft Exchange Server and Office 365  Server and PC Virtualization: Hyper-V 6.0, VMware Workstation 5, 6, 7, VMware VSphere 4, Parallels 4, 5 and Windows Virtual PC 2007, Virtual Box  Backup and Disaster Recovery: Symantec Backup Exec 12.5 and Windows Backup System, in Dell Power Vault 114T and HP Storage Work MSL 2024 Tape Library  Server Administration: Exchange Server 2003 to 2010, IIS 6.0 to 7.5, SQL Server from 6.5 to 2008, ISA Server, MS Configuration Management Server, WSUS, DNS, DHCP, WINS, Active Directory, Acronis, Symantec Backup exec  Security: Fortinet, WebSense Web Filtering, WebSense e-Mail filtering, Watchguard, Cisco Pix, Kaspersky, Norton, McAfee, Panda, Avast  Hardware: HP ProLiant & Blades servers, Dell Servers, IBM Servers, Automated Tape Library, Enterprise Storage Systems, Apple Macs, RAID Configuration, Printers, Ricoh and Xerox Multifunctional, Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, 3Com Switches, Firewalls, Winchester System, HP StorageWorks  Network Administration: Ethernet, Fiber Optic, DSL, TCP/IP, PPP, Wi-Fi, AppleTalk, FTP, VPN, SNMP, SAN, NAS, iSCSI  Software/Toolkits: Microsoft Office all versions, Project, Visio Pro, ADP, PeopleSoft, Dynamics GP 10, Salesforce, Peachtree, QuickBooks, Visio all versions, Open Office, MS Publisher, HP Insight Manager, Norton Ghost