Support Analyst Support Analyst Support Analyst Troutman, NC Work Experience Support Analyst XPOLogistics - Charlotte, NC May 2019 to July 2019 Provided support for clients and carriers for the XPO Loadboarding applications  ? Setup support for clients and carriers for the XPO Loadboarding programs  ? Called carriers to verify XPO Loadboarding access for applied users    Key Achievement: Helped take backlog of tickets from 1000+ to 0 in two weeks Support Technician Comcast Business - Raleigh, NC October 2016 to January 2019 Traveled across NC, SC, TN & VA assisting in fixing business equipment for clients ensuring optimal business performance  ? Installed Meraki Wireless Access Points, Switches, and Fortinet Firewall Routers providing connectivity to ensure optimal business  ? Troubleshot and fixed LAN/WAN Connectivity with assistance of Comcast NOC for local businesses ensuring optimal business performance  ? Troubleshot and fixed Meraki, Fortinet equipment with assistance of Comcast NOC ensuring ongoing performance and activity for optimal business performance Network Engineer Frontier Communications - Fort Wayne, IN December 2015 to April 2016 Designed Network Configuration Hosts for new remote locations to receive high speed internet providing higher speeds for remote locations  ? Ordered Adtran parts for DSLAMs in Infinium, AS400 Support Analyst Superior Essex - Fort Wayne, IN February 2014 to August 2015 Provided technical support for PCs, laptops, and printers across the U.S. Canada and Mexico ensuring optimal business performance  ? Imaged systems for new and existing users using Image X  ? Added and removed users and computer accounts from Active Directory  ? Configured Mitel VOIP phones for new and existing users  ? Upgraded hardware on user PC's enhancing performance and increasing productivity  ? Performed virus scan and removal on user's PC's ensuring optimal performance and productivity    Key Achievement: Organized storage space, making equipment easier to find, optimizing time and efficiency in deploying new equipment to users Systems Administrator/Intern Precision Plastics - Columbia City, IN July 2012 to June 2013 Performed technical troubleshooting for 100+ PCs, laptops, and printers ensuring optimal business performance  ? Performed weekly, and differential backups on Mail and Domain servers  ? Installed and configured Server2008 for new email server, increasing performance and productivity  ? Configured RAID 5 for new email server  ? Upgraded hardware on user PC's enhancing performance and increasing productivity  ? Performed virus scan and removal on user's PC's ensuring optimal performance and productivity  ? Configured user phones and tablets to send and receive email outside of local network    Key Achievement: Reorganized Organizational Units Information Services Technician Dell - Anderson, IN September 2011 to November 2011 Reimaged PCs and laptops using Norton Ghost  ? Ensured computers were HIPAA compliant by installing and configuring Symantec Endpoint Encryption on laptops providing further security of patient information  ? Performed technical troubleshooting for 2000+ user's PCs, laptops, and printers ensuring continuous productivity throughout the hospital    Key Achievement: Ran CAT5 and Fiber on Network Servers, documented ports, and configured LUN Aliases Education ITT Technical Institute - Fort Wayne, IN June 2012 to September 2013 Diploma Institute of Technology - Modesto, CA Skills DNS, TCP/IP, VIRTUALIZATION, CITRIX, DHCP, REMOTE ACCESS, TCP, VMWARE, VPN, INFINIUM, AS400, FTP, SMTP, SYMANTEC, SECURITY, THIN CLIENT, ORACLE, QAD, OPTIO, VISIO