Engineer Engineer Engineer - Atos Phoenix, AZ IT professional over twenty years of aerospace, private sector, and DOD experience with strong interpersonal and communication skills needed in agile environments, with emphasis in project management, system engineering, administration, network security. I am comfortable operating in a wide range of platforms and network environments. I have extensive corporate training in both software and hardware aspects on Dell, Oracle, HP servers and networks. Work Experience Engineer Atos - Phoenix, AZ July 2017 to Present • Provide Support in a pre-sales, post-sales and maintenance environment.  • Provide installation services for ATOS infrastructure offerings at customer sites  • Provide tier three client support for systems related to various customer requirements and technology with regards to systems architecture and design improvements  • Collaborate with Infrastructure team members, service providers, and vendors to provide reliable installations and configurations.  • Provide solutions for Data Center optimization  • Recommend / implement systems best practices  • Monitor systems and applications and respond to outages to maximize performance / uptime  • Determine scope and perform requirement analysis for any systems related requests  • Work with vendors on RFQs / SOWs on new project related initiatives  • Review annual maintenance / support agreements for accuracy.  • Experience in an enterprise system engineering  • Experience with enterprise data centers  • Experience in virtualization with VMware  • Experience Microsoft Windows servers and images.  • Experience with Linux servers (RHEL, SUSE, Debian, Ubuntu, etc.) Data Center Engineer Oracle - Chandler, AZ October 2015 to May 2017 • Provide engineering support in troubleshooting and solve complex Infrastructure as a Service (laaS) cloud platform datacenter infrastructure. Working with Data Center cross functional teams in providing 24/7 High Availability (HA) agile cloud environment.  • Execute small and medium projects to maintain and upgrading datacenter infrastructure such as x5-2 servers, S4-2 ZFS Storage Appliance, Juniper, and Arista network systems and fiber and copper cabling.  • Manage Jira and MOC service request ticketing systems. Create and maintain detailed confluence (Wiki) pages documenting cloud infrastructure configuration and changes. Create Standard Operating Procedure(SOP) to create a structure Iaas cloud environment.  • Coordinated and maintain supply chain relationships. Ensure that contractors and vendors are delivering quality services and all SLAs are met.  • Provide capacity planning and resource management; data trending, statistical analysis, data management. Including performance tuning to proactively improve uptime.  • Managing SLA's for level 1, 2, 3 alarm acknowledgement and ticket creation and escalation. Communicate effectively with technical, business and support teams and individuals. Systems Engineer Scintel Technologies - Chandler, AZ August 2014 to October 2015 • Provide systems engineering to support change management creating change request, incident report, in an agile production and development environment. Working on Solaris and Linux servers, Idom's/Zones/containers and associated applications in a global data center environment.  • Create detailed procedures to implement change request for patching and Veritas VCS cluster, VxVM and Solaris Live upgrades on Solaris and legacy production and development servers maintaining global and virtual server compliance using such tools as VCS cluster manager, HP Server Automation (opsware), Microsoft Lync, Putty, and scripting to migrating risk during implementation of change request.  • Coordinate with application¸ network, off shore, and security teams to gather change requirements to support change request to insure best practices during system interruption time on production and development servers and virtual zones.  • Provide root cause analysis, and troubleshooting of incident reports on HA complex systems supporting software applications and products teams in an agile environment. Sr. System Administrator TEKsystems - Thousand Oaks, CA August 2013 to April 2014 • Provide administration, network and system engineer support to Electronic Warfare Data System (EWDS) laboratory mission at Point Mugu Naval Base.  • Provide System Engineering support on Oracle virtual architecture upgrade as subject matter expert to provide system analysis during development, implementation, testing activates and understanding long-term technology goals for the EWDS laboratory throughout SDLC.  • Perform implementation of security requirements to include implementation of application of Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) and Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM) scanning.  • Provide schedules for new installation or modification of server and operating systems and applications software.  • Develop and document systems architecture and standard operating procedures and best practices.  • Perform analysis of existing and new information technology system.  • Perform testing, reliability, quality, maintainability, and evaluation of systems and equipment used in support of NAWCWD, and other DoN activities, and Fleet activities.  • Using REL 6.4, Solaris 10/11, Windows 7 and Oracle and Sybase databases in virtual machines (VM) using ILOM and OV Manager 3.2.7. Sr. Computer Network Support Specialist CompuGain - Riverside, CA June 2012 to June 2013 • Provide project management support for system hardware and software requirements to support the mission of the Defense Imagery Management Operations Center (DIMOC) at March Air Force Base.  • Perform system administration for Windows, Solaris, and RHEL based systems on both Intel and Sparc platforms and Exchange Server as well as SAN, NAS storage and ensuring that patches and STIG requirements are met and security policies and best practices are applied.  • Provide leadership to ensure that all DIMOC-R systems meet DISA and JTFGNO security standards. Maintain Oracle, Sybase, and MySQL databases that support a variety of the Web systems such as motion search, physical media storage and retrieval systems.  • Provide technical direction of DAMS architecture, hardware, software, and implementation. Serve as the technical team lead member in VI platforms and processes.  • Perform custom programming to administer systems, automate processes, and maintain both the motion and DAVIS/DITIS searches utilized by the DAMS.  • Using Window XP, 7, 2003 and 2008 server, Solaris 10 and RHEL operation systems and Exchange server 2007 Education M.S. Information Technology in Project Management Capella University B.S. in Information System Management University of Phoenix Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/cleveland-jones/11/81a/822 Certifications/Licenses Security+ Present