Data Center Engineer (Lead) Data Center Engineer (Lead) Arlington, VA Please contact me for an updated resume. I'm in the market. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Center Engineer (Lead) Validatek - Washington, DC May 2015 to January 2019 Promoted to Lead June 2016                                                                                                                 2016-2019     Our group was essential personnel in a 24x7x365 environment. Monitoring, maintaining, fixing, etc. We were first response to any conus or oconus cloud infrastructure issue. We ensured both virtual and physical assets in production stayed in production and we strived for 6sigma environment. Our tools included Vcenter 5.0 and 5.5, 6.0, CEIS which is one of the most extensive CMDBs I’ve worked with.   As a lead my teams supported me as we accomplished the following -  ·        Continuously coordinate and update personnel work schedule per strenuous government oversight   ·        Monthly inventory audit of audit accuracy of technician rack audits (2000-5000 devices per site) before handing to government for spot audits. These audits were done by hand each month. We could not use scanners.  ·        Ensure monthly rack audits for all sites meets government requirements  ·        Additional Monthly reporting of rack audit error statistics/metrics consisting of 10% random audit  • All training for new engineers/team members  • Proactively look for gaps in training of Technicians and work with Site POC/Operations Manager to address them.  • Actively review communications from staff and work with the individuals to improve communications.  • Ensure each site performed physical d=walkthroughs and performed rack checks every 4 hours. while DCCA standards.   • Provide systems availability monitoring all Azure, Linux, Unix production environments  • Provide systems diagnostics monitoring and reporting/escalation services  • Perform incident capture, verification, diagnostics and escalations  • Remedy ticket queue and assign tickets according to SOPs. Make corrections when tickets are assigned to the incorrect group.  • Perform Level I designated first call resolution.  • Maintain knowledge base documentation (updating SOPs, Sharepoint, processes and disseminating procedure “tweeks” to entirety of ESOC Enterprise)  • Provide a timely (strict metrics) response to customer queries for assistance of over 200 unique inquiries per day  • Perform routine Data Center environment checks (100% inventory each month of over 2000 devices).  • Perform monthly rack audits of all Data Center devices.  • Team scheduling (about 30 in all with 8 being my personal charge)  • Timesheet approver  • Physical server install/configuaration  • VMware Admin  • Windows servers 2008-2016  • Remedy  • Powershell  • Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Visio  • Quality assurance lead  • Coordinate between Customer, PMO, an CM regarding patches, updates, maintenance, deployment       Experience as L1 Tech (before promotion) though still performed as lead                    2015-2019  • Provide oversight for Vendors working in the Data Center.  • Incident reporting both network and physical data center related.  • Provide systems availability monitoring and reporting/escalation services  • Provide systems diagnostics monitoring and reporting/escalation services  • Perform incident capture, verification, diagnostics and escalations (essentially incident detectives – who, what, where, why, when, how)  • Monitor the Remedy ticket queue and assign tickets according to SOPs  • Perform Level I designated first call resolution  • Maintain knowledge base documentation  • Provide a timely response to customer queries for assistance  • Perform routine Data Center environment checks  • Perform monthly rack audits of all Data Center devices (3 sites)  • Provide oversight for Vendors working in the Data Center  • Use vsphere 5.0 and 5.5 to troubleshoot virtual infrastructure issues  • Use of CEIS our CMDB to assist Customer Configuration Management government with logs  • Break/fix 25C - Radio Operator Maintainer (E-4/SPC) United States Army 2010 to 2014 Responsibilities  Squad Team Leader for deploying force to Afghanistan    (2013-2014) Skills used were: Physical and Operational security and safety, personnel and equipment accountability, personnel safety, weapons safety, rules of engagement, Vehicle mobilization to include dispatching and Equipment functionality for mission readines, Radio communications etiquette, COMSEC, INFOSEC, OPSEC, IA    Skills Used  (2013-2014) Skills used were: Natural Leadership fused with Army Guidelines, goal setting, team motivation, respecting my soldiers, Radio/communications etiquette, COMSEC, INFOSEC, OPSEC, Information Assurance. 25C Radio Operator Maintainer, Network Administrator and Communications NCOIC United States Army 2011 to 2012 Was accountable for over 3 million dollars of communications equipment. These Communications included a 13 workstations Land Area Network, 1 Static IP workstation, 2 standalone satellite workstations, all single channel and multiband radios and SECRET equipment.  • Lead COMSEC (Communications Security) custodian for highly mobile unit. All daily, weekly and monthly security keys were kept up to date and always disposed of in accordance with DoD and Army regulations.  • Lead Technician in highly mobile unit where I was required to breakdown the network almost weekly and reconnect it to completely different network in a foreign country. This required high levels of organization and planning as we needed new clearances and permissions for each country/ network traveled. Education Currently studying for degree in Information Systems Technology, SEC+, A+ and Net+ 2014 to 2016 Skills FBCB2 (6 years), BFT(Blueforce Tracker 1-2) (6 years), RF and satellite vehicle and vessel mounted telecommunications (6 years), Microsoft Excel, Access, Visio, PowerPoint, Sharepoint Administration for 2008 - O365 (3 years), Vsphere 5.0-6.0 (5 years), Remedy (5 years), Training (10+ years), Mentoring (10+ years), Problem Resolution, Communications (10+ years), TCP/IP, OSI (10+ years), Hardware (10+ years), Vmware, Cmmi, Database Management (3 years), Solarwiinds, SCOM (5 years), Management (5 years), Analytics (10+ years), Active Directory (5 years), Sharepoint Designer (3 years), Routers (6 years), Switches (5 years), Server, Workstation, and other hardware installation experieince (10+ years), Asset Management (6 years), Configuration Management (4 years), Information Security (10+ years), .NET, Azure (4 years), Powershell (4 years), Javascript (2 years), SQL (2 years) Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC, E-4 April 2010 to April 2014 Additional Information Active Secret Clearance  ITIL v3  Sec+