System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Nidec Minster Press and Automation Lima, OH I am an IT Professional with a focus on Network and Server Administration which I have been pursuing since my graduation from High School. I have been continually gaining responsibility and experience utilizing my experiences from small business to Managed Service Provider's.    I acquired experience in network troubleshooting and repair with Cisco, Aruba and HP networking equipment with VLAN troubleshooting and configuration creation.   I have also had experience troubleshooting, creating and monitoring virtual and physical servers utilizing Hyper V and VMware. Cloud Infrastructure is also something I have been exposed, I was able to complete a on-premise Exchange to Gsuite migration project and administer the Gsuite infrastructure. I also have Office365 administration experience.     Though I have gained a large amount of experience in many area's of IT. I wish to grow in this area with real-life experiences as well as gaining certifications. I have been privileged to be mentored by many previous co-workers and managers that have driven me to realize the necessity for working relationships and synergy within a team. I have a strong desire for growing with other team members and above all remaining teachable. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Nidec Minster Press and Automation - Minster, OH February 2019 to June 2019 - Mitigate and improve Infrastructure security  - Act as backup to Network and Server System Administrators  - Maintained and improved Dell Sonicwall and Aruba Networking Equipment  for entire organization along side Network Administrator.  - Created and maintained Virtual Servers utilizing Hyper V.  - Maintain terminal servers for global use.  - Replace and configured Ubiquity Wifi Network with RADIUS  - Implementation of SD WAN technology (Meraki) for SAP Integration  - Assisting with conversion of Windows 7 to Windows 10 environment  - Consult with System Administrators of Nidec Subsidiaries world wide for technical needs.  - Troubleshoot Computers, Software and Peripherals for all users. IT Technician Capabilities Inc 2016 to 2018 124 South Front Street, St. Mary's, Ohio    - Responsible for Infrastructure security, repair and configuration.  - Created Backup and redundancy for Windows server infrastructure.  - Configured Cisco SG 300 Switches and Cisco 1900 Routers for deployment.  - Train and assist junior IT members in troubleshooting.  - Create and maintain virtual servers utilizing VMware.  - Assisted in Migrating and Managing G Suite Cloud Environment.  - Administer on-site ShoreTel phone system.  - Install and maintain Computers, Software and Peripherals for all users.  - Efficiently order and maintain IT inventory. NOC Technician Netgain Information Systems 2015 to 2016 220 Reynolds Avenue Bellefontaine, Ohio, 43311    - Assisted Network Engineers with troubleshooting and configuration of Cisco  switches and routers.  - Assisted Server Engineer with managing Windows Servers by monitoring  and adjusting configuration for performance and potential issues.  - Managed Ncentral Monitoring Server.  - Created and modified monitoring templates for server, network and end  user devices.  - Improved business by creating documentation and tutorials for Technicians  to use.  - Responsible for responding and troubleshooting active alerts for network  and server issues.  - First Responder to critical tickets, escalating when necessary.  - Monitored and scheduled maintenance for Co-Location UPS and Generator.  - Managed security key card software. Desktop Technician Netgain Information Systems 2014 to 2015 220 Reynolds Avenue Bellefontaine, Ohio, 43311    - Managed PC and Laptop software and hardware support for over 30  businesses.  - Created documentation for particular issues for Help Desk Staff.  - Participated in Vendor support and assistance for clients.  - Replaced PC and laptop hardware.  - Mitigate Malware and CryptoLocker outbreak.  - Coordinate with Network, Server and VOIP Engineers on system wide  issues. Network Technician CNI (Comnet) incorporated - Wapakoneta, OH 2013 to 2014 45895    - Regulated and assisted configuring Cisco CMTS networks.  - Assisted in managing IPTV encoders and network.  - Monitored client sites across the U.S. for outages and issues.  - First Responder to critical device issues.  - Participated in scheduled maintenance for changing DNS records and network configuration with Cisco equipment.  - Troubleshot Cyan Switch backbone, escalating when necessary.  - Collaborated in deploying new network devices to sites. Education Associate in Computer Networking James A. Rhodes State College - Lima, OH August 2009 to May 2014 Associate in Network Security James A. Rhodes State College - Lima, OH August 2009 to May 2014 Skills Cisco, Networking, Virtualization, Vmware, Voip, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory Additional Information Skill Set: Experienced in: Cisco and Meraki OS, Aruba Networking, Windows Server  2003-2016, Virtualization (VMware and Hyper V), Shoretel VOIP, Ncentral  Monitoring Software    Experienced in Cisco networking and Windows server configuration and repair.    Shoretel Voip troubleshooting experience    PC and laptop hardware and software troubleshooting and repair.    Team oriented    Proactive Mindset