IT Consultant IT Consultant IT Consultant Phoenix, AZ Experienced in critical infrastructure design and overhaul, systems  administration and IT Security. Work Experience IT Consultant LGO Hospitality - Phoenix, AZ May 2019 to July 2019 Arizona Area  This was a 2 month agreement to provide IT management and network  overhaul consultation.  - Scoped and planned network overhaul, including all required hardware and vendors.  - Setup relationship with IT sourcing vendor to provide options for hardware  acquisition.  - Sourced cabling vendors and facilitated the vendor site walk and bidding  process.  - Negotiated a new contract with the client's ISP for the installation of new fiber  optic connection at various locations. Saved the client $70K on install charges and trenching fees.  - Learned the POS software, payment process and gateway systems to  support daily operations and transaction adjustments at all sites.  Working with LGO was an excellent experience. Information Technology Analyst Circle K - Tempe, AZ February 2017 to May 2019 Overhaul of a legacy primary data center including critical infrastructure  projects.  Project management and site support of data center operations.  - Migrated existing production systems to new A-B power configuration.  - Worked with vendors to implement POC systems.  - Cloud migration allowed footprint to be consolidated by 60%.  - Worked to support SCCM servers and systems at regional sites.  - Traveled to support multiple U.S. data centers.  COBALTIX Network Consultant San Francisco Bay Area, CA September 2018 to November 2018 White Glove" MSP in San Francisco.  - Consulted for a biotech company during a period of management  restructuring.  - Audit client records to ensure compliance with regulatory standards such as PCI, HIPAA.  - Completed vulnerability scans and assessments for Bay Area clients.  CBTS Data Center Engineer Chandler, AZ May 2016 to February 2017 Data center project support for a national retail finance company.  - Completed hardware installation for new clusters.  - Documented infrastructure systems.  - Completed a full audit, mapping end-to-end connections for all systems. Data Center Engineer Zayo Group May 2014 to May 2016 2 years 1 month)  Phoenix Arizona  Collocation data center support.  - Support all areas of data center operations and collocation customers.  - KPI based power usage data collection and planning.  - Project planning and vendor management.  - Disaster recovery and NOC monitoring for nationwide sites. NOC Administrator - IT SEC Move, Inc - Phoenix, AZ May 2011 to March 2014 Area  Multiple duties and responsibilities in this role.  Time with the organization yielded some remarkable experiences and knowledge. This position was high visibility and high pressure.  - Implemented a Nagios NOC monitoring solution for all network and business  systems. - Created monitors for web pages, and application services.  - Created IIS page checks, content matching, TTFB monitoring, and object  monitoring.  - Support data center and infrastructure systems.  - As Arcsight administrator I developed scans to prevent intellectual property  theft.  - Rapid 7 Nexpose PCI vulnerability scanning.  - I shut down the data center using the Emergency Power Off  I was onsite and responded to a critical event which ultimately led to the emergency shutdown of all infrastructure systems.  - I was awarded an employee recognition award. Linux System Administrator Genwi March 2011 to January 2014 2 years 11 months)  Tempe  I supported a mixed distribution Linux infrastructure, which ultimately included  a migration away from various Debian based systems to a unified Red Had/  CentOS solution.  - Deployed and configured custom systems.  - On call support for several years.  - Migrated all physical systems to virtual solutions.  - Decommissioned hardware infrastructure.  Expedia, Inc. Windows System Administrator Chandler, AZ October 2009 to August 2010 This position was heavily involved in the complete overhaul of the old  infrastructure, decommission of all end of life systems, and the install and build out of the newer topology and systems.  - Large (1000+) server install project, and overhaul of the existing  infrastructure.  - Install and configuration of HP, Dell, and Cisco devices.  - Troubleshooting and RMA rotation of failed hardware.  - System admin duties, projects, and planning. Data Center Technician Digital Realty March 2009 to October 2009 8 months)  Chandler Arizona  Part of the onsite support team for all collocation customers. This included  some of the largest social media sites, news networks, and retailers in the country.  - Supported installations and troubleshooting for customer networks.  - Controlled MDF and IDF access, cross connects, and demarcation points  within the facility.  - Hardware installations.  - Cabling. Education Information Security ITT Technical Institute 2009 to 2012 Skills DATA CENTER, VENDOR MANAGEMENT, security, Active Directory, HTML, testing Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mrjohnnyit?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BXNmbAeGGQ36pMQ4U91lspw%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile