SEINOR NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR (CONTRACT) SEINOR <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> (CONTRACT) Richmond, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SEINOR NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR (CONTRACT) DOMINION POWER - Richmond, VA April 2018 to May 2019 Provide 3rd level workstation support for help tickets as they relate to software development/ deployment, iOS device management and other desktop support issues that may arise. Full understanding and experience in SCCM. Scripting with PowerShell, and experience in VDI and migrations to Windows 10. Provide integrated team support and maintenance of LAN hardware and software. Perform LAN security procedures. Implement PC/LAN policies, procedures and standards and ensure conformance with information systems and company objectives. Responsible for working in multi-platform environments on multiple project assignments. SYSTEM ENGINEER (CONTRACT) CITY OF SUFFOLK November 2017 to April 2018 Manage and monitor all installed systems and infrastructure, Install, configure, test and maintain operating systems, application software and system management tools. Proactively ensure the highest levels of systems and infrastructure availability. Monitor and test application performance using VMWare for potential bottlenecks, identify possible solutions, and work with developers to implement those fixes. Maintain security, backup, and redundancy strategies. Write and maintain custom scripts using PowerShell to increase system efficiency. Participate in the design of information and operational support systems. Provide 2nd and 3rd level support, Liaise with vendors and other IT personnel for problem resolution. SCCM ADMINISTRATOR (CONTRACT) TOWNEBANK February 2017 to November 2017 Monitor Microsoft SCCM Platform health and mitigate identified problems. Monitor Microsoft and other critical security software patches and updates. Responsible for working with multiple teams to remotely deliver upgrades, updates, patches, & deployment of new applications. Able to add/ remove/change programs available in SCCM Application Catalog. Participate and oversee the building and maintenance of desktop images, PowerShell scripts, assisting in the production and employment of Group Policy Objects to manage the environment. Perform, test, and oversee upgrades to new versions of SCCM as needed and/or provide knowledge transfer to insure other department associates were trained on functions of SCCM. FIELD TECHNICIAN II, CHENMED RDP, SCCM, Skype August 2015 to February 2017 Responsible for diagnosing and resolving technical issues, small to medium-sized IT projects as instructed by my IT Manager. Setting up and configuring new laptops and desktops. Imaging systems using SCCM, Install authorized software to laptops and desktops. Ensuring security and upgrades are applied and kept up to date on desktops/laptops and mobile devices. Assist end users with password resets; lock out issues, Bit-locker problems and printer issues. Use AD manager, SCCM, GPO, and Service Now ticketing system. Setup and troubleshoot all company issued cell phones and IPad's. Completing internal user moves including desk phones. Install and placement of Access Points and drops. Assist users via RDP, SCCM, Skype, email and phone to resolve issues. Travel to company sites to respond to tickets and give support to vendors. DESKTOP SUPPORT ANALYST II (CONTRACT) BON SECOURS HEALTH SYSTEM May 2013 to March 2015 Provide support to end users relating to hardware and software, computer applications, LAN components and peripherals. Carry out on-site analysis, identification, and resolution of difficult desktop problems for end users. Monitor ticketing system and follow timely resolution of all work orders. Install, organize, test, maintain, check and troubleshoot end user workstations and interrelated hardware and software. Recommend and apply solutions, including on-site repair for remote users. Ability to perform with minimal or no supervision. Installed, configured, and maintained the functionality of company desktop systems, together with peripheral appendages and software. Kept in constant contact with vendors to resolve problems as quickly and efficiently as possible. Provided computer system support for both staff and customers. Ran regular checks, tests, and tracking procedures to prevent or identify problems. Instructed employees on extending life of computer system through proper use. Performed routine maintenance on all user accounts, data files, etc. Installed or advised installation of upgrades to prevent malfunctioning. HELP DESK ANALYST 2 (CONTRACT) UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND August 2012 to December 2012 Provided support to faculty/staff and students at the University for PC repair via phone, email, and web chat. Helped users navigate software programs and setup peripherals for MAC and PC computers. Troubleshoot software and hardware problems. Create guest accounts and password resets, Helped users setup network connections and VPN settings; managed HEAT computerized ticketing system for tracking, information gathering and troubleshooting systems. Used MS Access along with other team members for tracking and updating of forms and statuses as well as shared with other departments. Worked with international students abroad to assist in troubleshooting their systems via Team Viewer to remote in, would also advise individuals on third party locations to get repair in their location should the system need it and it was available in that country. Worked with students to configure network connections for Blackberry and IPhone, as well as any other android device to connect to the network like IPad and Tablets. Assigned rotating on call weekend support until end of contract. Ability to perform with minimal or no supervision. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology ECPI University Skills IMAGING (5 years), CUSTOMER SERVICE (9 years), MS OFFICE (5 years), Windows, Active Directory, Technical Support, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Tech Support, VPN, Service Desk, Helpdesk Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/roger-foderingham-a19024134 Additional Information SKILLS  • SCCM  • Troubleshooting  • Microsoft office  • Imaging  • Remedy    • Customer Service  • Technical Support  • PowerShell  • Break Fix  • VPN  • ServiceNow