Sr. Field Technician Sr. Field Technician Sr. Field Technician - General Dynamics Information Technology Lowville, NY To take the next step in my career so I can employ my leadership, management, and technical skills at a higher level. Work Experience Sr. Field Technician General Dynamics Information Technology - Rome, NY July 2017 to Present • Systems Administrator for customer network to over 150 remote sites; to include various Cisco routers and switches, remote power boot units, data loopback shelfs megaplexs.  • Nortel BPX administrator for 300 customers; to include analog, digital, and VOIP phones.  • Maintenance support for Compunetix MVP system, maintaining 44 positions providing voice resource access to over 150 assets.  • Maintain in house infrastructure, to include, CAT 5, CAT 6, Fiber optic, wire wraps and punch downs. Eastern Air Defense Sector (EADS) - Rome, NY January 2010 to December 2014 • Managed equipment status of more than 187 FAA and military radar sensors and 62 NDAG radio facilities.  • Monitored and coordinated production and execution of scheduled and unscheduled maintenance while maintaining visibility of equipment/systems metrics and indicators for over 90 applications and systems at EADS.  • Maintained EADS Service Catalog; identifies critical cyberspace infrastructure based on mission assurance priorities.  • Administers and coordinates maintenance actions through AFNORTH and higher headquarters.  • Rejuvenated safety program; led monthly crew briefings for 10 personnel resulting in zero safety mishaps for work center.  • Published monthly maintenance plan, assuring precise scheduling of over 150 FAA systems.  • Briefed Operations crews on a daily basis of all maintenance activities, which provided situational awareness of outages that may affect mission performance. Systems Administrator Eastern Air Defense Sector (EADS) - Rome, NY June 2009 to December 2009 for the dual $2.4 Mil Battle Control System-Fixed (BCS-F) suites and all peripheral equipment to include: CISCO ASA 5510, CISCO C3850, HP ProLiant DL360 G7 & HP ProLiant DL585 G7.  • Maintains Data Link equipment to include Joint Range Extension (JRE) and Air Defense Systems Integrator (ADSI)  • Provides "First Look" maintenance for Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) systems including the Flight Data Processor (FDP)  • Supports several C2 equipment operational test events and associated test personnel.  • Custodian Authorization / Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL) Equipment Custodian, in charge of inventory and accountability over $7,410 worth of equipment.  • Safety Program Monitor, in charge of maintaining safety forms and providing safety briefings for 17 personnel.  • Computer Systems Installation Records (CSIR) Monitor, maintains network drawings for 9 mission systems.  • Supervised one airman, initiated feedback, developed training tasks and steered career progression. Computer and Network Systems Technician TACSECURED - Boston, MA January 2009 to May 2009 • Deployed Dell Latitude D630, Precision 5400T, and OptiPlex 755 workstations.  • Troubleshot software problems and used software imaging programs to re-deploy software to trouble units.  • Performed data migrations on critical business servers; troubleshot and repaired all problems encountered.  • Conducted post-deployment support, to include all hardware faults, software configuration problems, and networking to available printers.