Sr. IT Support Specialist Sr. IT Support Specialist Sr. IT Support Specialist San Diego, CA MBA, with a BS in Computer Science. Over eight years’ experience providing information  technology services. Strong technical knowledge of computer and organizational infrastructures.  Experience in providing remote technical support to clients and resolving software related issues.  Expertise in supporting organization’s Network infrastructure and internet system or a segment  of a network system. Monitor network to ensure network availability to all system users and  perform necessary maintenance to support network availability. Knowledgeable of business  management practices with exceptional customer-focused approach. Committed to self-  education and continuous learning to stay current with the rate of change in technology. I feel  that my skills and experience are a great fit for this position. Please feel free to contact me to  arrange an interview. I look forward to learning more about this opportunity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. IT Support Specialist Wendego IT Solutions - San Diego, CA March 2018 to Present • Managed IT Service providing enterprise level network and domain solutions.  • Part of a 4-men team providing Tier levels 1, 2 and 3 support for 18 customer totaling 98 servers and 549 workstations.  • Providing full onsite support as a primary account manager for 6 customers.  • Use laptop to manage all accounts remotely and provide on call support.  • Utilize software such as Autotask ticketing, Solar Winds RMM Agent, RDP, IT Glue and LastPass.  • Support Microsoft Windows Server OS, Windows OS, Mac OS, IOS and Android environments.  • Providing solutions for antiquated systems and work closely with the customers to ensure fulfillment of their IT needs.  • Configuring, Administration and Maintenance of SonicWALL, Bitdefender, Active Directory, Proofpoint, Office365, Microsoft OVL, NAS, RAIDs, Windows Server Migrations, Terminal Services, VPN, Cisco, Router, Switch, Aruba Controller, DFS, Group Policy, Exchange, DHCP, DNS, Print servers, QuickBooks and more.  • Address technical issues identified by an internal Remote Monitoring and Management (RMM) system.  • Respond to telephone calls, emails and general clients' requests for technical support both remote and on client's site visits.  • communication with various vendors regarding purchasing of new software and hardware equipment.  • Participate in internal and external training and attend internal company and external clients’ scheduled meetings.  • Helped with sales and the on boarding process of new customers. IT Technician Town and Country San Diego May 2017 to June 2018 • Conducting the quarterly PCI Audit of all systems and associate permissions.  • Maintaining various vendor relationships.  • Set up new hire workstations and accounts with MS office suites, Sophos AV, Opera PMS, Hotsos and Adobe Reader.  • Keep systems up-to-date through operating systems upgrades.  • Schedule online Backup for all the servers on Barracuda cloud backup solutions.  • Monitor networking equipment and servers. Assist with the design, implementation, and ongoing support of new software and features.  • Migrated all the active Mailboxes from Exchange to Office365.  • Configuration changes to the Aruba, Untangle, Peplink, Cisco network devices in the infrastructure.  • Configure Telnet, SSH, SNMP, NTP on routers, switches and firewalls for ease of access, either channel, Default or Static routing, NAT, PAT, ACLs, VLAN, Trunk, Swtichport configuration.  • Manage Active Directory, File, Print, DNS, DHCP servers and GPOs.  • Manage and maintain WSUS servers ensuring that all systems are patched and up to date  • Provide technical administration of Aruba wireless / Cisco access points and controller.  • Install, configure and troubleshoot desktop computers, laptops, wireless devices, printers, copiers, and related computing technologies.  • Installed, configured and maintaining Endian Firewall a transparent web proxy to protect the Business Center networks and improves connectivity.  • Installed, configured and monitoring NTI Enviromux Server Environment Monitoring System.  • Installed CACTI, a web-based real-time network monitoring Software on an open source server. IT Technician ZAS Motors - San Diego, CA October 2015 to March 2016 • Installed, configured and monitored Windows 2008 Active Director, DNS, DHCP servers, managing VMware Virtualization.  • Responsible for organizational wide group policy management with standardized Organizational Units, Users, and Groups including all user permissions according to Microsoft best practices. Remedy ticketing system, organizing training for users; Imaging Computers, develop technical documentation, standards and policies. Network Administrator Ministry of Mines and Petroleum - Kabul, AF November 2012 to November 2014 As Network Administrator, I led a team of more than 10 technicians that planned, designed, configured and maintained a network and server farms infrastructure providing services for more than 1500 clients’ access to internal and external resources between the Ministry of Mines and Petroleum and the Afghanistan Geological Survey Departments.     ·        IT support team for the Afghan Ministry of Mines and Petroleum, Coordinated in Planning and Installation of EMC2 Storage, managed Routers, Switches and ASA Firewall Devices for the network infrastructure at MoMP also monitored and maintained the network infrastructure and provided daily report to the IT the Director.  ·         Installed and configured Microsoft Windows server 2003, 2008 AD, DNS, DHCP, Symantec Backup Exec, ISA Server, TMG Server, managed Biometric attendance system, business applications and anti-virus Server for clients and server farm protection.  ·        Managed Netflow Network Analyzer to monitor network traffic, Deployed VMware ESXi 6.0  for virtualization. Configured Cisco 7940 VOIP-phones (Asterisk 1.8). Enterprise Server Environment Monitoring System, Conducted remote installations, monitoring, updating and troubleshooting. VPN connection configuration between the Ministry and branches using IPsec Tunnel.  ·        Coordinated the IT Director for Project management and budget planning for short term and long term, development of user guide, server farm, disaster recovery and guest users’ policy for IT Department.  Desktop Support Nation Military Academy of Afghanistan/ US Government August 2011 to November 2012 Designed and implemented a network infrastructure for the National Military Academy of Afghanistan allowing all Cadets and teachers to utilize and share educational resources through the internet, share resources within the network, participate in on line classes, join social networks, etc.    ·        Oversaw Implementation of domain server environment, DHCP, DNS, File. Installed and updated end-point antivirus. ISA proxy server, Operation system (Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, Ubuntu, and Mac OS) installation, monitored internal and external networks.   ·        Configured Telnet and SSH on routers, switches and firewalls for ease of access, either channel, Default and Static routing, OSPF, RIP and EIGRP routing protocols. HSRP, GLBP redundancy. NAT, PAT, ACLs, VLAN configuration. GNS3, Packet Tracer, Cisco Network Assistance.  IT Technician MACTEC - Kabul, AF August 2010 to July 2011 Client's Software and hardware installation, maintenance and repair. Updated servers’ patches. Cabling and physical network maintenance. Joined PCs to the Domain. Connect, Troubleshot printers and scanners. Imaged and backed up computers. Education MBA in Business Administration Alliant International University - San Diego, CA March 2017 to May 2019 Origin Code Academy - San Diego, CA 2016 Certification in Cisco Certified San Diego Community College District North City Campus 2015 Bachelors of Science degree in Computer Science Bangalore University - Bengaluru, Karnataka 2010 Microsoft Certified New Horizon Institute - Bengaluru, Karnataka 2010 certification in Network Plus Sanford Computer Academy - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills ACLs (2 years), DHCP (8 years), DNS (4 years), Microsoft Windows (8 years), Microsoft Windows server (8 years), Office365 (3 years), NAS, Active Directory (8 years), Backup System (8 years), Router (6 years), Firewalls (7 years), VLANs (7 years), Trunk (7 years), Route (7 years), GPOs (8 years), System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bahmansadiq https://github.com/bahmansadiq Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Microsoft Windows server 2003, 2008, 2012 and 2016 AD, DNS, DHCP, DFS, File, Print, Exchange,Office365, WSUS servers, Telnet, SSH, OSPF, RIP and EIGRP routing protocols. HSRP, GLBP redundancy. NAT, Access Rules, NAT, PAT, ACLs, VLAN Configurations. TCPIP.