System Administrator (Senior Application Engineer)/ Network Engineer System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Senior Application Engineer)/<span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer System Administrator (Senior Application Engineer)/ Network Engineer Washington, DC ACTIVE TOP SECRET CLEARANCE  Strategic and innovative System Administrator with Twenty (20) years supporting and executing mission goals through collaboration and challenging teams to achieve extraordinary results. Disciplined and flexible problem-solving approach that balances business goals and mission with stakeholder requirements. Genuine influencer who thrives on tough challenges and translates visions and strategies into actionable, value-added accomplishment of organizational goals Work Experience System Administrator (Senior Application Engineer)/ Network Engineer DirectViz Solutions/DISA - Fort Meade, MD December 2015 to July 2019 Senior lead on several applications: LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol), Gate  Station, Ciena OneControl and TACACS (Terminal Access Controller Access Control System)  • Critical Service and Support required for core services (Linux, Windows, MSSQL, JEE  Application Server, Web Servers) incident tracking, troubleshooting, and escalation.  • Provide network and customer support to DISA Tier 1, Tier 2 team and Tier III infrastructure  support. Investigate and troubleshoot issues both independently and coordinated through vendor  support channels. Troubleshoot/Escalate unresolved issues in a timely manner.  • Support DISA Network Design team, and infrastructure team on redesigning and upgrading the Dynamic Circuit Network (DNC) network equipment.    • Responsible for researching, testing and upgrading Cisco routers/switches with new IOS and Palo  Alto's firewall with new patches, and codes as new vulnerabilities are released.    • Reviewed DoD and division/branch technical procedures in order to add new configurations to Palo Alto, new software to Network Time Protocol (NTP) and Cisco equipment before being  deployed.    • Responsible for maintaining the integrity of the DISN by analyzing, scanning and performing  Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) all new devices before they are implemented on the DISA network.    • Provided technical support to DISA DCN/Virtual Private Network (VPN) team.    • Researched all network vulnerabilities that report on the Information Assurance Vulnerability  Alert (IAVA) / Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPR) rollup reports.  • Coordinate with the Cybersecurity team providing assistance with preparing milestones and POAMs (Plan of Action and Milestones).    • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server  resources, systems, key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying  completion of scheduled jobs.  • Evaluate and monitor system performance. Regularly review system logs to identify and resolve  pending performance issues.  • Perform regular security monitoring to identify possible intrusions utilizing industry and government standard security tools such as AntiVirus, Intrusion Detection, and Intrusion  Prevention utilities.  • Responsible for supporting daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system  data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media, recovery tapes or disks are created, media is recycled and sent off site.  • Perform regular file archival/searches and purge as necessary according to DoD policies and guidelines  • Identify, repair, and recover from hardware/software failures. Coordinate and communicate with leadership on proposed and/or implemented resolutions.  • Serve as liaison between organization and external IT departments.  • Manage daily activities of configuration and operation of IT systems with a focus on system/application maintenance, tuning, and efficiency per industry best practice guidelines.  • Perform upgrades and configure system software that supports Government infrastructure or Asset Management applications per project or operational needs.  • Maintain operational, configuration, or other procedures; constantly look for more efficient and cost saving solutions.  • Perform ongoing performance tuning, hardware upgrades, and resource optimization as required.  Configure CPU, memory, and disk partitions.  • Responsible for maintaining data center environmental and monitoring equipment. System Engineer DMI/DISA - Fort Meade, MD September 2014 to December 2015 Support the JSC Information Assurance Manager (IAM) by monitoring the VMS and the USCYBERCOM web sites to be aware of and comply with IAVAs. Ensure that all IAVAs  are closed within each DISA-designated suspense window.  • Perform a variety of assignments associated with developing, deploying, monitoring and controlling ORACLE database configurations for Solaris 10 & 11.  • Interface with the software development team, test team and external entities to ensure smooth  implementation into the staging and production environments.  • Troubleshoot Oracle issues for Logical Domains (LDoms) and ZONES.  • Complete the set up and maintenance of Oracle Databases, analysis of error logs, troubleshooting, and running diagnostic tests on the databases.  • Initiate preventive maintenance on the databases as well as make repairs to the databases and/or environment.  • Performed and maintain proficiency in the technical cyber security domain.  • Monitor and maintain database security configurations  • Administer DB environment solutions for multiple configurations with varying schedules.  • Support the implementation of DISA Oracle STIGs and the DISA recommended application  security requirements, including attending database related meetings, as necessary. Telecommunications Technician STS/ Bethesda Naval Medical Hospital - Bethesda, MD November 2011 to September 2014 • Responsible for phone MAC's (moves, adds & changes) for employees at multiple locations  • Install and switch voicemail and data systems, including PBX system  • Install wire management equipment such as patch panels, equipment racks, overhead rail  systems, and other related equipment  • Provide appropriate troubleshooting & repair of phones and/or systems PBX Technician Tek Systems - Bethesda, MD August 2011 to November 2011 • Responsible for phone MAC's (moves, adds & changes) for employees at multiple locations  • Install and switch voicemail and data systems, including Private Branch Exchange (PBX)  system.  • Install wire management equipment such as patch panels, equipment racks, overhead rail  systems, and other related equipment  • Provide appropriate troubleshooting & repair of phones and/or systems Service Activation Engineer/VOIP Test Engineer Tek Systems - Herndon, VA June 2010 to June 2011 Conduct Call Through Testing and 911 certification on new and existing Time Warner Cable  VOIP rate centers  • Troubleshoot and resolve call failure cases in coordination with Competitive Local Exchange  Carrier (CLEC) partners and Time Warner Cable Switch Operations Engineers  • Turn up and testing new circuits  • Apply codes to soft switch via Command-line interface (CLI)  • Store documentation on servers with predefined processes Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE Windows Operating Systems Security March 2019 to Present