Systems Administrator / Network Security Support Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Support Logistics Specialist I Project Management Student I CompTIA Sec+ in progress I Cyber Security Pro Aspirant / Advocate Ashburn, VA Embracing the culture of discipline and upholding the values of Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Service, Honor, Integrity and Personal Courage in the Army, I am trained to be an expert and a professional in anything I do and also value the importance of working as a team to achieve any mission objective or organizational goals.  I also posses over 10 years experience in I.T Systems Support, Excellent Customer Service, Brand Development & Management, Social Media Content Development & Management and Team building as a civilian and I am confident that with the mix of both Civilian and Military experience I will be a great asset to any organization that requires my service as an employee. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator / Network Security Support VVDA Communications - Woodbridge, VA February 2018 to Present • Install and configuring software, hardware and networks.  • Monitor system performance and troubleshooting network issues.  • Ensure security and efficiency of IT infrastructure.  • Monitor network to detect any suspicious activities and take measures such as install firewalls to defend against attacks on the systems.  • Update and configure software such as antivirus and network security software to guard against attacks on the systems. Automated Logistics Specialist (USAR) US Army - Fort Belvoir, VA September 2017 to Present • Establish and maintain stock records and other documents such as inventory, material control, accounting and supply reports.  • Review and verify quantities received against bills of contracts, purchase requests and shipping documents.  • Unload, unpack, count, segregate, palletize and store incoming supplies and equipment.  • Construct bins, shelving and other storage aids.  • Simplify and standardize the collection and use of maintenance data.  • Raise the quality and accuracy of performance, cost and parts data through improved maintenance. Customer Experience Specialist Rosenthal Fairfax Honda - Fairfax, VA February 2017 to July 2019 • Develop strong knowledge of the line of products and build a pleasant customer experience.  • Improve customer service experience, create engaged customers.  • Provide up-to date and relevant information to assist customers to make good auto buying decisions.  • Take ownership of customers issues and follow problems through to resolution. Founder/Creative Director The MAN Initiative - Accra, Ghana January 2015 to August 2016 • Created the brand and developed an awareness campaign  • Created and distributed "The MAN Motivational Push-up" messages on Social Media  • Developed detailed advertising schedules and proposals for partnerships  • Tested various campaigns prior to full launch on Radio and Television  • Mobilized support for campaigns and awareness creation across the country.  • Organized a team to plan series of programs in line with the objectives of the Initiative Brand Development & Systems Admin Support The Business People LTD / Consultancy Support Services (CS2) - Abuja, Nigeria September 2013 to November 2014 • Analyzed the success of various advertising campaigns  • Modified campaigns as necessary to maximize efficiency  • Developed a Brand Identity Manual.  • Tested various campaigns prior to a full launch.  • Responded to and resolved help desk issues  • Provided technical support for both hardware and software issues our users encounter  • Created and verified backups to ensure Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability of data Systems Administrator Golden Panther Security Ltd. - Accra, Ghana 2008 to 2012 • Provided technical support for both hardware and software issues our users encounter  • Developed and implemented an IT Policy to govern the use of company wide IT systems in consultation with management.  • Managed the configuration and operation of client-based computer operating systems  • Monitored network systems daily and responded to usability concerns.  • Scheduled and performed Hardware and Software Installations, upgrades, backups and Data Restoration  • Conducted routine network hardware and software audits to ensure compliance with established policies and configuration guidelines  • Responded to and resolved help desk requests  • Upgraded systems and processes as required for enhanced functionality and security  • Installed and tested computer-related equipment Education Diploma in Automated Logistics Specialist United States Army Quartermaster School 2019 to 2019 Bachelor's degree in Project Management Liberty University 2019 BSc in Business Administration University of Professional Studies 2008 to 2012 Diploma in Business Studies University of Professional Studies 2005 to 2007 Skills Microsoft Office (8 years), Computer Hardware (4 years), Network Management (4 years), Customer Relationship Management (5 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Leadership (10+ years), Software Installation and Configuration (6 years), Event Planning (4 years), Communications (4 years), Fundamentals of Cloud Computing (1 year), Communication and Network Security (3 years), Information Technology, It Specialist, Help Desk, Comptia, Desktop Support, Army, Computer Repair, Network Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jude-mawuko-annan-75b181153/ Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist September 2017 to Present • Establish and maintain stock records and other documents such as inventory, material control, accounting and supply reports.  • Review and verify quantities received against bills of contracts, purchase requests and shipping documents.  • Unload, unpack, count, segregate, palletize and store incoming supplies and equipment.  • Construct bins, shelving and other storage aids.  • Simplify and standardize the collection and use of maintenance data.  • Raise the quality and accuracy of performance, cost and parts data through improved maintenance.  Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ckjzo31yjcbjg9h9 Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rhmt24d-jireyheb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Publications We are all involved https://www.myjoyonline.com/opinion/.../we-are-all-involved.php 2016-04 Involving all the agents of change in society to develop future leaders that the future will be proud of. Virtual Reality is not Actual Reality http://ghonetv.com/feature-what-you-see-is-not-always-what-you-get/ 2016 How social media has brought people far away closer and driven those closer far away and the need to bridge the gap to maintain relationship sanity. Additional Information Skills:    • Management  • Leadership  • IT Systems Support  • Cyber Security Awareness  • Team Motivation  • Customer Service  • Brand Development  • Desktop Application Support  • Communication  • Time Management  • Computer Hardware and Software troubleshooting/Maintenance