Job Seeker Costa Mesa, CA Work Experience Shur-lok Company - Irvine, CA 2013 to Present Network Administrator, System Administrator Shur-lok Company 2013 to Present Designs, specifies, configures, installs, and maintains local area network hardware, software, and telecommunications services such as personal computers, system software, software applications, printers, servers, routers, bridges, switches, modems, cabling, and Internet service providers.  • Supervises operations, administration and system/software information; installs, configures, maintains and provides training on hardware/software and multiple server environments.  • Implements policies and procedures related to network hardware and software acquisition, use, support, security, and backup.  • Configured and Implemented Windows Deployment Services (WDS) to streamline machine images reducing image times from 2 days to 20 minutes enabling rapid deployments.  • Installs and Maintains VMware 5.5 environment replacing legacy hardware enabling company reliability, performance, and data redundancy.  • Establishes and maintains network users, user environment, directories, and security.  • Installs, Configures, and Maintains Microsoft SQL 2012 and Microsoft SharePoint Server 2010. System Administrator, Data System Integrator, Information Assurance NCO United States Army 2011 to 2013 Manages IT systems supporting for a combat team comprised of 1,000+ users in 33 disparate locations; ensures consistent internet connectivity with minimal to zero downtime.  • Maintains 100% accountability for $600,000 worth of IT assets; provides training/mentoring for up to 6 staff in automation/Help Desk operations while processing 1,100 trouble tickets.  • Supplies 2,560+ hours of server support during training exercises; increases communication ability between Brigade and battalions through extensive system configurations.  • Streamlines ticket tracking by employing a SharePoint portal to organize and complete 900+ tickets during joint readiness training.  • Supervises operations, administration and system/software information; installs, configures, maintains and provides training on hardware/software and multiple server environments.  • Trains staff and management on writing scripts for and maintaining a SharePoint portal; identifies and develops/implements resolutions for information assurance issues.  • Participates in creating/implementing Information Assurance/Computer Network Defense (IA/CND) security programs to protect/defend against service disruptions, denial of service, degradation or destruction; provides pricing research into projected IT requirements costs. United States Army - Fort Campbell, KY 2006 to 2013 Information System Analyst/Help Desk Support United States Army 2007 to 2011 Administered/maintained Active Directory content/structure, created accounts and assigned user permissions in the role of Information Management Officer.  • Directed the delivery of superior support and optimized operations to onsite and remote users in person, over the phone or through email; employed detailed troubleshooting processes to identify and resolve computer, network and peripheral (i.e. printer, etc) issues.  • Provided programming/maintenance for Cisco switches and executed network cabling for mission essential staff involving the crimping of 20,000+ cables.  • Managed data recovery operations, tracked IT assets and utilized a Remedy system to manage trouble tickets; assisted Blackberry users with email synchronization and issue resolution.  • Developed/implemented system baseline images on multiple networks and Standard Operating Procedures and training guides for the team and end users.  • Configured the Command Post of the Future (CPOF) in conjunction with Forward Support Representatives.    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Phoenix Buena Park High School - Buena Park, CA Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS    Accomplished and highly-motivated IT professional with significant experience in systems administration, help desk and information assurance roles within the US Army. Demonstrated proficiencies in tactical server configurations have been adopted as best business practices and implemented in other divisions and units. Proven to be a trusted and competent leader. Adept at learning and applying new skills quickly; possesses strong communication skills in working with technical staff, end users and providing training to technical and non-technical staff. Active Secret Security clearance. Willing to travel and/or relocate.    Operating Systems: Windows 2008R2/2008/2003 servers, Windows 7/Vista/XP, UNIX, AIS.    Software/Applications: MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook), Visio, SharePoint/Designer, SQL 2012/2008/2005, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Symantec Ghost Server, VMware 5.5, ESX Server, QTIP Scanner, e-Eye Retina Network Security Scanner, GFI LanGuard, SolarWinds IP Address Management, Symantec Backup Exec, Exchange 2010.    Languages: HTML, VB Script, Bat Scripts.    Networking: LAN, POP, SMTP, DHCP, TCP/IP, WINS, DNS, VLAN.    Hardware: Dell Latitude/Precision laptops, Dell Power Edge 1950/610/710, Dell Power Vault MD1000/3000, Sun Fire x4100 M2, Cisco Catalyst 3750G/3560G, Cisco IP Phone 7941/7961, NetApp FAS2020, printers and peripherals.