Incident Mgmt Incident Mgmt Columbus, OH Experienced IT Professional with strong business acumen, solid technical, project leadership skills. Manages and controls a cadence of incident lines in accordance with incident Management guidelines, conducts quick sport analysis of symptoms from production impacting outages to determine root causes of issues in network infrastructure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Incident Mgmt Zintek LLC - Pataskala, OH October 2015 to Present • Continually improved methods and procedures for processes, measurement, documenting and work flow techniques.  • Produced ad hoc reports and documents for senior team members.  • Created and built firmware to test associate hardware.  • Implemented user acceptance testing with a focus on documenting defects and executing test cases.  • Provided basic desktop support for my team, to increase department efficiency by limiting downtime resulting from applications failures, and costly time spent with IT support  • Worked directly with Incident Life cycle Coordinators to provide initial incident response. Senior Operations Analyst JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH November 2018 to March 2019 • Approach escalated problems logically and with good judgment to ensure the appropriate customer outcome  • Make appropriate decisions on behalf of the customer quickly and effectively  • Distribution of clear and concise communications, summarizing incidents and the business/customer experience to a wide group of technical and non-technical audiences  • Priming appropriate materials and follow ups to hand-off to the Root Cause Analysis phase in the Problem Management process.  • Provide additional support for any quarterly releases, conversions or projects as required. Senior Systems Engineer Citigroup - Columbus, OH June 2017 to November 2017 • Responsible for management and maintenance Windows servers in physical and VMware environment  • Providing Network Security Monitoring support as part of a 24X7 Security Operations center  • Working knowledge analyzing vulnerabilities, threats, designs, procedures and architectural design, producing reports and sharing intelligence  • Performed Incident Management.  • Monitored batch and backup jobs for a multitude of Business Units with various systems and packages  • Reviewed and analyzed security logs to determine and alleviate network threats.  • Resolved issues related to operational components for Local Area Networks, Wide Area Networks and voice systems.  • Collaborated with clients to determine need and devise appropriate software and hardware solutions. Product Support Analyst L2 The Judge Group - Columbus, OH November 2016 to June 2017 • Monitored product standards and quality-control programs.  • Set and monitored product standards, examining samples of raw products and processing tests, to ensure the quality of all finished products.  • Provided business analysis in support of bio-catalyst product management.  • Performed preventative maintenance to maintain optimal productivity.  • Maintained quality assurance and customer satisfaction objectives.  • Collected, monitored and disseminated market intelligence/maintain competitor database.  • Maintained active engagement in risk assessments and control substantiation  • Develops deep analytical thinking using root cause analysis, management communication and client relationship management in partnership with Infrastructure Support team members Network Administrator Palmer-Donavan - Grove City, OH May 2015 to November 2016 • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  • Independently designed and executed company catalog for infrastructure support and development.  • Designed strategic plan for component development practices to support future projects.  • Diagnosed and troubleshoot UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency.  • Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements.  • Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site. Infrastructure Support Analyst JP Morgan - Columbus, OH May 2014 to May 2015 • Monitored and verified availability and integrity of all the hardware, server resources and system process, task sequences, scheduling, executing.  • Created and updated network shares, adding permissions software and groups for users through Active Directory. Storage technology, data backup, retention and recovery time/point objectives  • Working knowledge of distributed systems architecture and comprehensive knowledge of multiple technical disciplines (i.e., Unix, Windows, Oracle, SQL, middle ware, storage)  • Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site. Senior Technical Analyst JPMorgan Chase /Peak System - Columbus, OH May 2010 to May 2014 May 2010 to May 2014    • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  • Provided methodologies for object-oriented software development and efficient database design.  • Designed and implemented new server standards for core business services.  • Built application platform foundation to support migration from client-server product lines to enterprise architectures and services.  • Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements.  • Developed and implemented complex Internet and Intranet applications on multiple platforms.  • Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site. Education BBA in Information Technology Western Governors University Skills maintenance (6 years), Oracle (1 year), Sql (1 year), testing (3 years), Unix (2 years), Operations, Microsoft Word