Master Training Specialist Master Training Specialist Master Training Specialist - United Stated Navy Augusta, GA • I recently completed contract with the US NAVY. I was allotted opportunities to develop competent leaders as well as effective technicians. This allowed for the ability to excel as a team lead and hone my client relations skills while evolving my technical skills. I am currently seeking an opportunity to show case my ability to be a versatile asset as well as an efficient leader. Distinct areas of expertise include:    • Curriculum Development  • Effective Communication  • Client Satisfaction  • Policy Enforcement    • Information System Maintance  • System Administration  • Technical Planning  • Creativity    • Military Instructor  • Personnel Development  • Leadership  • Work Ethic Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Master Training Specialist United Stated Navy - Augusta, GA June 2016 to Present • Trained over 240 joint service personnel in Satellite Communications resulting in 16 classes graduating with an average GPA 10% above the school house average.  • Developed a course convening schedule that allowed 2 departments equal access to lab equipment with no overlap. Ensuring each course of instruction had access to all required resources to successfully accomplish their courses.  • Conducted 80 hours of advanced management and in job training for 10 individuals resulting in 5 personnel obtaining promotions. This increased the company's overall promotion rate by 65%  • Organized volunteer opportunities for staff that directly effected the local community while representing the company positively. Information Systems Network Administrator United States Navy - Agana, GU 2011 to 2016 • Lead a team of 30 in the management of 2 Local Area Networks valued at $2.7 million dollars, in addition to installing 154 software security patches over the course of 4 months to return the network to a industry compliant system.  • Trained and supervised a division of 12 staff members in corrective maintenance procedures for 720 pieces of critical network equipment resulting in reduced maintenance discrepancies by 98% prompting a 17% increase in divisions overall maintenance inspection.  • Provided resource training to a department of 45 people. The resources were for both professional and personal growth while increasing division's continuing education knowledgebase.    Specialized training    • Special Maintenance (Satellite Terminal) Technician 1600 hours Augusta, GA  • Advanced Leadership Training 154 hours various  • Naval Instructor 168 hours Virginia Beach, VA  • Information Systems Maintenance Technician 700 hours San Diego, CA Education Associate of Arts in General Studies American Military University - Charles Town, WV Signal School Instructor of the Quarter Skills E-Learning, Promotional, Training Development Links http://WWW.LINKEDIN.COM/IN/NICHOLASANTHONYJAMES Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5