Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Network Administrator Packaging Coordinators Incorporated - Philadelphia, PA June 2014 to May 2019 • Troubleshoot all network connectivity issues to discover where the problem lies if there is an outage.  • Program Juniper and Cisco switches (Image switch's, assign vlans to ports, create new vlans, configure intervlan routing on cores, etc).  • Upgraded Wireless network with new access points for the entire building as well as a centralized controller for efficient management of wireless access points.  • Use Wireshark to capture and analyze network traffic for troubleshooting connectivity issues.  • Track It Admin - Troubleshoot server issues, develop rules for tickets to be forwarded to Track It, develop reports to demonstrate IT metrics, maintain inventory of physical assets, software licenses, maintenance agreements, and track library items.  • Symantec Admin - Update virus definitions, analyze and resolve risks and alerts. Organize client groups in client management console.  • Solar Winds Admin - Create various alerts with triggers and rules that determine when and how alerts will be relayed to the IT department.  • Backup Exec Admin - Manage back updates and ship weekly to vendor for storage.  • Configure and support I Prism web filter.  • Configure and support Polycom video conferencing system for board rooms.  • Design, build, and expand new/existing idf closets.    • VMWare admin(support and rollout new virtual machines, design and deploy virtual switches and networking environment, allocate resources to virtual machines, configure daily backups)  • Maintain Active Directory Forest (Moving users and computers to correct OU's, disabling and deleting retired user/computer objects, organizing, create and manage group policy objects).  • Configure and deploy new Cisco 4100 series firewall with nat rules, vpn, etc.  • Administrator Roles in JDEdwards 9.1(resetting user password, create new users with required security, kick users out of work orders, etc).  • Get quotes and enter PO's through JDE for IT procurement. Also entered PO's for maintenance agreements, software licensing, SOW 's etc.  • Maintain and organize a thorough inventory of all assets via track it audits, and excel spreadsheets.  • Avaya Phone System and Telecom Voice Mail Admin - Create new extensions and voice mail boxes, troubleshoot calling and phone endpoint issues.  • Lync Server 2013 Admin - Add users to Lync Server via LDAP user name for Lync access, troubleshoot messaging and Lync meetings issues.  • Configure mpls connections between sites. Lead Deployment Technician Cooper Health System - Camden, NJ January 2014 to June 2014 • Image desktops/Laptops with windows 7 using Windows Deployment Svc.  • Deploy PC's to users.  • Map network drives and create batch file to drive for laptop user home access.  • Install, configure, and troubleshoot Lexmark and Fujitsu Scanner/Printers.  • Add/Remove users and computer names from active directory.  • Add/Remove users from groups in active directory to provide access to Citrix Applications.  • Move computers to proper organizational unit in active directory.  • Backup user data and transfer to new PC.  • Install and configure applications for users.  • Provide follow up support to users.  • Troubleshoot and resolve or escalate tickets.  • Record and keep track of all deployed equipment for Remedy Asset Management Entry.  • Train new employees in Windows 7 deployment process and customer service.  • Contact vendor support for specialized application configuration. Education A.A.S degree in Computer Systems Technology Camden County College January 2011 to January 2014 Skills Active Directory (5 years), Avaya (4 years), Cisco (4 years), JDE (4 years), Juniper (4 years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA Present COMP TIA A+ Present Additional Information Skills  Cisco IOS, Juniper Networking, I Prism, Wireshark, VM Ware, Microsoft Office 2003-2019, Windows XP/7/8/10, Symantec Ghost / FOG, Terminal Services, Adobe Creative Suite, Wireless Security (WEP, WPA, WPA2), Cabling, Laptops, tablets (Google & Apple), Wireshark, Belarc, Active Directory, Remedy Ticketing, Track It Ticketing, Avaya Phone System, Telecom Voicemail, JDE 9.1, Symantec Endpoint Protection, Lync Server 2013, SQL.