Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Data Net Solutions Los Angeles, CA • Network engineer with 10+ years experience in project management, employee training, and product delivery;  selflessly working to exceed all client needs and expectations.  • Intrinsically motivated to learn new things with a forward looking perspective to ensure every need of the client will  be met.  • Influential IT relationship manager with a proven ability to execute change management and align interests across  boundaries at all levels of organization; passionate team leader and strategic advisor with the ability to build positive  relationships and create partnerships. Work Experience Network Engineer Data Net Solutions - San Diego, CA 2016 to Present • Installed and configured Enterprise Dell Servers, Running VMware ESXI, Windows server 2012r2 and server 2016, configured Active Directory, Group policy, network settings, DNS, and DHCP.  • Installed and configured Watchguard firewall, Mobile VPN, branch office VPN, firewall rules, data retention rules, intrusion prevention mitigation and reporting.  • Implemented DKIM email signing and DMARC email reporting to secure all emails being sent against manipulation  and reject all spoofed emails.  • Implemented HIPAA and DFARS auditing for clients to find and correct compliance issues with servers, workstations, email, and network security and created plans to remediate vulnerabilities.  • Created easy to follow systems documentation for common workplace software implementation for clients and fellow colleagues.  • Installed and configured offsite and cloud backups for disaster recovery.  • Trained client new hires on computer and email best practices to increase computer security awareness.  • Implemented backup solutions to combat ransomware whole network encryption with recovery in under 30 minutes.  • Amazon AWS management and deployment.  • Managed Citrix Server Farms Network Operations Center Technician FTD Companies - San Diego, CA 2015 to 2016 • Monitored 1,000+ Virtual servers utilizing management tools Windows System center operations Manager 2012, and Splunk.  • Prepared Database metric reports with server management tools (Windows System Center Operations Manager 2012  and Splunk Database search queries).  • Monitored and escalated network issues for all FTD distribution centers and offices.  • Oversaw network security by Identifying and blocking IP addresses found attacking network connections and servers  through Akamai.  • After Hours desktop and user account support when Desktop support was unavailable.  • Managed weekly website code deployments. Systems Administrator Dassault Systems - San Diego, CA 2015 to 2015 • Installed, configured, and maintained multiple Windows operating systems for desktops and Servers.  • Globally supported over 1000 remote users on multiple operating systems, including vendor software packages, network configurations, and homegrown applications.  • Imaged Desktops and Laptops through Windows SCCM.  • Deployed preconfigured and custom Virtual Machines through VMware Vsphere 5.5 Network Technician & Marketing Director Breathe Easy Dentistry - Vista, CA 2011 to 2015 • Installed, monitored, and maintained Windows 2016 server, provided technical software and hardware support to users; managed and maintained office software.  • Designed and implemented server backup with cloud backup redundancy using Acronis Backup Advanced that can be  restored or virtualize any backup from any day.  • Managed all 3rd party websites including updating/correcting information and photos.  • Implemented Demandforce; an automated marketing and communication software that integrates with dental  software to increase efficiency. IT/Help Desk Support J.R. Filanc Construction - San Marcos, CA 2010 to 2011 • Personally achieved a significant reduction in IT and helpdesk response times.  • Designed and implemented a hiring work flowchart that simplified the hiring process.  • Responded appropriately to user inquiries and concerns regarding computer software or hardware operation through Kaseya service tickets; set up and maintained workstations and servers.  • Maintained and updated print servers, setup HP, Richo, and Samsung wired and wireless printers.  • Trained employees on how to use Apple iPhones and Android cellphones.  • Serviced and maintained Dell Laptops, Workstations, and Servers.  • Managed Cloud servers with installed software VMware vSphere and Citrix.  • Provided Audits of company software and hardware inventory.  • Configured WatchGuard firewalls. Technical Support & Sales Representative Intern Data Net Solutions - Escondido, CA 2008 to 2009 • Prepared evaluations of software or hardware, and recommended improvements or upgrades; trained users in the proper use of hardware and software.  • Responsible for setting up and maintaining workstations and servers, as well as providing users with technical  software and hardware assistance.  • Installed hardware, software, or peripheral equipment; conferred with staff members and users to establish  requirements for new systems and modifications  • Established work related relationships with clients to better serve their specific needs in a quick and concise manner.  • Setup and trained clients to use Apple Desktops and Laptops.  • Provided Audits of company software and hardware inventory Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Point Loma Nazarene University - San Diego, CA 2013 Skills Citrix, Vmware, Solarwinds, Security, Netapp, Symantec, Microsoft office, Workstations, Quickbooks Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE - Workstations & Servers  Microsoft Office Suite & 365 Kaseya Connectwise Citrix  Solarwinds Network Mgmt Quickbooks Sage 100 & Sage 300 Windows Server  WatchGuard & Sonicwall Netapp Veeam Symantec Mail Security  VMware 5.5 & 6.5 Microsoft Azure