Implementation Engineer Implementation Engineer Implementation Engineer Hazel Crest, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Implementation Engineer Progressive Communications - Chicago, IL June 2017 to Present •Install, service, configure and test multi-phase IT systems with real-time patient data requirements in both clinical and non-clinical environments nationwide.  •Communicate issues related to sales orders, products, and service inquiries to remote project managers.  •Coordinate with service engineers for project management and scheduling.  •Verify, maintain, and manage current and arriving equipment inventory, according to sales orders.  •Manage project schedules, deadlines and implementation for equipment upgrades and installations.  •Provide technical review of system configurations and detailed reports to ensure viability of system performance.  • Low voltage cabling and installation of routers, switches, printers, PCs, consoles, patch panels, access points and patient monitoring systems.  •Upgrades, configurations, and repairs to medical devices. Network Field Engineer AsOne Enterprises, LLC - Chicago, IL July 2016 to December 2018 • Decommission and removal of routers, switches and wireless access points in corporate offices and retail locations.  • Rack, mount, cable and deploy initial configuration of new routers, switches, modems, and wireless access points.  • Connection, termination, and testing of cables, fiber, and circuits for bandwidth upgrades and network continuity .  • Low voltage cabling and tubing through ceilings, walls, and ground. Help Desk Analyst Aunt Martha's Youth Service Center - Olympia Fields, IL November 2014 to June 2017 • Identified, diagnosed and configured computer software, hardware, networks, printers, scanners, and phone issues within set SLO/SLA timeframes.  • Performed hardware repair, installation, maintenance and upgrades for computer equipment and other electronic devices, including VOIP Cisco/Avaya phones, polycom machines, mobile phones, modems, routers, switches, hubs, and wireless access points.  • Proficient in the operations and use of personal computers, utilizing Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, MS Office programs (e.g., Microsoft Office 03/07/10/13 Suite, Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, etc.), Citrix, Sophos Encryption, Internet browsers, websites, e-mail systems, other applications and programs.  • Effectively communicated information in verbal and written formats to provide professional, courteous, and efficient customer service.  • Created, managed, and resolved IT incidents for interactive support of over 1,000 users, both local and remote) and asset documentation through SAManage, Remedy, and Track-IT ticketing systems. Office Manager The Dovetail Project, The Love Foundation - Chicago, IL December 2013 to December 2014 • Prepared revenue, expense, and budget reports for a nonprofit organization.  • Created and managed social networks and social outreach strategies.  • Performed grant and proposal edits, market research, and database developments.  • Managed equipment and inventory, customer service, and other administrative duties. Customer Service Sales Representative EAN Holdings, LLC - Chicago, IL January 2012 to July 2013 • Assisted customers calling an inbound nationwide call center.  • Communicated positively and tactfully to convince customers to make and retain rental car sales.  • Provided quality customer service and processed customer's requests effectively.  • Multi-tasked to efficiently resolve a range of customer queries related to company services and products. IT Administrator University of Iowa November 2008 to July 2011 • Installed and configured computer software, drivers, and operating systems, including the use of Ghost imaging and network interfaces  •PC, MAC, laptop, printer and audio-visual equipment setup, configurations, troubleshooting, and repairs.  •Hardware, software, wired and wireless network, remote, VPN, and virtual connectivity configuration and troubleshooting.  •Active Directory and user accounts management, security updates and patch deployments,   • Performed maintenance computer tasks via requests and reports from ticket tracking software Remedy.  •Extensive use of Microsoft Office suite, database management, computerized design, video editing, and production software from diverse media sources. Education Master's in Business Administration and Management University of Southern Indiana - Evansville, IN January 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Business & Entrepreneurial Management; English-Writing University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA September 2007 to May 2011 Skills microsoft word (10+ years), Comptia A+ (4 years), Active Directory, Exchange, Vmware, VPN, Customer Service, Word Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ September 2014 Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS:  • Ability to work well as a team and on a one-to-one consultancy basis; within time constraints, to meet deadlines, and set priorities.  • Organization and creation of files, reports, spreadsheet data, support-line tickets, databases, outlines, fiscal and accounting projections, and other administrative tasks.  • Ability to quickly learn, construct, interpret and relay information through various forms of communication.