Mobile Phone Specialist - Contractor Mobile Phone Specialist - Contractor Mobile Phone Specialist - Contractor - MarketSource Plainfield, IL Over 23 years of experience in the information technology industry. Provided customer assistance both internally and externally in the information technology industry, as well as other retail and banking environments. Driven problem solver and troubleshooting expertise and aptitude. Devoted independent and or team member with exceptional interpersonal and communications skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mobile Phone Specialist - Contractor MarketSource - Alpharetta, GA May 2019 to Present for Target Tech Mobile, Woodridge, IL  Consult with Target Guests on which mobile devices and accessories best fit the needs of the Guest. After the analysis I then recommend the best cellular packages and eventually see the Guest through the process of the sale, activation, and training of their purchase. Post-sale technical and service support is also provided to the Guest. Daily inventory and weekly inventory along with some scheduling responsibilities. I also assist in the electronics department by assisting Guests with electronics that need to be unlocked from secured areas in which I am trusted with keys to various secured areas and mobile phone vault. Use of POS systems for Verizon, AT&T, Consumer Cellular, and other carriers as well as the Target Tech Point of Sale register. Site Administrator GE Plastics - Ottawa, IL April 2015 to January 2017 Contract Position with CompuCom  Manage the configuration and performance management of all PC systems mainly Windows 10.  Installation and updating of software, as well as the setup and troubleshooting of all equipment  Expertly install, configure, monitor and troubleshoot PC's and related hardware and all OS platforms  Monitor and troubleshoot LAN, install and configure routers Troubleshoot all network and peripheral issues and network connectivity issues. Install and upgrade the systems with virus protection software, spyware, firewall protection software, etc. Configure, install, upgrade and manage Routers, switches and firewalls Provide IT Support like deploying, monitoring, securing, and maintaining all corporate hardware and software. Handling and resolving technical issues for 400+ on-site users and remote users Support to mobile devices (iOS and android) and related applications 24/7 on-call support via company provided phone, and laptop.  Phone: (815) 374-4843  Email: isthegeek73@gmail.com Desktop and Laptop Service Technician Best Buy Service Center - Woodridge, IL December 2012 to February 2013 Contract Position  Responsible for service repairs that consisted of replacing hardware for both Windows and Apple desktops and laptops in an advanced rapid paced environment. Performed advanced diagnostics, restoration, and the repairs on all major brands of computers and laptops. Account Sales and Product Representative for Hewlett Packard MarketSource - Alpharetta, GA September 2007 to December 2008 Responsible for proactively approaching customers in a retail environment and assisting with The HP branded product sales. Solid understanding of consumer electronics and the ability to sell technology with extraordinary customer satisfaction. Product demonstration, merchandising, marketing, training and advertising of HP branded products to sales associates and customers. Professionally representing MarketSource and its clients at all times. Driving product sales at assigned events through customer interaction. Educate customers and associates on why the product is the best choice for customers. Increase visibility and value in client's products and services. Maintaining a sound knowledge of client's consumer electronic products by means of attending weekly and monthly call conferences, webinars, and seminars. Owner, Network Administrator, and Lead Technician C & A Computer Repair and Services SM - Bedford Park, IL September 2002 to September 2006 Owned and operated all aspects of my own computer repair and consulting company. Implemented consultation services as an authorized reseller for the leading brand name computers and peripherals. Responsible for generating sales and performed repair services, systems integration, LAN design, installation and support, help desk and support services to residential and commercial clientele. Provided all levels of computer and network services. Telecommunications and wireless network design, installation, and maintenance of its hardware and their related services. CATV/Coax, CAT5, CAT3 custom cable installations, troubleshooting and upgrades for residential and commercial facilities. Proficient Use of Track*It help desk tracking software system. A/R and A/P bookkeeping and management of business using QuickBooks Pro. Responsible for the hiring and training of new employees. Local and Wide Area Network Administrator, Level II TCF National Bank - Burr Ridge, IL July 2001 to March 2003 Local and Wide Area Network Administrator for 6,000 users and 300 Novell 4.0 servers. Lead project manager and administrator who completed several projects including but not limited to the following; Building a Windows 2000 Server for the Commercial Lending Department, who was implementing a new database system. Implementing new security and group policies for the Windows 2000 workstations on a non-Microsoft server for the whole bank. Upgrading and replacing the Security Department's workstations and software for a whole department system upgrade. New branch install projects, which consisted of the design, configuration and installation of a Novell rack server, router, ups, running CAT5 cable, installation of all the terminals, printers, and other related equipment. Planned, lead, and installed a new safe deposit box system at a branch, which consisted of 25 workstations and printers. Assisted the team of administrators with an email conversion, in which we discontinued the use of a web-based email client and migrated to Microsoft Outlook. Provided remote technical assistance for branches after hours.  Recommended and ordered workstations, servers and or replacement parts for various departments and branches.  Configuration, rebuilding, rollouts (using Ghost Software and or manually), and troubleshooting of HP, Dell, and Compaq pc's, and HP printers for current and new employees. Assisted in priority one server down weekend calls.  Responsible for the weekly downloading of virus software updates and installation. Provided technical support for internal clients in person, via telephone, or branch visit. Weekend on-call shift rotation. Operating systems used: Microsoft Windows 95, 98, 2000, XP, Novell 4.0 and software used Office 97, XP, and 2000.    Phone: (815) 374-4843 Email: isthegeek73@gmail.com Education Cosmetology The Salon Professionals Academy - Shorewood, IL May 2013 AAS in Networking University of Phoenix - Mokena, IL April 2011 Skills NETWARE, SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION, FIREWALL, FIREWALLS, TRACK-IT, FILE SYSTEMS, LAN, MICROSOFT OFFICE, MICROSOFT WINDOWS, NOVELL, INVENTORY, PURCHASING, CATV, CABLING, COAX, HELP DESK, PRINTERS, PRINTING, MAINTENANCE