DCGS-A Systems Administrator DCGS-A Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> DCGS-A Systems Administrator - NORTHROP GRUMMAN Sierra Vista, AZ Dynamic and results-driven technical professional with expertise in systems administration, client relations, technical troubleshooting, preventative maintenance, technical leadership, and IT project execution. Exceptionally adept in crafting novel solutions that optimize processes and profits. Well-versed in compliance regulations. Articulate communicator, analytical problem-solver, and champion of cross-functional teamwork. Work Experience DCGS-A Systems Administrator NORTHROP GRUMMAN - Fort Huachuca, AZ April 2018 to Present Principal overseer of Virtualized DCGS-A systems. Leverage expertise in Active Directory, VMWare, VCenter, ESRI Produces, Pure Storage, and Remedy Ticketing System to administer effective and efficient solutions. Drive adherence to DOD IA Compliance regulations for all servers and patches. Support and guide engineering updates to network, system, and infrastructure. Install and upgrade system as needed. Enhance data management, trouble issues, and issue strategic resolutions. Verify and validate all data sources and information integrity.  • Expertly managed 3000+ servers (RHEL 7, Windows Server 2012) including 5000 client machines on Windows 10.  • Resolved 1000+ Remedy trouble across diverse issues.  • Created over 1000+ user accounts, including student emails, access permissions, account clean-up, and account reset/edit/unlock of edits. Senior Network Technician GENERAL DYNAMICS IT - Fort Huachuca, AZ January 2017 to April 2018 Delivered exemplary systems administration for the Unmanned Aircraft Systems program for the US Army. Spearheaded vendor contracts and relations with third party contractors, soldiers, and civilians. Managed user groups, permissions, edits, and information security. Resolved inquiries, issues, and work orders. Replaced hardware and optimized workstation operational effectiveness.  • Provided oversight of 500+ user accounts in Active Directory.  • Achieved IA compliance by driving network accessibility for users.  • Selected as the Assistant Server Manager tasked to keep servers current. Systems Maintainer & Integrator US Army, Fort Sam Houston - San Antonio, TX January 2012 to December 2016 Coordinated preventative maintenance scheduling and upgrades to secure network and systems. Streamlined issue resolution and troubleshooting with PCs, printers, and devices across Windows, Linux and user application environments. Aligned all operations to internal/external standards and compliance regulations. Interfaced with clients to identify client needs, issue corrections, and ensure quality services. Provided training, installation, and troubleshooting, and back-up operations.  • DCGS-A Helpdesk Technician overseeing 100+ workstations. Configured IFS Stack.  • Appointed Trojan Lead over a 4-member unit to deftly execute Trojan operations.  • Installed IAVA security scan patches in compliance to IA regulations.  • Transitioned the DCGS-A brain from one server to a new server room. Education Bachelor of Business Administration & Management Information Systems in BAS Wayland Baptist University Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION, VMWARE, REMEDY, DATA MANAGEMENT Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-clevenger Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SPC