Student: MS - IT Student: MS - IT Experienced Computer Network Professional Re-entering the Workforce Boonsboro, MD Offering a Comprehensive Computer Background in Computer Networking and Security. Knowledgeable in: Cisco Network Engineering, Design, Implementation, Systems Administration, Technical Writing and training. Excellent written and oral communication skills with the ability to interface at all levels. Currently pursuing MS in IT with Telecommunications Management Specialization, to graduate May 2020. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Student: MS - IT UMUC University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD October 2017 to Present Currently pursuing a Masters of Science Degree in Information Technology with Telecommunications Management Specialization, to graduate May 2020. Lead Network Technician Queens University - Belfast January 2001 to November 2003 Provided full time technical and administrative support to University’s large 25,000+ user telecommunications network and assisted in its continuing development and expansion. Procured, configured, implemented, as well as monitored and maintained Cisco, Cabletron and Enterasys, switches and routers and hubs. Delivered ongoing support, diagnosis and resolution of problems in large enterprise network ensuring University’s network availability and peak performance. Network Admin/Desktop Support (contractor) Robert Half Technology - Irvine, CA September 1999 to November 1999 Migrated large international manufacturing company network from Novell to NT and prepared for Y2K Compliance. Well versed in multiple windows versions, supported post network migration management through both proxy and desktop support. Wrote post migration documentation. Contractor Quickstart Technologies - Irvine, CA April 1999 to August 1999 Configured 500+ IBM 600E Series, Laptops for Edison International's Y2K compliance for both Domestic and International sites. Performed multiple system upgrades including: Windows installation, utilizing ghost imaging, Lotus Notes Client, configured dialup remote connectivity and various industry proprietary applications. Interviewed users and inventoried PCs, laptop configurations, and applications for data migration and post migration recovery. Also conducted Quality Assurance inspections. Systems Administrator (Contractor) Headway Technologies - Newport Beach, CA January 1999 to March 1999 Migrated Windows 100+ user network from Windows NT to Novell NDS v.5 including GroupWise email client. Configured network software and communication protocols on user workstations and network servers. Completed multiple software and hardware installations. As Systems Administrator created and managed NDS Objects; organized group, alias objects and set up new users. Maintained system security through object, property and file rights. Documented all client procedures and post migration network architecture. Computer/Communication Technician Montgomery County Circuit Court - Rockville, MD April 1998 to August 1998 Supported a PC-LAN Token-Ring network environment, utilizing Novell 4.1 with Windows 95. Maintained and updated Law Library via NetWare CD ROM Volumes. Created, maintained, and restored system backups. Performed multiple software/hardware installations and configurations. Responded to help desk calls/tickets to assist end-users. Maintained and updated courthouse website. Utilized vendor technical support and Internet to research and investigate resolutions to pending issues. Installed and utilized Netscape to train court judges on the use of the Internet. Responsible for audio recordings of court proceedings, their related equipment and audiotape duplications and transcripts. Background security clearance required. Technical Sales Representative American Technology Labs, Inc - Ijamsville, MD November 1997 to April 1998 Inside sales to Internet Service Providers (ISPs), and new VARs, VADs also selling to 125 volt D.C. and ATM end users. Products sold: Wide Area Network equipment, digital modems (CSU/DSUs 56K, 64K, and T1/FT1s), Time Division/Statistical Multiplexers, ATM Edge Switches and a variety of cables. Education MS in IT - Telecommunications Management Specialization University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD May 2020 BS in Computer Networking and Security University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2016 Skills analyzer (Less than 1 year), Bgp (Less than 1 year), Cna (10+ years), Novell (5 years), security (6 years), Technical Support (6 years), Active Directory (3 years), Networking (9 years), Windows (10+ years), Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Sales (5 years), Vmware (3 years), Customer Service Certifications/Licenses Certified Network Pro 2012 to Present Certified PC Pro (A+) 2012 to Present Certified Novell Administrator (CNA) 1999 to Present Groups The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) 2016 to Present Educational and scientific computing society. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers: (IEEE) 2016 to Present Women in Engneering (WIE) 2016 to Present Upsilon Pi Epsilon (UPE) 2014 to Present International Honor Society for the Computing and Information Disciplines Internet Society January 2018 to Present Additional Information Technical Knowledge    Routing: EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, BGP, PBR, route redistribution, TCP/IP, HDLC, PPP, Multilink, ISDN, VoIP, QoS, DNS, HTTP, SMTP, and SNMP    Switching: Vlan, VTP, STP, Ether channel, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP.    Security: ACL, NAT, VPN, IPSec &, GRE Tunnels, 802.1x, Port Security, Firewalls, TACACS Netflow analyzer, Syslog, Visio, Solarwind and Wireshark.    Design:  Implementation, operation and documentation of enterprise-wide network (access, distributed, core), IP addressing and related infrastructure. Writing and amending request for proposals (RFP). The Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF), Systems development life cycle (SDLC) Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall, and Project Management.