Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer Richmond, TX Work Experience Network Administrator Kufan Group - Oil & Gas September 2012 to October 2015 Responsible for the effective provisioning, installation, configuration, operation, security and maintenance of core network services, network devices and communication systems. Documents, tracks, monitors, and coordinates with other team members on issues to ensure a timely resolution. Assists with equipment acquisitions, deployments, upgrades, tracking, repair and recycling. Assists in developing security standards, procedures and guidelines for multiple platforms within a diverse environment.    • Perform administration duties for networking hardware including routers, switches, hubs, gateways, access points, network interface cards, networking cables, network bridges, modems, firewalls and other related network hardware  • Contributes to design, integration, and installation of hardware and software  • Work with third party IT vendors as needed.  • Perform additional duties and assignments as requested in support of IT systems.  • Implementing Factory Acceptance Test with the client representatives including: network redundancy, Servers, Workstations, Switches performance.  • Documented project milestones and deliverables and ensured target deadlines and budget objectives were achieved. Network Specialist Iraqi Telecommunications and Post Company August 2008 to September 2012 • Install and support LANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Install and maintain network hardware and software.  • Analyze and isolate issues.  • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.  • Evaluate and modify system's performance.  • Identify user needs.  • Determine network and system requirements.  • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.  • Design and deploy networks.  • Assign routing protocols and routing table configuration.  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers.  • Maintain network servers such as file servers, VPN gateways, intrusion detection systems. Education Bachelor's Skills Systems analysis, Technical support, Documentation, Technical documentation, Publishing, Ccna, Cisco, CCNP, Office 365, Router Certifications/Licenses CCENT CCNA Routing and Switching CCNA Security CCNA Routing and Switching