IT Technician IT Technician IT Technician Minooka, IL Work Experience IT Technician RESPONSIVE NETWORK SERVICES - Oswego, IL March 2018 to April 2018 • Excellent customer service skills.  • Daily travel between customer sites.  • Proficient with PC troubleshooting and repair.  • Ability to properly configure local and network printers.  • Experience racking and cabling server cabinets.  • Active note-taking skills, including mileage logs.  • Experience with LogMeIn. INTELIQUENT - Chicago, IL October 2017 to November 2017 • Assisted Network Operations Center (NOC) technicians with daily workload.  • Transcribed customer issues into an internal ticketing system.  • Traced call logs for problematic telecommunication issues through Empirix.  • Monitored system maintenance requests and escalated for approval.  • Expedited new requests, so that the customer received a response as quickly as possible. Help Desk/Level 1 Network Administrator DELL SERVICES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT - Batavia, IL October 2016 to April 2017 • Experience with Windows, Mac OS X, and Ubuntu terminals as well as PuTTY. Novice Linux experience  • Basic network admin experience, including cabling.  • Ability to create user accounts, inboxes, and mail lists, as well as monitoring and troubleshooting said accounts through Active Directory.  • Routing tickets for both scientific and administrative departments via Service-Now ticket system, phone, voicemail, and email.  • Daily face-to-face customer service and tech assistance.  • Mediating with Computing Division departments to determine the best course of action and applying it to goals and requests.  • Knowledge of Remote Desktop and Bomgar (screen sharing) to resolve user issues remotely.  • Preparing and monitoring the use of loaner systems and other assets issued to users.  • Experience with Microsoft Exchange.  • On-call duty every three weeks. Dispatcher URGENT COURIER INC - Oswego, IL May 2016 to August 2016 • Proficient in routing couriers with the use of Digital Waybill.  • Constantly monitoring traffic and suggesting the fastest route for our couriers.  • Comfortable in a fast-paced environment. Many of the medical samples ready for transport have a short lifespan. These orders have a small window in which the sample will become unusable. Reassigning drivers or adjusting routes calls for quick thinking. Dispatchers will sometimes have to think outside of the box.  • Communicating with clients daily requires excellent customer service skills. Logistics Supervisor VINTAGE TECH / KUUSAKOSKI - Romeoville, IL August 2013 to December 2015 • Responsible for the daily coordination and cost effective scheduling for all inbound and outbound loads.  • Knowledgeable in Microsoft Office applications.  • Ensure schedule communication at the facility level is timely and accurate.    • Create, communicate and provide BOL's (Bills of Lading) prior to pickups.    • Ensure timely communication of all SOW's (Statements of Work) to the facilities prior to pickups.    • Ensure local loads are coordinated to optimize truck utilization.    • Review current workloads at facilities to insure pickups were to deliver to a facility that has the capacity to process material prior to scheduling shipments. Technical Support Representative SUPPORT TECHS - Aurora, IL May 2011 to January 2013 • Monitored and diagnosed enterprise level network equipment.  • Worked directly with on-site technicians during installation and repairs.  • Configured various routers and network storage devices.  • Assisted customers with end-user product configuration and care.  • Remained current and knowledgeable with new products including: tablets, phones, networking devices, and computers.  • Proficient in PC building, troubleshooting, and repair. Education JOLIET JUNIOR COLLEGE - Joliet, IL 2007 to 2009 MINOOKA COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOL - Minooka, IL 2000 to 2004