Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Charlotte, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator TUMA HNOS LTDA January 2008 to Present Since January 2008 I started working in IT field for (ONAT) administrating an  email server using MDaemon. Also providing technical support, installing and  upgrading operating systems, detecting and fixing hardware or software issues,  correcting errors and security problems.   In August 2014 I moved to Bolivia and started working in (TUMA HNOS LTDA)  Company holding the position of Network Administrator. My function there was  to administrate a Mentor accounting system using Virtual Box Server 2003, LAN  and WAN with Remote Desktop connections. Doing daily backups to the server,  assigning privileges or restrictions to users. Taking care of maintenance and the  security of every terminal in my network. Sharing printers, folders and documents.  I also did customer service using Team Viewer, email or by phone.   On May 2016 I moved to United States, in July 2017 I started as a Field satellite  technician for (DRS) installing Dish satellite TV system with Hopper and VIP  technology. In February 2018 I changed to (ITG Communications) as a Cable  Installation Technician installing TV cable box, residential telephone and  internet service for COMCAST.   I started working with fiber optic as a technician in the Jax landing station for  AMX-1 submarine cable in June 2018. As a Fiber technician I have been installing  racks for Google servers, monitoring Ciena equipment, fiber optic attenuation,  temperature, humidity, power consumption, maintenance windows. On December  2018 they also gave me the responsibility of the NOC carrying out monitoring  operations.  On 2019 I moved to Charlotte NC and started with Black Box as a Infrastucture  technician doing backbone rough using UTP cat 6 and 6a. Route, dressing and  terminating building the TR/NER. Education High school or equivalent Skills Networking in small office (12 PCs) Detecting and repairing hardware or software problems, running UTP cat 5, 6 and coax. Resolving connectivity problems (Wi-Fi and LAN Printers, Router configurations, access point, switch, etc. Installing and setting Dish satellite TV system with Hopper and VIP technology. Installing and setting TV cable cloud DVR box, residential telephone and internet service with XB6 Modem- Router. Display courtesy interpersonal skill with all customer interactions. Maintained composure and patience in face of difficult client’ situations. Researched, resolved and followed up on technical issues. (8 years), Help Desk Certifications/Licenses Network Administrator October 2007 to Present Computer Operator March 2008 to Present Field Satellite Technician October 2017 to Present Cable Installation Technician March 2018 to Present