Maintenance Maintenance Fitchburg, WI I am a hard working, quality minded, customer oriented person looking forward to having a career at your company. Work Experience Maintenance Fiduciary Real Estate Developement inc - Fitchburg, WI October 2018 to July 2019 General maintence of apartment buildings. Including carpentry, plumbling, Electrical, painting, drywall, hvac, appliances, pool maint and more. Low Voltage systems tech J&K Security - Madison, WI July 2016 to July 2017 Installing and reparing low voltage systems. Access control, CCTV, fire alarm ystems, speaker systems, security systems, networking, nurse call, etc. Electrican Northside Electric - Madison, WI May 2016 to July 2016 Small Electrical Co. Mostly residential electrical. Knob and tube midigation, new service, general electrical work. brewery controls Paleo Electronics - Madison, WI August 2015 to October 2015 Working under a licensed electrican, assited/managed in the instalation of power and control wiring of brewery tanks, fermentors, and kettles. As well as ball valve controls for glycol cooling systems. And other related systems. Operator, Setup Trainee Brogan Mfg. Inc - Elkhorn, WI January 2012 to May 2013 Operate and maintain tolerances of part runs. Made from plastics formed on cnc lathes and mills. Began training on the setup of cnc mills. Fire Alarm Service Technician Sundevil Fire and Security - Phoenix, AZ October 2007 to April 2009 My duties included the repair of all types of fire alarm systems, sprinkler systems and supression systems. I had to deal with many difficult situations where, others were unable to figure out the problem or there was insufficent documentation. Had dealings with sprinkler, risers(flow and tamper), backflow, large freezer-fire monitoring, Ansul supression, voice evac, area beam detectors, 120v Local Bell, duct detectors, remote indicators, pulls/smokes/heats, horn strobes, preaction systems, door mags, FM200, Fire Pumps, Multi-Buildings, Schools, and many more. Some of the various systems I delt with were EST, IRC, Quickstart, Silent Knight, Notifier, Firelight, FCI, Bosch, Simplex, Gamewell, Secutron, Thorn(Autocall), Siemans, Series 3000, Ademco, Kiddie, and more. Fire Alarm Firetrol Protection Systems - Phoenix, AZ January 2007 to September 2007 At Firetrol I installed the initial wire structure of fire alarm systems. Once these systems were in I assisted in the final programing of the system. As site forman I directed others on the installation of the wire structure. Became certified to program quickstart panels. computer network administrator U.S. Army September 2002 to April 2006 Soldier - 25B Sept '02 - Apr '06  The information systems operator-analyst supervises, installs, operates and performs unit level maintenance on multifunctional/multi-user information processing systems, peripheral equipment, and associated devices in mobile and fixed facilities; performs analyst functions; constructs, edits, and tests computer system programs; conducts data system studies and prepares documentation and specifications for proposals; operates and performs Preventive Maintenance Checks and Services (PMCS) on assigned vehicles and power generators. My duties were that of a computer network administrator.