Manager Manager Manager Houston, TX Information Technology Network Specialist  Proven skills as a Help Desk Remote Technician, Network Support Technician, Network Analyst and Network Administrator. Experienced in contributing acquired skills to a Network Server and/or a Desktop support role. Proficient in troubleshooting, installing and migrating multi-platform Networks. Systems and Business Analyst experience in system and requirement analysis, application and business process design and project management. Work Experience Manager Eado Smoke & Vape - Canal St - Houston, TX March 2019 to June 2019 Install and configure wall and zone display cases.  ? Install and configure Clover countertop and mobile POS system.  ? Place and receive all inventory items and input into Clover POS system.  ? Apply customer service with friendly disposition.  ? Communicate clearly and concisely with customers to determine their needs.  ? Provide customers with CBD, Tobacco and Vape product information to create and execute a completed sale situation. IT Network Administrator Houston Keydata Computers - Houston, TX 2009 to 2016 Architect, Automate and Manage mixed Operating System platform environments, each with its own set of specific challenges.  ? Plan, schedule and execute different stages of new and existing Network Migrations.  ? Configure and maintain Avaya Telecommunication equipment.  ? Utilize expertise in TCP/IP, IIS, WINS, NTFS, IPX/SPX, DHCP, Active Directory, DNS and DHCP Server to maximize LAN/WAN performance for business objectives.  ? Diagnose and troubleshoot small to midsize commercial and residential networks consisting of various servers, desktops and laptops.  ? Install, configure and test various client provided software and hardware.  ? Install and configure residential and commercial Cat6 network data, and Fiber Optic cabling.  ? Utilize multiple Network Server backup and data retrieval software such as Symantec Backup Exec., Acronis and Carbonite. IT Network Administrator Obstetrical and Gynecological Associates - Houston, TX September 2008 to April 2009 Configure/maintain Server virtualization and Hypervisors utilizing Vsphere and Hyper-Vmanager.  ? Migration, installation and configuration of physical servers to VMWare ESX/ESXi Servers physically attached to SAN storage devices.  ? Utilize Citrix XenApp to distribute virtual applications across the network  ? Analyze the needs of Clinical Facilities for feasibility studies, systems design and implementation to develop new and/or modify company information processing systems and (EMR) Electronic Medical Records utilizing Microsoft SQL for database access.  ? Configure/maintain Server virtualization and Hypervisors utilizing Vsphere and Hyper-Vmanager.  ? Extensive knowledge in utilizing Citrix XenApp for application virtualization, Citrix XenDesktop for desktop virtualization and Citrix XenClient for client virtualization.  ? Maintain/modify rack mounted Cisco Router 3500 Catalyst Switches swapping out power supplies, WICs and VWICs as needed.  ? Maintain/configure Barracuda Spam E-mail unit as needed including updating the Bayesian database to insure accuracy of the Barracuda Bayesian filter.  ? Provide support to local and remote users across the OGA Network. IT Network Administrator Park Plaza Hospital / CNS Technologies - Houston, TX April 1997 to July 2006 Install/configure various Microsoft Windows 2000/2003 Server systems in accordance with Clients budgets and deadlines.  ? Install/configure various end user Microsoft Windows 2000/XP Professional networked workstations  ? Service and maintain Exchange 2000/2003 servers by adding, deleting and modifying user email accounts as needed by networked clients.  ? Installation and configuration of various network devices including 3Com, Netopia and Cisco routers, switches and hubs.  ? Design and support a wide range of small to midsize networks in and around the Houston Medical Center.  ? Design and support network server systems and client workstations in accordance with service and contract level agreements. Education CERTIFIED BUSINESS PROFESSIONAL Lone Star College Tomball - Houston, TX 2005 CERTIFIED BUSINESS PROFESSIONAL Lone Star College Tomball - Houston, TX 2005 ASSOCIATE OF APPLIED SCIENCE in Computer Systems Technology Microcomputer Technology Institute - Houston, TX 1994 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Netware, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Wins, Dns, Iis, Network administration, Noc, Server administration, Ftp, Smtp, Security, Sharepoint, Mobile Device Management, Customer Service, Desktop Support, Sales Experience Additional Information Summary of Skills  ? System and Network Administration ? Server Administration and Repair  ? System Security, Backup and Recovery ? Mixed Platform Environments  ? Infrastructure (LAN/WAN/VPN/NOC) ? Workstation Installation and Configuration  ? Documenting Procedure and Protocol ? End User Training and Support    Technology Summary  ? Hardware: HP, Dell, IBM, ESXi, iSCSI SAN, 3Com, Netopia, Netgear, Linksys, Avaya, Cisco, Fortinet, Extreme  ? Systems and Software: Microsoft Windows 8, 10, Microsoft Windows Server 2010, 2012, Microsoft SQL, Netware, Microsoft Office 365, Citrix Xen, VMware vSphere, SharePoint, Android, Symantec  ? Protocols: TCP/IP, DNS, IIS, DHCP, WINS, SMTP, FTP, RDP, Active Directory