NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR - MEDEX DIRECT PHARMACY Macomb, MI To obtain a challenging and rewarding position in IT Administration with an organization which recognizes my true potential and provides me sufficient avenues for professional growth through nurturing my technical skills and competencies Work Experience NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR MEDEX DIRECT PHARMACY June 2007 to Present • Perform ongoing hardware and software maintenance operations, including installing or upgrading hardware or software.  • Provided staff and users with assistance solving computer related problems, such as malfunctions and program problems.  • Performed daily back-ups and restores with Symantec and Barracuda.  • Configured laptops, desktops, printers and scanners using TCP/IP/DHCP protocols.  • Managed Windows servers 2008-2012  • Setup VPN connections for out-of-state employees.  • Installed and configured Dell and Cisco switches.  • Managed and created email accounts through intermedia.  • Installed and configured Microsoft Lync 2010  • Managed and added users in Active Directory.  • Map network drives, printers and scanners.  • Installed and configured SonicWALL firewalls.  • Provided technical assistance of migration of physical servers to virtual servers through VMware vSphere.  • Assisted off site employees with technical issues over phone and TeamViewer.  • Worked with outside vendors to improve employee efficiency with third party applications. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science Wayne State University 2011 Skills Windows, Active Directory, Technical Support, Networking, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Vmware, Windows 7 Additional Information • Analytical thinker, consistently resolving ongoing issues, often called upon to consult on problems that have eluded resolution by others.  • Demonstrated problem analysis/ resolution skills, ability to troubleshoot, solve problems quickly & effectively  • Excellent client management skills innate ability to build strong, lasting and mutually beneficial relationships.