Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows Network/Systems Administrator Annandale, VA Systems and Network Administrator - seeking a senior position with a well-established organization in the DC Metropolitan area that needs an experienced and reliable administrator to maintain business operations. Work Experience Network Administrator Garson Law LLC - Bethesda, MD February 2013 to Present Responsibilities  Continued responsibilities from previous years of employment.    Installed, configured and maintained NAGIOS monitoring server, allowing full monitoring of all devices remotely    Research, planned and installed Canon multi-function printers, including negotiation purchase and service agreement – saving the firm $7,000 on final purchase price.    Updated and managed Group Policy for increased network security and management.    Installed and configured Dell Sonicwall High Availability with dual ISP failover.    Installed new MS Server 2012 R2 server and promoted to a secondary Domain Controller.    Created and migrated current file server to new virtual server MS Server 2012 R2 server.    Installed, configured and managed TrueCrypt encryption software on multiple laptops and external hard drives.     Activated, created and managed MS Exchange Archive mailboxes for all Attorneys and essential personnel.     Setup MS Search Server, implemented "paperless office" procedures and facilitated new policies for employees ensuring for a smooth transition.    Setup help desk ticketing system for easy management, delegation and documentation technical issues.    Revamped intranet webpage for new/current employees providing a manageable knowledge base of company policies, notices and resource links.    Managed and setup new Disaster Recovery solution and documentation. Thoroughly tested and revised plan as necessary.    Managed and planned the Firms document retention, e-discovery and transition to "paperless" office." Created document management solution to significantly reduce the load of hard copy files. Network Administrator Walker & Dunlop - Bethesda, MD November 2012 to February 2013 Responsibilities  Planned and configured dev/testing site – including multiple VSphere 5.1 hosts – on isolated network.    Performed system updates, patching and preventative maintenance on over 80+ server environment.     Performed system administration, task/project management, help desk tickets, and documentation.     Analyzed, recommended, and evaluated new hardware and software.    Performed advanced diagnostics and maintenance on desktop devices when additional expertise is required.     Assumes contractual management responsibilities; assisted in requests for proposals, vendor selection, and contract monitoring.     Worked with cross-functional teams in the design and implementation of information technology. Assisted in the training of other Information Systems personnel to improve their technical skills.     Assisted departmental management with development of systems standards, short and long term goals, project management, and strategic directions.     Kept current on new developments and techniques in information technology.     Accomplishments  Researched, planned and updated multi-site corporate backup infrastructure and software – including negotiations to save $75,000 discount on final proposal. IT Specialist Garson Claxton LLC - Bethesda, MD January 2005 to November 2012 Supervised and managed all IT related activities. This includes installation of new software, hardware, desktop/laptops, monitors, peripherals, network printers, firewalls, network connections, corporate website changes and AV support. Managed and maintained all software, hardware, upgrading or adding components to server/desktop, removing and changing equipment and/or applications. Teach/assist staff on all new software/hardware related improvements/upgrades and provide support for improved user productivity. Maintained the highest level of user satisfaction by resolving all technical issues quickly and efficiently.    Built, configured and manage VMware virtual servers – Windows 2003/2008 - for testing and live implementation.    Planned, purchased, built and configured physical servers – including SAS, RAID 1, primary and secondary partitions, dual NICs, dual power supplies and CAT 6 connectivity.     Tested and configured multiple Windows 2003/2008 servers – including promoting to Domain Controllers, installing SQL 2008 and file sharing.    Use Backup Exec 2010 to manage daily backups to tape/disk and offsite Disaster Recovery servers. Complete test restores, update DR Plan documentation and manage spare hardware/software inventory at remote site.    Management of user and group accounts in Active Directory, user home directories, drive mappings, group policies, DNS, organizational units and security permissions.    Monitor and maintain Microsoft Exchange 2010 server via MS Exchange Management Console, troubleshoot SMTP problems, change global messaging settings, configure Active Sync, MS Web Access and implement new policies.    Created and managed Blackberry Enterprise Server (BES) from scratch. Responsible for setting up new devices, implementing policies and wiping devices remotely through server.     Maintain Wifi connectivity and Sonicwall security - including fail-over connection, VPN and port accessibility.    Setup, configured and manage NAS within domain environment – including FTP connectivity.    Maintain documentation of all LAN/WAN network devices, update problem logs and common fixes for emergency reference manual.     Administered Symantec Brightmail appliance, spam policies and manage email quarantine filters.    Responsible for planning a full systems and infrastructure upgrade of Windows XP and Windows 7 roll-out including installation of Office 2007 and 2010.    Install Symantec End Point Protection on all Windows workstation platforms. Monitor virus detections, and clean/rebuild infected PCs as needed.    Installed, configured, and maintain a WSUS for managing/installing MS updates to a particular OU.    Responsible for configuring and maintaining all Blackberry, iPhone, iPads, and Android based handheld devices.    Manage corporate Verizon Wireless account – including purchase of new/upgrade devices, plan details and usage.    Installed NTI environmental system and configured custom alerts in server room to monitor temperature levels 24/7.     Established and manage new IT policies, monitor user desktops, bandwidth usage and servers connections.    Configured and monitored status of all printers in addition to upgrading printer firmware, drivers, managing toner inventories and handling installation of all other peripherals.    Responsible for updates/changes to corporate website – including custom HTML coding. www.garsonlaw.com     Setup and configure new users on Nortel PBX server, including voicemail and training on phone sets.     Facilitated with third party vendors and consultants, while responsible for purchasing all hardware and software.    Frequently assisted firm clients with technical issues related to case documents and/or document recovery.     Actively provide desktop, configuration, and help desk support for all staff.    Provided savings of several thousands of dollars by negotiating new contracts with vendors.    Setup conference room meetings with Polycom phone systems, plasma TV projector and computer.    Primary technical contact for office managers, admins, supervisors and clients.    On call 24/7 in case of emergencies. Education Master's in Business Administration George Washington University - Washington, DC August 2018 to Present Bachelor of Business Administration in Computer Information Systems James Madison University - Harrisonburg, VA Skills Operating Systems: Windows Server OS, Windows OS, iOS, MacOS, Sonicwall, Symantec Brightmail Appliance, NAGIOS Hardware: HP Proliant & Dell Servers, NAS, Dell/HP PCs, HP Printers, HP ProCurve Switches, Canon MFPs, Digital Scanners, Sonicwall Firewall, Datto Cloud backup, Polycom VOIP phones, Synology NAS Software: Active Directory, DNS, TCP/IP, SMTP, Exchange 2010, MS Office, MS Search Server, WSUS, OpenDNS, VPN and VMWare vSphere Hypervisor, VeraCrypt encryption, TeamViewer, Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Vmware, Microsoft Office, Security