IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Network Security Administrator Cincinnati, OH Results-driven IT Manager with 20+ years of IT operations experience, including managing  national IT teams, maximizing performance and ensuring optimal security. Applied customer  service concepts to improve user experience for national clients, employees and  administration. Work Experience IT Manager Hamilton Casework Solutions - Cincinnati, OH October 2010 to March 2019 Managed complete infrastructure across the Ohio and California corporate offices.  • Executed hardware, software acquisitions, and maintenance contracts.  • Developed coordinated, implemented and maintained standards and procedures to  protect the security and integrity of information systems and data.  • Performed vulnerability & threat assessments to safeguard assets.  • Conducted hands-on monitoring of network traffic for user violations of acceptable use  policy and potential insider threats.  • Designed, installed, configured and operated new and existing network infrastructure  devices, including Firewalls, LAN/WAN, wireless networks, servers, switches  • Directed implementations of Digium Switchvox VoIP, Enterprise Content Management  Software.  • Administered data backups and ensured data recoverability with DR and DRaaS.  • Designed and implemented Axis and UniFi video security solution.  • Managed and optimized ECM workflow day to day operations.  • Spearheaded the migration to the Microsoft Office 365 platform.  • Created and executed IT budgets while maintaining cost efficiency.  • Implemented Help Desk and remote support, increasing employee productivity by  ensuring proper network connectivity of all sites, servers, workstations, telephone  equipment and other network appliances.  • Monitored network performance to determine possible areas for improvement and  documented updates required for future upgrades. Recommended changes to improve  systems and network configurations, and determine hardware or software requirements  related to such changes.  • Mentored and supported junior team members. Network Administrator Hamilton Casework Solutions - Cincinnati, OH December 2002 to October 2010 Promoted to IT Manager. Network Administrator RINA Sytems, Inc. - Cincinnati, OH July 1998 to December 2002 Managed LAN/WAN, configurations, and supported 35 concurrent users.  • Performed software and hardware troubleshooting, implemented and managed a Symantec  Antivirus corporate server.  • Installed and configured a test machine laboratory for use with Norton Ghost Imaging file  and print servers.  • Identified and resolved company wide network and computer related issues, ensuring  network accessibility by configuring, repairing and optimizing servers and workstations.  • Designed and implemented network layout, managed daily backup operations and  recommended upgrades and improvements.  • Purchased and maintained hardware and software; ensured security of client’s proprietary  and confidential information.  • Developed and implemented VB tracking program to record all computer configurations  and history. Education Computer Science University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH 1998 to 2000 Skills Microsoft windows (10+ years), Operations (10+ years), User experience (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Hyper-V (10+ years), Cisco Meraki (8 years), Budgeting (5 years), Document Management (6 years), Dhcp (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Security (10+ years), ERP (10+ years), Ethernet (10+ years), Office 365 (8 years), Firewalls (10+ years), Information Security (10+ years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/dimitriz Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4 Certifications/Licenses Certified Blockchain Expert - V2 April 2019 to Present https://www.credential.net/c1c1ob4m CompTIA Security+ ce Certification May 2019 to May 2022 https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/6e721a87-ad85-4cc6-b3e3-0f710c214a5a/linked_in_profile Additional Information • Windows Desktop XP-10 & Microsoft Windows Server 2003-2016 environment  • AD, DHCP, DNS, GP  • Microsoft Azure & Hyper-V virtualization  • Dell/HP Server Environment  • Cisco Meraki, Ubiquiti UniFi network infrastructure (Firewalls, Switches, WiFi, LAN/WAN, VLAN, Cameras management)  • IDS/IPS  • IPSec VPN  • Wireshark, Kali Linux  • StorageCraft, Carbonite, & Unitrends backup solutions  • DRaaS Integration  • Kaseya VSA Remote Monitoring & End-Point Patch Management Solutions  • Symantec EPP, Sophos Intercept X, Kaspersky & Malwarebytes Endpoint Security  • Digium Switchvox VoIP  • Square-9 Global Search ECM  • Office 365 Environment  • Syteline ERP