Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Hyphen Solutions McKinney, TX Network engineer with years of experience in designing implementing and maintaining networks. Configured Cisco ASA firewalls, ISE Servers, Routers, and Switches. Work Experience Network Engineer Hyphen Solutions - Addison, TX December 2015 to Present Network Engineer for Hyphen Solutions. Maintain Cisco routers/switches/firewalls, Meraki switches, HP switches, and Juniper switches. Configure and maintain OSPF routing, static routes, VLANs, switched virtual interfaces, port security, NTP, and wireless access. Design and configure ASA firewalls. Configure security contexts, ACLs, DMZ, site to site tunnels, VPN Tunnels, Group Policies, and AnyConnect VPN. Install and maintain Identity Service Engine. Setup and maintain AAA, authorization profiles, dACL, posturing, patches, and upgrades. Installed and designed network monitoring with Solarwinds. Configure device inventory, active/passive monitors, alerts, flow control, and configuration manager. Network Administrator Webcetera L.P - Flower Mound, TX May 2013 to December 2015 Network Administrator maintaining the network for a software engineering company. Monitor the network connectivity in the United States and India offices with PRTG. Maintain and update company firewall and NAT rules on Dell Sonicwall routers. Manage site-to-site VPN tunnels between the company and the customers. Configure and maintain Cisco, HP, and Dell switches. Maintain and troubleshoot Shoretel phone system. Systems administrator managing Microsoft Windows 2003, 2008, and 2012 servers. Citrix Xen server administrator managing three data centers. Create server and workstation images with Clonezilla. Process all trouble tickets on Jira, and Spiceworks. Systems Adminstrator February 2012 to March 2013 Support the U.S. Marines in Regional Command South West in Afghanistan. Configure Cisco 3570 and 3560 switches on Camp Leatherneck. Monitor the RC SW NIPR, SIPR, CXI networks with SolarWinds. Answer trouble calls via phone, email, or trouble ticket. Process all trouble tickets with Remedy ticketing system. Troubleshoot Cisco switches, maintain VLANs, and security. IT System Administrator Advatech Pacific - San Bernardino, CA October 2006 to February 2012 Maintain the Network for Advatech Pacific and all 7 offices in the United States and Philippines. Monitor Network Connectivity with Nagios and Zabbix. Design and document network security in compliance with ITAR regulations. Create and maintain Access Control Lists on Cisco Routers and Shorewall firewall. Configure and update Cisco and Linksys Switches. Create and troubleshoot tunnels between offices. Windows Server 2003/2008 administration and troubleshooting. Configure and maintain Windows Sever 2003/2008 on VMware and Netapp/EMC environment. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems California State University - Los Angeles, CA 2006 Skills Ccna, Ccnp, Cisco, Network monitoring, Network design, Switching, Vpn, Network security, Solarwinds, Security Additional Information SKILLS  • CCNP Routing and Switching  • CCNA Network Security  • Cisco Identity Service Engine  • SolarWinds Network Monitoring    • Network Design  • AnyConnect VPN  • Honorable Discharge U.S. Navy  • Secret Security Clearance (inactive)