Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Fredericksburg, VA I am currently seeking a position as a Systems Support Engineer, hardware and software specialist and LAN Network Support Administrator to apply my experience and technical skills gained throughout the years. Self- motivated and willing to learn new technologies and always go the extra mile to accomplish my goals and to keep myself up to date with industry standards. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator School Nutrition Association - National Harbor, MD 2007 to Present * I plan installation of new systems and assure the uninterrupted operation of the LAN and management of all server components in order to ensure SNA's network reliability.  * Troubleshooting issues with HW and SW. HW includes servers, workstations, communication devices, printers, remote access, etc. SW includes OS, backup software, communications and applications.  * Consult with customers concerning their needs and requirements, write technical documents for users. Implement solutions such as HW and SW upgrades as well as extensive knowledge on troubleshooting techniques.  * Talk and deal with vendors to manage projects. Network Administrator DTI/Haverstick Consulting - Arlington, VA 1999 to 2006 * I planned installation of systems and assured the uninterrupted operation of the LAN. This involved creation and maintenance of accounts and security on the servers.  * Found answers for client difficulties with HW and SW. HW included servers, workstations, communication devices, printers and remote connectivity. SW included OS, backup software, communications and applications, also experienced with VeriSign PKI Certificates.  * Implemented solutions for all types of situations. Wrote technical documentations. Desktop Support Specialist Affiliated Computer Services - Fairfax, VA 1998 to 1999 * As contracted by the U.S. Senate I provided extensive support for Senators and staff members. As part of a team I installed new systems and provided immediate support.  * Installed new and existing printers on the LAN and configured systems to work properly for each office. Installed SW and HW including servers, workstations, printers, operating systems, backup software, also provided training for existing users.  * The Senate environment included simultaneously operating numerous LANs and many times required making on-the-spot decisions to revise priorities and devote immediate attention where needed. Education Certification in Training Learning Tree International - Alexandria, VA 2013 Certification TESST College of Technology - Alexandria, VA 1999 to 2001 Computer and Electronics Technology TESST College of Technology - Alexandria, VA 1994 to 1996 Computer Information Technology and Digital Systems Northern Virginia Community College - Alexandria, VA 1993 to 1994 Skills SECURITY (8 years), TRAINING (3 years), MCP (2 years), MCSE (2 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years) Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ziqnmram1jxct0rr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  Information Technology: Strong troubleshooting skills for hardware and software, network administration, TCP/IP, active directory, remote administration, switches, networking security principles, some router skills, some experience with virtualization technology and VoIP, Apple systems, strong customer service support skills, OS systems from workstations to servers, Exchange support, MS Office Pro Suite, backup software, browsers, antivirus applications.    Qualifications: OS systems, MS Office Suite, A+ Cert., MCP Cert., MCSE training, Exchange implementation and management, Comprehensive Cisco training, Aptify, workstations, servers and network administration, network security comprehensive training, Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) experience, Ubiquiti UniFi systems experience.