Network Administrator/Junior Auditor/Helpdesk Supervisor <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Junior Auditor/Helpdesk Supervisor Network Administrator/Junior Auditor/Helpdesk Supervisor - NCBI Management Sevices Langhorne, PA Experienced IT professional with strong analytical skills and ability to prioritize and multi-task. Excellent communication and follow through skills with proven success in developing strong client relationships. Core competencies include:    • Server LAN Optimization  • Hard/Software Troubleshooting  • Project Management  • Software Testing    • Network Analysis & Administration  • Server Management  • Help Desk Management  • Training and Development Work Experience Network Administrator/Junior Auditor/Helpdesk Supervisor NCBI Management Sevices - Trevose, PA 2015 to Present • Currently responsible for leading a team of 3 in day to day operations as well as in a migration process of Windows 7/Microsoft office 2010 to Windows 10/Microsoft Office 2016 environment across 3 office locations impacting a total of 600 end users.  • Configured and deployed Active Directory Server, File Server, and Terminal Server in a new office impacting 50 end users.  • Served as the main technical lead migrating the mail server from old to new upgraded hardware with minimum downtime  • Researched, tested, recommended new products, implemented software to increase employee productivity from client and server side functionality along with data security  • Performed yearly/quarterly audits on employee's network resource access and software access to conform to company's network security standards and use of software policies Network Administrator Compassionate Care Hospice - Westampton, NJ 2009 to 2015 • Set up and manage network infrastructure and network communication across 62 offices.  • Strong knowledge on network hardware including dell servers, routers, and switches.  • Managed and scheduled server updates and preventive server maintenance with minimal downtime.  • Coordinated the deployment and implementation of new EMR and Mobile Device Management systems.  • Provided company IT support including hardware trouble shooting, back up recovery, and continuous email traffic for over 2,500 end users.  • Served as technical lead for a key project to migrate a hosted email server to an in-house email server while evaluating multiple vendors and provided proof of concept for system design to senior leadership.  • Worked in conjunction with IT vendors to design and develop disaster recovery and business continuity plans.  • Analyzed, supported, and restructured the company's network infrastructure to conform to HIPAA's requirements. Network Administrator CMI Plastics, Inc - Cranbury, NJ 2007 to 2008 • Coordinated a corporate relocation project from New Jersey to North Carolina, which consisted of data migration, transfer of PBX, development and implementation of LAN infrastructure, and all installation activities.  • Served as network administrator on Microsoft Windows 2003 Domain Controller.  • Maintained, monitored and performed troubleshooting and repairs on all network servers, print servers, routers, switches, and provided end user support.  • Administered and maintained Network and IT infrastructure.  • Evaluated company's use and needs for technology and recommended hardware and software upgrades.  • Provided company system support, configuration, and maintenance for end users' computer needs. Network Administrator/Programmer Softrip LLC - Glenside, PA 2005 to 2007 • Developed and deployed job ticketing software to track programming requests from different clients.  • Implemented data recovery system on servers to ensure disaster recovery capabilities.  • Created, supported and maintained network communications between end users nationally and internationally.  • Implemented and supported Inter-tel VoIP and PBX environment.  • Upgraded and installed hardware and software for end user workstation and company servers.  • Configured and installed ISA 2004 as a front end firewall. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Science and Technology Temple University - Philadelphia, PA June 2005 Skills Asp, Asp.net, Security, Web security, Websense, Database, Microsoft access, Sql, Html, Visual basic, Symantec, Windows 10, Windows 8, Windows server 2008 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages: HTML, SQL, Visual Basic.net, ASP.net  Operating System:  Windows Server 2008/2012/2016, XP Home/ XP Professional/ Vista Home Premium/ Vista Business/ 7 Professional, Windows 8, Windows 10 Profession    Database: Microsoft SQL2005/2008/2012 and Microsoft Access  Software: Microsoft Suite 2007/2010/2016, Veracrypt, Symantec Anitvirus V14, Active Book Disk Suite V.11  Email Server: Alt-n Mdaemon  Mobile Device Management: Maas 360  IT Ticketing System: Zendesk  Web Security: Microsoft ISA 2004, Websense Express, IBoss, Baracuda  Backup Software: Acronis Backup Recovery, Syncback pro