Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer West Orange, NJ ? Network Engineer with over 5years experience building, deploying, and maintaining high availability network platforms (Cisco Catalyst Switches, Virtual Local Area Networks, IP Routing, and switching, IP Multicasting and QOS management, load sharing with all protocols relating to current LAN, MAN, WAN technologies. configuration of Cisco Routers. Protocols, IP, RIP, EIGRP, MPLS, BGP, OSPF, HSRP routers.  ? ASA  ? Successfully planned, designed, and implemented resilient WAN infrastructure, HA Data Centers, network capacity enhancements and secure networks. Monitoring, Testing, Disaster Recovery, Wireless Networks,  ? Converted various Catalyst 6500 series Cat OS operating software image configurations running on Supervisor 1A Engine to Supervisor Engine 720 IOS configurations. Completed High Availability of Load Balancer for deployment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer PDA Laboratories Inc - Riverdale, NJ October 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities: Supporting and Troubleshooting LAN and WAN of Network Connectivity  . VLAN configuration and Management, installations and configuration of Layer2 and Layer3 devices  . Setup LAN based failover on the firewalls at the data center and performed successful failover testing.  . Experience in layer3 routing protocol configuration: EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, MPLS, RIP  . Experience in implementation of LAN IP infrastructure using L2/L3 switching, VTP, VLAN, Inter VLAN  Routing, Spanning Trees, Switch ports (Access and Trunks) Gigabit Ethernet and Trucking  . Experience VPN, Firewalls, ASAs, Wireless Networks, IPsec, Load Balancing. Network Engineer Etron Network Solutions - East Orange, NJ July 2013 to September 2018 Responsible for overall design, implementation and support of company's e-commerce LAN and WAN network connectivity.  ? Network design and implementation strategies to support the needs of the company's various data center locations.  ? Conducted FOA testing for various new implementations, provided deployment guides, golden configs and MOPs.  ? Design, implementation and troubleshooting of the LAN IP infrastructure using Layer 2 / Layer 3 switching, STP, Gigabit Ethernet and Trunking / channelling technologies.  ? Responsible for maintenance and utilization of VLANs, Spanning-tree, HSRP, VRRP and GLBP, VTP of the switched multi-layer backbone with catalyst switches.  ? Layer 2 switching technology architecture, implementation and operations including L2 and L3  ? Knowledge of implementing and troubleshooting complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP, Ether-channel,  ? Installations and Configurations of Layer 2 & Layer 3 devices externally.  ? Strong hands on experience in layer-3 Routing and layer-2  ? Experience in Layer 3 Routing protocol configurations: RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, & MPLS.  ? Involved in Operating, administrating, managing & testing of carrier Ethernets.  ? Installation and Configuration of LAN (Ethernet)/ WAN set up for Clients.  ? Implementation of the LAN IP infrastructure using L2 / L3 switching, VLAN, VTP, Inter VLAN Routing, Spanning tree, Switch ports (access and trunks) Gigabit Ethernet and trunking.  ? Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS and configuring ISL trunk on Fast-Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet channel between switches.  ? Developed and implemented routing architectures for the roll-out of Metro Ethernet products.  ? Implemented a switched Ethernet with fast ethernet infrastructure  ? Identified all shared ethernet networks to be upgraded to new switched ethernet technology  ? Develop and designed engineering documentation with detailed equipment, routing design, migration procedures, deployment as well as test plans for verification of proof of concepts. Network Engineer OCCT Engineering - East Orange, NJ April 2010 to May 2013 Designed and implemented enterprise security infrastructures on  ? Layer 2 LAN Technologies spanning tree  ? VLAN Configuration and management  ? Implemented VSS feature on the core 6500 switches doubling the bandwidth capacity to 1.4 Tbps in the core  ? Setup LAN based failover on the firewalls at all the data centers and performed successful failover testing  ? Cisco switches for various OS/CatOS platforms  ? Protocols: RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, Multicast  ? Voip Technologies (Layer 2 and Layer 3 devices)  ? WAN Technologies  ? HDLC, PPP, Frame Relay  ? File management/IOS upgrade/Downgrade  ? Troubleshooting Utilities ? Trace route, Ping, Telnet  ? Identifying and designing efficient, cost effective networking solutions based on customer requirements within LAN/WAN utilizing Cisco Routers and switches.  ? Planning, installation and management of the Microsoft windows active directing infrastructure on service companies utilizing the following technologies: Cisco Catalyst switches (6500, 5500, 4500, 3550 series, IOS, layer 2 and layer 3configurations).  ? Cisco Routers (1600, 2600, 2800, 3600, 7200, 7500 series router configurations. Network Administrator Essex County College - Newark, NJ March 1998 to June 2010 Installation, Configurations and implement LAN network. Students and Employees service support.  Implemented engineered network solutions based on a standard architecture at various levels of skill including the Ethernet and switches, Cisco Routers, Configuration including IP, RIP.  ? Also performed software testing, Designing and Implementing GUI programs and ISDN processor's functionalities in network. Maintained employees database using access.  ? Accepted escalation of problems from appropriate internal resources and resolved them on a timely basis.  ? Designed and implemented Disaster Recovery (DR) network services infrastructure.  ? Successfully completed many complex management configuration projects for customers.  ? Provided product training and mentoring students/employees and assisted in problem resolution where required Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ Skills Vmware, Active Directory, security, Cisco Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  ? Hardware Devices: Cisco 2500/2600 Series Routers; ASR9K, ISR, Cisco 1900/2950/3550 Switches; Cisco PIX Model 501;  ? Network Protocols: TCP/IP; DHCP; DNS; SNMP; RIP; IGRP; EIGRP; OSPF; BGP; IS-IS; VPN ; 802.11x; Frame Relay; GRE  ? Server Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows Server 2008/2012/2012R2; Microsoft Active Directory; DNS, DHCP, VPN, Cisco IOS 11x/12x  ? Desktop Operating System: Microsoft Windows 2000/XP/win 7/win 8/win8.1/2010  ? Programming Skills C++; C