AVP, Senior Network Administrator AVP, Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> AVP, Senior Network Administrator - FIRST LANDMARK BANK Atlanta, GA Highly-organized Senior Network Administrator proficient in software installation,  maintenance, and support. Coordinated and hardworking with the ability to effectively manage  multiple projects with shifting priorities. Including Security roles, both physical and Network  based, and Property Management roles. Work Experience AVP, Senior Network Administrator FIRST LANDMARK BANK - Atlanta, GA November 2007 to Present Troubleshoot Server Related issues and escalate problems to vendors when applicable.  Maintained and Administered Backup solutions for all critical data and servers using incremental nightly backups and windows shadow copy services to provide a multi-tiered backup approach.  Maintained and Administrated Group Policy, DNS, DHCP, Security Principles, OU's, and Certificate Services.  Maintained Active Directory Synchronization by monitoring, analysis, and performance tuning.  • Establish Network Drive specifications/Security by conferring with users/managers and analyzing workflows, access needs, information, and security requirements.  • Upgrade network by conferring with vendors and develop, test, evaluate, and install  enhancements.  • Implement company policies, technical procedures, and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports, and access.  • Designed and Established several failover Clustered Environments using Windows Server 2012 Datacenter with  • High Availability drive shares, with cross-site replication.  • Manage firewall, network monitoring, and server monitoring both on- and off-site.  • Align office departments and increase inter-department communication and data sharing.  • Recommended Microsoft best practice security standards to management.  • Develop and implement complex Internet and Intranet applications on multiple platforms.  • Design and implement new server standards for core business services.  • Provide documentation on start-up, shut down, and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk  staff.  • Manage creative projects from concept to completion while managing outside vendors.  • Ensure network, system, data availability, and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  • Monitor network performance and provide network performance statistical reports for both real-time  and historical measurements. Education Architecture Savannah College of Art and Design - Savannah, GA Skills Cisco, Clustering, Backups, Firewall, Data backup, Sql, Hyper-v, Windows server 2003, Maintenance, Emc, Process implementation, Problem-solving, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory Additional Information SKILLS    Data backups Experience with Fortigate Firewall configuration  Analysis and critical thinking and maintenance  Network repairs and maintenance Experience with Cisco Call Manager\Unity\  Hardware and software monitoring UCCX Administration.  Network systems installation Experience with Cisco Routers and Switches  Experience with EMC SAN hardware\software Process implementation  Experience with Windows server 2003/ 2008 r2 Experience with SQL 2005/2008/2012/2016  /2012 r2 datacenter/ 2016 datacenter /2019 standard Data backup and retrieval  Experience with Windows Hyper-V failover Excellent problem-solving abilities  clustering