Local Area Network Administrator Local Area <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Local Area Network Administrator Tomkins Cove, NY Work Experience Local Area Network Administrator Rockland Community College - Suffern, NY July 2006 to April 2019 Administration, maintenance, backup, and troubleshooting of faculty and student  side Windows workstation/servers and networks. (Consisting of virtual machines  and physical workstations/servers) VMware,  - Create, and maintain faculty/student network accounts in MS Active Directory.  - DNS configurations Scopes and static IP's as needed. DHCP  - Configuration of images for computer setups to be deployed and used on new  system setups.  - Install, configure, troubleshoot, and maintain shared network printers.  - Backup of physical and virtual servers  - Install, maintain Microsoft SCCM  - Install, maintain Mcafee VirusScan/ Mcafee Epolicy Server  - Configure, maintain Cisco Wireless Controller  - Install, maintain, and troubleshoot network cabling on main campus and satellite  sites.  - Install, configure, troubleshoot, network switches, wireless access points, network  security cameras.  - Design/Survey/Plan network infrastructure (wireless access points, network  outlets, network racks, and cabling runs.)  - Define and order of appropriate servers/computers, computer hardware, network  hardware and software for faculty and student side networks.  - Work in conjunction with IT managers on projects  - Head, plan, implement PC/LAN projects  - Monitor, and maintain PC hardware inventory.  - Monitor, and maintain performance of campus network  - Research and deployment of new tools, via software and or hardware to help  diagnose, maintain, and optimize network performance and security to better  serve faculty and student users.  - Guide and support Computer Support Technicians, and other staff members Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems Empire State College - Saratoga Springs, NY January 2005 to May 2007 Additional Information A responsible work experience in higher education with microcomputers, local area network, hardware and software  - Extensive knowledge of Computer software and applications, Microsoft 2K3 server as well as all Microsoft Operating Systems, Mac OS, SMS, PHP, SQL, Adobe Acrobat, Illustrator, Photoshop, Netscape, Mozilla, Quark, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Office software, FTP, Norton Utilities, Norton System Works, MacAfee Anti-Virus as well as EPO, Linux, Unix, Oracle, Power DVD, DVD shrink and other video related software, NetOp School, Norton Go Back Deluxe, Deepfreeze. SMS (Microsoft Systems Management Server), ERD commander, HTML, Lotus, GDP, QuickBooks, Peachtree Accounting, VPN, VMware, Netbackup, configuring Cisco network switches, wireless access points, UPS as well as spyware and security software etc.  - Proven high level of technical proficiency  - Dedication and drive as a hard-working individual and ability to manage multiple  tasks in a pressured environment    Rockland Community College, Suffern NY 09/96 - 12/01  A.A.S. Data Processing: Computer Operations