IT Network Technician IT <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician IT Network Technician - GT Construction at Fort El Paso, TX To attain a challenging and rewarding position in the  Information Technology field with expertise in diverse range of  technologies within multiple industry settings. Demonstrated success  managing Networking, Hardware, Internet Technology, and Software  Implementation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Network Technician GT Construction at Fort July 2016 to Present • Installation and repair of phone system, CCTV system and Alarms Systems  • Have active clearance in Fort bliss Area  • Customer service for new vendors for new equipment.  • Installation of VOIP phones to new users.  • Configuration of Mac/ Static IP addresses to new equipment.  Received calls from users, having trouble with wireless hardware or Apps (troubleshooting).  • Follow up with email support remotely or on site.  • Training new users, for new equipment and updating hardware updates.  • Check warranty on equipment and send out equipment to receive equipment warranties.  • Travel 100% inside Fort bliss Area.  • Installation of IP CCTV, VOIP Telephone System and Networks such as routers and computer equipment for 7 Buildings inside Fort Bliss.  • Interfaced with Hardware/Software Systems to maximize  Wireless Setup and AP Setups and configuration with PPOE IT Network Technician Johnson Controls-Federal with DMDickason July 2013 to July 2016 • Configuration and installation different cables for low voltage  • Supervised 10 employees and directed project management  • Survey project in Fort Bliss and Biggs Field area  • Training new users, for new equipment and updating hardware updates. Network Technician ADVANCED COMPUTERS for One Source Service Technologies July 2001 to May 2013 in contract for Cable installation for McDonalds', Barnes and Noble, US Federal Courts, US Probation and etc.  Network Technician  • Initiated multiple technical projects that improved  performance and business functionality.  • Upgraded workstations and set up network printers, which significantly improved desktop connectivity.  • Install DVR an web base cameras systems.(BNC)RJ-45  • Interfaced with Hardware/Software Systems to maximize  Performances. Wireless Setup and AP Setups and configuration  • Cable Runs for Fiber Optic/ T1/BNC/Cat 3/Cat5/Cat 6/RG-59/Coaxial/ Siamese CCTV  • Installed RJ45and RJ11 connectors including wall outlets and tested.  • Setup Server Cabinet and Open frame racks for installation of Cisco Routers and Firewall equipment  • Certified as a ATT Wi-Fi certified technician for AP and wirelessdevices 2.4 GHZ and 5.8 GHZ  • Setup Cisco router configuration on static IP's and backup devices on servers. Network Administrator Edge Ciavarella& Co., P.C May 2006 to January 2007 • Set up new employees with in the active directories of Windows Server and terminal server. Set up new employees with security and network path's of application.  • Monitor exchange server and set up new employees with domain email accounts.  • Provide technical support to customers in remote software such as Citrix Metaframe (XP and 4.0 Presentation Server), Windows Remote Desktop and VNC Software.  • Help employees with data conversion and restore of data from multiple software applications.  • Webmaster for company web site and web outlook monitoring. Network Administrator Professional Business & Computer Services May 1999 to June 2000 • Provided onsite technical support to network systems.  • Configured wireless networks and created solutions from network downtime.  • Managed development and implementation of computer networks to clients to enhance business systems.  • Installed remote software to give technical support to clients for faster service. District Office Supervisor H&R Block January 1997 to April 1999 • Track records for diagnosing complex problems and consistently delivering effective solutions  • Assisted other offices support with income tax or computer issues and conducted daily audits.  • Implemented Solutions to team member daily operation  activities.  • Provided customer service to customers and trained new  employees, and created weekly schedules.  • Provided tax software updates and technical support to other offices. Education Bachelor of Computer Information System in Computer Information System University of Texas at El Paso - El Paso, TX May 2013 Bachelor of Business Management in Business Management University of Texas at El Paso - El Paso, TX May 2013 Skills FLASH, HARDWARE INTEGRATION, RAID, ROUTER, WIRELESS, CISCO, CITRIX, DHCP, TCP, TCP/IP, VPN, WINS, DNS, EXCHANGE, NETWORKING, MS ACCESS, MSDE, ORACLE, ORACLE 9, SQL, T1, DS3, Cabling, Network Administration, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Excel, IT Management, Active Directory, Vmware