Communications Administrator Communications <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Communications Administrator - New Birth Missionary Baptist Church Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Communications Administrator New Birth Missionary Baptist Church February 2019 to Present Assistant to the Senior Director of Communications and Events  ? Served as lead coordinator for the McDonald's Inspiration Gospel Concert  ? Served as lead coordinator for scheduling and space allocation  ? Managed and worked in conjunction with Facilities Dept., Television and Production Departments  ? Assisted with various data entry projects as needed through FellowshipOne  ? Assembled weekly event reports to send out to each department Sales Associate & Brand Ambassador Banana Republic October 2018 to Present Improved conversion rate by an average of 4% whenever working with customers  ? Placed on employee leaderboard by driving loyalty through BR card and email capture  ? Enhanced the customer experience through digital & face-to-face offerings  ? Reported market activities and trends on a daily basis Assistant Manager and Personal Trainer Samson's Health and Fitness Center January 2019 to May 2019 Assisted manager in organizing, planning and implementing strategy  ? Coordinated daily customer service and concession operations  ? Monitor and maintain area of business  ? Analyzed customer behavior and handled complaints Georgetown Tailgate Coordinator August 2018 to November 2018 Coordinated Homecoming tailgate while partnering with Reyes Beverage Group  ? Coordinated all Georgetown Football home game tailgates Marketing & Special Events Intern Reyes Beverage Group June 2018 to August 2018 Worked closely with Heineken at Audi Field prior to DC United's home opener, set up POS items at stadium  ? Coordinated events (including Capital Pride Festival and Capitals Victory Parade) with team  ? Promoted to Leader of Social Media Marketing  ? Placed orders for concessions at Nationals Park  ? Built relationships with most profitable accounts including managers/owners of major bars/clubs in DC  ? Recapped ticket distribution  ? Seeked sponsorship for Events/Charities Marketing & Blogging Intern Athlete Network February 2018 to May 2018 Wrote bi-weekly articles for Athlete Network  ? Established a social media presence and communicate online with thousands of readers  ? Presented company at career fairs Financial Liaison & Research Assistant Georgetown Culture & Emotions Lab February 2017 to February 2018 Handled all financial conversations between the department and Georgetown's President office  ? Used Qualtrics and Survey Signal softwares to design and conduct Psychology surveys and assessments  ? Wrote and presented the majority of research findings, summary and discussion  ? Used Microsoft Excel and SPSS to analyze data, resulting in improved data collection process. Education Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in Philosophy Georgetown University May 2019