Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - The Language Doctors Crofton, MD Work Experience Network Administrator The Language Doctors - Landover, MD October 2018 to Present Troubleshoot Windows 7, 10, Server 2012, 2016, Linux and MACos issues  ? Initial programming of servers/managed switches/workstations.  ? Remote user assistance via Remote Desktop, Teamviewer and other screen sharing  options and platforms  ? Crimping of Ethernet cables, ceiling runs of various distances  ? Network monitoring software management, network security implementation and maintenance.  ? Lan and Vlan initial set up, configuration, and maintenance  ? Addressing help desk tickets  ? Assisting website development via Wordpress  ? Managing team of IT assistants Supervisor Grosvenor Condominiums - Rockville, MD March 2011 to August 2018 Maintain daily building  operations  ? Liaise with other staff  members  ? Use surveillance cameras to monitor  property  ? Manage residential  database  ? Accommodate residential and guest  requests Associate Place One Luxury Condominiums - Alexandria, VA October 2006 to March 2011 Manage activity in the building lobby and other common  residential areas  ? Troubleshoot security and camera  systems  ? Fix networking issues with computer  stations  ? Provide technical assistance to residents with network or computer queries  with purchases  ? Carry out daily  transactions    Technical Skills  ? Proficiency with computer software including Microsoft Office (Access, Excel, Powerpoint, Word, Outlook), Windows 7, 8, Vista /XP; troubleshooting on PC and  MAC  ? Typing speed  80wpm  ? 5 years of experience in Windows server  ? Experience with Java and other  programming language    IT RELATED COURSEWORK Network Security 320, Ethical Hacking 321, Digital  Forensics 321, and various computer science coursework. Education Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security Management and Policy in Cyber Security Management and Policy University of Maryland May 2020 Skills Networking, Windows, Active Directory, Technical Support, Vmware