Network Consultant New York <span class="hl">Network</span> Consultant New York Network Consultant New York - Burrotic Services Charlotte, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Consultant New York Burrotic Services April 2010 to Present Develop and administer disaster recovery plans.  Install wide range of network equipment.  Keep network infrastructure up-to-date and secured.  Write and maintain network security policies and monitor compliance.  Identify and recommend needed and optimal infrastructure improvements.  Troubleshoot various network issues affect solutions and collaborate with staff and outside vendors to resolve complex problems. Network Administrator CFAO Technology, Mali, West Africa April 2004 to March 2010 • Utilized a vast knowledge of network administration and information technology including computer applications and systems' programming, systems' development, database administration, information processing, local area computer networks, video, internet/intranet systems, etc..  • Established standards for new information and security systems tailoring to the needs of the company.  • Installed, configured, and repaired Internet protocol camera systems, antivirus software, and printers.  • Prepared documentation for computer programs, applications, and procedures and conducted on-site training seminars.  • Designed risk management processes, investigated incident claims, formulated effective risk management strategies, and preventative measures for risk reduction.  • Reviewed and evaluated the purchasing of all computer hardware, software and operating systems and advised and directed interdepartmental staff members on systems' operation and design.  • Negotiated contracts, generated status reports, made recommendations for systems' modifications and verified installation of appropriate network protocol.  • Interfaced with vendors and supervised the shipment of incoming merchandise, ensuring accuracy of order content and compliance of product standards.  • Successfully complied with budget projections, ensuring cost effectiveness and proper allocation of funds  • Acted as liaison among company executives, software developers, network engineers and staff members and troubleshot and resolved operational and technological challenges.  • Utilized a vast knowledge of governmental regulations and accreditation standards, and acted as liaison among regulatory agencies, insurance representatives and legal counsel. Education Master of Information Systems Management in Network Management Keller Graduate School of Management - New York, NY 2016 Master of Science in Computer Science, Networking and Administration College of Technology and Management - Brussels, BE 2007 Bachelor of Science in Computers and Accounting School of Science 2004 Skills DATABASE (6 years), DATABASE ADMINISTRATION (6 years), PRINTERS (6 years), ACROBAT (Less than 1 year), ANDROID (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Active Directory, MAC Additional Information • Results-driven technology professional with more than 8 years' experience troubleshooting, diagnosing and resolving issues impacting hardware, software, connectivity, and performance.  • Experienced project manager entrusted with the design and implementation of key technical initiatives and process improvements. Responsible for budgeting, purchasing, inventory management, and reporting.  • Install and configure networking devices and setup wireless networks with appropriate security levels.  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills; comfortable collaborating with all levels of management, as well as clients and vendors. Trilingual: English, French, and Bambara.  • Provide technical support and training to diverse customers and end users.  • Create and maintain detailed documentation related to network configurations, network diagrams, LAN hardware and version records.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows (All Versions)  CentOs, Linux and Debian, DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, SSH  Desktop operating systems, server operating systems, server applications, wired networking (LAN/WAN). Wireless Networking (WLAN, Wi-FI), Networking Protocols, Databases  Software: MS Office Suite (All Versions), MS Visio, Adobe, (Acrobat, Photoshop, Illustrator), Symantec (Antivirus, Ghost) MacAfee (Antivirus, Anti Spyware), SMS  Internet protocol camera systems  Systems' development, database administration  Hardware: Dell, HP, Xerox, Canon, IBM, Toshiba, Sony, Mac, Cisco Switches and Routers, Printers, Projectors, Blackberry, Apple, and Android phones  Supervision, leadership and organizational skills  Understanding of VMware or virtualization technologies  Citrix Xenapp 6.5/7.x, Vsphere 5.5 / ESXi 5.5 or newer, VoIP: SIP, RTP, SIP trunking.  Computer evaluation, routine preventive maintenance and risk reduction  Project Management