Senior System Administrator II Senior System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Senior System Administrator II - EVO PAYMENTS INTERNATIONAL McDonough, GA Work Experience Senior System Administrator II EVO PAYMENTS INTERNATIONAL - Atlanta, GA January 2018 to Present Administer Microsoft Active Directory, security groups and group policy objects to support desired outcomes for various projects and support requests.  ? Monitor system resource usage and ensure adequate resources are available to meet both business and IT requirements through resource scheduling and new resource acquisition.  ? Installs, supports, and maintains hardware and software infrastructure according to best practices.  ? Works closely with the data center and other teams in order to escalate and troubleshoot server/infrastructure/application impacting issues as they arise.  ? Strong experience with Windows and Microsoft technologies (Windows Server 2019/2008 R2), Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2008, PowerShell, Exchange.  ? Research and assess future technology options to support technology growth. Network Administrator II/ Network Manager CAPSTONE LOGISTICS - Peachtree Corners, GA August 2012 to December 2017 Monitors and maintains network stability collects and analyzes network and memory utilization (Solarwinds), and installs and tests software upgrades.  ? Support incident response and problem management teams by providing containment actions, cyber-hacking and containment solutions, and incident analysis as it relates to Cisco ASA & Fortigate firewalls.  ? Data Center (Irvine, CA & Atlanta, GA) co-location management and monitoring.  ? E-mail administration tasks (Exchange 2010), SPAM and e-mail security (Mimecast).  ? Azure administration and some architecture understanding.  ? Provide Tier 3 VMware vSphere infrastructure support including provisioning, troubleshooting and assisting server and database administrators.  ? Operation and maintenance of SAN Infrastructure based on Dell/EMC storage.    ? Supporting rollout of Box to all employees, including migration of existing file repositories.  ? Assist in the configuration and maintenance of Linux servers.  ? Works with consultants to ensure that the computer system platform provides sufficient computing resources to deliver the desired level of business performance.  ? Developing a backup/disaster recovery plan for a network emergency  ? Planning network infrastructure for new applications and services  ? Assisting in support of phone and voicemail systems (ShoreTel)  ? Training network staff to provide support to end users  ? Purchasing and maintaining networking equipment and infrastructure  ? Integrating mobile devices into the organization's networks, either (or both of) organizational and personal devices (BYOD) along with MDM software.  ? Establishes budgetary requirements for equipment replacement  ? Coordinates third-party maintenance for network hardware, software, and telecommunications services.  ? Negotiates and contracts with consultants, technical personnel, and vendors for services and products. Network Administrator CHILDPLUS SOFTWARE - Atlanta, GA October 2010 to August 2012 Oversees the day-to-day operation of computer networks including hardware/software (Dell Servers - Win SBS08, Dell PC - Windows 7 & MAC PowerPC - OS X 10.7 Lion) iPhone & iPad support, training, and special projects.  ? Establish and maintain user e-mail accounts (Exchange 07); provides e-mail training and software support; provides e-mail documentation and updates; manage anti-spam and anti-virus (Symantec Mail Security) servers; researchers and troubleshoots e-mail problems by reviewing mail logs, records, and network configurations.  ? Plans recommends and assists in the design of telecommunications systems (Trixbox & Polycom Phones); researches and recommends telecommunications equipment Develops and documents system standards for computer, server, and network devices  ? Responsible for all functions associated with the implementation and maintenance of SQL Server (05 & 08) databases including security, back-up, logging, reporting and recovery procedures COACH AMERICA Norcross, GA August 2006 to October 2010 Sr. Network Analyst    ? Design & engineering GPS system (ISR Fleettrack) for the region.  ? Daily review of all server, software, security, and backup log files. Perform remediation of any errors recorded in log files.  ? Responsible for Network Active Directory (Windows Server 03 & 08) structure, Disaster Recovery systems (Backup Exec & System Recovery), and day-to-day administration of data.  ? Plan and implement system security policy, to include firewalls, host and client access, file permissions, and user accounts.  ? Responsible for corporate email system (Exchange 2003).  ? Implement & configure VMware for servers in Atlanta location  ? Assist with Microsoft SQL Servers (install & restore) and maintain data integrity (backups & space) of all SQL databases.  ? Administered Kronos Server  ? Assist with Great Plains Servers and maintain data integrity of all GP databases.  ? Administer WAN Firewall (Cisco PIX 515e) and other appropriate network security devices.  ? Administer corporate WSUS Windows System Update Server and ensure all servers and workstations are maintained at proper patch levels.  ? Maintain server and workstation operating systems, including the application of appropriate security patches provided by the software provider.  ? Assist in the creation and ongoing support of network software, files, and security systems.  ? Assist in LAN/WAN related additions and changes including all hardware and software issues and ongoing administration of the corporate network.  ? Maintain accurate records of all maintenance, inventory, and security measures associated with company's data and voice networks.  ? Work with the Director of IT and all IT team members to assess and solve all company wide IT issues.  ? Train and assist all end users on voice and data related products.    Relocated to the Atlanta area. Network Technician / Analyst FISERV GALAXY PLUS CREDIT UNION SYSTEMS - Troy, MI November 1999 to July 2006 Responsible for installing, configuring and setting up Personal Computers/Workstations for Credit Unions within the US.  ? Network and security implementation of Windows NT/2000/2003 (configuring Active Directory, DNS, WINS, & DHCP), Novell 5.0/6.0 with internal (Exchange 5.5/2000/2003, GroupWise 5.5/6.5) on various Dell and HP servers and external e-mail, Anti-virus software client/server, AntiSpam and Antispyware software (McAfee), client/server, backup software, emulation software, office suites, firewalls (SonicWall & PIX), routers, Internet access, and numerous third-party software.  ? Responsible for 50% phone support in a 24x7 rotation support.  ? Supported by Credit Unions' WAN and LAN with Operating Systems that include Windows 9X, Windows 2000, Windows XP with communications to network servers and host UNIX systems.  ? Assisted with data center solution with Windows Server 2003 clustering & SAN implementation & maintaining in backups with CommVault.  ? Managed Preventative Maintenance site and installation visits including configuring new hardware and software, in addition to server and workstation upgrades of both hardware and software.  ? Developed use cases and all supporting material for clients' new implementation as well as client training manuals.  ? Participated in estimating and scoping activities, as well as various prospect-facing activities.  ? Developed a superior understanding of Trusecure ( Network Auditing) the business processes supported, and the underlying technology.  ? Performed time management, communications, decision making, presentation, and organizational management tasks daily. Network Administrator DATA COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION - Troy, MI March 1997 to November 1999 Supported Windows 9X and Windows NT workstation users on an NT 3.51/4.0 environment with mainframe (UNIX) connectivity to Chrysler Corp and Detroit Medical Center.  ? Troubleshoot, coordinated, and maintained production systems/programs/applications.  ? Gathered, validated, analyzed and documented business requirements and the creation of project visual models and reports.  ? Translated business requirements into technical specifications for business and technical groups.    Technical/Software Skills  ? Windows Server 12 & 19 ? Faxfinder  ? Exchange 2010  ? Azure (Light)  ? Great Plains  ? Veeam  ? ShoreTel  ? Citrix  ? SharePoint (light)  ? Linux (light)  ? SQL 08 & 12  ? Kronos    ? Ruckus  ? Fortigate 200d (light)  ? Cisco ASA (light)  ? CrashPlan  ? Backup Exec  ? Active Directory  ? DHCP  ? DNS  ? Nagios  ? SolarWinds    ? VMWare 4.0 - 6.0  ? Hyper-V  ? Pure Storage  ? EMC Storage  ? Nimble Storage  ? Dell EqualLogic    ? Symantec Endpoint Protection  ? Kaspersky System Center  ? McAfee AV Defense  ? GFI Products  ? AirWatch Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics The University of Detroit - Detroit, MI 1996 MCSE Certificate Georgia State - Atlanta, GA