IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - MRC La Mesa, CA Work Experience IT Manager MRC 2013 to Present Manage servers, network, personnel and external and internal IT needs of our employees and customers    • Organized and cleaned the office for efficiency  • Improved the imaging system to save 40% on time required  • Worked with and setup virtual servers and brocade switches  • Managed multiple projects, pressing needs and emergencies well  • Setup Shortel IT phone systems  • Setup and maintained IPhone, IPads, Androids, and Mac Computer  • Maintained a positive and team orientated work environment.  • Processed timesheet system for my subordinates  • Worked with senior staff on implementing IT policies  • Setup and managed MDM System, MAAS360  • Administrated E-Auto, Connectwise, Teamviewer, SCCM, AD, Exchange, Office 365, VMWare, Windows Servers,  • Handled purchasing, and negotiating with vendors  • Project managed internet, and cell phone vendor changes, new office setups, and close downs  • Ran Managed IT for our external customers for a year and half. ITT Exelis 2011 to 2012 ADPE Tech    Trouble shot and repaired computers and network equipment for the US Military in Afghanistan. Also do onsite repairs, customer calls, and network administration duties. Part of the pilot program to configure and update afghan bases to Windows 7 via SCCM and in place upgrading.    • Earned customer accolades for going above and beyond.  • Put in time and resources to improve working conditions  • Improved baseline time by 15%  • Organized and cleaned up work area in two bases improving productivity and morale greatly  • Worked with SCCM, Active Directory, Windows Server 2003, 2008, WDS.  • Developed scripts to make machines IAVA compliant with less labor.  • Developed workarounds for running tools with the security implementations intact. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR HP 2004 to 2011 Process computer requests from the U.S. Navy and Marines, manage multiple charts containing up-to-date status needs at base ops around the country, provide network administration via active directory, balance work accuracy, speed, and customer service, improved processes and procedures for efficiency and quality, and assist department manager with quality assurance.    • Earned Achievement Award for 100% Quality Control Audit  • Earned Achievement for Being Top Performer Skills Vmware, Customer Service, Network Administration, exchange Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/oxl-vcmspltx-zjz Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s7u0ekdqzqwqrnt6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Currently seeking long term position in the IT field, have full SSBI Top Secret Clearance and knowledge of Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7, Office 2007, DOS, MAC OS, Active Directory, Windows server 2003, Lotus Smart Suite, ACT, Adobe CS4 Master Suite Edition and Quark Express, High definition Television, analog television and sound implementation and configuration skill sets. Built, repaired and diagnosed hundreds of computers professionally. Experience with various formats of video and audio transfer in both analog and digital via optical, coaxial, HDMI, DVI, VGA, M1, Composite Cable Connections.    • 7 years sales experience • 16 years IT helpdesk experience  • 10 years shipping experience • 10 years IT network management  • 10 years purchasing experience  • 14 Years Audio Video experience    • A+, Network+, Security+, Certified  • Windows 7 Military Certified  • Secret Clearance (expired)