DIRECTOR DIRECTOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY & INFORMATION SECURITY EXECUTIVE Aldie, VA Experienced senior information security (IS) and information technology (IT) leader with 15 years' industry expertise. Creates & implements IT, IS, and cyber security policies to achieve business goals. Spearheads strategic planning, provides IT and IS direction, and develops technology plans, policies and procedures. Leads design and development, information security, data management, product and service delivery, business continuity, efficiency, innovation, and solutions development. Manages budgets, contracts and vendor relationships. Effective leader who motivates and trains team to accomplish goals through coaching and mentoring. Adept at collaborating with senior management in strategic and long-range planning. Recognized project management skills, leading and facilitating cross-functional teams and projects. Prepares and presents proposals, and recommends technology products and process improvements. Oversees implementation of new products and services in partnership with internal and external stakeholders. Conducts market research and trends analysis to ensure delivery of cutting-edge technology solutions. Analytical problem-solver committed to technology evolution. Strong communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DIRECTOR Knovos October 2013 to Present • Oversee global enterprise IT infrastructure across five locations and eight data centers.  • Lead 10+ engineers responsible for managing the entire global infrastructure across multiple sites.  • Serve as a vital member of the senior management team, providing strategic direction on continuous process improvements to implement organizational vision.  • Develop and implement enterprise security policies, perform risk assessments according to ISO 27001 requirements, and implement change and asset management program according to ISO standards.  • Conceptualize and design comprehensive network and systems infrastructure to provide a secure and high-performance environment for processing and hosting client data.  • Designed and implemented physical access control and monitoring system enterprise-wide in accordance with security policies.  • Design and execute data center projects to expand the organization's global footprint while accentuating physical and logical security controls.  • Consistently monitor infrastructure to improve technology services while reducing cost.  • Consult various teams on technical matters throughout the request for information (RFI) process.  • Develop collaborative relationships with internal teams to understand issues and identify solutions.  • Allocate resources and provide technical assistance to other teams to support client acquisition initiatives.  • Develop and sustain strong vendor relationships to ensure cost-effective solutions and IT expenditure.  Key Highlight of Success:  1. Contributed to startup operations of a global organization with 300+ employees.  2. Built IT infrastructure from the ground up from one data center to a global enterprise across the U.S.,London, Paris, Hamburg, India, Seoul and Tokyo.  3. Designed and implemented a secure global network to handle over 2 PB of data, 200+ physical servers, and storage systems for 500+ users.  4. Achieved zero unscheduled downtime and security-related intrusion incidents, malware, or virus attacks.  5. Executed network and application penetration scanning process.  6. Implemented a global computer forensics team that provided a new service model to drive revenue.  7. Advised clients on data spoliation, hold, and collection procedures pertaining to electronic discovery matters.  8. Introduced and implemented security policies and procedures enterprise-wide to support the ISO 9001 and 27001 certification process.  9. Saved $5M+ in IT costs through technical changes to the systems and infrastructure acquisition process.  10. Virtualized 90%+ of systems using Hyper-V with replication; reduced 50% to 60% of backend infrastructure resources and saved $200K+ in annual utility charges. MANAGER Knovos May 2008 to October 2013 • Planned, designed, developed, and implemented quality technology infrastructure across seven global offices; designed and implemented security standards, policies, and protocols.  • Directed and coached network engineers, system support staff, and remote teams.  • Managed owned and leased data centers globally, and maintained backend IT infrastructures including UPS, Generators, and ISP connections.  • Responsible for Business Continuity, DR planning, storage infrastructure, daily backups, network operations, deployment and maintenance of servers and storage systems, Active Directory and OS upgrades and maintenance.  • Monitored network performance and security protocols, and identified and analyzed component problems or complex application problems on client or servers.  • Executed client restoration jobs, performed forensic data collection, and developed internal processes to maintain evidence integrity. SENIOR NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Knovos December 2006 to May 2008 NETWORK ENGINEER Knovos December 2004 to December 2006 Education Masters in Telecommunications in Telecommunications State University of New York Institute of Technology - Utica, NY Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication in Electronics and Telecommunication Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills collection (10+ years), data center (5 years), Iso (5 years), Iso 27001 (5 years), security (10+ years)