Quality Assurance Evaluator Quality Assurance Evaluator Quality Assurance Evaluator - United States Air Force Vacaville, CA Solutions-oriented, highly organized military professional with 12+ years of experience deploying, troubleshooting, managing, and securing DoD networks. Recognized abilities in strategic planning and problem solving with expertise in CCNP routing and switching and CCNA security. Accomplished at leading technology initiatives and teams in high-stress, fast-paced environments. Proven leader with documented track record of improving productivity and operational efficiency. Ability to forge solid relationships with partners and build consensus across multiple organizational levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quality Assurance Evaluator United States Air Force 2016 to Present Provide keen oversight of quality management through standardized evaluation of key program components, including installation, configuration, and compliance of 800+ units of technical equipment. Continuously assessed training and competency of 250+ personnel to ensure optimal performance and identify deficiencies for targeted reform initiatives. Leverage networking expertise to collaborated with senior leaders to develop strategies for quality assurance programs.  • Improved comprehensive program efficiency by identifying and remediating 100+ discrepancies over 3 years.  • Achieved 100% accountability through development of database that monitored inspection timelines and due dates. Network Engineer United States Air Force - Lackland AFB, TX 2011 to 2016 Led 6-member team in management and delivery of 200 network devices, across 17 global sites, supporting 15K users. Maintained network capacity, integrity, and performance of critical connectivity points and data centers. Assessed 14 underperforming sites and engineered comprehensive solution and deployment plans for transformation.  • Oversaw deployment of Solarwinds monitoring solution, improving visibility and efficiency by offering 24/7 global monitoring and response across 4 network operation centers.  • Ensured 99% uptime for critical intelligence operations through effective oversight of data center operations and maintenance of paths for data, voice, and video operations.  • Led $2M infrastructure installation, delivering project 4 weeks ahead of schedule. Network Administrator United States Air Force 2008 to 2011 Executed network administration and maintenance, ensuring solid reliability and continuity, for 4 independent networks supporting 550+ users. Optimized system performance through regular maintenance and troubleshooting for early issue identification and resolution.  • Identified and remediated 4-year security vulnerability with execution of $160K firewall installation and configuration.  • Installed back-up satellite communications circuit, enabling global communications to US, after primary communications lines were damaged during earthquake. Education B.S. in Cyber Security University of Maryland Skills CISCO, FIREWALLS, NETWORK SECURITY, NETWORK ANALYSIS, NETWORK ARCHITECTURE, ROUTER, SECURITY, NEXUS, ARCHITECTURE Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/awappel Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: TSgt Certifications/Licenses CCNP Routing and Switching March 2019 to March 2022 CCNA Security May 2019 to May 2022 Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jldyhmq24usmqcps Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kxayu3unl1hfvwmr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    • Network Architecture  • Router & Switch Management  • Firewalls  • Network Analysis  • Troubleshooting  • Issue Resolution  • Network Security  • Cisco Nexus Switches  • Team Leadership  • F5 Load Balancers