Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT System Administrator - Consultant Haledon, NJ Work Experience Network Administrator ARROW FASTENER - Saddle Brook, NJ May 2019 to Present •            Performed Office365 Administration.  • ·           Performed various Active Directory Administrative tasks.  • ·           Provide technical assistance and support for employees, hands on troubleshoot and   • resolve problems quickly and efficiently.  •            Provide end users with set up, support, and backup for mobile hardware and applications.  •            Provide VPN access within company infrastructure.  •            Provide support and troubleshoot network printers.  •          Install Windows 10 and corporate software. IT System Administrator - Consultant Medin Technolgies Inc - Totowa, NJ October 2018 to April 2019 Responsibilities:  • Performed Office365 Administration  • Verified and implemented Multi Factor Authentication for Office365  • Completed warehouse network project by coordinating with in-house employees and 3rd  • party vendor  • Managed and deployed in house MFP printer/copier project by coordinating with in  • house and third party vendors.  • Analyzed business processes and identified a cost savings of $14, 400 per year.  • Performed network backup to protect internal corporate assets.  • Promoted the use of Microsoft One Drive to protect end user data.  • Managed and maintained relationships with third party hardware and software vendors  • Managed and maintained relationship with Manage Host Provider.  • Supported approximately 170 employees across three sites.  • Proactively converted Hyper-V clients to VMware clients  • Suggested and implemented Domain Network Security Policies for best practices.  • Patched Microsoft Window Servers as needed.  • Managed and maintained corporate Active Directory.  • Suggested and implemented secondary domain controllers to ensure network redundancy.  • Standardized desktop and laptop deployment across the organization.  • Helpdesk support for the entire organization. IT System/ Network Administrator - Consultant Seiko Corporation of America - Mahwah, NJ June 2018 to July 2018 IT System/ Network Administrator Seiko Corporation of America - Mahwah, NJ March 1999 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installed and managed two VMware Data Centers with nine ESXi hosts.  • Performed and maintained VMware updates on ESXi hosts.  • Manage, maintain, update, upgrade VMware vCenter server.  • Converted physical servers to virtual servers using VMware vCenter Converter.  • Converted desktops to virtual machines to improve employee productivity.  • Created VMware templates to expedite virtual machine deployment.  • Installed and managed DHCP servers, DNS servers, and WINS servers at local and remote site.  • Performed maintenance on Active Directory user and computer accounts per helpdesk requests and Japanese internal controls known as J-SOX.  • Conducted quarterly testing with 3rd party vendor to ensure PCI compliance.  • Managed, maintained, perform windows updates, and backed up Microsoft Exchange Server 2013.  • Researched and evaluated new hardware and software to improve departmental efficiency.  • Evaluated hardware and software contracts to ensure business continuity.  • Setup nightly, weekly, monthly backup procedures for servers using Backup Exec software.  • Performed single file restore, single Microsoft Exchange message restore, large data restore, and whole virtual machine restore.  • Initiated disk to disk backup for Window Servers and IBM AS400.  • Established disk backup replication to remote site.  • Established and maintained network printing using Microsoft servers and TCP/IP.  • Initiated the use of personal computer disk images for pc rollouts to standardize the corporate desktop for end users  • Created and maintained Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) to manage the distribution of updates and hotfixes.  • Provided help desk support at all levels in a 24 x 7 environment. Education B.S. in Marketing in Marketing St. Peter's College - Jersey City, NJ Computer Science Bergen Community College - Paramus, NJ Skills System Admin, Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator