Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - HCF Management Inc Fort Jennings, OH Work Experience Network Administrator HCF Management Inc - Lima, OH 2005 to Present Administer Exchange, Windows 7 & 10 and 2012 File, SQL, Kronos, and Backup (Veeam) Servers  ? Administer Trend Micro Antivirus, VMware, Call Manager and Unity Servers, Websense  ? Administer Windows Terminal Servers, Site Recovery, vSphere Replication, vCenter, vShpere  ? Set-up users and policies in active directory  ? Upgraded Exchange 2003 to 2010 over 1200 mailboxes  ? Installed VOIP at Corporate and other facilities  ? Set-up / troubleshoot pcs and software at Corporate and the facilities  ? Installed Spice Works  ? Split the power in the server room  ? Fire proof safe for backups and took backups off site PC Support Specialist K &M Tire - Delphos, OH 2004 to 2005 Installed a Firewall and Backup Software for Exchange  ? Administered Exchange, GeoTab, Call Accounting and File Servers  ? Installed and trouble shot the network (Cat 5) and phone cables  ? Completed software installations, troubleshot PC's and replaced hardware  ? Instructed other employees on new software and hardware  ? Traveled to other plants to install routers, hubs, switches, servers and other equipment  ? Sat-up users and policies in active directory Network Technician Metokote Corporation - Lima, OH 1999 to 2004 Administered SQL, Rightfax, NAS (File), RAS, Surf Control Servers  ? Completed software installations, troubleshot PC's and replaced hardware  ? Instructed other employees on new software and hardware  ? Sat-up and tested new hardware and software  ? Sat-up employee e-mail through Microsoft Exchange  ? Traveled to other plants to install routers, hubs, switches, servers and other equipment  ? Sat-up Cisco switches and routers Education Associate of Applied Business in Information Technology Northwestern College - Lima, OH March 2000 Diploma Fort Jennings High School - Fort Jennings, OH March 1996 Skills Active Directory, Vmware, Windows 7, Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Customer Service, System Admin, System Administrator Additional Information Volunteer       Putnam County Fair Board, Ottawa, OH                                       Director  1 - 2012 to present    • President – 2018 to present  • Vice President - 2014 to 2017  • Committee Chair for: Promotion & Advertising, Concession Camping, Concessions, Fair Book,  • Committee member for: Executive, Public Relations, Arches & Entertainment Tent, Grandstand Attractions, Sheep & Goats, Jr & Sr. Fair Exhibits, Buildings & Grounds, Junior Fair Camping, Primitive Camping, Kid’s Day Activities, Kiddie Tractor Pull  • Commissioner Meetings  • Resolve Problems / Deal with Upset People  • Remodel Rabbit Poultry Building and Electrical Upgrades on the Fair Grounds  • Trying to get New Merchants Building  • New Water Lines throughout the fair grounds  • Resolved Problem between Fair Board and County Fire Association        Ottoville EMS, Ottoville, OH                                                             Basic EMT   2 - 2010 to 10 - 2013  • Drove Ambulance  • Treated Patients  • Filled out Patient Reports        Fort Jennings Volunteer Fire Dept., Fort Jennings, OH             Fire Fighter  10 - 2003 to present   • Assistant Chief 2012 – 2013  • In Command when Chief isn’t there  • Captain 2010 – 2011  •  Fill out Fire Reports  • New Truck Committee