Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator-Nucor Steel Indiana New Braunfels, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Nucor Steel Indiana - Crawfordsville, IN February 2005 to Present • Responsible for Production Networks consisting of over 100 network switches, spread out over 600 acres and three dozen buildings with many miles of both Fiber Optic and Copper Cabling  • Liaison between IT department and the Maintenance department.Developed long term relationships that resulted in a vastly improved working relationship between the departments.  • Provide 24 X 7 direct support for the various mill Networks and Production Systems with a production capacity in excess of Two Million tons per year.  • Support full life cycle including Sourcing equipment, procurement, configuration commissioning and Disaster Recovery Planning and Testing.  • Network Technician Accomplishments:  ? Isolated production equipment from business equipment by creating and implementing production domains and physically separate networks  ? Developed a robust strategy for reconfiguring and integrating existing equipment for a new business acquisition resulting in an 80% reduction in IT equipment startup costs.  ? IT Liaison and direct support for new Radiation Detection System (Safeness) implementation providing more robust site wide radiation detection capabilities.  ? Assisted in upgrading Ft View applications at the Caster and the Caster Cooling Tower  ? Managed Outside contractors on numerous Network upgrades trying to stay ahead of rapidly changing business needs. Upgrading both fiber and copper cabling.  ? Worked with Maintenance department on $20 Million DRI Project and $10 Million Bag house 2 projects.  ? Worked with Safety Department to implement New MTS Safety Program resulting in fewer incidents and recordable accidents  ? Part of the Air Compressor System team that designed and implemented a new Plant Air System resulting in a $500,000 per year cost savings. PC Technician Nucor Steel Indiana - Crawfordsville, IN June 2002 to February 2005 • Maintained and updated computers, servers, printers, and other peripherals for 750 end users.  • Deployed new equipment and troubleshooting breakdowns  • Researched, tested, and procured, various hardware and software platforms used by Nucor Steel Indiana  • When possible source from multiple vendors to ensure competitive pricing  • PC Technician Accomplishments:  ? Upgraded PC Platform from Windows NT to Windows 2000 and Windows XP  ? Developed a process for new pc/laptop deployment using Symantec Imaging Software reducing the time for new pc deployments by 60%  ? Identified need for a help desk system, developed a plan, implemented system, trained end users on how to use the new system significantly reducing response time to end users. Education High school or equivalent in General Skills Cabling, Networking, Windows, Active Directory, Technical Support, Windows 7, Microsoft Office, Customer Service, Vmware, Security Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 April 1984 to June 1992 Served in the US Army from April 1984 until June 1992. Served in Desert Shield and Desert Storm. Started out in the infantry and reenlisted as a Apache Armament Sytems Tech Additional Information • Eighteen years as an IT Professional  • Ability to plan, design, implement, maintain, and support IT infrastructure and systems for a safe and secure operating environment  • Proven experience in Project Management and System Integration  • Experienced in multiple software packages including Windows 7 Pro, Server 2003, 2008, 2012, Rockwell Automation, Wonderware, Symantec, Intravue, Solar Winds, Cisco. Hardware equipment including: HP Desktops, Laptops, Servers, DNS, HP Switches, VmWare, Multiple Network Environments