Network Engineer, Consulting Firm <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer, Consulting Firm Network Engineer, Consulting Firm Culver City, CA Responsible Network Professional with comprehensive experience scheduling conversions and cutover.  Extensive experience monitoring, tracking, and evaluating global IT infrastructure incidents. Network  Engineer/ Administrator with extensive experience with High Availability environments, implementation  and management. System analyst specializing in object-oriented analysis and design. Enthusiastic  Network Engineer/ Administrator proudly offering over 15 years' experience in system upgrades,  hardware monitoring and performance improvements. An astute employee with knowledge in system  repairs and the installation of network components. Skilled in task prioritization and troubleshooting.  Intelligent Network Administrator with exceptional insight into computer security and tasked with  implementing firewalls, VPNs and anti-malware technologies. A diligent employee with expertise  upgrading networks, software and hardware. Ready for a new position that involves troubleshooting  and issue resolution in the IT environment.  Results-driven IT professional well-versed in MS Enterprise Systems, network engineering, project  management and product support. Strategic leader with an organized approach and talent for building  long-lasting relationships. Proficient in recovery planning, project mapping and training with the ability  to problem-solve and conduct critical analyses. Committed to providing high-level solutions that drive  business and provide outstanding cost efficiency.  Skilled System Administrator focused on performance optimization and technical improvements with an  understanding of cost-effective decision making and usability.  Developer well-versed in structuring, developing and implementing interactive websites. Work Experience Network Engineer, Consulting Firm Fothion - Sherman Oaks, CA February 2019 to July 2019 assigned to Cadence Aerospace in Anaheim, CA  ? Supported Network and Systems Operations in a generalist role where supported Route, Switch, Firewall/Security, Wireless, Active Directory Services, and Load Balancing across 12 offices with  1 Data Center in Anaheim  ? MPLS with Site-to-Site VPN connectivity across the offices to the Data Center  ? Environment consisted of HP/Cisco Routers and Switches, SonicWALL Firewalls, and Aruba  Wireless  ? Created and documented the disaster recovery plan (DRP) as well as implemented and designed  penetration/vulnerability testing inside out and outside  ? Documented the network including the rack elevation backbone and crate the wiki for level one  and two tech support  ? Implemented the onsite and offsite backup with datto and open source backup solutions  ? Reviewed and corrected the miss configuration on routing, firewall and switching BGP, VLANing  port security  ? Entered information from customer calls and onsite service visits into the company's system  using SolarWinds  ? Wrote agendas and notes and sent out automatic notifications for upcoming meetings  ? Planned and executed Security box for pen test network monitoring and log management LEM Network Engineer GHCropes September 2018 to February 2019 Performed network documentation and created disaster recovery plan  ? Setup Cisco Entercept IDS and Cisco Works for Windows network monitoring  ? Setup Juniper routers for craving MPLS to service the users  ? Oversaw migration of WAN links to new service provider, designed full mesh WAN, set up TFTP  server to backup, and restored configuration and IOS image files for the PIX, Cisco routers, and Catalyst switches  ? Analyzed expanding network, ran fiber, and implemented wireless communication  ? Designed configuration and layout of WAN to include IPT Internet facing VPNs and wireless  subnet  ? Migrated network from full mesh frame relay to Point-Point T1 on larger sites, and implemented  IPsec VPN on smaller sites  8185408113  5015 sawtelle blvd  culver city ca 90230  ? Administered multiple PIX firewalls throughout WAN to ensure LAN integrity from external  threats  ? Monitored bandwidth and network activity by analyzing information provided by MRTG to ensure both efficient and effective network operation  ? Configured and supported multiple remote site installations  ? Led team of 15 system admin engaged in delivering assistance to customer service department  on daily basis Network Engineer Motor Vehicle Software Corporation - Agoura Hills, CA June 2012 to September 2018 Network Engineer in environment that consisted of over 50 employees spanning across 20  states with connection to over 6K automotive dealerships and the DMV utilizing MPLS/BGP  ? Migrated the main Data Center to Switch in Nevada with two redundant DC's in Agoura Hills and Down Town Los Angeles  ? Environment was Cisco heavy with Cisco routers and switches at each site and data center  including Catalyst core, edge, and access switches, Cisco ASA Firewalls (some NextGen with FirePower), Cisco Meraki AP's/WLC, and F5 LTM Load Balancers. Some Juniper SRX for internal  security specific to government network that connected to the DMV  ? Developed work-flow charts and diagrams to ensure production team compliance with client  deadlines  ? Managed creative projects from concept to completion while managing outside vendors  ? Diagnosed and troubleshot UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency  ? Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions  ? Designed SharePoint masterpage and page layouts, serving as company's main SharePoint  support for all technical complications  ? Established compatibility with third party software products by developing program for modification and integration  ? Designed and implemented new server standards for core business services  ? Streamlined and enhanced the corporate accounting and operations system  ? Built application platform foundation to support migration from client-server product lines to enterprise architectures and services  ? Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real- time and historical measurements  ? Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance  and upgrades  ? Recommended network security standards to management  ? Provided methodologies for object-oriented software development and efficient database  design  ? Designed strategic plan for component development practices to support future projects  ? Developed and implemented complex Internet and Intranet applications on multiple platforms  ? Utilized a pipe and filter model to find bottlenecks and enable measurement of system resource  usage and process behavior at boundary limits of all operations  ? Proposed technical feasibility solutions for new functional designs and suggested options for performance improvement of technical objects  ? Aligned office departments and increased inter-department communication and data sharing  8185408113  5015 sawtelle blvd  culver city ca 90230  ? Developed data architecture design to enable analysts to perform targeted customer analysis  ? Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site  ? Led team of 35 software and system administrator engaged in delivering assistance to customer  service department on daily basis  ? Planned and executed active-active and active-passive Data Center Senior Network Administrator Extreme, Inc - Los Angeles, CA June 2011 to January 2012 Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real- time and historical measurements  ? Recommended network security standards to management  ? Developed and implemented complex Internet and Intranet applications on multiple platforms  ? Trained junior members of IT team regarding network security and troubleshooting of data  circuits  ? Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site  ? Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance  and upgrades  ? Supervised and provided direction for six technical direct reports regarding network activities  ? Managed creative projects from concept to completion while managing outside vendors  ? Developed data architecture design to enable analysts to perform targeted customer analysis  ? Diagnosed and troubleshooted UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency  ? Advocated for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for server, desktop and IT  infrastructure work  ? Developed work-flow charts and diagrams to ensure production team compliance with client  deadlines    EGA, Iran 01/2002 to 01/2011 CIO January 2005 to January 2011 Network Engineer January 2002 to January 2005 Network Engineer DPQ - IR January 1998 to January 2001 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Technology in Computer Engineering Technology Azad University - Tehran, IR 1998 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, BGP, CATALYST, CISCO, JUNIPER, LAN/WAN, MPLS, OSPF, VMWARE, VPN, FIREWALLS, LOAD BALANCING, SOLARWINDS, CISCO ASA, IPSEC, SECURITY, WIRELESS, LINUX, VSS, ARCHITECTURE Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  ? Cisco Engineering/Architecture/Administration/Maintenance  ? LAN/WAN, Route, Switch, Security, Wireless, Load Balancing  ? Cisco Routers, Cisco Catalyst, Cisco Nexus (7K5K/2K/VSS/VPC), Cisco ASA, Cisco ASA w/  FirePower, Cisco ASA, Cisco Meraki AP's/WLC, F5 Load Balancers (LTM), SonicWALL  Firewalls, Aruba Wireless AP's/WLC, VMware, Windows/Linux Administration, Juniper  ? OSPF, BGP, MPLS, STP, VPN, IPSec, Active Directory  ? Network Management Systems (SolarWinds, Zabbix, Cisco Works)  ? RHCD Storage hardware architecture  Alireza ghoroghchian  8185408113  5015 sawtelle blvd  culver city ca 90230