Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator (GS - Mid-Atlantic Regional Maintenance Center Virginia Beach, VA Work Experience Network Administrator Mid-Atlantic Regional Maintenance Center/Department of the Navy - Norfolk, VA June 2019 to Present Duties and Responsibilities:  • Fully support, configure, maintain and upgrade network infrastructure including micro server farm networks, copper LAN, fiber distribution, and BiDi WAN links.    • Aid in the installation of new servers and systems into the network and provide configuration/lifecycle management of network hardware.    • Manage enterprise Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) system including developing, implementing approved policies, and service endpoint security configuration auditing.    • Monitor network performance (availability, latency, etc.) with built-in IOS commands and third-party applications including What's Up Gold and Wireshark.  • Coordinate with asset management to maintain complete inventory of all network devices and maintain support contracts through enterprise level agreements.    • Prepare and gather quotes, Independent Government Estimates (IGEs), and other pertinent information to process Information Technology Purchase Requests (ITPRs).    • Supported Information Assurance (IA) programs and control guidelines. Monitored physical and virtual systems ensuring performance, availability and security. Reads, comprehends and applies Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) as needed in accordance to the guidance from DISA and other relevant authority. Network Administrator CACI Federal - Norfolk, VA February 2019 to June 2019 Position Description:  Serves as a Network Administrator on a contract supporting the Mid-Atlantic Regional Maintenance Center (MARMC) Cybersecurity team and its efforts. Installs, operates, maintains and secures network infrastructure providing critical services to MARMC. Participates in weekly team meetings, discussing current projects and future plans for the Regional Maintenance Center Network (RMCNet).    Duties and Responsibilities:  • Fully support, configure, maintain and upgrade network infrastructure including micro server farm networks, copper LAN, fiber distribution, and BiDi WAN links.    • Aid in the installation of new servers and systems into the network and provide configuration/lifecycle management of network hardware.    • Manage enterprise Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) system including developing and implementing approved policies and service endpoint security configuration auditing.    • Monitor network performance (availability, latency, etc.) with built-in IOS commands and third-party applications including What's Up Gold and Wireshark  • Coordinate with asset management to maintain complete inventory of all network devices and maintain support contracts through enterprise level agreements.    • Prepare and gather quotes, Independent Government Estimates (IGEs), and other pertinent information to process Information Technology Purchase Requests (ITPRs).    • Supported Information Assurance (IA) programs and control guidelines. Monitored physical and virtual systems ensuring performance, availability and security. Reads, comprehends and applies Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) as needed in accordance to the guidance from DISA and other relevant authority.    Supervisor: Bruce Frickey  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Network Administrator TekSynap Corporation November 2017 to January 2019 Position Description:  Served as a Network Administrator on contract to the National Defense University/Joint Forces Staff College enterprise IT department. Installed, configured and maintained the DoD compliant, DODIN joined .edu network. Participated in the accreditation of the enterprise network through the RMF process and successfully achieved an ATO from the Joint Staff. Worked in a joint team environment of system and network administrators to support customer mission 24/7.    Duties and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for installation, operation of Cisco systems and equipment, to include configuring TCP/IPv4, routers and switches. Assisted in monitoring and maintaining the enterprise wired/wireless network of the National Defense University Campuses with over 1000 networked devices. Assisted in the installation and configuration of Windows 2012/2016 servers and RHEL appliances.    • Assisted in ensuring 24/7 network availability for customers both on site and remote. Took part in a rotating on-call schedule to ensure issues were dealt with in a timely manner during off-hours. Participated in after-hours maintenance windows to avoid customer facing service interruptions.    • Provided users with distance support and / or in-person or tech assists in order to instruct end users on the setup / configuration and operation of software and hardware or troubleshooting the problems of an end user. Reported outages and oversaw incident response. Provided logs / trends for authorized service interruptions and unplanned network outages to parent and sister organizations in weekly update briefings and reports.    • Responsible for the management of over 800 active user accounts, ensuring each user completed required training and maintained System Authorization Access Requests (SAARs) / Acceptable Use Policies (AUPs) and compliance with DoD 8570 IA directives. Responded to, investigated, and reported IA violations to the higher headquarters for adjudication    • Directly supervised 10 technicians of disciplines such as IT Support Specialists, Telecom technicians, and junior System administrators. Monitor work requests assigned to the transport team work queue and ensure tickets comply with 95% SLA. Directed IT Support Specialists on the installation, configuration and management of desktops, laptops, routers, switches, printers and phones.    • Managed a combination of 1500 networked and standalone desktop and laptop computer systems with Windows 7 and Windows 10 Operating Systems, 80 multi-function print devices and 600 phones spread across two separate facilities.    • Assisted with the modernization of the enterprise network with the installation of Cisco Catalyst/Nexus enterprise network switches and rewiring of communications closets including fiber SM/MM connections between distribution switches and campus buildings.    • Helped create and maintain Visio diagrams of the network topology and design, both physical and logical, to assist in RMF documentation and accreditation.    • Completed manual STIG checklists of network devices for RMF accreditation process and assisted in the documentation of ports and protocols through PPSM process. Supplemented System Administrators in the SCAP/STIG of Windows based servers and the mitigation of vulnerabilities.    Supervisor: Anita Isaac  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes System Administrator TekSynap Corporation June 2016 to November 2017 Position Description:  Served as a System Administrator at the National Defense University/Joint Forces Staff College. Assisted the organizational IT director on matters relating to Information Systems(IS) confidentiality, integrity, and availability, hardware and software implementation, customer service, and technical support. Responsible for a team of customer facing technicians who supported the IT capabilities of the mission.    Duties and Responsibilities:    • Facilitated services such as Active Directory, Remote Desktop, PowerShell, Task Scheduler, Firewall policies, DHCP configuration, DNS configuration, Event Viewer, Security Policies, Group Policy Objects (GPOs), Storage and Backups, and BIOS configurations to provide support to end users.    • Concurrently served as Service Desk manager for enterprise IT issues/requests    • Provided training to IT and Cybersecurity Workforce personnel, instructing them on managing users individual training requirements, using Active Directory, Remote Desktop, Command Prompt, BIOS configuration and computer imaging deployment tools to provide support to end users.    • Completed customer requests to include the creation and deletion of Active Directory user accounts, imaging of networked and standalone systems, networking and repairing printers, creating or repairing cable, data recovery from damaged or quarantined systems, hardware install and repair, and software installation  • Assisted in the administration and maintenance of government end-users at Fort McNair through the management of Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange servers, Lync(Skype) servers, and enterprise network access.    • Answered and closed ticket requests utilizing the Footprints ticketing service. Evaluated user needs and requirements and submitted to higher echelons as necessary. Provided technical support both on and off site.    • Utilized SCCM to deliver standardized baseline images for enterprise computer use and for device management compliant with DoD STIG requirements.    • Conducted quarterly reviews and weekly meetings to discuss and evaluate employee performance. In accordance to company policy, provided corrective action as necessary.    • Drafted, revised and finalized company Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and Local Administrator Guides for the use of company resources.    • Managed life-cycle upgrades of organization hardware. Inventoried and prepared older equipment for turn-in and new equipment for distribution and installation. Oversaw the transition from Windows 7 to Windows 10, ensuring all networked and standalone systems were properly upgraded in order to meet DoD requirements.    • Ensured systems compliance, by applying required STIGs on systems with software above the baseline image and performing remedial actions for systems not in compliance such as re-imaging, updating anti-virus definitions, manually applying patches and updating Group Policy or applying PowerShell scripts as necessary    • Performed user account reviews and audits to maintain the integrity and security of company resources in prevention of insider threats.  Supervisor: Chris Fierek  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Education Bachelor's Degree in International Affairs James Madison University Harrisonburg June 2016 Skills Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Routers (3 years), Network Administration (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2015 to August 2021 CCENT October 2016 to October 2020 ITIL v3 June 2018 to Present VCA-DCV April 2017 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/x4kr8bq43lmpnv0 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.