Network engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> engineer Network engineer - Desjardins Bank Parsippany, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network engineer Desjardins Bank - Hallandale Beach, FL 2017 to 2017 2017-2017  IT Professional-- Network and Imaging Management  Responsible for maintaining and managing datacenter infrastructure. Network engineer of a Windows 2008 and 2012 network. Responsible for maintaining and managing main bank's branch and five remote Branches. Design and configure network infrastructure utilizing VMware virtualization (5.5 to 6.0). Responsible for all network security including remediation of vulnerabilities found for all network devices identified by external and internal penetration tests. Manage and administer HP SANs. Manage all network MPLS circuits from datacenter to all bank's branches. Manage and administer Microsoft Office 365 for the bank's enterprise. Manage and administer four SonicWall firewalls including content filtering. Implement load balancing and failover for the two internet circuits at the main branch for optimal internet efficiency. Responsible for providing management monthly reports for all systems as required by the U.S Department of the Treasury (OCC). Participate in IT committee and present reports to bank's president, CFO, and business management on a quarterly basis. Implement cloud-based solution to monitor and report all servers and workstations. Implement anti-virus and patch management solutions utilizing Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business. Manage and administer all bank's backup solutions utilizing Unitrends appliance backup systems and CTera backup systems. Assist IT specialists with new software rollouts including Office 2016 and TeamViewer. Assist internal end-users with core business applications, including Fiserv technologies. Senior Network Engineer Family Central, Inc 1997 to 2015 Managed and maintained datacenter infrastructure. Managed a Windows 2008 network. Migrated the existing Windows 2003 network to Windows 2008, including GroupWise to Exchange 2007. Designed and configured network infrastructure utilizing VMware virtualization (upgraded from vSphere 4.1 to 5.1 to 5.5), Cisco switches, fiber-optic backbone, T1 interoffice circuits, and DS3 internet connections. Managed and administered EMC and Dell SANs. Remote users were supported with Terminal Server solutions. Domain access and authentication to the intranet and extranet used enterprise certificate services. The database servers included SQL and Oracle. Internet connectivity was provided through WatchGuard firewalls. The desktops were migrated from Windows XP to Windows 7. Workstation operating system, software installation, and updates were automated with Acronis disk imaging. Windows Server Update Services were used for patch distribution. Managed and maintained 350 Wyse terminals. Antivirus control utilized corporate products from Kaspersky. Managed and maintained Interactive Intelligence phone system. Supported over 450 users utilizing Manage Engine help desk software. Network Engineer Info-Tec Systems - Fairfield, NJ 1996 to 1997 Used Novell Netware 3.12 and 4.11 as NOS. Responsibilities included upgrading and migrating  servers from Netware 4.1 to IntranetWare, configuring, and installing PCs from Windows 3.1 to  Windows 95. Local Area Administrator Datatec Industries - Parsippany, NJ 1990 to 1996 Used Novell NetWare 3.12 as NOS. Responsibilities included server and PC maintenance,  running backups, updating software, adding users, and phone system maintenance. Worked  closely with customers putting together project manuals and procedures including training team  leaders and employees. Education VMware Vsphere: Install, Configure, Manage [V5.5] Global Knowledge - Miami, FL 2014 Certified Microsoft System Engineer 2000 & MCP MCSA 2003 Exchange 2003 Homnick Systems - Boca Raton, FL 2000 Certified Novell Engineer 4.1 & Certified Novell Administrator MicroAge Learning Center - Cedar Knolls, NJ 1996 Computer Technician Morris County College - Township of Randolph, NJ 1993 Skills IT Infrastructure Management (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), VMware (9 years), Database Administration (10+ years), Active Directory, Exchange, DNS