DCO Security Server Administrator DCO Security Server <span class="hl">Administrator</span> DCO Security Server Administrator - NASA Hazel Green, AL Work Experience DCO Security Server Administrator NASA - Huntsville, AL January 2018 to Present Manage the configuration and support of Production Servers, RDP Servers, Lab Servers. Support and manage Active  Directory, GPOs, and remote servers located across the United States. Manage and troubleshoot group policies at the server and desktop level. Maintain laboratory infrastructure. Assist in building out new infrastructure to alleviate End of  Life concerns for hardware and software. Execute document changes to systems and networks that impact security.  Respond to and resolve alerts/anomalies through monitoring to ensure appropriate behavior.    • Generate and maintain administrative documentation such as architecture diagrams and admin manuals, operational procedures and processes.  • Recommend software upgrades and perform upgrades in production.  • Maintain working knowledge experience as a domain level administrator supporting an Agency level Microsoft Active Directory forest.  • Provision and de-provision domain controllers, troubleshoot replication issues.  • Manage and troubleshoot Group Policies for servers and end user devices at an Agency level.  • Resolve single and cross-technology incidents independently and assist team members to resolve unusually complex or cross-technology incidents.  Independently reviewed, implemented, and verified changes/solutions of high complexity and risk to meet customer requirements; following all required change processes.  • Apply patch and security changes per policy and proactively monitor the environment for patch compliance.    Role Change DCO Security Specialist  Manage and monitor user authentication, authorization and access controls for systems and applications. Document  changes to systems and networks that impact security. Improve security efficiency, streamline work processes and worked collaboratively with IT personnel to accomplish objectives. Perform implementation, administration and support  and monitoring of the preventative and detective IT security controls. Ensure security controls are kept up-to-date and are configured for appropriate effectiveness. Respond to and resolves alerts/anomalies through monitoring to ensure  appropriate behavior. Generate and maintain administrative documentation such as architecture diagrams, admin  manuals, and operational procedures and processes. Reviews and evaluate patch findings. Recommends software  upgrades and performs upgrades in production.    • Perform security tasks during BCP exercise and actual disasters.  • Maintain accurate list of servers for security plan; ensure the list of servers is accurately reflected in BigFix, Asset Manager is up-to-date with all the assets and virtual machines, and WSUS or the tool of choice for patching can reach all the servers.  • Monitor Security vulnerability reporting tool (BigFix) to ensure that systems remain healthy and ensure that all assets are reporting correctly.  • Work with the Engineer and Operations staff on using GPO's to mitigate new and re-occurring vulnerabilities.  • Perform monthly scans - un-credentialed and credentialed.  (256) 658 - 1250 Donald.griggs@mediacombb.net https://www.linkedin.com/in/donaldjgriggs    Professional Experience  • Maintain lab infrastructure. Work with Exchange Team.  • Plan and implement iLO and SPP updates on a bi-annual or as needed basis, working closely with Data Center Operations.  • Address current and future Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M); act as Liaison with ACES Security in creation of POA&M; create and maintain of Milestone Approval Request Form (MARF).  • Assist in building out new infrastructure to alleviate End of Life concerns for hardware and software.  • Hold monthly meetings with operations team and Active Directory Engineer to document and update plan of action to mitigate. Network Administrator AMBIENT CONSULTING - Huntsville, AL March 2016 to June 2017 Supported and configured of Network AD accounts. Management of Citrix accounts. Performed configuration and installation of various software / applications Including Microsoft office, CPR +, Carelink, CareExhange and various other  applications in use in the Nursing field. Delivered support for Company branches located across the United States.    • Executed remote configuration and support of various hardware on the network for each individual branch.  • Managed Active Directory and Active direct Accounts / GPO's. Network Administrator / Systems Analyst KENNAMETAL - Huntsville, AL 2014 to 2016 Delivered network configuration support and System administration. Supported all Kennametal locations in North  Alabama which included (Grant, Gurley, Madison and Huntsville as well as our Houston Texas location). Also includes 248  plus pcs and users including 13 Windows 2003 / 2008 servers, roles vary from DHCP, File Server, Apps Servers and Domain Controllers. Supported all aspects of Network Communications: including PC's, Local Area Networks, and  communications with remote installations, problem solving, modem communications, technical training and network  security. Configured Cisco switches via Console Cable 3750 / 2960. Troubleshot various software and hardware problems  pertaining to HP desktops, IBM Laptops, computers and various shop floor machines, also supported various in house  applications and Access Databases. Performed hardware software configuration and installation for 248 plus clients and customers by maintaining maintenance schedule; increased EOL and usage of hardware and software.    • Maintained good relations with customers by providing punctual and helpful services in timely manner while maintaining respect of customer and respect for Kennametal.  • Preserved daily logs of incoming and outgoing Hardware and Software along with documenting installation procedures, enabling better tracking of EOL of any software and hardware for support and or maintenance.  • Facilitated communications between Sales Representatives, Merchandisers and customers, maintaining and preparing a more accurate inventory log of any and all supported locations.  • Served as administrator of Active Directory accounts by adding, removing and changing Organizational Units, Distribution Groups, and Security Groups.  • Performed configuration and maintenance of enterprise LAN environment including implementation, configuration, coordination, control, maintenance, and troubleshooting; allowing extension of EOL for all server and Networking equipment for all Facilities.  • Provided Systems Analysis and progressive support methodologies for all LAN applications in addition to basic support services for any and all in house applications that may be in use.  • Maintained day-to-day operations of data communications networks and provided PC and Network equipment installations and re-locations as required.  • Contacted local customers experiencing problems and provided local Kennametal Support, achieving high level of customer satisfaction.  • Completed configuration and implementation of SAP, moving all users away from legacy ERP system.  • Involved in Novo Optimize implementation for Madison shop Floor CNC machines, enabling monitoring of up-time / down-time of CNC machines. Network Administrator / Systems Analyst ALLDYNE - Huntsville, AL 2008 to 2014 Configured and maintained enterprise LAN environment including implementation, configuration, coordination, control, maintenance, and troubleshooting of Kvm, Network Switches and external storage devices. Provided support of All ATI  locations in Alabama which includes (Grant, Gurley, Madison and Huntsville and Houston Texas location);  including 248 plus pc's and users including 13 Windows 2003 / 2008 servers, roles vary from DHCP, AD, WINS, File  Server, Ghost Server, and Apps Server. Served as Administrator for Active Directory. Repaired Dell / HP and custom Pc's and laptops. Resolved a history of problematic network failure by troubleshooting LAN/WAN connections for all Alabama  locations. Stabilized, expanded and protected client network and PC environment. Built new file servers to maximize data  usage across LAN.    (256) 658 - 1250 Donald.griggs@mediacombb.net https://www.linkedin.com/in/donaldjgriggs    Professional Experience  • Researched, recommended and implemented network enhancements that improved system reliability and performance.  • Performed setup and configuration of new servers for various roles (i.e. Domain Controllers, File Servers, Print Servers, DHCP / DNS servers.).  • Troubleshot various software and hardware problems pertaining to HP, IBM Laptops, computers and equipment while monitoring bandwidth and network performance via SolarWinds.  • Maintained good relations with customers by providing punctual and helpful services in timely manner while maintaining respect of customer and respect for ATI.  • Kept daily logs of incoming and outgoing Hardware and installation procedures; helping maintain accurate inventory of all hardware and software to be replaced or updated. Desktop Support Analyst PROTECH / PROTECTIVE LIFE CORPORATION - Birmingham, AL 2007 to 2008 Performed Desktop Support of Compaq and HP computers; supporting 1.5K+ Users running Windows (Windows 2000 and XP). Administered user accounts and Active Directory accounts (users, objects, etc.).    • Functioned as Helpdesk Support / User Technical Support while also completing hardware and software configuration and pc repair and network maintenance; eliminating any interruptions to business operations.  • Supported Mainframe Account and SMS. Installed and supported small office VIOP. Network Administrator / Engineer Cardinal Health - Birmingham, AL 2005 to 2007 Provided Helpdesk Support / Desktop configuration and Support / Network support and administration for 800+ clients and customers. Repaired Dell and custom Pc's. Installed and configured DDA onto customer computers. Maintained daily  logs of incoming and outgoing Hardware and installation procedures. Functioned as Administrator of Active Directory  accounts (users, objects, etc.). Assisted Network Manager in the configuration and maintenance of the enterprise LAN  environment including implementation, configuration, coordination, control, maintenance, troubleshooting, security, usage monitoring and the development of specialized procedures relating to the use of the LAN. Supported all aspects of  Network Communications.    • Achieved high level of customer satisfaction by maintaining good relations with customers.  • Configured and shipped telxons and other related equipment for customer use, ensuring items were received in timely manner.  • Served as backup for computer operators by assisting with computer operator functions on as-needed basis.    Extensive additional Desktop Support Analyst and Technical Support Specialist contract work available upon request. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems ITT Technology Virginia College at Birmingham - Birmingham, AL Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, REMEDY Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/donaldjgriggs Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    Platforms: Windows (XP, 7, Vista, 8, 10) Server 2003, 2008r2, 2012, 2016 Print server, Exchange Server, VMware ESXI, Hyper-V.  Applications:  Service Now, Remedy, Heat, Ghost Enterprise, Pc Anywhere, Dameware, Microsoft Office Suite, Veritas Backup, Avaya IP Office, Proofpoint, Evault, and Service Manager, SCCM.    Databases: Microsoft Access, SQL, Oracle  Tools: SolarWinds, Infoblox, VPN, Active Directory, MAAS360  Other:  Entry Level Cisco Configuration, System Documentation, Blackberry, IPhone 4, 5, 6. DNS, TCP / IP, DHCP, Proxy, LAN / WAN / Ethernet, Project Management, Workflow Planning, Systems Installation configuration & Upgrading