NOC Engineer NOC Engineer NOC Engineer Royal Palm Beach, FL Hard working and dedicated Site Administrator / Network Analyst with over fifteen years of Computer and Communications experience seeking full-time position at a well-established firm. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NOC Engineer MindSHIFT, a Ricoh Company - Commack, NY March 2018 to Present • Responsible for monitoring via SolarWinds and administration of production server, network devices, application, and systems.  • Performed problem analysis and systems monitoring  • Performed server OS and hardware maintenance  • Physical and virtual hardware resource administration  • Assisted in identifying and troubleshooting windows, mail delivery and network related problems  • Learned and followed company policies and procedures  • Performed in a fast paced, high volume environment  • Input and managed tickets via Service Now  • Maintained client security levels and confidentiality of information  • Generated performance reports for clients as needed  • Assisted in Microsoft Exchange and AD as required  • Managed outage communications between mindSHIFT and vendors/customers  • Received numerous accomplishment achievements based on feedback from customers Site Administrator / Network Analyst Northwell Health Data Center - Westbury, NY September 2017 to March 2018 - contract    • Responsible for immediate response to facility related issues in order to prevent or mitigate any impact to data center operations.  • Assisted in maintaining the physical infrastructure of the datacenter including but not limited to racking and stacking of servers and network equipment, running cables and configuring or decommissioning servers.  • Responsible for maintaining inventory in DCIM as well as monitoring and approving work orders.  • Performed facility planning and coordination of outside vendors and physical facilities personnel working within the data center.  • Partnered with Tier II and Tier III helpdesk peers to resolve incidents password resets, unlock windows accounts, mapping printers, and ticket routing to Tier V for P1 network Northwell health outage support.  • Was intermediary for colo clients either onsite or remote to help triage network issues.  • Provided documentation for customers' support structure and followed up with customers on CA service desk ticket system. Site Administrator / Network Analyst HighstreetIT - Islandia, NY March 2010 to April 2017 • Team Lead for fully manned 24x7 NOC staff assignments and project delegation. Technical lead and escalation contact for NOC staff for multiple vendors, multiple platform environment (cisco router and switch, cisco meraki, vm and Microsoft architectures) UIM 8.3.1 CA monitoring system and CA cloud Service Management for ticket creation/escalation and incident tracking.  • Responsible for maintaining and monitoring Sleepy's production environment via Cisco Routers 881, 1941, 2911 and 7206; testing head to head with ISP and Servers.  • Provided citrix support and helpdesk functions map printer, password resets, unlock windows accounts for multiple Stuart Dean locations while monitoring their production environments.  • Assisted implementing SNMP protocol on UIM with management to over nine hundred retail stores to improve network security measures.  • Was awarded Shift Supervisor/Team Lead after successful snmp project completion and multiple end users commendations  • Coordinated relevant communication emergency activities with NOC Manager and had numerous commendations for swift coordination and resolution of client technical and managerial issues.  • Was liaison for colo customer's onsite or remote to assist in troubleshooting.  • Excellent communication/customer service skills written and verbal.  • Worked helpdesk overflow issues in unlocking windows accounts, password resets, mapping printers, and Blackberry support via BES server. All issues well documented on service now ticket system. Site Administrator / Network Analyst Thomson-Reuters - New York, NY April 2000 to February 2010 • Provided high-level customer care, helpdesk functions, and front-line technical assistance testing head to head with ISP via CSU's.  • Identified and eliminated root causes of technical issues.  • Installed hardware and software including assembly configuration and maintenance of computer systems while developing skills on ESX 2.0 and PowerShell.  • Supported multiple clients with various hardware issues including all cisco equipment  • Provided customers network monitoring and troubleshooting via network outage, circuit problem, route/switch or voip issues.  • Triaged situations and either troubleshoot successfully or escalate to tier 3. Education Computer Science Coursework DeVry College - Long Island, NY Leadership Micropower Career Institute - Hauppauge, NY Skills Operation, Cisco, NOC, Trained in Microsoft Office, Unix windows , Net + and Cisco (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses A plus September 2013 to May 2014