System / Network Administrator System /<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System / Network Administrator - PCA Systems New Britain, CT Work Experience System / Network Administrator PCA Systems August 2002 to Present • Build multi-media computers, setting up wireless networks for multi-client use.  • Install and configure Cisco routers and switches. Configure routing protocols, VLAN  • Troubleshoot, repair and clean client computers for viruses and spam.  • Repair laptops and install hard drives and other peripherals.  • Install and maintain small Business Server and applications including Office Suite.  • Install and maintain Windows Server 2003 - Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, WINS, and Remote Routing and applying security updates.  • Perform routine hardware and software maintenance - installed and repairing defective peripherals and components.  • Repair, install and configure and provide support for Dell and HP servers running Microsoft Small Business Server 2003. Apply windows security updates and patches. System Administrator/ Network Administrator/ Network Engineer Waterbury Hospital - Waterbury, CT July 2017 to April 2019 • Maintain VMware vSphere and vCenter Virtualization technology and HP Simplivity of over 300 servers including Citrix Farm. Extensive Knowledge Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, SSL, Group Policy, SQL  • Experience working on VMware ESX 6x, server installation, configuration and troubleshooting Citrix XenDesktop, XenApp Server, Citrix Netscaler, Microsoft Hyper-V Server.  • Knowledge of NetApp and Dell Compellent Storage.  • Maintain day to day vSphere environment, Backup and monitor ESXi VM systems using Veeam Backup software using VeeamOne.  • Maintain all network hardware systems to ensure the network is providing connectivity as a whole to all clients.  • Evaluate root cause of problems and implement recovery, corrective and preventative action.  • Implemented Imprivata hospital wide to allow doctors to have single sign-on, follow-me application and paperless prescription per authorization per Connecticut law 2018.  • Migrated virtual machines to HP Simplivity - a HP Hyperconverged technology.  • Experience with Data Cabling and maintenance working with efficiency to eliminate costs and unnecessary procedures.  • Maintain Active Directory and Exchange servers, SQL server, over 300 servers and Applications including migrating to O365 and upgrades. Re-IP the hospital to maintain corporate standards.  • Upgraded Exchange 2010 to Exchange 2016. Also migrated hospital to Exchange 365. Maintain Exchange and Exchange 365 environment.  • Build RDS (Remote Desktop Services) farm to migrate current Citrix farm and associated documentation and diagrams of configuration.  • Continuous upgrade of hospital specific servers and applications.  • Document changes required in production through Change Control process  • Researched and implemented Cisco DUO dual factor authentication hospital wide for VPN and all other users  • Continuous migration of hospital IP scheme to a new IP scheme. Configure VLANs, move machines to various VLANs, adding VLANs to existing VLAN ports.  • Maintain and troubleshoot wireless environment using Cisco Prime.  • Resolve helpdesk issues and ticket escalation and responding to emergency situations to minimize downtime.  • Maintain corporate security - keeping workstation up to date with patches using WSUS.  • Create and maintain all GPO policies to meet the needs of the company.  • Continuously keeping up to date with education, subscriptions. Currently enrolled at Capital Community in CCNA certification - 4th semester.  • Adhering to strict HIPPA rules in the environment.  • Perform all other duties assigned by IT Director. System Administrator Community Residences, Inc - Newington, CT November 2016 to January 2017 • Installs, modifies, and makes repairs to hardware and software systems and provides technical advice and support to system users. Performs network maintenance on LAN and network devices.  • In collaboration with the Director of IT, researches software products and applicability to organizational environment. Makes recommendations to Director of Finance and IT regarding feasibility and need. Procures approved hardware and software.  • Works with IT Director to ensure that the network servers and the computer system are working efficiently and within their capacity.  • In collaboration with the Director of IT, creates and implements policies and procedures related to the Agency's computers and use thereof. System Engineer Cooperative Systems - Windsor, CT April 2016 to November 2016 • Respond to and repair user base of 3,760 VMware Network Servers and user issues.  • Working knowledge troubleshooting network, user and server systems daily.  • Daily monitoring of those servers in a managed environment using Labtech  • Perform technical projects and work with project lead as assigned.  • Configuration & support of Network Equipment, Network Servers, and desktop computers, and backup servers using StorageCraft Shadow Protect.  • Remote support & configuration of Network Equipment, Network Servers, and desktop computers.  • Working knowledge of installing and configuring Windows Server and Active Directory environments. (Server 2003, 2008, SBS 2003, 2008, SBS2011 and Server 2012 R2).  • Working experience and knowledge of VMware VSphere and VCenter Virtualization technology.  • Working Knowledge of Microsoft Exchange (2003, 2007, 2010 and 2013) daily.  • Perform administrative duties including but not limited to logging hours, providing customer documentation, and using company-approved data entry systems.  • Obtain training and certifications to further goals of self and the company.  • Provide ideas/insights as to new products or services that the company can offer its clients.  • Daily Shadow Protect / Image Manager/ rCloud offsite backup configure, trouble-shooting and resolving problems.  • Occasionally reconfigure Dell VRTX/blade servers when trouble arises or needs replacing. Managed Services Engineer TAB Computers - East Hartford, CT March 2011 to October 2015 • Managed over 300 plus clients and 560 Wintel servers and workstations - Server 2003, SBS2003, Server 2008, SBS2008, SBS2011 and Server 2012 R2. - using Labtech Remote Managed software. Installed and configured server and Exchange client accounts.  • Monitoring and fine tuning IPS policies experience with Symantec DCS.  • Monitoring and fine-tuning endpoint IPS policies - while making recommendations to the project team.  • Performed daily backup using Backup Exec - all versions, Veeam Backup, Quantum LTO tape libraries, Backup to NAS or SAN or Symantec and Dell RDX drives and cartridges. NetBackup Barracuda Hardware appliance and Windows Server Backup for all servers per client RTO/RPO.  • Performed network monitoring, application monitoring such as Exchange - and hardware monitoring then took corrective action when needed. Installed and monitored Hyper-V and VMware and Vsphere platforms. Used Virtual Center to connect to different VMware servers.  • Monitor network to resolve Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010 and 2013 and other network bottleneck issues.  • Resolved disk related error issues then dispatched technician if hands on was needed.  • Performed Windows updates - providing feedback to programmers of issues and operational suggestions.  • Proactively managing client servers - resolving user credential issues, email and security issues.  • Migration of Exchange Server 2003 to Server 2007 and 2010. Network Technician PC-Net, Inc. for ESPN - Bristol, CT July 2009 to September 2010 • Worked as a contractor on assignment at broadcast network TV ESPN in Bristol, CT.  • Network technician providing remote support at national and international events such as Monday Night Football, College Gameday, Australian Open, Wimbledon, British Open, NBA and WNBA games and events for Sports Center and Sports Nation.  • Support included extracting the requirements for hardware support from the Remote Events Form then packing cases to ship to destinations and includes:  ? Specialized travel kits which includes several HP blade servers running Microsoft Server 2003 and Intel boards with specialized applications such as ENPS  ? Configuring Cisco VPN 3002 hardware client for connecting to Cisco VPN 3000 concentrators or Cisco 2960 Catalyst VPN kits to extend the ESPN network to any part of the world.  ? Install and configure laptops, Cisco switches, network printers, fiber optic transceivers and wireless routers for wireless networking. Made cat5/cat6 cables for use on site.  ? Applying 32 years of experience in troubleshooting printing issues, Microsoft Office Suite. Build, configured and installed Server 2008 on HP DL380 servers. Education MCTS Capital Community College - Hartford, CT February 2017 to December 2019 Institute for Advanced Digital Media - Hartford, CT January 2014 to November 2015 Skills Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Eigrp, Ospf, Router, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Telnet, Vlan, Vmware, Vpn, Xenapp, Dns, Exchange, Networking, Wireless, Hsrp, Active Directory, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Security, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, MAC Additional Information SKILLS  Software:  • Server 2003, 2008, SBS 2008, SBS 2011, Server 2012 R2, Server 2016 and Server 2019 VMware vSphere.  • Windows 7, Windows 8 and Windows 10.  • Hyper-V, VMware vSphere, Citrix XenApp Server and HP Simplivity.  • Microsoft Office Suite, and Office 365, McAfee ePO, StorageCraft Shadow Protect and ImageManager, Backup Exec, NetBackup, Windows Server Backup, EMC Retrospect, Veeam, Exchange 2010, Exchange 2013, Exchange 2016, Outlook - all versions, ServiceNow ticketing system, OpenManage, IP Host Monitor.  • Managed Services applications ConnectWise, Kaseya and Labtech.  VMware Intelligent Policy - VIP.    Hardware:  • HP Simplivity, Dell Servers, Cisco switches configuration, Firewall configuration and working knowledge of Cisco IOS  • Install and configure Cisco 3800 routers, Cisco 800W, Catalyst 2960 switches, Cisco VPN 3000 concentrator and 3002 VPN hardware client. Experience working with a variety of Cisco switches - Catalyst 4506 6 blade, Catalyst 2960-S, Cisco 2901, Cisco 5700 Wireless controller, Cisco 3650 switch, Cisco Nexus 9k and 2k switches. Work with ISP to implement WAN equipment.  • Cisco router and switch know-how and configuration: RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, VLAN, STP, VTP, DTP, HSRP, ACL, DHCP, Telnet, SSH, EtherChannel - LACP and PAgP, PPP with PAP or CHAP, HDLC , CDP, SNMP.  • Understanding and working knowledge of networking - DNS, DHCP, OSI and TCP/IP models, TCP/IP,  • Understanding of QoS, and broadband technologies such as DSL, PPoE. VPN, GRE technologies, eBGP and iBGP.  • Understanding of security vulnerabilities of Cisco routers and switches and best practices to mitigating attacks.