Custodian/Janitor Custodian/Janitor Looking for work. Part-time/Full Baltimore, MD A hard-worker, team player, leader, and dependable guy. Has a lot of experience in multiple fields of work such as management, customer service, security, housekeeping/custodial, retail, fast food, delivery, IT/repair, etc. A jack of all trades! Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Custodian/Janitor Planet Fitness - Baltimore, MD May 2019 to July 2019 • Clean and maintain all areas of the facility including: Entrance, Hallways, Equipment area, Locker Rooms, Showers, Tanning Booth, Equipment, Sanitation Stations,Outside the facility, etc.    • Promote what planet fitness is all about, a safe, no judgement zone, clean, and family oriented company by keeping the facility in excellent condition and by meeting our customer's standards but also going above.    • Help out customers by answering any questions or concerns they may have, giving them tours of the facility, and getting them to know the environment and what we're all about.    • Build a rapport with customers and trust that goes beyond standard customer service    • Helping out fellow team members    • Etc Unarmed Security Guard All Secure - Baltimore, MD April 2019 to June 2019 • Observe and report  • Secure site by foot patrol and or vehicle  • Access Control  • Warn violators and if need be detain them or use proper force to subjugate them and or defend myself and clients property and personnel  • Write detailed reports  • Monitor the site through the use of multiple technologies such as cctv, tablet, etc Technician Computer Clinic UTX - Baltimore, MD February 2019 to April 2019 As a technician I handle all types of repairs, for all types of electronics. From computers, to phones and even gaming consoles, we provide the best technological solutions and ultimate technology xperience to our clients. We serve not just large corporations, but even small business owners as well... if you got a problem we can fix it!    Duties: Repair, Billing, Upgrading, Assembly, Building, Account Management, Cleaning/Recycling, Customer service, etc Security Officer/Supervisor Securitas Security Services USA, Inc - Baltimore, MD August 2018 to December 2018 Patrol the interior and exterior of the facility, looking out for threats or any hazards. Writing detailed reports on the various activity going on throughout the day, controlling access to assets/areas of assigned site. Making sure to keep unauthorized individuals out and the site and it's workers safe. Enforcing the law/various rules and acting as the first line of response in emergencies or incidents. Using surveillance equipment such as cameras, monitoring technology to ensure the safety of the site and it's workers. There are other responsibilities, however they vary depending on the specific site's needs or requirements.    I already have my guard card. Always looking for a great opportunity! Manager MetroPCS - Baltimore, MD February 2017 to January 2018 - Process transactions (billpays, accessories, etc)  - Clean  - Help customers and fit them with the right plan, phone, and service  - Stock shelves and resupply the store  - Troubleshoot/diagnose problems and resolve them  - Manage the store, operations, etc Sales Associate/Manager In Training MetroPCS - Baltimore, MD June 2016 to August 2016 - Process Transactions (bill pays, accessories, etc)  - Clean  - Help customers and fit them with the right plan, phone, and service  - Monitor other employees and help manage the store  - Stock shelves and resupply the store Parkour Instructor Urban Evolution Baltimore - Baltimore, MD May 2016 to August 2016 Instructing and teaching classes such as parkour, gymnastics,yoga. Assisting with sales and other team members. Maintaining the cleanliness of the facility by sweeping, mopping, and vacuuming. Head Cashier/Sales Associate Family Dollar - Baltimore, MD May 2016 to June 2016 - Ring up customers and process payments  - Clean  - Stock shelves  - Assist customers  - Monitor other employees  - Assist co-workers if needed  - Help to manage the store Head Cashier/Sales Associate Dollar General - Baltimore, MD February 2016 to April 2016 - Ring up customers and process payments  - Clean  - Stock shelves  - Assist customers  - Monitor other employees  - Assists co-workers if needed  - Help to manage the store Barista/Cashier Cosi - Baltimore, MD October 2015 to February 2016 - Make and serve beverages  - Clean  - Open and close  - Catering  - Delivery  - Check inventory Assistant Network Administrator BPI - Baltimore, MD August 2013 to June 2015 Assisting the computer network administrator with his work. Diagnosing computers/troubleshooting, setting up computers and other various devices, managing inventory, updating software, re-imaging computers, account management, repairing/upgrading computers and other components, etc. I learned quite a lot in that little span of time, it has helped me to develop an even greater passion for computers and technology. Education High school in Engineering Baltimore Polytechnic Institute - Baltimore, MD September 2011 to June 2015 Skills Customer Service (4 years), Retail Sales (2 years), Management (2 years), Housekeeping (2 years), Restaurant/Delivery/Catering (1 year), Security (1 year), Computer Repair (2 years), Network Administration (1 year), Web Development (Less than 1 year), Video Game Development (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), Unity 3D (Less than 1 year), 3D Animation (2 years), 3D Design (2 years), 3D Character Design (2 years), Drawing (3 years), Blender 3D (3 years), Maya 3D (1 year), Phone Repair (Less than 1 year), Supervisor (2 years), Patrol, Criminal Justice Certifications/Licenses Security Guard License