Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Wendel Technologies Hicksville, NY Work Experience Network Administrator Wendel Technologies January 2016 to Present • Manage small business networks including but not limited to: new user set up, hardware installation, server upgrades, and security software monitoring.  • Install new hardware (desktops, printers, phones) and troubleshoot desktop and server errors.  • Perform and check on local and cloud backups made through Windows Server and iDrive.  • Work with SonicWALL, Sophos, McAfee, and Vonage phone systems. Junior Network Administrator David Lerner Associates June 2014 to July 2016 • Perform all IT duties on desk, server, phone, internet/wifi and remote systems support.  • Respond to, troubleshoot, analyze, coordinate and resolve IT requests via help desk management tool.  • Track and document customer requests through an incident management tool.  • Update internal knowledge base with new applications / policies / FAQ information.  • Provide technical support for desktop software, hardware (PC/laptops/printers/LCD projectors, internet connectivity solutions) and custom enterprise applications.  • Assist in the installation, implementation and upgrades of internal systems, maintains inventory of all documented procedures and updates them according to policy changes.  • Diagnose internal inquiries and work requests as they relate to maintenance of computers and related enterprise systems. Prepare help desk incident reports and assist in software evaluation and recommendations. Manager Paul Effman Music Service May 2009 to June 2014 • Recorded payments and sales invoices into the MAS 90 database system while creating and updating customer information records.  • Managed and mentored both current and new employees and organizing the work space to improve efficiency and consolidate inventory.  • Managed and processed product sales, kept inventory and ran day to activities within the shop.  • Managed employee and customer records.  • Completed daily data entry of new employee profiles using HHA Exchange.  • Handled customer and employee dispatch and distribution schedules via email and phone on a daily basis.    Technical Skills:  • Proficient in Active Directory, Embassy Remote Administration Server, McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator.  • Proficient with Windows Server 2008, Office 365, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft OneNote.  • Well-versed in Windows 7/8.1/10 and MAC/iOS operating systems.  • Computer software and hardware repair and installation/management.  • Skilled in troubleshooting and systems analysis.  • Comprehensive understanding of CISCO routing and switching uses and limitations for network set up and security.  • Great management and leadership skills when working both solo and in a team environment.  • Adept at responding well to end user difficulties and concerns in a swift and calm manner. Education B.S. in Networking Farmingdale State College - New York, NY May 2017 A.A.S. in Information Technology Nassau Community College - Garden City, NY May 2014 A.A. in devices and technology Nassau Community College - Garden City, NY May 2014 Skills Excel, Microsoft excel, Microsoft powerpoint, Powerpoint, Microsoft word, Word, Windows 7, Windows server 2008, Mac, Active directory, Cisco, Switching, Systems analysis, Ios, Hardware repair, Leadership skills