Assistant Network Administrator Assistant <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Southampton, NJ I am seeking a challenging System Administrator position, that will permit me to continue learning and expanding my skill set and knowledge base. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Assistant Network Administrator Lenape Regional High School - Shamong, NJ September 2013 to Present Responsibilities  • Built Exchange 2013 environment for 10K accounts and performed account migration from Exchange 2007  • Stood up VMware 5.5 environment with HA clusters, Migrated a mixture of Windows, and Linux servers over. Have recently upgraded to 6.7  • Primary administrator for Appassure (now Rapid Recovery) backup protecting file servers and SQL database for student records.  • Responsible for day to day support in a regional school district with four high schools.   • Maintain Eset and Malwarebytes antivirus server to provide protection for all district machines.  • Installed new cabling infrastructure throughout the district.  • Assembled mobile laptop carts and configured systems.  • Supervised on site contractors to ensure work was completed to scope and meet code requirements. Network Administrator Systems Technologies, Inc - West Long Branch, NJ May 2006 to September 2013 • Responsible for day to day support and configuration changes in a corporate office with four remote sites.  • Migrated the existing VPN point to point network to a managed MPLS network.   • Assisted in configuration and deployment of enterprise wide Cisco VOIP phone system across all sites.  • Maintain Citrix server allowing access to Deltek GCS and Deltek Time & Expense with SQL 2005 database.  • Performed migration from SevrGuard firewalls to Cisco ASA's.  • Selected and designed CommVault Simpanna 9 backup solution to replace EMC Networker backup solution, also switched from tapes to a full disk to disk backup.  • Planned and implemented Windows Server NT 4.0 to Server 2003 upgrade including moving network environment from workgroups to Active Directory.   • Built mobile VTC carts including configuration of Lifesize Room 220 units.  • Performed several facility initial setups and moves including migration from a twenty five seat facility to a one hundred and sixty seat facility within a six week window.  • Deployed Dell Kace for centralized system management and patching. Help Desk Administrator Technical and Management Services Corporation - West Long Branch, NJ 2005 to April 2006 • Identified and resolved desktop issues on end user desktops and laptops.  • Maintained, repaired, and upgraded Windows AD, DNS, File & Print, and DHCP servers.   • Programmed Cisco routers for internet connection via T1.  • Maintained WAN connectivity to the remote warehouse.   • Assisted with corporate wide migration of Microsoft Exchange 5.5 to 2003.  • Applied changes and programmed the Watchguard Firebox firewall.  • Responsible for all phases of backup and restore operations with Backup Exec. Education C++ Programming Ocean County College - Toms River, NJ 2000 to 2000 Electronics Design Tech II, A+ computer repair/ network essentials, Telecomm II & Electrical Trades Ocean County Votech - Toms River, NJ 1996 to 2000 Skills Active Directory, Mac, Microsoft Office, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, access, VMware 5.5 through 5.7 (4 years), Vmware, Windows 7, Customer Service Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/chris-herbert/43/134/183/ Additional Information OTHER: 1" place Computer Maintenance Competitors-NJ Skills USA VICA. Participated in skills USA National competition and placed 16th in the nation out of 41 competitors    Employee of the month  Lenape Regional School District  March 2014