Lead Network Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Lead Network Engineer Las Vegas, NV • Over 19 years of experience in I.T. to include Network Engineering/Administration, Systems Administration, Satellite Systems, Help Desk, Crypto devices, and Wireless Access Points/Controllers.  • Over 6 years of experience performing Network Engineering duties to include surveying, furnishing, implementing, testing, training, and documenting highly complex world-wide enterprise class networks, information systems, infrastructure, and information security architectures and solutions.  • Over 6 years of experience performing Senior Network Administration duties to include bare bones network installations at over 300 sites across the Middle East, and afterwards served as administrator and maintainer of those networks.  • Comprehensive knowledge of BGP, OSPF, and EIGRP routing protocols as well as HSRP and VRRP redundancy protocols.  • Implemented PIM-SM for Department of Defense Predator Drone program and large casinos.  • Designed and implemented VPN solution in various situations for different organizations.  • Installed, configured, and troubleshot Cisco Catalyst/Nexus Switches, Cisco 5508 Wireless LAN Controller & Access Points, Juniper Routers & Switches, Avaya and Brocade Switches, F5 Load Balancers, Palo Alto Firewalls, SRX & Checkpoint Firewalls, Riverbed Steelhead Traffic Accelerators, ASX-200/1000 Marconi ATM switches, KG-245, iDirect 5150/Infinity X5 satellite modems/routers, Comtech CDM-840 VSAT modems, Aruba 651-1 Controller & Aruba AP-175, Spectrum Analyzer and FIREBERD 6000A test equipment, Dell R200/R610 servers.  • Installed, configured and troubleshot Radius Server utilizing Network Policy Server with Active Directory for network authentication to various network devices and firewalls.  • Proficient in using Microsoft Office software tools (Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Visio)  • Excellent written and oral communication skills combined with attention to detail and a solid work ethic. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Network Engineer Golden Nugget Las Vegas - Las Vegas, NV July 2017 to Present • Manage, design, and oversee Check Point, Sophos, and Palo Alto firewalls. Primary contact for the entire network security for Golden Nugget Las Vegas & Laughlin Casinos.  • Manage, design, and oversee Cisco Nexus/Catalyst switches & routers. Primary contact for the entire network for Golden Nugget Las Vegas & Laughlin Casinos.  • Manage, design, and oversee Cisco Wireless Network. Primary contact for the entire wireless network for Golden Nugget Las Vegas & Laughlin Casinos.  • Solely responsible for implementation & management of SolarWinds Orion Network Configuration Manager, Network Performance Monitor, and IP Address Management module for a large casino.   • Redesigned the entire convention network by implementing Palo Alto Next Generation Firewall at the edge along with Layer 3 OSPF configurations all the way down to the access switch for 15 telecommunications closets.   • Manage F5 load balancers for Microsoft Exchange and remote VPN connections for the entire property. Primary contact for the F5 Load Balancers for the Golden Nugget Las Vegas Casino.  • Review, recommend, negotiate, and approve of various vendors software and hardware based on allotted budget. Perform vendor product technical reviews; compare competing vendor products; develop recommendations for selected products.   • Redesigned the entire convention network by implementing Palo Alto Next Generation Firewall at the edge along with Layer 3 OSPF configurations all the way down to the access switch for 15 telecommunications closets.   • Proposed & Designed a BGP failover solution for the Corporate MPLS BGP tunnel.  • Design and perform system backup procedures, and other recovery processes in accordance with the company’s disaster recovery and business continuity strategies   • Train help desk, technician, and junior systems engineering staff in troubleshooting, support, and escalation practices.   • Provide leadership and guidance to the support team.   • Work with project managers to develop appropriate vendor contract verbiage, service levels, equipment specifications, and project timelines.   • Manage external hosting and application resources.   • Recommend enhancements regarding product, application or documentation.   • Prepare and deliver presentations on systems engineering recommendations.   • Work on multiple projects and objectives simultaneously in a 7x24x365 environment.   • Participate in the on-call schedule to provide 24-hour support.   • Perform network-engineering functions within a framework of standards striving to increase systems effectiveness, uptime, and risk avoidance.   • Propose and create system design models, specifications, diagrams, and charts to provide direction to IT Management and Staff. Senior Network Engineer Wynn Hotel and Casino - Las Vegas, NV April 2017 to June 2017 • Implemented numerous rules within the Palo Alto Firewall to reflect the corporate need for new applications or server installations.  • Team lead on the Parking Garage Network Redesign to support paid parking for all of Wynn/Encore customer parking.  • Worked with NOC and operational teams to resolve any outage or project as required.  • Help build the knowledge base of the overall team.  • Troubleshoot system problems, create and maintain scripts.  • Design, plan, budget, and manage successful technology implementations.  • Deploy and maintain infrastructure to support common services: file, print, application, database, web, fax, email.  • Deploy and maintain network-centric services – DNS, DHCP  • Deploy and maintain infrastructure to support business critical line-of-business applications.  • Prepare documentation and provide project management on systems projects.  • Assist in the development and communication of standard operating procedures.  • Enforce enterprise computing services infrastructure standards.  • Lead efforts to develop appropriate support models surrounding servers, storage, and networking equipment.  • Participate in development of enterprise security infrastructure including physical, operating system, and application level security domains.  • Assisted in design & development of secure physical facilities such as technology centers and telecomm rooms.  • Develop and use methods to quickly build remote offices and relocate technical resources. Senior Network Engineer Vision Technologies, Inc - Las Vegas, NV March 2016 to April 2017 • Surveyed, designed, and implemented wireless networking solution for over 9 Public Schools, and 5 Charter schools for the Nevada Ready 21 project.  • Responded to Tier 2 user support calls regarding network issues, correcting those problems whenever possible, ensuring resolution to problems when other assistance is required, and document issue through Samanage Ticketing System.  • Created and maintained quality, configuration and maintenance documentation including written reports, accurate component labeling and technical diagrams.  • Performance and capacity planning: audited, monitored, analyzed, and reconfigured network environments for performance improvements and future scalability.  • Maintain inventory and asset management of all network related hardware and software.  • Participated in scheduled maintenance during non-peak (or non-business) hours.  • Diagnose and resolve complex network problems.  • Traveled to off-site offices and locations as required. Network Engineer II URS - Creech AFB, NV August 2013 to March 2016 • Subject Matter Expert (SME) in enterprise network technologies and solutions design/implementation, which includes experience managing and participating in the holistic design and implementation of complex enterprise network solutions.  • Ability to design and implement enterprise network solutions using LAN, MAN, and WAN technologies.  • Surveyed, designed, configured, installed, tested, trained, and documented complex architectures and component configurations relating to routing/switching products and/or solutions.  • Ensured the integration of software, hardware, reliability, maintainability, safety, survivability, human and other requirements in the total engineering effort.  • Supported various project teams &customers as well as participated in design and peer reviews.  • Analyzed and transformed operational and/or functional needs into solutions while remaining compliant with regulations, policies, and procedures; documented description of system parameters and integrated those parameters to optimize the overall solutions effectiveness and efficiency at task.  • Researched, analyzed, recommended and implemented new technologies, standard processes, tools and techniques where applicable using creative and innovative solutions.  • Researched, evaluated and stayed current on emerging tools, techniques and technologies; maintained skills and capabilities through education, training, and hands-on experiences.  • Performed mentoring and training tasks for peers and customers as required; transferred project knowledge to other team members and customers as required. Sr. Network Administrator DRS Technologies August 2007 to July 2013 • Deployed to various Forward Operating Bases (FOB's) to install, troubleshoot, analyze, and resolve problems on over 300 satellite terminal TDMA systems located throughout Iraq, Kuwait, and the Persian Gulf as well as 10 satellite terminal SCPC networks consisting of a wireless mesh topology.  • Ensured the proper operation, testing, and repair of iDirect satellite modems, wireless networks, Cisco routers/phones, various switches, and construction of various 2.4, 1.8, and 1.2 meter Andrew and Prodelin satellite dish models.  • Provided 24 hour technical, network, and customer support.  • Prepared and presented network layouts using Microsoft Visio, Word, and PowerPoint.  • Coordinated with other technicians and network operations personnel to ensure each site's network is working to optimum levels.  • Trained, monitored, and wrote evaluation reports as well as assigned remedy trouble tickets to employees to ensure proper tracking of workflow around my Area of Operations (AO). Systems/ Network Administrator Computer Science Corporation February 2007 to July 2007 • Operated and maintained Active Directory, Microsoft Windows Server 2003, Windows XP workstations, HP & Xerox printers on the network. Helped users with day to day problems such as Microsoft Outlook, software problems, and driver installations.  • Operated and maintained Cisco switches and routers for base infrastructure.  • Operated and maintained JWICS circuits for drug interdiction operations. Education Bachelor's in Cybersecurity UMUC 2005 to 2012 Bachelor's in Business Administration UMUC 2005 to 2012 A.S. in Electronic Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force 2005 Skills Cisco, Security, Active Directory, DNS, Security, Cisco, Active Directory, VPN, firewalls, LAN, Networking Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant July 1999 to April 2007 • Deployed on numerous occasions on a moment’s notice as part of a quick response team tasked to build complete bare base communications networks with various satellite systems.  • Installed, configured, and troubleshot FCC-100 multiplexers, CV-2048 data converters, Promina 200 and 400 IDNX multiplexers, SLM 8650 modems, Firebird-6000A test set, Truetime GPS unit, KIV-7HS crypto, KG-194, and KG-94 crypto while deployed to Kuwait Naval Base in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Also terminated and installed various Ethernet cables.  • Operated & maintained 14 Global Information Grids including: Standardized tactical entry point, Satellite Earth Station, Teleport Gateway System, Digital Communications Satellite Subsystem (DCSS), Multiplexer Integration and DCSS Automation System, Compact digital Switch/Switch Multiplexer Unit, Defense SATCOM System satellite terminal, Tactical and Relay Satellite Command Post Terminal, Companion UHF tactical satellite system and the Defense SATCOM Frequency Division Multiple Access Control Subsystem. Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) February 2013 to February 2020 (CCNA License 414644170692AKZN) JNCIA December 2014 to December 2017 (JNCIA License 25KLEYBY7E11Y878) Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) February 2017 to February 2020 (CCNP License 427924169649DPZM) Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) August 2017 to August 2020 License 414671 Additional Information ? Cisco ? BGP ? Juniper SRX Firewalls ? WAN  ? Juniper ? OSPF ? Palo Alto Firewalls ? LAN  ? Brocade ? EIGRP ? VPN ? MPLS ? Check Point Firewalls  ? Avaya ? VRRP ? Infoblox ? PIM ? Sophos Firewalls ? Cisco ASA Firewalls