IT Administrator IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Administrator - IRUSA Falls Church, VA Apply specialized skills as Information Technology Support Analyst and demonstrate professional expertise in the areas of risk assessment management, and protection against unauthorized access viruses and a wide range of vulnerabilities and threats. Carry out direct and remote analysis with and highly regarded as a strong critical thinking problem-solver with great communication and people skills. Work is in a fast-paced and challenging Federal Law Enforcement and Auditing environment where accuracy and efficiency are essential. I proactively participate in technical research and development to enable continuing innovation within the company. I ensure that system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to very high organizational standards. I collaborated with various teams to meet client needs. Work Experience IT Administrator IRUSA - Alexandria, VA January 2018 to Present • Knowledge in routing protocols such as OSPF, EIGRP and RIP  • Hands-on experience with Cisco Routers and Switches.  • Hands-on configuration experience with Cisco Meraki Switches, Firewalls, and AP.  • Experienced in Customer Circuit Upgrades  • Troubleshoot and repair issues related to software, hardware, Microsoft Exchange and Domain services, VoIP and cellular communications, network access, VPN, etc  • Responsible for network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshooting network problems and outages; scheduling upgrade.  • Troubleshoot connectivity during network outage.  • Actively managed IP Communications, audio/video conferencing, mobility, presence.  • Experience with creating, implementing and troubleshooting VLAN and STP connections.  • Experience with SolarWinds and PRTG monitoring systems  • Experience with configuring DHCP servers.  • Experience with VoIP services.  • Extensive troubleshooting and problem-solving skills  • Experienced in Subnetting and VLSM.  • Knowledge and Understanding in BGP Network Support Lead - APEX Contractor INOVA Hospital - Falls Church, VA April 2017 to January 2018 • Performing L1,L2, L3 and L7 support to Inova staff post migration  • Testing connectivity between Biomed devices  • Testing connectivity between Nexus 2k, 5k, 7k, 9k (core switches) and 3800s, 4500s (access switches)  • Configure DHCP on IP phones, Zebra wrist band, Label printers, HP printers, MRV 1000, and Juniper Firewall device  • Check and reboot functionality on all end end-devices post migration  • Assigning IPs statically and reserving IPs using mac addresses per device pre-migration  • On call post migration to perform troubleshooting if needed  • Revisiting completed network closets to ensure proper device functionality  • Excellent troubleshooting and problem-solving skills  • Planning and Implementing of various routing protocols  • Excellent troubleshooting and problem-solving skills  • Planning and Implementing of various routing protocols  • Experience with creating and implementing VLAN's  • Hands-on experience with creating Virtual Redundancy Protocols  • Hands-on experience with managing Cisco Routers and Switches  • Experience with creating subnets and assigning IP address to Hosts  • Knowledge in creating Access List  • Understanding in creating LAN and VLAN Team Lead USPS Office of Inspector General - Arlington, VA May 2016 to April 2017 • Troubleshoot and resolve computer hardware, software, network, and printer problems  • Troubleshoot and resolve Virtual Desktop Infrastructure issues  • Troubleshoot and resolve iPhone and Mobile Device Management issues  • Troubleshoot and resolve VPN connectivity issues for remote customers  • Utilize Active Directory to reset network passwords and add users/computers to proper groups  • Coordinate with other teams in creating Knowledge Articles to solve technical issues  • Manage service request/incident tickets via Cherwell ticketing system  • Maintain Service Level Agreement guidelines for VIP and standard customers  • Provide technical system, software, and hardware support to over 1500 employees in person, and remotely over the telephone and through shared screening sessions to troubleshoot and solve a wide range of problems  • Manage ticket distribution que  • Perform diagnostics and troubleshooting of system issues,  • Drafted knowledge based article for the agency on improving ticket resolutions, which my idea has been adopted and is currently in use  • Worked to implement mobile systems using Air Watch and enrolling customers into this dynamic and secure Drop Box application  • Provisional user in RSA secure account and assisting customers to access their secure accounts  • Provided context for training on using watchdox and SAFE (email encryption)  • Oversee hardware infrastructure and ensure updates with latest technology  • Designed training manuals to increase security awareness throughout company  • On an ongoing basis, make recommendations for mitigating identified risks Service Desk Analyst USPTO November 2015 to May 2016 • Frontline IT Support for end users; support contact for over 10,000 employees including patent examiners, trademark attorneys, and various contractors; provided telephone and remote technical support  • provided remote assistance for desktop computers, laptops, virtual machines, handheld devices, network components, and peripherals equipment  • Offered network support including Wi-Fi configuration and VPN troubleshooting  • Assisted with setup for telework/hoteling stations including configuration of universal laptops with docking stations, dual monitor displays, Cisco VoIP telephones, modems, routers, printers, and scanners, as well as other peripherals in accordance to Telework programs  • supported three call centers on a daily basis - Help Desk, VPN, and Electronic Business Systems Desktop support Compass Airlines - Fairfax, VA 2015 to January 2015 • Have ability to maintained good relationship with end users and co-workers.  • Supported end-users via phone, email and onsite regarding technical issue.  • Performed both hardware and software installations for Dell products while doing major PC rollout.  • Providing desktop/laptop and applications support on Windows XP professional HP, Dell and IBM PC's for hardware/software problem resolution including network connectivity, software imaging application installation and configuration for end users.  • Supporting 15 calls a day to all computers related issues as well as software and hardware related problems for approximately 150 users.  • MS office suite 2010, 2007 and Vista  • Received and recorded client calls into Remedy Ticketing System.  • Monitored the Help Desk Ticketing System remedy as part of our SLA and metrics system.  • Supported Microsoft Office, Norton and plant-specific applications Analyze and resolve connectivity issues - LAN, VPN, and Wireless.  • Trouble shooting any virus with Norton Antivirus.  • Supported users with troubleshooting MS Outlook, enable items, retreated corrupted PST folders, email account, calendar appointments and updated security patches.  • Strong knowledge with Active Directory creating Network ID and Password, Expanding email box, authorize users with different network drives.  • Remotely resolve client issues using team viewer.  • Trained users' applications such as Excel, Word, PowerPoint and Visio.  • Helped users in outlook creating PST folders, signatures, customize folders.  • Used various resources within the company to solve any technical problems.  • Resolved Network mapping issues for internal and external users.  • Re-imaging laptop and desktops for users.  • Replaced any broken or damaged Hardware.  • Performed software installations, maintenance and troubleshooting.  • Supported users troubleshooting and repairing network connectivity, network access connectivity issues.  • Assisted users with apple/android resetting password and synchronize outlook.    **References will be available up on request** Education Associate in Computer Science in Computer Science Northern Virginia Community College August 2017 to Present Skills Cisco, Active Directory, DNS, Vmware, firewalls, Exchange, VPN, Networking, Customer Service, LAN, Switches, Routers, MDM Certifications/Licenses Certified Meraki Network Operator Present