IT Director/ Network Administrator/ Systems Engineer IT Director/ <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ Systems Engineer IT Director/ Network Administrator/ Systems Engineer - Franklin & Prokopik Phoenix, MD Network administrator with over 17 years experience in the planning, design, and implementation of network technologies. Background includes hands-on experience with multi-platform, LAN/WAN environments. Demonstrated record of success in troubleshooting computers, networks and increasing efficiency, and optimizing the access and utilization of shared information. Specialist in extending technology services from corporate headquarters to field operations. Work Experience IT Director/ Network Administrator/ Systems Engineer Franklin & Prokopik - Baltimore, MD 2016 to Present Manage and assist in network expansions and architecting. Prepare and maintain virtual servers environment MSFT 2012/Linux, User management in AD, and Various Software. Manage users and services in Office 365 Exchange and Apps. Audit, edit, and maintain backup routines in Veeam and Barracuda. Provide tier II coverage for help desk and user support/troubleshooting when needed. Install and configure legal and enterprise applications. Provide strategic guidance to help the organization implement technology, create efficiency, and build upon security, compliance, and business continuity. Owner Raven Technologies, MD, DC, DE, VA 2008 to Present Raven Technologies fills an ever-growing demand for cost effective IT solutions that enable small and mid-sized  businesses to operate at the level of a large corporation with a dedicated IT department. If your needs include IT  support, network cabling, wireless, audio-video, CCTV, or telephone systems.    IT Support  Network Services  Infrastructure Improvement  Malicious Software  Wireless Technologies  Data and Voice Cabling  PC Repair and Upgrades  Surveillance Systems  Audio-Video Systems Information Systems Engineer Metro Data Inc - Cockeysville, MD 2014 to 2016 Work with various clients to manage the network, vpns, servers, PC hardware and other computer and network  related equipment. Troubleshoot LAN connectivity and hardware issues. Troubleshoot computer, printer, and other peripheral issues. Work with various clients to implement customized solutions to business challenges. Network Administrator The Telnet Group, Inc - Rosedale, MD 2007 to 2008 Oversaw setup of networks, servers and desktop workstations for various clients. Recruited and trained network and desktop support technicians. Prepared budgets and managed expenses. Configured routers, firewalls, Active,  Directory environments, domain name services, e-mail, Web, and ftp services.  Provided computer advice and technical support to consumers and small businesses.  Troubleshoot LAN connectivity problems and hardware issues.  Troubleshoot computer, printer, and other peripheral problems.  Worked with companies to implement customized solutions to business problems. Network Administrator Quest International Inc, Givaudan - Owings Mills, MD 1995 to 2007 Managed local area active directory environment, network, servers, and communications connections to remote  locations. Installed network concentrators, bridges, routers, and repeaters. Configured network servers and trained  local administrators on standard network server procedures, including active directory standards, group policies, virus protection and other security measures. Worked closely with production personnel to extract and analyze data to improve production processes. Developed various Lotus Notes applications to assist end users to perform their  jobs more efficiently. Worked with corporate offices to transition through Year 2000 issues. Education H.S. Diploma Dulaney High School - Timonium, MD 1980 Skills Exchange, Scripting, Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dfs, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Terminal services, Vmware, Vpn, Dns, Firewalls, Document management, Replication, Printing, Scanning, Windows xp Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    • Windows Server NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016 • Windows XP, 7, 10 * Cisco/ Sonicwall firewalls, VPN • Backup Strategies • Active Directory, Group Policies, Scripting • Computer repair • Routers, Switches • Network Printing, Scanning, Document Management • TCP/IP, DHCP, VLANS and DNS • Exchange Server • Website management • Citrix, Terminal Services • Hyper V, Veeam Backup and Replication, VMware • Distributed File System (DFS)