IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager Arab, AL Possesses over 18 years in Network engineering field with extensive experience in building, managing and troubleshooting IT systems for clients of various sizes and necessities. Skills include the ability to manage all aspects of the client's server and to work with colleagues to improve the efficiency of internal IT systems. My experience working in different capacities of network management has developed my skills and honed my attention to detail, ability to multi-task and dedication to effectiveness. I understand what a vital role the network engineer of any company plays, and I am committed to exceeding all standards in my performance. Highly skilled in troubleshooting and resolve network problems. This may include tasks such as resolving issues with network hardware and software, network connectivity, and the physical layer components such as cabling, network testing tools. Work Experience IT Manager AJMAIRY GAMRMENTS - Lahore, PK December 2011 to June 2019 Manage Infrastructure Servers: Active Directory, File Server, Printing Server, DNS, DHCP, Proxy.  ? Mail Server MDaemon 8 to 19 monitoring, maintenance and configuration.  ? Monitor SQL Server for different databases.  ? Monitor bandwidth use, analyzes traffic patterns and volumes, and determines impact/implications of issues.  ? Installing and configuring computer hardware operating systems and applications.  ? Monitoring and maintaining computer systems and networks.  ? Managing stocks of equipment, consumables and other supplies.  ? Talking staff/clients through a series of actions, either face to face or over the Telephone to help set up systems or resolve issues.  ? MS Windows XP / Windows Vista / Windows 7 / Windows 8 / Windows 8.1 / Windows 10, Configuration and troubleshooting.  ? Troubleshooting system and network problems and diagnosing and solving Hardware/software faults.  ? Conducting electrical safety checks on computer equipment.  ? Presented proposals for computer purchase, security cameras, DVR's, NVR's  ? Installation for new security cameras, DVR and NVR configuration and monitoring  ? Replacing parts as required.  ? Providing support, including procedural documentation and relevant reports.  ? Supporting the roll-out of new applications.  ? Setting up new users accounts and profiles and dealing with password issues.  ? Responding within agreed time limits to call-outs;  ? Working continuously on a task until completion.  ? Prioritizing and managing many open cases at one time;  ? Rapidly establishing a good working relationship with customers and other Professionals, e.g., software developers, Internet Service Providers.  ? Testing and evaluating new technology.  ? Corel Draw, Adobe Photoshop, Video Editing and all other software related to routine work. Computer Engineer SPAR - London January 2010 to November 2011 Manage Infrastructure Servers: Active Directory, DNS, DHCP Servers.  ? Installing and configuring computer hardware, software, systems, networks, printers, scanners and other equipment's.  ? Planning and undertaking scheduled maintenance upgrades.  ? Talking to clients and computer users to determine the nature of problems.  ? Responding to breakdowns.  ? Investigating, diagnosing and solving computer software and hardware faults.  ? Repairing equipment and replacing parts.  ? Supervising junior engineering and technical staff.  ? Agreeing call-out timescales.  ? Obtaining replacement or specialist components, fixtures or fittings.  ? Ensuring compliance with health and safety legislation.  ? Checking computer equipment for electrical safety.  ? Maintaining records of software licenses.  ? Managing stocks of equipment, consumables and other supplies.  ? Presented proposals for computer purchase, security cameras, DVR's, NVR's  ? Installation for new security cameras, DVR and NVR configuration and monitoring.  ? Software updates. Manager Network Administrator Punjab Vocational Training Council - Lahore, PK July 2008 to February 2009 Make Daily Reports for the requested problems of site offices.  ? Manage Infrastructure Servers: Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Proxy, RAS and Exchange Server.  ? Provide Access to the corporate network via Remote Administration as required.  ? Provide Regular Backup and troubleshoot the network.  ? Monitor bandwidth use, analyzes traffic patterns and volumes, and determines impact/implications of issues.  ? Presented proposals for computer purchase.  ? Connected new computer system to internet.  ? Inside and outside technical assistance.  ? Trained staff on computer use.  ? Emailing and internet based office work. Ghantoot Transport & General Contractor IT Support Centre - Dubai May 2007 to June 2008 To provide technical support to telephone and email requests from users for all PC hardware, software and associated peripherals.  ? To log support calls and document their outcome to facilitate the resolution of common queries.  ? To redirect or escalate support requests to the appropriate member of the IT Support Centre.  ? To deploy PCs and associated peripherals including new installations and the redeployment of existing equipment.  ? To install and configure operating systems to agreed standards under the direction of the Team Leader.  ? To install and configure software to agreed standards under the direction of the Team Leader.  ? To maintain the existing PCs and peripherals to standards determined by the Team Leader, by performing upgrades, new installations and carrying out routine procedures.  ? To help the Support Assistants develop their skills and knowledge with respect to front-line support.  ? To assist in the compilation and maintenance of an accurate inventory of hardware and software.  ? To assist in the compilation of the Support Centre's technical documentation, guidelines and procedures and ensure they are disseminated to users.  ? To liaise with colleagues in all Directorate Support and Technical Development teams to ensure continuity of service for all users.  ? To provide at all times a professional, courteous and rapid response to individual users.  ? Design network of the main office and also designed the backbone of the network.  ? Manage Infrastructure Servers: Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Proxy and Exchange Server.  ? Provide Regular Backup and troubleshoot the network.  ? Monitor bandwidth use, analyzes traffic patterns and volumes, and determines impact/implications of issues.  ? Handling site offices of Ghantoot Transport & General Contractor.  1. JV-II, Dubai, UAE.  2. Alambar, Dubai, UAE.  3. Falkan City, Dubai, UAE.  4. Water Front, Dubai, UAE.  ? ISA Server for the internet restriction, bandwidth control with third party tools. Assistant Network Administrator Kabot International - Lahore, PK November 2005 to June 2006 Troubleshoot and configured wireless network and internet.  ? Configure DSL network for the network connection internationally.  ? Manipulate users through backup routine and updated various software's against the company needs and standards.  ? Manipulate basic and complicated hardware problems for the systems.  ? Update database against the data from the monitoring officers. Network Administrator CAT Marketing - Lahore, PK October 2002 to September 2004 Implemented and tested network with the ability to store retrieve and manipulate company's data and business transactions.  ? Presented proposals for computer purchase.  ? Connected new computer system to internet.  ? Inside and outside technical assistance.  ? Trained staff on computer use.  ? Emailing and internet based office work. Education Graduate Diploma in IT Manchester College of Higher Education and Media Technology - Manchester March 2011 BCS Hon's Ripha International University Islamabad - Islamabad, PK September 2006 MCSE Leciester College - Lahore, PK September 2005 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), DHCP (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), maintenance (10+ years), security (9 years) Additional Information Skills    • Application installations • Network security systems  • Domain Controller Implementation • Networking and routing protocol expertise  • Data backups • Network device monitoring  • DNS implementation • Network performance monitoring  • DHCP implementation • Network troubleshooting  • Data privacy applications • Network repairs and maintenance  • Data backup and retrieval • Network systems installation  • Documentation management • Network upgrades  • Documentation and reporting • Network development and administration  • Excellent presentation skills • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, SMTP, NTP, SNMP, VoIP  • Enterprise WiFi management • Planning and implementation  • Excellent problem-solving abilities • Problem resolution  • File Server • Printing Server  • Firewall management tools • Program installations  • Graphics and animation • Performance monitoring  • Hardware and software monitoring • Quality assurance  • Hardware knowledge • Remote access technology  • Hardware documentation • Routine management  • Microsoft Office proficiency • Risk mitigation planning  • Microsoft Exchange Server 5.5 / 2000 / 2003 / 2007 • Software testing  • Mdaemon 8 to 19 Version • System upgrades  • Microsoft MCSE Trained • Servers expertise  • Microsoft CCNA Trained • System backups  • Microsoft Windows XP / Vista / 7 / 8 / 8.1 / 10 • Supervision  • Microsoft SQL Server 2000 / 2008 / 2012 / 2016 • Written and oral communication  • Network security architecture • Team leadership    Technical Proficiencies  • Administered software licensing and purchasing for effective installation of network.  • Assigned application access, security roles and permissions.  • Advised network users regarding hardware requirements, configurations and limitations.  • Built and utilized reporting systems to keep customers and management in loop with latest information.  • Configured and maintained network backup and recovery procedures.  • Collaborated with associates in both technical and non-technical contexts.  • Configured networks to ensure smooth, reliable operation to meet business processes and objectives.  • Corel Draw, Adobe Photoshop, Video Editing and all other software related to routine work.  • Designed and evaluated WAN and LAN connectivity technologies.  • Developed network test and validation processes to assist in maintaining alignment with solution design.  • Diagnosed and resolved hardware, software and network problems and replaced defective components.  • Ensured system functionality and backup for network related equipment.  • Ensured continuity of computer and telephone system services for users through technical expertise, assistance and project coordination.  • Increased domain levels by closely managing windows domain move.  • Installed, supported and maintained company hardware and software infrastructure according to best practices.  • Installed, configured, and supported local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) and Internet system.  • Installed patches and performed backups, system builds and image updates.  • Installation for new security cameras, DVR and NVR configuration and monitoring.  • Inside and outside technical assistance.  • Maintained tactical control of project budgets and timelines to keep teams on-task and achieve schedule targets.  • Monitored social media and online sources for industry trends.  • Manage Infrastructure Servers: Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Proxy, RAS and Exchange Server.  • Monitor bandwidth use, analyzes traffic patterns and volumes, and determines impact/implications of issues.  • Monitor SQL Server for different databases.  • Monitored network capacity and performance, as well as diagnosed and resolved complex network problems.  • Maintained company servers, computers, printers, cables and other equipment.  • Monitored networks and network devices to ensure swift problem resolution.  • Monitored stability of network and wireless services to ensure comprehensive stability.  • Managed windows domain move and raised domain level.  • Managed all software and hardware issues for end-users.  • Maintained network hardware and software and monitored network to ensure network availability to end users.  • Managed windows domain move and raised domain level.  • Optimized network operations by monitoring, troubleshooting.  • Provided results of network retina scanner software audits.  • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  • Performed necessary maintenance to support network availability.  • Performed various administrative functions, including filing paperwork, delivering mail, sorting mail, office cleaning and bookkeeping.  • Provided network support and performed troubleshooting to resolve various WAN/LAN connectivity issues.  • Provided complete end-to-end engineering and installation of route-based IP network solutions.  • Planned implementation of network enhancements and upgrades.  • Planned, coordinated and implemented network security measures.  • Rewrote and updated group policy with new domain move and domain level raise.  • Reviewed network settings and made immediate updates, which improved overall security measures.  • Supervising junior engineering and technical staff.  • Talking staff/clients through a series of actions either face to face or over the Telephone to help set up systems or resolve issues.  • Took over responsibilities of administrator during absence and filled in gaps around office.  • Troubleshot failed drives, warnings and unscheduled reboots.  • Worked closely with network support team for operational support, tasks and projects.