Network Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst Computer Network Administrator - Brooke Co. Schools Wellsburg, WV To find a rewarding position in network administration or support Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Analyst NS heeling-Nisshin - Follansbee, WV January 2019 to Present Monitor network traffic and devices, run security audits and resolve issues. Work with vendors and suppliers to ensure devices are appropriately patched. Computer Network Administrator Brooke Co. Schools - Wellsburg, WV August 2007 to Present Designed, and maintained WAN with over 1500 workstations and 4000 user accounts. Integrated all schools and administrative buildings in county into single domain. Installed and administered following equipment: Windows 03/08/12 domain controllers with Active Directory and group policy, GNU/Linux servers, Nortel/Avaya switches. Monitored network security and performance with tools such as Snort, iptables, Nessus, Bastille, Cacti, ntop, and Nagios. Wrote batch files and scripts for software installation and removal, account management and hardware inventory. Provided user support for staff. Performed hardware repair on workstations, servers and laser printers. Assist in the procurement and deployment of hardware and software. Network Technician Datatrac Information Services - Wheeling, WV August 2004 to August 2005 Maintained Windows 2000 Servers and Window XP workstations. Applied patches and upgrades, performed routine backups, check error logs, maintained Active Directory accounts. Maintained/updated DHCP and DNS servers. Documented and reported errors/situations to management. Administered Avaya PBX switch and telecommunications equipment. Opened trouble tickets and maintained dialog with telecommunication providers. Refurbished and repaired workstations. Administered Cisco routers, switches and PIX firewalls. Provided user support. Installed and test software on workstations. Maintained and troubleshoot network printers. Network Administrator New Geneva, PA March 2002 to March 2003 Engineered and administered network. Installed and configured various types of servers including: Apache, SQL, HTTP proxy, RADIUS, DNS, and DHCP servers, utilizing GNU/Linux software. Configured Cisco modem pools and RAS servers and routers. Implemented IP firewalls, intrusion detection, and authentication systems. Repaired customer PCs and provided on-site service. Answered technical support lines, managed user accounts, upgraded/patched software. Acquired telecommunication equipment and lines from upstream providers, monitor network performance, and reported communication errors to them. Sales Rep./Technician BASH - Morgantown, WV May 2001 to August 2001 WV.    Provided sales assistance and product information to customers, monitored inventory, maintain retail storefront, run reports and sales information. Performed PC repairs, upgrades, troubleshooting, software installation, and testing.    Software Experience:  MS-Office, SQL, HTML, PHP, Java, FORTRAN, ADA, Perl, VBscript, BASH, and others. Education B.S. in Computer Engineering. in Computer Engineering West Virginia University May 2001 Skills Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Active Directory