Network Administrator/Computer Support <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Computer Support Network Administrator/Computer Support Tucson, AZ Network Administration Professional with the ability to convey complex concepts into understandable language and direction. A detail oriented technology professional that streamlines processes, and reduces unnecessary expenses while maintaining exceptional quality. Consistently applies expert level skills to all projects and activities to meet and exceed organizational goals and objectives, a welcome addition to any Team. Experienced in Corporate, Government and Military environments, with emphasis on Supporting Windows based Desktop and Networking systems. Possesses strong interpersonal skills and high ethical standards, able to work with minimal supervision, meet deadlines, and communicate effectively. Frequently selected to work on challenging projects and develop working relationships through the use of innovative and imaginative solutions. Successful at quickly responding to changing environments, corporate cultures and situations, able to achieve goals within critical deadlines. Work Experience Network Administrator/Computer Support Fiserv - Billings, MT 2010 to 2015 Responsible for comprehensive Technical Support of a Microsoft Windows based Desktop and Network System. Additional duties include identification and resolution of Networking and Application Error Messages, as well as all transaction related issues. Administration of Active Directory, Citrix, SMS, Remote support, VM Ware, Terminal Services, Email Accounts, Desktop Encryption, IBM Main Frame, and track and resolve all Trouble Ticket issues. Network Administrator\Computer Support First Interstate Bank - Billings, MT 2008 to 2010 Provided resolution to Networking, Application Error Messages and transaction related issues for Bank staff, as well as Administer of Active Directory, Citrix, SMS, Remote support, VM Ware, Terminal Services, Email Accounts Documented, tracked and resolved Trouble Tickets on a Windows based Desktop and Network system. Banker Connection Support Representative Wells Fargo - Billings, MT 2007 to 2008 Assisted Bank Staff with both Mainframe and Windows based Banking Applications, including identification and resolution of Error Message other transaction related issues, to ensure system reliability and functionality.  Tracked and researched all aspects of Bank computer issues. Network Administrator\Computer Support J.H.Cohen LLP - San Diego, CA 2005 to 2007 Supported Desktop and Network Systems, including Printers, Scanners, HP Server, CISCO Routers and Switches, UPS units, Lucent Phone Systems, Tandberg Video Conferencing equipment. Blackberries, administration of user accounts, Active Directory, SMS, terminal services, and administration of Outlook Email Accounts. Reimaged and configured computers for new employees. Network Administrator\Computer Support Syncrotech Software Corporation - San Diego, CA 2003 to 2005 Supported all facets of Microsoft Windows based Desktop and Network Systems for internal users. Additionally, tracked and documented customer technical issues and resolution, as well as equipment inventory and status.  Administered Email and Active Directory User Accounts terminal services. Network Administrator\Computer Support Computer Sciences Corporation - San Diego, CA 2001 to 2003 Resolved complex connectivity issues with Frame Relay Circuits, Router Switches and Hubs, as well as tracked and documented Customer and Asset information. Supported Windows based Desktop and Network Systems, as well as IBM Terminals and Printers. Education GED in progression Pima Community College - Tucson, AZ Skills Help Desk, Troubleshooting, Customer Service, Microsoft Office Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) MCDST CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+