Network Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst Network Engineer Union, NJ Work Experience Network Analyst CEC Entertainment, Inc - Irving, TX April 2019 to Present Monitor network for down sites via Nectus Architecture- Network Discovery Monitoring and Netflow tool.  ? Manage, troubleshoot and resolve trouble tickets via Service Now trouble ticketing system.  ? Activating Wan 1 & Wan 2 Primary and Secondary connections, test and turn up for circuits with ISP.  ? Performed troubleshooting, configuration, management and installation of Cisco Meraki MS320-24P & MS250-48LP Cloud managed switches.  ? Managed, monitored and deployed Fortinet Fortigate 140D-POE Firewalls.  ? Resolved connectivity issues with VOIP phones via AudioCodes IP phones and Media Gateways-VOIP Supply.  ? Utilized Ruckus ZoneDirector 1200 to deploy Ruckus R510 and Fortinet FAP 421E Wireless Access Points.  ? Managed and monitored Cisco UCS Servers via Cisco Integrated Management Controller (CIMC).  ? Utilized Bomgar Jump Client for remote connections to end users systems for support and troubleshooting. Network Administrator Service King Collision Repair Centers, Inc - Richardson, TX June 2017 to January 2019 Network transformation and migration project encompassing hardware replacement of Dell PowerEdge R230 1U rack servers, Cisco Catalyst 3560 series switches, Dell N2048p layer 3 switches, troubleshooting connectivity and bandwidth degradation issues until resolved, and deploying SolarWinds.  ? Performed Test and Turn up for Circuits with ISP.  ? Deployed and monitored SolarWinds NPM - Orion platform for unified IT monitoring.  ? Installed and configured Dell N2048p switches, created VLANs, implemented Radius authentication and authorization, SNMPv3, and Sflow.  ? Installed and configured Palo Alto networks PA-500 and PA-3050 series Firewalls.  ? Utilized Palo Alto global protect: Duo security- two factor authentication VPN logins.  ? Managed Silver Peak SD-WAN optimization solutions, Unity edgeconnect EC-XS and Unity Orchestrator configuration, monitoring, and management. Saas optimization deployment as well as deploying edgeconnect appliance in Microsoft Azure cloud portal.  ? Installed Dell PowerEdge R230 1U rack servers, completed applying imaging, running Bios, installing OS, configuring Bios to enable PXE booting via Windows server 2012 R2.  ? Installed and managed Cradlepoint AER 1600/1650 series routers with 4G LTE combined SD-WAN via NetCloud Manager.  ? Installed and managed EnGenius POE + Switch EWS5912FP and EGS5212FP 8 port Gigabit for various Avaya VOIP phones, IP cameras and Aerohive WAP devices.  ? Configured and managed Aerohive networks Wireless Access Points, managed monitored and configured via Hivemanager.  ? Upgraded Firmware on Dell N2048p switches.  ? Familiar with Active Directory management, security authentication and authorization, along with Remote Desktop Protocol for remote desktop connections. NOC Network Engineer T-Mobile USA, Inc - Parsippany, NJ December 2014 to May 2017 I was responsible for monitoring Network infrastructure, responding to technology incidents, performing troubleshooting, managing escalations and providing client service, including proactive communication to clients and vendors and executing work orders to vendors. Respond to trouble tickets and monitoring alerts from servers and networking devices.  ? Follow ITIL-based incident management and escalation processes  ? Troubleshoot networks- and systems-related issues, work with vendors and handle fault management, event notification and escalation as needed  ? Configure and administer monitoring software  ? Provide excellent client service  ? Responded to issues promptly, open and update tickets and provide regular status  ? Perform direct follow-up with escalation resources for incident remediation where appropriate  ? Run reports and compile these reports for team review and client review  ? Hand off or receive open ticket information during shift changes and facilitate knowledge transfer  ? Monitor and configure client backup systems  ? Analyze trending data and make recommendations for infrastructure improvements  ? Document solutions to common issues in a knowledge base  ? Additional duties may also include special client projects  ? Occasionally provide technical support for end users including IP phone, desktop, connectivity and desktop applications-related issues (Microsoft Office)  ? Other responsibilities as directed by management  ? Support product defect reconciliation and escalation processes  ? Configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the firewalls as per the design.  ? Configure / Troubleshoot CISCO 7600, 3800 series routers and 3560, Nexus 5624Q series switch for LAN/WAN connectivity.  ? Tested various networks which works on the protocols like of TCP/IP (IP, TCP, UDP, SNMP, DNS, DHCP, FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, ICMP, SMTP, ARP, IPSEC).  ? Troubleshoot issues related to VLAN, VLAN Trunking, HSRP failovers, related issues.  I was often required to log into routers and switches to monitor and analyze status of cables and perform connectivity tests to various devices In the company topology, as a team I partner with my coworkers and resolve issues regarding network implementation and connectivity issues that may arise from the MSO Switch and the Cell site Router via DS1, T1, T3, DS3, and Ethernet Circuits. Data Center Security Engineer ExxonMobil Corp - Houston, TX August 2014 to November 2014 I was responsible for securing all the mainframes, routers and switches in the Houston Data Center. My duties included checking and monitoring all servers, routers and switches for temperature changes and to make sure the temperatures were stable in the room, also to make sure all the devices are functioning and working properly. Turn on and turn off certain devices as instructed, make sure all cables and wiring are in order, rack and stack. I was Responsible for contacting the IT department supervisor for work orders and ticket description when vendors from IBM, EMC, and Dell arrived to replace parts or reboot network servers. I handled the tickets and all the equipment replacement forms with vendors and reported them to the IT department supervisor. I worked directly with IT associates in the Data Center.  ? Hands on experience on all software blades of checkpoint firewall  ? Configuring and testing Multicast for both IPv4 and IPv6 routing in Data Center Environment  ? Works closely with Customers in determining the business needs for a Project and build Detail design which includes Data Flow diagram, Logical and Physical Diagram Network Engineer Wyndham Worldwide Corp - Parsippany, NJ December 2013 to August 2014 Worked with a team of Engineers to monitor and configure the company routers and switches for a temporary project. Wyndham was in the process of releasing and implementing new software application Oracle R12 E-Business Suite. My team was involved in the training process and meetings to strategize increasing efficiency through performance and usability improvements in the technology stack, reducing costs by leveraging new functionality and technology inherent in R12. Extensive and thorough regression testing was required to ensure business processes were properly supported and new functionality was working as desired.  ? Switch experience includes Cisco Catalyst switches: CISCO 3750, 4500, 6500 series switches. Design and implement Catalyst/ASA Firewall Service Module for various LAN's.  ? Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  ? Configured network using routing protocols such as ISIS, RIP, OSPF, BGP and troubleshooting L2/L3 issues.  ? Troubleshoot Hardware, Cisco IOS, install and configure Cisco routers and switches.  ? Installation, Maintenance, Troubleshooting Local and Wide Areas Network by using ISDN, Frame relay, DDR, NAT, DHCP and TCP/IP. Junior Network Engineer ADP, Inc - Roseland, NJ July 2010 to July 2013 I worked right beside the Data Center/ Network Control Center and assisted the Senior Network Engineer in Intranet troubleshooting by notifying him when the intranet was functioning after network failures and performing internet connectivity tests. I also directly contacted the IT Director for any devices delivered by vendors that were on site.  ? Configured VLANS to isolate different departments  ? Troubleshoot issues related to VLAN, VLAN Trunking, HSRP failovers, related issues.  ? Design, installation and troubleshooting networks with hand-on experience with OSPF, ISIS, BGP, VPLS, Multicast, VPN, MPLS, & Traffic engineering.  ? Involved in Local Area Network (LAN) design, troubleshooting, and maintenance as per company's requirements.  ? Performed scheduled Virus Checks & Updates on all Servers & Desktops. Network Administrator Ekistic Records, LLC - Montclair, NJ January 2007 to April 2010 I was dealing with the ISP and implementing SOHO routers comprising of a mix of 50 to 100 desktops and laptops in the LAN and WLAN. I personally managed the router security software and firewalls. Also accessing and maintaining the default gateway. I maintained the Ethernet cables to the directly connected devices in the LAN. I performed troubleshooting on any malfunctions on the computers and rebooted the router as needed.  ? Responsible for installation, troubleshooting of firewalls (Cisco firewalls, Imperva Web app Firewalls, Checkpoint firewalls and Juniper firewalls,) and related software, and LAN/WAN protocols.  ? Configuring VPN, clustering and ISP redundancy in Checkpoint firewall  LAN/WAN protocols.  ? Troubleshooting the VPN tunnels by analyzing the debug logs and packet captures Education Cisco Networking Academy - Cranford, NJ B.S. in Computer Science Kean University - Union, NJ Skills Network Security, NOC, Servicenow, Router, Cisco, Ccna, Switch Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Cisco Certified Network Associate CompTIA Linux+ Present Additional Information SKILLS  Extensive networking knowledge  Professional IT training  Computer keyboarding training  Social Individual who enjoys working in a team environment  Bilingual  Available for Relocation and Travel