Sr. Network Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Sr. Network Engineer - Log MeIn San Francisco, CA • Experience 10+ years of experience in routing, switching, firewall technologies, systems design, and administration and troubleshooting.  • Sound knowledge in LAN/WAN setup, installation, configuration, and troubleshooting  • Experience of routing protocols like EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, BGP, and MPLS.  • Have worked on ASR 1002 series Routers, Cisco Catalyst series 6500, 4500, 3750, 2950 and 3500 switches  • Strong hands on experience in Troubleshooting for QOS, connectivity and hardware problems on Cisco Networks.  • Extensive experience with Cisco IOS, Windows client/server operating systems, Linux, Networking technologies, Firewalls.  • Worked on Cisco ASA, of Cisco (AAA) ACS server.  • Using Websense for DLP (Data Loss Prevention) implementation for Web and Email Clients  • Experience in installing, configuring, and troubleshooting of Cisco Nexus 7k, 5k, 2k, Cisco 7600, 7200, 3800, 3900, 2800, 2900 series Routers, Cisco Catalyst 6500, 4500, 2960 and 3750 Stack Switches.  • Experience in configuring VNF network and Virtual Machines.  • Worked on multi-vendor load balancers including F5 Big IP LTM, Cisco ACE and VMware NSX between multiple centers.  • Hands on experience in Openstack Neutron Advanced services Orchestration and configuration handling (NFV VNF Manager).  • Deployed site-to-site VPNs over IPsec and GRE.  • Experience in configuring L2/L3 protocols like VLANS, STP, VTP, MPLS and Trunking protocols.  • Designed and deployed highly available LAN/WAN infrastructure.  • Design and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Juniper Routers (MX960, MX480) and SRX Firewalls (SRX240, SRX550).  • Good understanding of NFV concepts and working knowledge developing VNF Manager  • Good knowledge in WAN Technologies like ACL, NAT, and PAT, IPSec, and VPNs.  • Worked in OSI model, TCP/IP, UDP, IP addressing and Sub netting.  • Implemented traffic filters using Standard and extended access-lists, Distribute-Lists, prefix lists and Route Maps.  • Enhanced level of knowledge with IGRP, PPP, ATM, T1/T3 Frame-Relay.  • Extensive Knowledge on the implementation of Cisco ASA 5500 series and checkpoint R75 firewalls.  • Access control server configuration for RADIUS & TACAS+.  • Expertise with 802.11x wireless technology.  • IP addressing and IP address scalability by configuring NAT/PAT  • Design and configuring in different networking protocols like DHCP, DNS, FTP, VOIP (SIP, H.323, MGCP), Quality of Service (QOS).  • Familiar with Remedy, Secure Computing's Sidewinder Firewall, Cisco PIX Firewalls and ASAs, SSGs, Firewall Switch Modules, Bluecoat Proxy devices, Wise Package Studio, Symantec Ghost and Antivirus.  • Worked on Tufin secure, Palo alto firewalls, Provider-1(checkpoint), Network security manager (juniper) for the firewall operations and management  • Experience in Junos-Juniper routers and firewalls.  • Experienced in implementing and managing F5 BIG-IP load balancing, including GTM, APM, ASM, and custom iRules development.  • Working knowledge with Load Balancers F5 LTM like 3900, 6900 for various application.  • Knowledge of Intrusion Detection, DMZ, encryption, IPsec, proxy services, Site to Site VPN tunnels, MPLS/VPN, SSL/VPN  • Working knowledge of network monitoring/management tools like Wireshark, TCPdump, Cisco Prime, Net Flow, PRGT, SolarWinds.  • Good experience in automation of networking protocols using python and Perl.  • Experience in Junos-Juniper routers and firewalls.  • Deployed F5 Enterprise manager of 4000 series for all the cluster devices over the network for easier management of configurations like SSL certificates, disable and enable of nodes states.  • Hands on Experience on Installation, Configuration, Administration and Trouble Shooting of VMware ESX, ESXi, within VMware 3.5, vSphere 4 and vSphere 5.1 environments with Virtual Center management, Consolidated Backup, DRS, HA, DPM, vMotion and VMware Data Recovery, VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM). Experience with VMware View desktop virtualization (VDI).  • Worked on VMware and vSphere 6.5 and VCloud Director.  • Experience in creating Citrix Streaming Profiles and Publishing Applications to users in Citrix XenApp 6.5/5.0.  • Experience in P2V, V2V MIGRATION using VMware Converter / Plate Spin 6.8.x. Creating host and client VM templates and cloning.  • Practical work experience in Installing, Maintaining, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Managing Blade Center server, Configuring and Zoning Storage Area Networks and SAN Switches and VMware ESX Server Administration  • Excellent experience in performing all aspects of VMware vSphere Operations and actions which is essentially required for virtual machines such as Snapshots, vMotion, Storage vMotion, HA, DRS, DPM and advanced features like setting I/O control with MTU parameters of storage and network adapters.  • Knowledge about SANConfiguration and Implementation, Storage Components like Internal storage, Attached storages, SAN Switches, HBA, LUN & Mapping, RAID groups, Volume Groups  • Profound knowledge of VPN (all types), NET APPS Filler FAS (2000, 3000, 6000 series models), NFS, CIFS Protocols in NET APPS Filler, SDLC, STLC, BLC, Cloud Computing, VMware, vSphere, FLEX POD (Product of VMware, NET APPS, CISCO) and CUCS (Cisco Unified Computing System.  • Installed, configured and implemented Terminal Server (TS) Remote App on IIS 7.0 Windows 2008 R2 published applications using TS Web Access, Remote App program and TS Gateway.  • Implemented Microsoft Clustering for IIS Web Servers.  • Installed, configured and maintained Windows Servers 2003 and 2008.  • Maintained Active Directory applications.  • Installed and configured DNS, DHCP, IIS WEB and FTP servers  • Responsible for installation and troubleshooting of various software & hardware components  • Troubleshoot the Network Issues onsite and remotely depending on the severity of the issues. Work Experience Sr. Network Engineer Log MeIn - San Francisco, CA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Multi-vendor platform with Check Point, Fortinet and Cisco firewalls requesting net flow for security compliance, coding, and pushing firewall rules after approval and troubleshoot incidents.  • Implemented SNMP on Cisco routers to allow network management. Completed the installation and Configuration of CSU/DSU, T1, T3 & OC3 circuits.  • Created Standard and extended access lists on Firewalls and Cisco ISR's to allow SNMP, NTP and logging servers traffic.  • Automate task for system performance, networking monitoring, and configuration management using Perl, Python, and Shell Scripting.  • Unix/Linux Shell scripting skills, as well as Python automation, and analyzing logs using Perl.  • Working as Senior Network Engineer involving complete Support and supervision for the Junior engineers in the team and be a point of escalation for work on the F5 load balancers LTMs, GTMs, EMs, ASM, APM and Firepass in Datacenter and remote functions.  • Administration and L3 support of our Infoblox DDI deployment and F5 GTM's and configuring various advanced features (Profiles, monitors, iRules, Redundancy, SSL Termination, Persistence, SNATs, and HA) on F5 BIG IP appliances.  • Experience designing and implementing load balancing solutions for large enterprises working on F5 load balancers and Cisco load balancers.  • Executed various migration/upgrade projects across F5 and hands on with F5 BIGIP LTMs/EM.  • Administration Big IP F5 LTM 8900 for all Local Load balancing and configured profiles, provided and ensured high availability.  • Configuring GTM Communications between BIG-IP GTM and Other Systems for load balancing across Data Centers deploying many load balancing techniques with multiple components for efficient performance.  • Design & Installations from ground up of the F5 appliances and the solution delivery.  • Take care of the Logging issues of the F5 load balancer and how it works with the syslog servers making sure the communications through the switches and routers and firewall hops work as expected.  • Install and upgrade Blue Coat proxy SG (900, 810 and SG9000 series) and Proxy AV (510,810 and 1400series) in Datacenter environment with hands on experience on inspection, data loss prevention, content caching and bandwidth management using Blue Coat proxy.  • Performed configuration of Fabric path and connectivity between Nexus 5K and Nexus 7k and configuration and installation of Nexus 5k, 7k and 9k along with upgrading Nexus OS and performed substantial lab testing & validation prior to implementation of Nexus 7K, 5K & 2K  • Experience configuring Virtual Device Context in Nexus 7010 and worked on F series module on Nexus 7010 and implemented L3 SVI's and L2 VLANs, Inter VLAN Routing and HSRP configuration in Nexus on F series module.  • Monitor the network traffic through Orion Solarwinds and Spectrum syslog server.    Environment: TACACS+, RADIUS, SolarWinds, Solaris, SSL, Juniper switches EX 2200, EX 2500, EX4200, EX4500, Juniper SRX, MX and Cisco Nexus 7k, 5k, Cisco 12000/7200/3845/3600 routers, Cisco ASA5520, Fortinet firewalls, Open Stack, VMware, Cisco AIR-CAP2602I-E-K9, Checkpoint, F5 Load Balancers (LTM) Senior Network Engineer Comtek Group - Dallas, TX January 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches and fixes with all around technical support.  • Design and deployment of MPLS QOS, MPLS Multicasting per company standards.  • Designing, configuring, implementing and troubleshooting (LAN) VLAN's, VTP, Spanning Tree (STP), Trunking (dot1q and ISL) and Ether channel.  • Worked extensively on firewalls and configuration of Cisco (AAA) ACS server, RADIUS and TACACS+ for VPN users and implementation of secured VPN on Cisco routers, PIX and VPN concentrator appliances.  • Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Cisco's ASA 5500/PIX Security appliance, Failover, DMZ zoning & Configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the Firewalls as per the Design.  • Concept testing in datacenter lab with Open Contrail as SDN controller, OpenStack for web/app/database server virtualization, and vSRX firewall as VNF.  • Design and support of 802.11 Wireless LAN systems Access points, controllers.  • Implemented GLBP (on core switching and also for VPN redundancy), HSRP on different location of office on the switched network and managing the entire multilayer switched network  • Configured STP attack mitigation (BPDU Guard, Root Guard), using MD5 authentication for VTP, disabling all unused ports and putting them in unused VLAN and ensuring DHCP attack prevention where needed  • Replace Campus Cisco End of Life hardware with new juniper devices.  • Managed Websense Web Security, ACS server (TACACS) authentication services.  • Managed rules on Cisco checkpoint NGX firewall.  • Provide consultancy services to customers on a variety of network security products including firewalls, VPNs, authentication, load-balancing F5, data loss prevention, security information and event management  • Designing, configuring, implementing and troubleshooting (LAN) VLAN's, VTP, Spanning Tree (STP), Trunking (dot1q and ISL) and Ether channel.  • Used juniper firewalls SRX3600, SRX 650 for WAN edge routers, configured route based VPN and policy based VPN and also chassis clusters with SRX 240.  • Responsible for Checkpoint and Juniper SRX firewall administration across global networks.  • Experience working with JUNOS OS on Juniper Routers and Switches.  • Experience working Juniper T-Series, M-Series, MX-Series, J-Series Routers  • Implemented GLBP (on core switching and also for VPN redundancy), HSRP on different location of office on the switched network and managing the entire multilayer switched network  • Configured STP attack mitigation (BPDU Guard, Root Guard), using MD5 authentication for VTP, disabling all unused ports and putting them in unused VLAN and ensuring DHCP attack prevention where needed.  • Installed, configured and implemented Terminal Server (TS) Remote App on IIS 7.0 Windows 2008 R2 published applications using TS Web Access, Remote App program and TS Gateway.  • Implemented Microsoft Clustering for IIS Web Servers.  • Installed, configured and maintained Windows Servers 2003 and 2008.  • Maintained Active Directory applications.  • Installed and configured DNS, DHCP, IIS WEB and FTP servers  • Responsible for installation and troubleshooting of various software & hardware components  • Developed design, and implement secure Cloud applications including MNS Tenant, HW/SW resources, VNF (vFW&vLBs) instances aligned per network data centers requirements.  • Develop OpenStack Solutions to support Cisco VNF implementations for vEPC, GiLAN, Mobile RAN, and OTT video solutions.  • Presented Allot's VNF Manager and VNF in both control and bearer plane to Data Center operators for integration with their SDN. Demonstrated application visibility through Allot DPI and how they can provide QoS and SLA for their SaaS.  • Scripted and tested for automation of large scale infrastructure using Python and Perl.  • Netflow configuration on Nexus 5k, 7k platform.  • Secured and accelerating load balancing in Citrix Net scalar MPX 8200.  • Configuring DMVPN tunneling between the branches.  • Configuring and Maintaining Cisco Wireless LAN controllers, Access points and Airtight Sensors and SpectaGuard.  • Analyzing and closing the Vulnerabilities found in the Wireless using Airtight SpectaGuard.  • Provide troubleshooting support on global Firewall, IDS, Load Balancing and Proxy infrastructure.  • Server load-balancing utilizing F5 LTM-BigIP, including, AFM, APM and ASM modules.  • Created labs for F5 APM, ASM, and LTM implementations of Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SQL, Microsoft IIS services, LAMP servers, and more.  • Configure, monitor and administer Websense Web Filter for External user web access.  • Team SME for Cisco Wireless, WLCs, and Cisco Prime.  • Secured and accelerating load balancing in Citrix Net scalar MPX 8200.  • Configuring DMVPN tunneling between the branches.  • Worked with Firewall DMZ zones and configuring them.  • Experience with Security- Firewalls, NAT / PAT, IPSEC, S2S.  • Experience in working with LTM and GTM for scaling and securing DNS infrastructure during high volumes.    Environment: McAfee EPO, F5 Load Balancers LTM and GTM modules, NGX R55 and R65, Cisco ASR 9K, Fortinet, Forti Analyzer, Blue Coat, Nexus 9396, 7010,5548, 5520, 2248, VPC, VDC, VRF,VSS, Alcatel 7750, Cisco ASA, BGP, VPLS, OSPF, EIGRP, QOS, VPM, Solarwinds Orion NPM. Network and Security Engineer AbelsonTaylor - Chicago, IL October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implementing and troubleshooting firewall rules in Checkpoint R77.20 Gaia, Cisco ASA 5540, 5580 Implementing and troubleshooting firewall rules in Juniper SRX 5400, 550, 5600 Checkpoint R77.20 Gaia and VSX as per the business requirements  • Worked on Juniper SRX Versions 300, 3400, 3600, 220 implementing new and additional rules on the existing firewalls for a server refresh project.  • Worked on ONOS to test the device drivers and device discovery from ONOS for controlling the Equipment through controller.  • Responsible for designing and deployment of MPLS Traffic Engineering and configuring RIP, OSPF, EIGRP BGP, MPLS, QOS, ATM and Frame Relay.  • Established IPSec VPN tunnels between branch offices and headquarter using Juniper SRX Firewall.  • Services expert responsible for effectively communicating, educating, and positioning Infoblox service programs within the partner community and customer base.  • Configured and designed LAN networks with Access layer switches such as Cisco4510, 4948, 4507 switches.  • Maintenance of NTP, Aruba Clearpass, Netbrain and terminal servers.  • Responsible for implementing of lean initiatives, training and supervision of new IE Techs for riverbed  • Responsible for all Juniper SRX firewalls consisting of SRX 3560, 1400, 550. Using CLI and/or Junos Space Security Director for management. Install, upgrade, troubleshoot, design, etc.  • Installation and maintenance of Cisco Layer 3 switches 3750, 4500X, 6500 and Cisco 3550/4500/6500 switches in multi VLAN environment.  • Expertise in the administration, support and operation of the Orion SolarWinds platform including Network Performance Monitoring (NPM), Network Configuration Manager, Server & Application Monitor (SAM), NetwFlow, Traffic analyzer and IP address Manager.  • Responsible for Check Point, Cisco ASA and Palo-Alto firewalls configuration and administration across global networks for providing IPS/IDS.  • Upgrade of Juniper firewalls and management servers from SRX 3750 to SRX 6509.  • Implementing security Solutions using Palo Alto Pa-5000/3000, Cisco ASA, Checkpoint firewalls R75, R77.20 Gaia and Provider-1/MDM.  • Implemented Cisco ISE for delivering consistent, highly secure access control across wired and wireless multivendor networks and remote VPN connections.  • Configured and worked on Juniper MX240 and MX40 router, and optimized network for application delivery in virtualized network environment.  • Used Bluecoat Proxy SG Appliances to effectively secure Web communications and accelerate delivery of business applications.  • Configured Citrix NetScaler ADC for load balancing and assigned virtual server IP (VIP) address to virtual servers.  • Monitored LAN/WAN related hardware and coordinate with vendor to run intrusive testing to avoid downtime  • Adding Websites to blocked list on the bluecoat proxies based upon business requirements.  • Provided Load Balancing towards access layer from core layer using F5 Network Load Balancers.  • Managed the F5 Big IP GTM/LTM appliances which include writing iRules, SSL offload and everyday task of creating WIP and VIPs.  • Configured Citrix NetScaler responder policy and to maximize the performance and availability of all applications and data, and also provide secure remote access to any application from any device.  • Responsible for Configuration of Azure API gateway service.  • Involved in complete LAN, WAN, Extranet redesign (including IP address planning, designing, installation, pre-configuration of network equipment, testing, and maintenance) in both Campus and Branch networks  • Worked with level-2 team on migration project of CMA's from one Provider-1 to other Provider-1.  • Troubleshooting and Configuration of Cisco ASA 5580, 5540, FWSM, firewalls for all the agencies connecting to Citynet.  • Worked on changing global objects and global rules to local objects and local rules for migration project.    Environment: In Corporate office architecture with highly reliable & secured network including) Palo Alto 5020, 5060, Checkpoint 41K and 61 K series, Routing Protocols (EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, BGP), Juniper SRX, Juniper EX, SRX3750, 3550, 3560, 2924, 1400, 6509-V-E, 6513, 6504, 6503, 6506, 6500 series switches, Switching protocols (VTP, STP, GLBP), Cisco ESA. Network Administrator American Credit Accept - Spartanburg, SC May 2011 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the activity of DATA-Center migration of regular Cisco catalyst switches with the new Nexus 2148, 2224T, 5548, 6018, 7010 using F3/M3 line-cards with 10GE & 40GE interfaces and Supervisor 2E.  • Configuring Palo Alto policies and setting different device configurations.  • Performed remediation of firewall rules from checkpoint firewalls to Cisco ASA firewalls and their implementation.  • Good Experience in deploying BIG-IP F5 LTM load balancers for load balancing and traffic management of business application.  • Experience with Virtualization technologies like installing, configuring VMware vSphere. Creation, management, administration and maintenance of virtual servers and clients.  • Review network change settings to make sure access interface settings and appropriate uplink to help QoS and VoIP  • Configuring the VSAN's and zones and zone sets in Cisco MDS switches using fabric manager enabling and changing the port configs using Cisco Device/fabric managers.  • Configured and installed F5 New Virtual Servers, Profiles, I Rules, Pools, Nodes, Generate CSR Certificate, SSL Certificates Etc.,  • Configured Firewall logging, DMZs & related security policies & monitoring  • Applied ACLs for Internet access to the servers using Cisco 5550 ASA firewall and performed NAT.  • Dealing with Cisco ASA 5550 providing advanced application-aware firewall services with identity-based access control, denial of service (DoS) attack protection all built upon market-proven Cisco PIX Security Appliance technology.  • Remediation of firewall rules from checkpoint firewalls to Cisco ASA firewalls and their implementation.  • Created standard access lists to allow SNMP, NTP and logging servers.  • Configure and Install F5 New Virtual Servers, Profiles, I Rules, Pools, Nodes, Generate CSR Certificate, SSL Certificates Etc.,  • Designed and implemented DMZ for Web servers, Mail servers & FTP Servers using Cisco ASA5500 Firewalls.  • Performed Security operations in terms of pushing new policies and deploying new rules. Performing security troubleshooting in terms of checking ACLs and ACEs and traffic flow analysis using packet capture features.  • Dealt with the service providers in the case of WAN outages.  • Responsible for simulating network operations with the usage of packet analyzer like Wire shark, and use to resolve tickets whenever there is an issue.  • Performed load balancing and application level redundancy by deploying F5 BIG-IP LTM 3900.    Environment: In Corporate office architecture with highly reliable & secured network including Cisco routers (7200, 3800, 2800) and Cisco switches (6500, 3700, 4900, 2900), Nexus (7K, 5K & 2K) Routing Protocols (EIGRP, OSPF, BGP), Switching protocols (VTP, STP, GLBP, HSRP), Cisco PIX (525, 535), ASA (5505, 5510), FortiGate Firewall 80C, 100d, 1240b on Forti OS5.2., Checkpoint, Palo Alto, Load balancers Network Engineer C.H. Reynolds Electric - Sunnyvale, CA October 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Configuring/Troubleshoot issues with the following types of routers Cisco (7200, 6500, 4500, 1700, 2600 and 3500 series), to include: bridging, switching, routing, Ethernet, NAT, and DHCP, as well as assisting with customer LAN /WAN.  • Configured and troubleshoot Juniper Ex 4500 and series switches and Juniper ACX series routers.  • Involved in the deployment of Content Delivery Networks (CDN).  • Experience with SQL for extracting the data from SQL database, related to network issues.  • Experience working with Network-attached storage (NAS) to provide Local Area Network (LAN) nodes with file-based shared storage through a standard Ethernet connection.  • Configuring HSRP between VLANs, Configuring Ether-Channels and Port Channel on Cisco6500 catalyst switches.  • Cisco Secure Access Control Server (ACS) for Windows to authenticate users that connects to a VPN 3000 Concentrator.  • Convert Branch WAN links from TDM circuits to MPLS and to convert encryption from IPsec/GRE to GET VPN.  • Assisted in MPLS migrations, implemented a backup for the existing WAN connection using site-to-site IPsec VPN tunnels.  • Worked on migration of existing PIX firewall to ASA firewall and with converting PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution.  • Worked extensively on Cisco ASA 5500 (5510/5540) Series.  • Involved in Configuration of Access lists (ACL) on ASA firewall for the proper network routing for the B2B network connectivity.  • Experienced in securing configurations of SSL/VPN connections, troubleshooting Cisco ASA firewalls and related network security measures.  • Configuring static NAT, dynamic NAT, inside Global Address Overloading, TCP overload distribution, Overlapping Address Translation.  • Experience working with Active Directory (as a centralized system) to automate network security management and user data.  • Worked with Aruba Access point as a Public Wi-Fi and successfully implemented Wireless Access Point (WAP).  • Experienced in working with Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) trunking for voice over IP (VoIP) to facilitate the connection of a Private Branch Exchange (PBX) to the Internet.    Environment: Cisco Catalyst 2960/3750/4500/6500 Series Switches, Linux, Cisco 2800/2900/3000 Series ISR's and Cisco 3640/12000 /7200/3845/3600/2800 routers, SQL, Cisco ASA 5500, Juniper Ex switches, Active Network Engineer VeriSign - Washington, DC June 2008 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Network building and Network infrastructure management team.  • Hand on Experience in configuration and implementation of various Cisco Routers and L2  • Switches.  • Provide alternative means from dial-up connection to bring down the damage or loss that occurs for the client.  • Experience with Remedy ticketing system in resolving tickets related to routing and Switching.  • Configuration of EIGRP and OSPF as interior gateway protocol with route filtering and route redistribution.  • Coordinated with senior engineers with BGP/OSPF routing policies and designs, worked on implementation strategies for the expansion of the MPLS VPN networks  • Worked on Frame Relay, ISDN, PPP, HDLC, Network Troubleshooting using CLI Show commands, PING, Trace route, telnet.  • Configuring STP for switching loop prevention and VLANs for data and voice along with Configuring port security for users connecting to the switches.  • Involved in group & individual presentations to corporate clients about the company's internet based products like leased lines and modular routers.  • Configuring and applying QOSto 2600 series routers for all the branches.    Environment: Wins XP/ 7, TCP/IP, WINS, DNS, DHCP, FTP, LDAP, IMAP, SMTP, POP3, Mail Server Education Bachelor's