Contracts Manager Contracts Manager Contracts Manager - City of Newark Hillside, NJ I am a Telecommunications and Information Technology professional with over 20 years of experience seeking to transition my skills into the healthcare industry as medicine and technology align. My proven track record of delivering exemplary customer satisfaction while encouraging a team-based environment are the skills that would benefit your organization greatly along with my stellar interpersonal and communication skills which are key components to success in healthcare. Work Experience Contracts Manager City of Newark - Newark, NJ February 2017 to Present Manage Request for Proposals (RFP's) class size contracts for NewarkWORKS One-Stop Career Center with training vendors.  Manage Individual Training Agreement (ITA) contracts for NewarkWORKS with training vendors through Microsoft Access T2 system. ? Act as a liaison between the using agencies, the Department or jurisdiction and third parties on matters pertaining to the transmittal of contracts, vendor inquiries, available funds, and reports during the development of contracted projects. ? Assist in the development and implementation of a computerized contract/grant information system; compiles required input data and analyzes output information. ? Attend conferences and meetings with others to outline agency procedures and requirements. ? Provide technical assistance in the areas of proposal preparation, review and approval, development and management of adequate contract/grant administration and reporting systems, contract/grant monitoring, modification, amendment and closeout, audit compliance, and service evaluation. ? Exercise review and approval authority over request for proposals and contract/grant modifications. ? Maintain the benchmarks for payments between the training vendor and the Fiscal Dept. of NewarkWORKS. ? Communicate with all Vendor agencies regarding the procurement process and contract agreements, including monthly meetings. ? Supervises and oversees the conduct of field visits applicable to ensure compliance with established contract/grant policies and procedures, and federal and state regulations; identifies problems, and develops, recommends, and implements changes to effectuate resolution or compliance. Senior Network Administrator City of Newark - Newark, NJ January 2007 to January 2017 Provide technical support to all vendors. ? Assemble quarterly reports from FutureWorks Systems. ? Develop daily and monthly reports from Trainsoft and Microsoft Access while engineering the structure of the Trainsoft and Microsoft Access system. ? Maintain daily reports from AOSOS though the Crystal system and applying client information into the AOSOS system. ? Maintaining the hardware and software of the computers for the NewarkWorks staff.    973.943.2077 ? tameka1031@gmail.com    - Languages: SQL, XML & HTML  - Project Management Tools: MS Project 2007  - Databases: MS Access & MS SQL server  - Platforms: MS Windows XP/NT/2000, & MAC  - Other Tools: MS Office & Crystal Reports Network Analyst AT&T - Dayton, NJ April 1999 to December 2006 Performed test and activation for VOIP circuits with switch technicians and provided premium testing for CLEC hot-cuts with wide-ranging CLEC's for high-level customers through remote systems. ? Designed remote mapping of DS0 through OC48 circuits including DACS cross connects, multiplexer formatting, and ring mapping along with performance checks to ensure the highest quality service. Completed testing of DS1 and DS0 circuits with varied LECS and high-profile customers. ? Organized technical, policy & procedure training to new hires of the Test and Activation team. Performed scheduled cooperative hot cuts and disconnect/ reterm orders with customers and LEC technicians.  • Equipment assists in the completion of all above tasks:  ? Centest 550/650 ? Nortel OC3/OC12/OC48/Optera  ? Alcatel DACS ? Fujitsu OC3/OC12/OC48  ? Adtran Total Access ? Tellabs Titan5500/Titan532/Edgelink  ? Lucent DACS/DEX/Multiplexer ? Cisco ONS  ? Ciena Metro ? Soneplex Education Medical Insurance Billing & Coding Specialist Essex County College - Newark, NJ February 2019 to June 2019 AT&T Technical Education Center - Dayton, NJ April 1999 to December 2006 DeVry Technical Institute - Woodbridge, NJ November 1993 to June 1995 Skills Procurement, Microsoft Excel Certifications/Licenses Certified Medical Billing & Coding Specialist June 2019 to Present Additional Information If it is a contractual position it need to be 12 months or longer