Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Becket & Lee, LLP Douglassville, PA Network Administrator with 10+ years of IT experience seeking a position that will expand and strengthen my skills as an IT Professional Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Becket & Lee, LLP - Malvern, PA September 2012 to Present ? Perform daily network health and security checks including: anti-virus definitions, critical server disk  space, intrusion detection reports, VPN authentication logs, and Windows system event logs  ? Rack-mount, configure, and install the OS on new servers as older systems are decommissioned  ? Continuously update VMware server templates to improve server hardening, including addressing  newly discovered vulnerabilities in a timely manner and updating to the latest Microsoft patches to aid in maintaining our PCI DSS compliance certification  ? Primary contact for maintaining current VMs and deploying new VMs in the VMware environment  ? Participate in annual disaster recovery test, bringing critical network functionality up at a secondary  location within 24 hours, and imaging 20 workstations for user testing  ? Setup new user accounts in Active Directory and create Microsoft Exchange and Lync accounts  ? Deploy workstation images and software using Microsoft SCCM  ? Recently tasked with choosing hardware specifications for several new workstation configurations as part of the coming migration to Windows 10  ? Continue to perform Help Desk duties as needed Help Desk Technician Becket & Lee, LLP - Malvern, PA September 2008 to September 2012 ? Performed diagnostics, maintenance and repair on Dell computers, HP laser printers and other  hardware devices  ? Took support calls for users in the business regarding hardware and software assistance  ? Maintained a database to keep track of all hardware and software assets within the company  ? Worked with the tech team to image, configure, and deploy brand new Windows 7 workstations to replace all Windows XP systems in the company Education Associate in Specialized Technology in Internet/ Network Engineering Berks Technical Institute - Wyomissing, PA 2008 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, VMWARE, VIRTUAL SERVER, VISIO, Customer Service, Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Windows Server Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS:    ? Experienced with Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016, Windows 7, 8 and 10  ? Experience installing, configuring and managing Windows Active Directory and Group Policy  ? Fundamental understanding of Cisco network device management  ? Experience managing Hyper-V and VMware virtual server environments  ? Proficient with all Microsoft Office software, including Lync and Visio, as well as Adobe Acrobat,  Photoshop, and Premiere  ? Experience in building and troubleshooting PCs  ? Experience in troubleshooting and repairing HP Laserjet Printers    RELATED SKILLS    ? Configuring, Managing and Maintaining Windows Server 2008 Servers Training (September 2012)  ? Administering System Center 2012 Configuration Manager Training (January 2016)  ? Automating Administration with Windows PowerShell Training (November 2018)