Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Systems Engineer - Multi-Tech Solutions Corporation Canton, OH Work Experience Systems Engineer Multi-Tech Solutions Corporation - N Canton, OH 2019 to Present Technical Scope: Routers, Switches, Firewalls  Fortinet/ Cisco ASA firewall configuration/ implementation. L3/ L2 trouble shooting and design and configuration. Security network and vulnerability monitoring. Desktop/ Server Support. Network Administrator Vectrus Systems - Kabul, AF 2018 to 2019 Afghanistan  Technical Scope: Routers, Switches, VOIP, CUCM  Oversaw and managed the technical infrastructure support for multiple users, administering and optimizing hardware, software, and applications in highly secure DoD environment. Ensured highly available enterprise systems and related components, analyzing and resolving network outages. Configured VOIP phones and managed support for Cisco switches. One year Contract.  Key Achievements:  * Proactively diagnosed technical problems and delivered high quality timely solutions and support to end users through Remedy ITSM tickets.  * Ensured minimal effects of major incidents and outages on business, by communicating and escalating to a wide variety of technical and non-technical audience. Network Administrator Myers Controlled Power LLC - N Canton, OH 2017 to 2018 Technical Scope: VMware, WLAN, Firewalls  Provided network administration and support for enterprise-wide infrastructure. Managed IT operations including hardware/software installation, data backup, and user accounts. Configured and installed new hardware and software. Oversaw technical support and triage of IT related issues ranging from Layer 2 network troubleshooting to critical incident response and documentation.  Key Achievements:  * Spearheaded delivery of transformational IT upgrades, including network firewall advancements, VMWare virtualization, upgraded mail server, and WLAN implementation.  * Utilized advanced technology to implement new company firewall with state-of-the art network inspection policies.  * Reduced external and internal threats by making adjustments to company firewall.  * Improved security by implementing and monitoring IP camera security system for factory floor. Service Desk Administrator Five Rivers Services, LLC 2015 to 2016 Kandahar Airfield, Afghanistan  Technical Scope: MS Office Products, Network Security  Served as a subject matter expert for managing the network infrastructure and security in highly secure DoD environment. Designed, configured, and supported defense network. Provided full-spectrum IT support, establishing account access, installing software, setting up and maintaining systems, and creating accounts. Maintained Office 2013 Products, MS Exchange, and Army Enterprise Email Services. One year Contract.  Key Achievements:  * Trained IT peers (Tier II) and Information Management officers (Tier I) by creating instructional documentation.  * Moderated all access to government information systems by creating systems to vet paperwork.  * Achieved information security and integrity via separate physical and logical network enclaves.  * Ensured quick issue resolution with BMC Remedy Ticketing Software. Assistant Network Administrator Brockman, Coats, Gedelian & Company - Akron, OH 2014 to 2015 Technical Scope: Windows 7/8/10, Active Directory, 2008R2/2012R2  Managed and provided integrated support and maintenance for all computer systems. Performed all related tasks, including but not limited to installing, diagnosing, repairing, maintaining, and upgrading hardware, software, and equipment while ensuring optimal performance and end user support. Managed daily trouble tickets and coordinated support staff.  Key Achievements:  * Achieved operational excellence by installing and maintaining several software applications.  * Played key role in improving overall firm growth and technical efficiency by ensuring seamless technical support.  * Ensured disaster recovery by maintaining, monitoring, and testing daily backups as well as offsite replication.  * Trained several others by writing and recording highly informative videos and "How-to" documents. Systems Administrator Securium Networks - N Canton, OH 2010 to 2014 Technical Scope: Windows7/8, Windows Active Directory, Windows 2003/2008R2, QuickBooks, LAN/WAN  Provided full range of network and technical support for small to medium business clients. Installed and maintained various software applications including email services Outlook/ Exchange. Installed, configured and maintained network hardware devices- routers, firewalls, switches, WAPs, and customized LAN/WLAN.  Key Achievements:  * Enhanced customer business by investigating and resolving issues with minimal operational downtime.  * Improved equipment life and efficiency by repairing, maintaining and conducting troubleshooting of printers, laptops, PCs and mobile devices via remote (RDP, Simple Help) or onsite support.  * Streamlined the support process by utilizing Autotask CRM/ Ticketing and LabTech RMM software. Psychological Operations Specialist United States Army Reserve 2004 to 2012 Education Bachelor of Arts in History Kent State University - Kent, OH Skills Active directory, Cisco, Lan/wan, Vmware, Firewall, Crm, Wap, Lan, Maintenance, System Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/david-finley-4895b820 Military Service Branch: Reserves Rank: Sergeant Certifications/Licenses CCNA August 2015 to April 2021 Cisco Certified Network Associate: Routing and Switching CCNA Security April 2018 to April 2021 Cisco Certified Network Associate: Security Fortinet NSE 4 July 2019 to July 2021 Fortinet Network Security Professional 4 CompTIA Security+ February 2016 to February 2022 CompTIA Network+ January 2014 to February 2022 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Applications: RMM, CRM/ Ticketing, Cisco Unified Call Manager, VMWare/ vSphere, Active Directory,  Hardware:  Firewall, Configuration, Maintenance, Troubleshooting, Diagnostics, LAN/WAN, Routers, Switches, WAP. Cisco Fortinet products