Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator City of Chicago / Chicago Police - Chicago, IL February 2013 to Present Responsibilities  - Network administrator for +10000 users and +1500 servers on Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016 and VMware;  - Administer Microsoft Windows Servers (Active Directory), Microsoft Workstations, and network security devices for +7000 users;  - Backup and restore network data with Commvault;  - Performed security monitoring tests to identify intrusions;  - Provided Tier 3 technical support;  - Provide Sys Admin Support as required to maintain user accounts, DNS,DHCP, WINS, etc.   - Deployed performance enhancing/monitoring tools.  - Recommended/install new updates and changes required by the client;  - Documented the new Windows server settings that have been applied to the network.  - Evaluates hardware and software, including peripheral, output, and related equipment.  - Development and implementation of windows images.  - Assists with network and vulnerability scanning to ensure that COC systems are appropriately protected.  - Develops and implements testing strategies and document results.  - Maintain and support computers and servers used to remotely access sites and store customer data  - Troubleshoot and resolve support calls and monitoring alarms when possible, alerting additional subject matter experts or dispatching field support personnel when necessary;  - Resolve common Windows problems (password re-set, network share permissions, software installation, application support and training);  - Involved in any additional follow up, testing and troubleshooting Maintain Team goals and objectives;  - Works directly with the back-line and development teams to resolve complex issues and provide input for software/OS development System Administrator Greenlees Filter LLC - Forest Park, IL 2006 to 2012 New server deployment, routine backups; SAN management and maintenance, server performance and up time monitoring; system upgrades including OS patches and virus definition updates;  • Network administrator-using Windows 2003 server  • Installation of pc's, printers, routers, switches, and servers. Diagnosing and repair of all network related equipment, and performing upgrades to both software and hardware.  • Troubleshooting and resolving PC hardware, software and network, email, security, website and application issues.  • Microsoft Windows Vista-XP-Vista- Windows 7 desktop and workstation operating systems.  • Manage Active Directory and Spam filter.  • Played key role in project outsourcing software development.  • Responsible for network documentation and weekly reports.  • Business divestment; participated in a daily round table discussions of issues arising from site divestment and resolving them.  • Network mapping; audit of all router configurations. Analyzed and evaluated service provider contract proposals.  • Cisco router configuration for emergency deployment. Systems Engineer Ronetwork Solutions LLC - Chicago, IL 2000 to 2006 Managing workstations on a domain-using System Management Server, Microsoft Exchange administrator;  • Network administrator-using Windows server;  • Responsible for design and implementation network utilizing Cisco routers.  • Installation of hardware and software to ensure connectivity between all components on the LAN and WAN;  • Conduct all maintenance upgrades;  • Configured hardware and software after installation including TCP/IP and NetBIOS;  • Upgrading ram, service packs, service releases;  • Troubleshooting problems from networking to individual computer equipment using peripherals;  • Surveying sites for determination of (re) placement of hardware and/or software;  • Coordinated with vendors to ensure quality standards for repairs and parts Education Bachelors in Finance Academic Institute of Economic Sciences June 1999 Skills network administrator (10+ years), Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Active Directory, Vmware, Customer Service, Windows 7, Security, Microsoft Office Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/cristian-calin/3/b19/739 Certifications/Licenses CCNA August 2012 to Present MCITP May 2013 to Present VMware VCP6-DCV 2015 to Present TS/SCI clearance Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS:    Excellent analytical, quantitative and modeling skills are complemented by a unique mind-set and a superb work ethic to the workplace. Looking for a challenging environment where my competence in designing networks for continuous and consistent performance is required.