Instructor/Writer Instructor/Writer Instructor/Writer Grovetown, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Instructor/Writer Network Branch for the Quantum Dynamics Cyber School of Excellence - Fort Gordon, GA August 2018 to Present I instruct soldiers from lower enlisted up to officers in network cyber security. This entails using wireshark, tcpdump with Berkley Packet Filters, Cover packet headers, Use of Raw Sockets, basic python, basic scapy, PFsense, Vyos Routing and firewalls, iptables, nftables, Network Reconnaissance and Exploitation all based on Linux systems. Cyber Network Security Instructor/Writer Quantum Dynamics - Augusta, GA April 2018 to Present I instruct soldiers from lower enlisted up to officers in network cyber security. This entails using wireshark, tcpdump with Berkley Packet Filters, Cover packet headers, Use of Raw Sockets, basic python, basic scapy, PFsense, Vyos Routing and firewalls, iptables, nftables, Network Reconnaissance and Exploitation all based on Linux systems. Network Engineer U.S. Army Special Operation Command AFRICA - Grovetown, GA June 1998 to Present Accomplished Systems and Network administrator with experience working with Cisco products, VMWare and Microsoft Server software. Managed teams to achieve complete builds of networks from the ground up which included setting up Virtual Servers to incorporating a Satellite connection to the internet. Taught students in Cisco Entry level certification to attain the CCENT certification. Consistently expanding my knowledge and looking facilitate and discover greater challenges. Key skills include. Network Engineer Information Management Operator U.S. Army Special Forces Command - Grovetown, GA June 1998 to Present Accomplished Systems and Network administrator with experience working with Cisco products, VMWare and Microsoft Server software. Managed teams to achieve complete builds of networks from the ground up which included setting up Virtual Servers to incorporating a Satellite connection to the internet. Taught students in Cisco Entry level certification to attain the CCENT certification. Consistently expanding my knowledge and looking facilitate and discover greater challenges. Key skills include. Network Administrator U.S. Army Special Forces Command - Grovetown, GA June 1998 to Present Accomplished Systems and Network administrator with experience working with Cisco products, VMWare and Microsoft Server software. Managed teams to achieve complete builds of networks from the ground up which included setting up Virtual Servers to incorporating a Satellite connection to the internet. Taught students in Cisco Entry level certification to attain the CCENT certification. Consistently expanding my knowledge and looking facilitate and discover greater challenges. Key skills include. Instructor/ Writer U.S. Army Cyber School of Excellence 2014 to 2015 Education Some college Skills Network design and setup (10+ years), Active Directory, Cisco, Security, Vmware, Exchange, DNS, Networking, LAN, VPN, firewalls Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SSG June 1998 to Present Radio operator  Network Administrator  CCENT Instructor Writer  SATCOM operator Certifications/Licenses CCENT June 2016 to June 2019 Cisco Entry Level Linux Essentials May 2019 to Present Test for Basic Linux users. MTA Mobility and Device Fundamentals August 2019 to Present MTA Security Fundamentals February 2019 to February 2022 MTA Server May 2019 to May 2022 CompTIA Server+ July 2019 to July 2022 CompTIA A+ April 2019 to April 2022 Additional Information Currently working toward a SECURITY + certification   Currently working toward a CCNA certification  Will be taking more college classes after released from military.  Will be available mid March to start work.