Network engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> engineer Network Engineer Texas, VT • CCNA certified with 10 Plus years of professional experience in Network Planning, Implementing, Configuring, Troubleshooting and Testing of networking system on both Cisco and Juniper Networks  • Experience with the escalation problems for Routing, Switching and WAN connectivity issues using ticketing system remedy  • Experience in testing Cisco routers and switches in laboratory scenarios and then design and deploy them on site for production  • Hands on experience in installing, configuring, and troubleshooting of Cisco 7600, 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500 and 1800 series routers, and Cisco Catalyst 6500, 4500, 3750, 2950 and 3500XL series switches  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 5000  • Experienced working with OTV & FCOE on the nexus between the datacenters  • Experience in Network Management Tools and sniffers like SNMP, HP-Open view, Wireshark and Cisco works to support 24 x 7 Network Operation Center  • Handled Load Balancing using F5 Networks  • Enhanced level of experience in the setup of Access-Lists, and RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP and tunnel installations  • Implemented traffic filters on CISCO routes using Standard Access List and Extended Access list  • Worked extensively in Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Cisco's ASA 5500/PIX security appliance, Failover DMZ zoning & configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the firewalls as per the design  • Experience with convert PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution  • Experience with Palo Alto Firewalls by writing policies and creating Zones  • Well experienced in configuring protocols HSRP, GLBP, VRRP, ICMP, IGMP, PPP, HDLC, PAP, CHAP, and SNMP  • Experience in configuring Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN), spanning tree protocol (STP), VLAN Trunking Protocol (VTP), Dynamic Trunking Protocol (DTP), Per VLAN spanning Tree (PVST) and 802.1x authentication in access layer switches  • In depth understanding of IPV4, Subnetting implementation, VLSM and ARP, reverse & proxy ARP, Ping Concepts  • Moderate knowledge in configuring and troubleshooting Cisco Wireless Networks: LWAPP, WLC, WCS, Standalone APs, Roaming, Wireless Security Basics, IEEE 802.11 a/b/g, RF spectrum characteristics  • Excellent communication skills withability to interact effectively with employees at all level of the organization Work Experience Network engineer Present Network Engineer Catholic Health Initiative - Lexington, KY March 2018 to June 2019 Responsibilities:  • Experience with converting campus WAN links from point to point to MPLS and to convert encryption from IPsec/GRE to another data center  • Configured Cisco Meraki Core, Data and Wireless switches for medical environment.  • Integrating Meraki Wireless Switches With Meraki AP MR 42  • Integrating Meraki Core with Data Switches and Sonic Firewall  • Experience working with Catalyst 6506/3750/1900 devices  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 5000  • Design, and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Cisco Routers  • Configuration and troubleshooting on HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, RSTP, MST related issues coming in network environment  • Configuration and extension of VLAN from one network segment to their segment between different vendor switches (Cisco)  • Implementing BGP WAN routing, which will convert WAN routing from OSPF to BGP (OSPF is used for local routing only) which involves new WAN links.  • Implement and configured GLBP (on core switching and also for VPN redundancy), HSRP on different location of office on the switched network and managing the entire multilayer switched network  • Troubleshooting and installing of CRS, ISR, GSR, ASR9000 and Nexus devices.  • Worked on the redistribution of connected routes on all OSPF devices so that all connected subnets are advertised via OSPF  • Generate network device configuration reports, such as port, MAC, APR and version details  • Worked on a migration project which involved the removal of all static routes from core devices  • Responsible for the Global engineering and support of existing network technologies / services and the integration of new network technologies / services  • Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP  • Involved in the redistribution into OSPF on the core ASA firewall.  • Design and setup of Aruba Controllers 531, redundant 7211, 3200, 3400 and 6000 series Sr. Network Engineer IPsec/GRE - New York, NY October 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experience with converting campus WAN links from point to point to MPLS and to convert encryption from IPsec/GRE to another data center  • Experience working with Nexus 7018/7010, 5020, 5548, 2148, 2248 devices  • Worked with Check Point firewall to establish VPN security (VPN1)  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 5000  • Experience working with OTV&FCOE on nexus between the datacenters  • Design, and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Cisco Routers and ASA Firewalls  • Configuring IPSEC VPN on SRX series firewalls.  • Configuration and troubleshooting on HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, RSTP, MST related issues coming in network environment  • Configuration of Policies within the zones in Palo Alto Firewall  • Configuration and extension of VLAN from one network segment to their segment between different vendor switches (Cisco, Juniper)  • Conversions to BGP WAN routing, which will convert WAN routing from OSPF to BGP (OSPF is used for local routing only) which involves new WAN links.  • Implement and configured GLBP (on core switching and also for VPN redundancy), HSRP on different location of office on the switched network and managing the entire multilayer switched network  • Troubleshooting and installing of CRS, ISR, GSR, ASR9000 and Nexus devices.  • Worked on the redistribution of connected routes on all OSPF devices so that all connected subnets are advertised via OSPF  • Used Kiwi-Cat tools to manage configurations from desktop for network devices, including routers, switches and firewalls.  • Generate network device configuration reports, such as port, MAC, APR and version details  • Worked on a migration project which involved the removal of all static routes from core devices  • Responsible for the Global engineering and support of existing network technologies / services and the integration of new network technologies / services  • Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP  • Involved in the redistribution into OSPF on the core ASA firewall.  • Involved in the removal of EIGRP from all devices and making OSPF the primary routing protocol.  • Involved in the modification and removal (wherever necessary) of BGP from the MPLS routers.  • Worked on Orion for analysis and monitoring purposes  • Also prepared documentation for various VLANs and voice subnetworks and worked on Visio for the same.  • Configuration and extension of VLAN from one network segment other segment between different vendor switches (Cisco, Juniper)  • Migration of existing IPSEC VPN tunnels from Pre-Shared key to Certificate Authority for purpose of scaling  • Replace branch hardware with new 2851 routers and 2960 switches.  • Responsible for layer 2 securities which was implemented using a dedicated VLAN ID for all trunk ports, setting the user ports to non-trunking, deployed port security when possible for user ports  • Enabled STP attack mitigation (BPDU Guard, Root Guard), using MD5 authentication for VTP, disabling all unused ports and putting them in unused VLAN and ensuring DHCP attack prevention where needed  • Performed basic security audit of perimeter routers, identifying missing ACLs, writing and applying ACLs  • Experience with convert PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution.  • Responsible for Cisco ASAfirewall administration and checkpoint firewall provider-1 across our global networks    Environment: Juniper firewalls 5GT, 208, SSG 5, 140, 550, 550M, NSM, IDS/IPS, Vulnerability Assessment tools like Nessus, Red Hat, Solaris, Juniper VPN's, SSL Network Engineer Dimension Data - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented LAN/WAN utilizing CISCO 7200, 7204, 7206.  • Configured Routing Protocols such as OSPF and policy based routing.  • Design OSPF Areas for reliable Access Distribution and for Core IP Routing.  • Redistribution of routing protocols and Frame-Relay configurations  • Implemented SNMP on Cisco routes to allow for network management  • Implementing NAT solutions on CISCO IOS routers.  • Network Migration from RIP to OSPF  • Implementation and configuration of VPN Tunnels.  • Configuring VLAN trunking Protocol (VTP) on core switches.  • Configured HSRP and VLAN trunking 802.1Q, VLAN routing on catalyst 6500 switches.  • Maintained a Network with more than 600 Network devices, some 20, 000-end hosts, and the other Network devices like DHCP, DNS Servers, and Firewall Servers.  • Implementation of TCP/IP and related services - DHCP/DNS  • Configured BPDU Guard, port-fast, uplink fast and other spanning tree features.  • Study single point failures & design WAN structure in such a way that there are no failures in network in case of any device or link failure  • Cisco IPT Migration Projects from legacy PBXs with Nortel.  • Setting up VLANS and configuring ISL trunk on Fast-Ethernet channel between switches  • Implementing, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Convergence in Frame-Mode MPLS inside the core.  • Load Balancing using F5 Networks Big IP  • Setup simplified and traditional VPN communities and CISCO Any connect  • Installed and configured Routers, Bridges, Terminal Servers and CSU/DSU's to support WAN links  • Work with application developers and systems engineer to migrate applications and systems to a new Border Gateway network.  • Installed and configured CISCO ASA and Checkpoint firewall.  • Leveraged two Nexus 2232 Fabric Extenders and two 2248 Fabric Extenders, making them 'dual-homed' to both N5Ks and implementing Enhanced Virtual Port-Channel (EvPC)  • Involved smart view tracker to check the firewall traffic.  • Documented all the work done by using MOPS, Visio, Excel and MS word.    Environment: Cisco 3750/3550/3500/2960 switches and Cisco 12000/7200/3845/3600 routers, Cisco ASA5510, Checkpoint. Network Administrator Alcatel Lucent MS - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2010 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Cisco Layer 2 switches (spanning tree, VLAN)  • WAN Infrastructure running OSPF & BGP as core routing protocol.  • Support various Routers like 2600/3600/7200 series routers.  • Tested authentication in OSPF and BGP.  • Configured and troubleshoot OSPF and EIGRP.  • Engineering the configurations for the different branches, campus locations  • Troubleshooting IOS related bugs based on past history and appropriate release notes.  • Work on different connection medium like Fibre and Copper Connectivity.  • In-depth expertise in the implementation of analysis, optimization, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN networking systems.  • Planning and configuring the routing protocols such as OSPF, RIP, and Static Routing on the routers.  • Performed and technically documented various test results on the lab tests conducted.  • Planning and configuring the entire IP addressing plan for the clients' network.  • Assist the certification team and perform configuration of LAN\WAN technologies such as Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, and Gigabit Ethernet.  • In-depth expertise in the implementation of analysis, optimization, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN networking systems.  • WAN Infrastructure running OSPF as a core routing protocol.  • Follow process & procedures for change & configuration management.  • Supported nationwide LAN infrastructure consisting of Cisco 4510 and catalyst 6513.  • Deployed the switches in high availability configuration with HSRP.  • Support various Series of Cisco Routers like 7200/7600 series.  • Support Complex 6500 /5500 Series Switches.  • Network Monitoring using tools like Cisco Works 2000.  • Created Lab demonstrations for new technology deployments with loaner equipment from various vendors and presented the findings to upper management.  • Troubleshoot network problems using Packet Analysis tools like Ethereal.    Environment: Cisco Routers - 2500/2600/3600/7200 series, Cisco Switches -2900/4000/5500/6500 series. Network and Support Engineer TTSL - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh January 2007 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Configuration and administration of Cisco and juniper Routers and Switches.  • Involved in the configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, LDP, EIGRP, RIP, and BGP v4. Configured IP access filter policies.  • Administration and diagnostics of LAN and WAN with in-depth knowledge of TCP/IP, NAT, PPP, ISDN and associates network protocols and services.  • Configured egress and ingress queues for ISP facing routers using CBWFQ.  • Configuring site to site to VPN connectivity.  • Assisted the team in VOIP network management and troubleshoot.  • Upgrading Cisco IOS to the Cisco routers and switches.  • Worked on Data, VOIP, Security as well as wireless installations and technologies.  • Configuring IPSLA monitor to track the different IP route when disaster occurs.  • Configuring RIP, OSPF and Static routing on Juniper Routers.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco catalyst 6509, 7613 with supervisor cards  • Installing and configuring F5 Load balancers and firewalls with LAN/WAN configuration.  • Configuring and monitoring users by using TACACS+ Server  • Involved in installation and configuration of Cisco 3500 and 6500 seriesswitches and Nexus Platforms  • Experience working with Juniper EX-Series Ethernet Switches  • Experience with Checkpoint Firewall policy provisioning  • Experience configuring and deployment of ERX310  • Experience with Installation on PIM modules on J-Series routers  • Experience with Firewall Administration, Rule Analysis, Rule Modification  • Troubleshoot traffic passing managed firewalls via logs and packet captures  • Monitored and managed network resources using HP Openviewby implementing policies and creating custom events    Environment: 6500/3750/3550/3500/2950 switches, Juniper (M320, T640), Cisco 7200/3845/3600/2800 routers, TACACS, EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, BGP, VPN, MPLS, Ether Channels. Network Engineer IDEA MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS June 2006 to December 2006 Responsibilities:  • Maintained redundancy on Cisco 2600, 2800 and 3600router with HSRP and VRRP.  • Implemented and configured routing protocols like EIGRP, OSPF.  • Monitor the operability and reliability of the network.  • Responsible for SNMP Monitoring and Performance Tuning software.  • Designed WAN structure to prevent single point of failure in case of link failure.  • Maintenance and Troubleshooting of connectivity problems using PING, trace route.  • Planning and Implementation of Subnetting, VLSM to conserve IP addresses.  • Monitor the operability and reliability of the network.  • Configured STP for loop prevention and VTP for Inter-VLAN Routing.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of EIGRP, OSPF, BGP.  • Configuration of Standard and Extended ACLs for Security.  • Troubleshooting the issues related to routing protocols.  • Managing, troubleshooting and monitoring the network using Network Monitoring tool.  • Network Security implementation with Cisco IOS Feature Set, NAT, and Simple Network Management Protocol.  • Good experience with like checkpoint VSX, IDS, IPS as well as encryption techniques  • Provided support for troubleshooting and resolving Customer reported issues.  • Performed IOS upgrades on Catalyst 3550, 2950, 1900 switches, and 3600, 2600 and 2500 routers.  • Provided support for global network including T1/T3, ATM connections using HDLC and Frame Relay on 2600, 4000 series Routers.  • Installed wireless access points (WAP) at various locations in the company.  • Technical assistance for LAN/WAN management and complex customer issues.    Environment: Cisco Routers - 2500/2600/3600/4000 series, Cisco Switches -1900/2950/3550 series, check point VSX, IDS, IPS, and VPN. Network Engineer TTSL - Jaipur, Rajasthan July 2004 to May 2006 Responsibilities:  • Troubleshot Cisco hardware: Inspected devices, Read device LEDs, loose connections, interior IOS upgrade, switch port configuration, port monitoring, watch over Flooding Control/ Network port.  • Strategies include operating systems, virus protection, mail systems and Internet services.  • Updated the anti-virus, spam blockers, and other security software so that the systems are always secured  • Resolved all computer related problems, monitored and maintained system functionality and reliability by identifying ways to prevent system failures  • Worked on configuration and installation of new desktops for users using GHOST, EZ copy and Dist-to-Disk copy  • Installed and configured DHCP, DNS Server.  • Identifying technical problems and debugged hardware and software related to LANs/ WANs.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, VTP and configuring ISL trunk on Fast - Ethernet channel between switches.  • Develop and implement strategies to support the current and future needs of the company.  • Configured Cisco Routers 2600 series using RIP, OSPF, and EIGRP.  • Configured Cisco Switches 2900 and firewall (checkpoint)    Environment: Cisco Routers - 2500/2600 series, Cisco Switches -1900/2900 series.  Visa Status:-H4 EAD Education Bachelors of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Rajiv Gandhi Technical University Skills CISCO (10+ years), OSPF (10+ years), EIGRP (10+ years), LAN (10+ years), IOS (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:    Client Operating Systems Windows NT, 2000, XP, Vistas, Windows 7, Windows 8, Linux, McIntosh  Server Operating Systems Windows Server 2003/ 2008, Microsoft Exchange Server, VMware, Citrix, Linux RHEL 6.1 Red Hat Enterprises  Routers Cisco 17XX, 18XX, 26XX, 28XX, 37XX, 38XX, 39XX &72XX series  Switches Cisco 3550, 3750, 45XX, 65XX series, Meraki MS225-48 port  Routing OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, RIP-2, PBR, IS-IS, Route filtering, Redistribution, Summarization, Static routing  Switching  LAN, VTP, STP, PVST+, RPVST+, Inter VLAN routing & Multi-Layer Switch, Multicast operations, Layer 3 Switches, Ether channels, Transparent Bridging    Network Security Cisco (ASA, PIX) 5510, ACL, IPSEC  Load Balancer Cisco ACE load balancer, F5 Networks (Big-IP)  LAN Ethernet (IEEE 802.3), Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet  WAN Leased lines 64k - 155Mb (PPP / HDLC), Channelized links (E1/T1/E3/T3), Fiber optic circuits, Frame relay, ISDN, Load Balancing  Various Features & Services IOS and Features, HSRP, GLBP, IRDP, NAT, SNMP, SYSLOG, NTP, DHCP, CDP, TFTP and FTP management  AAA Architecture TACACS+, RADIUS, Cisco ACS  Network Management SNMP, Cisco works LMS, HP open view, Etherenal  Reports Microsoft (Visio pro.), Checkpoint (Eventia reporter, Smart view)