NOC II ENGINEER NOC II ENGINEER NOC II ENGINEER Levittown, NY Work Experience NOC II ENGINEER mindSHIFT - Commack, NY April 2019 to August 2019 • Monitored alerting software to recognize any issues that demanded immediate attention for client base and internal systems.  • Worked overnight, night, and holiday shifts to man the 24/7 datacenter and forward any incidents not resolvable from our department, to the appropriate on call engineer.  • During an eight-hour overnight shift, an error with the monitoring software caused many false positives, worked on over 300 incidents without any true positive issues going unresolved. SUPPORT ENGINEER JMS Technology - Westbury, NY December 2018 to April 2019 Provide phone and onsite IT support for 70 clients.  ? Update SPF and DKIM records to improve security posture of email systems for 5 clients, reducing amount of outgoing mail from being flagged as spam.  ? Collaborate with team of 3 to implement entire IT infrastructure for 2 new clients, ensuring no delays in business after moving locations.  ? Add 9 Ubiquiti switches and create separate LAN to existing infrastructure for Long Island school, improving quality of 80 security cameras. NETWORK ENGINEER ActioNet - Kings Point, NY October 2017 to September 2018 Pushed applications, patches, scripts, images and system upgrades to computers on campus-wide network serving 2K end users.  ? Implemented CIS Controls via Group Policies on Windows servers, improving compliance scores on domain controllers by 65%.  ? Managed Skype for Business implementation after presenting multiple solutions to team of 7, configuring Microsoft Active Directory Federated Services and Directory Sync to provide single sign-on access.  ? Created Microsoft ADFS design to resolve existing issue with logins from 2 separate domains which didn't have standard two-way trust in place.  ? Developed PowerShell scripts to automate tasks, determining amount of storage and eliminating need to check 800 computers individually. SENIOR NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR CMIT Solutions - Levittown, NY December 2015 to October 2017 Provided highest level of IT support throughout 2 franchises, serving as IT Advisor or Project Manager on all new customers and projects.  ? Developed strategy to implement solution for atypical customer profile, generating recurring revenue and repeat business for 2 more buildings at same client. LEVEL 3 ENGINEER Flexible Business Systems - Hauppauge, NY March 2015 to October 2015 Administered hardware and software support to 20 internal help desk employees on level 3 issues for 800+ users every month.  ? Implemented and resolved mailing issue for client with 100+ employees, migrating client to new mail provider in order to properly manage client's customer white lists.  ? Collaborated with team of 4 to develop process for onboarding new clients, reducing amount of issues during go-live and improving customer satisfaction. COMPUTER NETWORK SPECIALIST JRD Technical Associates - Kings Park, NY March 2014 to March 2015 Installed and configured 15+ physical and virtual servers, documenting step-by-step process.  ? Oversaw project to create ticketing system to manage incoming support requests, recommending and implementing Spiceworks Helpdesk Software.  ? Designed and maintained wireless networks for private and public access for internal staff at 15+ locations. SYSTEM ENGINEER PICS ITech - Hauppauge, NY December 2013 to March 2014 Provided all levels of support for Microsoft Windows Desktop, Server and Exchange network including installations, patches and back-ups for 1.6K-employee client.  ? Performed network administration including switch management, Cisco ASA management, and IP address management. NETWORK TECHNICIAN National Healthcare Associates - Lynbrook, NY January 2011 to December 2013 Designed and configured redundant Microsoft Exchange 2010 environment including database availability group and software load balancing of client access server for 31 sites.  ? Managed project with team of 3 to image desktops for 12 recently acquired facilities, testing multiple solutions and implementing Dell Direct for new computers and Altiris for existing computers. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Cambridge Who's Who - Uniondale, NY March 2010 to June 2010 Performed MS Windows desktop and server support, network and systems administration, and Active Directory and Group Policies management.  ? Managed Symantec Endpoint Protection for 8 servers and 100 computers on LAN. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Publishers Clearing House - Port Washington, NY November 2008 to November 2009 Created Microsoft SCCM Environment from scratch for application deployment, system imaging, and desktop and application patching, implementing new environment within 1 month.  ? Coordinated and resolved issues for 100+ end users.  ? Developed test laboratories for 1 upgrade per month utilizing VMware and Microsoft Hyper V.  ? Conducted weekly audits and reviewed server event log files, system patch levels, and anti-virus definition logs on all computers. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR MID-SHIP Group LLC - Port Washington, NY February 2007 to November 2008 Provided daily management, proactive maintenance, and troubleshooting of all servers, clients and network infrastructure for 40 onsite and remote employees.  ? Managed project to build new Server Room with rack-mounted equipment and air conditioning units, decreasing noise and heat from devices located in main broker's area.  ? Installed and configured UPS software to monitor and shut down 10+ servers in case of power failure. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR RCM Technologies - Great Neck, NY October 2005 to August 2006 Provided day-to-day technical support to 5k+ client employees across 100+ sites in North America region.  ? Redesigned VERITAS backup strategy to enable backup of all NA Windows 2000 and 2003 servers, reducing amount of failed backup attempts. Education BACHELOR OF ARTS Psychology, State University of New York - New Paltz, NY Skills Active directory, Cisco, Clustering, Exchange, Virtualization, Citrix, Network switch, Systems administration, Vmware, Vpn, Business continuity, Cisco asa, Scripting, Migrations, Remote management, Hyper-v, Backup exec, Business continuity planning, Firewall, Symantec, NOC, Ccna, Ethernet Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bryan-daly-87281b14 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Security August 2019 to August 2022 CCNA Routing and Switching September 2016 to August 2022 CompTIA Security+ December 2018 to December 2021 CompTIA Healthcare IT Technician Present ITIL v3 Foundation Certificate Present MCSA Windows Server 2012 May 2015 to Present MCSA Windows Server 2008 April 2018 to Present MCSA Windows 7 April 2012 to Present MCTS Microsoft Exchange 2010, Configuration February 2011 to Present Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  ? Systems Administration  ? Troubleshooting  ? Infrastructure Implementation  ? Project Management    ? System Performance Monitoring  ? Technical Documentation  ? Issue Resolution  ? System Security    TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Microsoft Windows Server 2019 - 2000  ? Active Directory, Group Policy, Certificate Services, Failover Clustering, and Federation Services  ? Microsoft Office 365 and Azure (Implementation, Security, Administration, and Migrations)  ? Microsoft Windows Desktop Operating Systems 10 - XP  ? Microsoft Exchange Server 2016 - 5.5  ? Firewall and VPN Concepts and Configurations (Cisco ASA, SonicWALL, Palo Alto, Sophos, and WatchGuard)  ? Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager 2012, 2007  ? PowerShell Scripting  ? Virtualization Design and Implementation (VMware, Microsoft Hyper-V, Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops, Nutanix Core Products)  ? Network Switch Management and Troubleshooting  ? Remote Management and Monitoring Solutions (Kaseya, ConnectWise, LabTech, Continuum, Dell Kace, Microsoft SCCM)  ? Business Continuity Planning and Backup Software (Datto, eFolder, Veeam, Symantec Backup Exec)