IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Geritrex New Rochelle, NY IT/Systems Administrator with over 13 years providing technical solutions through high-quality service and support. Seeking position in a challenging and rewarding tech environment where I can expand upon my existing skill base while contributing to a lively IT team. Work Experience IT Manager GERITREX LLC - Middletown, NY June 2008 to July 2019 • Deployed Office 365; unifying communications between Geritrex and acquired companies.  • Maintained and created user accounts and policies within Active Directory Domain Services and Group Policy.  • Created and managed Business Intelligence reports for all departments and top-level Executives.  • Created and maintained databases, network accounts and programs for specific department needs.  • Improved network security with Kaspersky AV administration tools.  • Evaluated yearly IT needs and provided a budget based on company growth and goals.  • Evaluated and managed deployment of iContracts chargeback system.  • Coordinated and deployed EDI systems with customers.  • Optimized Windows Servers by using Microsoft Hyper-V virtualization software.  • Project application lead on ERP selection and deployment.  • Created and implemented custom applications to automate generating labels and returns system.  • Trained employees on internal applications.  • Registered products and establishment information using the FDA SPL (Structured Product Labeling).  • Evaluated and conducted technical and functional research and analysis; deploying services such as VOIP and VPN.  • Referred major hardware and software problems and defective products to vendors or technicians for service.  • Provided support services to internal staff in resolving hardware/software issues. Network Administrator New Rochelle Municipal Housing Authority - New Rochelle, NY June 2005 to June 2007 • Designed, configured, installed and maintained the organization's internal and external networks.  • Maintained the Active Directory including user accounts, profiles and security policies.  • Daily Administration of network & Workstations for use in a various environment.  • Performed daily back-ups of the of the company's data.  • Maintained biometric time clock and digital security camera equipment. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Monroe College - New Rochelle, NY October 2003 to December 2006 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, EXCHANGE, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, IT Management, Excel, Network Administration, TCP/IP, Windows, SQL, Edi, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Technical Expertise:  • Strong Analytical Skills  • Excellent Critical Thinking Skills  • TCP / IP Protocols  • Microsoft Windows Server  • Active Directory Domain Services  • Office 365 Administration  • Microsoft Group Policy  • Microsoft Windows 7 - 10  • Microsoft Hyper-V 2012 R2  • Microsoft Remote App Server    • Cisco Meraki Network Products  • SAP Crystal Reports  • Microsoft Office 365/2016  • Exchange Online  • Microsoft SQL Server  • SQL Report Services  • SQL  • EDI  • FDA SPL (Structured Product Labeling)  • .Net