NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR - Guardian Life Insurance Katy, TX Network Engineer that has experience in network administration, IT infrastructure/design, project management, team leadership, vendor oversight, troubleshooting, change management, corrective action and risk mitigation. Install, configure and maintain LAN/WAN and wireless infrastructure in multi-vendor environments. Participate in a rotational on-call structure to provide after-hours and weekend support. Remain up to date on current technologies. Work Experience NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Guardian Life Insurance - Dallas, TX 2014 to Present Actively support 42 dental offices in Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth and Alabama, two corporate locations, and one datacenter.  Support and troubleshoot network connectivity between the datacenter and sites.  • Oversee all network support, resolving outages in an expedient manner, and managing the ticket system for 600 users.  • Mentor less experienced network administrators on application support, and network troubleshooting and configuration.  • Monitor network services and health by using Solarwinds Orion monitoring software.  • Support BGP routing protocol at sites at the datacenter and work with ISP to restore network connectivity as necessary.  • Configure and troubleshoot Cisco Routers (1800, 1900, and ASR-1000 series) and Switches (2900, 3500, and Arista DCS-7050SX)  • Configure and troubleshoot remote site IPSEC VPN tunnels to ASR routers at the Data Center and DR site.  • Manage the installation of network cabling, desktops and x-ray equipment at all sites while supporting the VMware server environment and EMR server application as needed.  • Troubleshoot VOIP phone system call quality issues and wireless access points at sites. SENIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Dresser, Inc 2011 to 2014 Supported Sites in Texas and Louisiana in a manufacturing environment. Liaison between business units and the technical teams to communicate technical requirements for projects and ensured on time delivery.  • Coordinated hardware repair activities with vendors such as Dell, HP, Xerox, Avaya and Liebert  • Escalated high-priority tickets, represented the business unit on technical bridge calls, and ensured that issue was resolved.  • Followed up on tickets during outages, contacting GE network/service support to ensure optimal resolution.  • Participated in the move of major GE oil and gas sites in Houston from local VoIP to the VoIP system in the GE datacenter.  • Coordinated the migration of computer, network and WAN connections from Dresser to GE in Houston and Corpus Christi.  • Worked with the data center migration team to move engineering applications from legacy Dresser servers to GE supported servers and moved the servers from local Houston Dresser site to GE Data Center which increased reliability and support coverage for application servers NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Dresser, Inc 2008 to 2011 Supported manufacturing environment at Houston Corporate and remote offices in the Houston by responding to Network, Server, and application requests and trouble tickets.  • Ensured that the applications in the Receiving, Manufacturing, and shipping areas was operational.  • Implemented and maintained the following: HP Proliant and Dell PowerEdge, Server 2003 and 2008, Trend Micro OfficeScan, Exchange and Active Directory 2008  • Performed file server security administration following the SOX compliance rules  • Network support including switches, routers, cable management, cross connects  • Maintained disaster recovery for the site by utilizing Commvault backup software and sent tapes offsite via Iron Mountain  • Supported Avaya digital and Cisco IP phone system  • LAN Support and Telco management (ATT, Verizon, and Comcast). Desktop Lead APPLIED OPTOELECTRONICS INC. - Sugar Land, TX 2007 to 2008 Supported electronics manufacturing site by supporting the PC’s in the Labs and offices. I supported AD user account and security administration. I also supported engineering applications such as Solidworks and Auto cad.   • Server support (AD, Exchange, DNS, DHCP, VERITAS Backup Exec 12, Trend Micro OfficeScan)  • Assist users with PC and Software related Issues (Solidworks, Auto Cad, MS Office 2003, and SQL connection software) Windows System Administrator Aquent Consulting - Houston, TX 2006 to 2007 Installed, supported, and updated the Cognos application for EHR application at the Chorus Data Center in a Citrix environment and on remote office servers at Chorus customer’s sites. Windows System Administrator Additech - Stafford, TX 2006 to 2006 Supported Network and VPN connections from customer’s fuel dispenser sites to the Additech network.  Supported Cisco Router, Wireless, and Firewall configurations at the local site and at the fuel dispenser sites. Supported backend servers at the site such as (AD, Exchange, DNS, DHCP, VERITAS Backup Exec 10D).  I also assist users with PC and software related Issues. Network Administrator Lead Yokogawa Corporation of America - Sugar Land, TX 2003 to 2006 Supported warehouse location with 180 users in Houston, TX. Also supported 5 remote locations in USA, Canada, and Mexico. Provided support for desktop and engineering applications, Server 2003 support, WAN / LAN and Cisco devices. Worked with vendors to maintain Phone, Video & Audio, and Copier equipment.  • Assisted with the Office expansion At the Stafford, TX Location.   • Assisted with the Office move from Stafford, TX to Sugar Land, TX Education High school or equivalent Skills CCNP, IT INFRASTRUCTURE (10+ years), LAN/WAN (9 years), ITIL (7 years), NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, WIRELESS (5 years), SOX (10+ years), CHANGE MANAGEMENT (7 years), HIPPA (5 years), TECHNICAL SUPPORT (10+ years), CAPACITY MANAGEMENT (5 years), MITIGATION, MAINTENANCE, VENDOR MANAGEMENT (10+ years), LAN (10+ years), CORRECTIVE ACTION, Networking (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), CCNP R&S (5 years), Security, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Customer Service Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kevinmclean1 Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Network Administration ? IT Infrastructure/Design ? Project Management ? Technical Support ? Vendor Management  Troubleshooting ? Change Management/Transitions ? Multi-Site Support ? Configuration ? Maintenance ? LAN/WAN  Wireless Infrastructure ? On-Call Support ? SOX/HIPPA Compliance ? Corrective Action ? Risk Mitigation ? Capacity Management  Complex Analysis ? Teamwork ? Communication ? CCNP R&S ? ITIL Foundation V3