Network Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Network Technician - Concrete Polishing Solutions Knoxville, TN Work Experience Network Technician Concrete Polishing Solutions - Norris, TN 2019 to Present Microsoft active directory experience. Knowledge of help desk software VPN/remote connectivity support.  ? Create and manage service requests and problems through a ticketing system  ? Complete all the upgrades from Windows 7 to Window 10 and setup for all document servers/printers  ? Migrate email from GSuite to Office 365 Owner A SHADE ABOVE, LLC - Dandridge, TN 2016 to Present Janitorial contract with the USPS in Dandridge, Tennessee. Includes 12,000 s.f. part time work. Network Technician JEFFERSON COUNTY SCHOOL BOARD - Dandridge, TN 2017 to 2018 Provided over 8,000 users with technical support and maintained operating systems for 12 schools in our school district.  ? Averaged 8 closed tickets daily, utilizing the School Dude work order system to critical issues in a timely manner.  ? Support network printers, smart boards, wired projectors with sound, document cameras. Reimaging purchased laptops and desktops after creating an image. Backup of all user data and transfer to new system. Microsoft active directory experience. Microsoft Exchange Server-based email using Outlook, knowledge of help desk software and tools and VPN/remote connectivity support. Network Technician SUWANNEE COUNTY SCHOOL BOARD - Live Oak, FL 2010 to 2016 Provide the necessary support for network hardware and software, including installation and maintenance, troubleshooting, updates and expansion. Active directory administration  ? Establish and maintain technology resources appropriate for classroom use.  ? Hardware includes Document camera, Room Pro, Projectors, scanners and network printers.  ? Self-directed to troubleshoot technology and maintain operating systems for Elementary, Middle and High Schools.  ? Respond using the work order system to critical issues in a timely manner. Have knowledge of current software application, programming and hardware. Owner A SHADE ABOVE, LLC - Lake City, FL 2007 to 2010 Window Treatment business which I did all sales and installation of products. Due to the economy the business is no longer open. MIS Assistant FLORIDA CROWN WORKFORCE BOARD, INC - Lake City, FL 2004 to 2007 Installed and uninstalled software/hardware, replacing/upgrading components and attaching network printer/computers to the network.  ? Created and maintained user accounts for both OSMIS and OSST. Identified and solved common printing and connectivity problems.  ? Performed all the upgrades and setup for all copy/printers/computers. Budget cuts eliminated my position. Network System Administrator/Engineering Designer BISHOP AND LANE, INC - Lake City, FL 1996 to 2004 Responsible for all computer operations including setup of all network permissions in Active Directory, software installation, updates, printers, daily backups and configuration of computer stations.  ? As an Engineering Designer I have extensive knowledge of geometric standards for roadway design, computation of plan quantities, setting profile grades and assembling plans for all types of projects.    D.O.T DISTRICT 2, Lake City, Florida 1995 to 1996  Roadway Design  ? Prepared plans for resurfacing a two-lane rural highway. This project involved pavement rehabilitation and safety improvements due to increased traffic and commercial development along the highway. Skills Network operations, Deployment, Software troubleshooting, Maintenance, Operations, Relationship building, Inventory, Inventory control Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/asnorp0qj2yesi4j Customer Focus & Orientation — Expert August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hguoivuxht4l-y3y Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Hardware/software troubleshooting Critical Issue Escalation Audiovisual Equipment  Project Management Operating System Maintenance Network Operations  Computer Inventory Control Technology Deployment Relationship Building