Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Enginee Yakima, WA 7 years supporting Data Center operations; Hypervisors, SANs and everything in between.  7 years of secured satellite communications with US & NATO Militaries.  9 years of IP telephony system integrations and administration.   14 years of designing, building, and improving networks.   Thoroughly trained and certified by leaders of the industries Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Yakima Chief Hops - Yakima, WA November 2017 to February 2019 • Built Azure IaaS tenant; securely supporting 3 distributed application environments using AD, ASR, NSGs, and VNGs.  • Created high available WLANs covering 4 locations with 21 warehouses inside and out for both production and leisure.  • Adapted industry best practices tailoring a sustainable, scalable, and durable physical infrastructure from MDF to IDF.  • Deployed a centralized UTM system on all WANs, instituted security policies, removed numerous vulnerabilities. Network Administrator California Farm Bureau Federation - Sacramento, CA March 2015 to November 2017 • Refreshed the entire network, replacing building cable, all network devices, even the UPS’s.    • Replaced Avaya PBX with Cisco Unified Communications collaboration environment.  • Identified and redistributed network resources to unaffiliated building tenants for profit.  • Expanded Virtual Server farm’s capabilities through design and available technologies. Senior Network Administrator Jelly Belly Candy Company - Fairfield, CA November 2012 to March 2015 • Advanced LAN & WAN, removed expensive band aids, implemented BGP, IPsec, etc.   • Retired Avaya PBX, implemented MS Lync; supported all network infrastructure and services.  • Diagnosed issues and guided in the repair of domestic and Intl networks as distant as China.  • Improved Virtual Server farm, performance, stability, and survivability. Instructor, Network Administrator, Satellite Communication Expert Special Operations Command Europe (US Army) - Stuttgart, Germany November 2008 to November 2012 • Routinely deployed; installing, configuring, and managing networks supporting 5 to 1000 users.  • Trained NATO militaries throughout Europe, enhanced their capabilities and US relationships.  • Constructed a training facility and labs to assist in unit train ups, and individual progression.  • Created lighter and more robust communications systems using publicly available equipment. Team Chief, Network Administrator, Satellite Communication Expert, Radio Operator Instructor 5TH Special Forces Group (US Army) - Fort Campbell, KY July 2005 to November 2008 • Deployed numerous classified converged networks throughout Iraq using desperate equipment.  • Adapted to leadership positions in loosely related areas of responsibility.    • Selected to judge award competitions and provide direction in the training of new soldiers.  • Numerous decorations for accomplishments and dedication in both peace and wartime efforts. Education High school or equivalent Skills Networking (10+ years), VOIP (9 years), SAN (7 years), Firewalls (10+ years), VPN (10+ years), Vmware (7 years), Active Directory (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/Nicholas-Wolfe https://wolfe.network Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SGT August 2004 to November 2012 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Certified Penetration Tester (CPT)