Network Admin / Part Time <span class="hl">Network</span> Admin / Part Time Level 3 Computer Engineer- AT&T (Part Time) Remote Greenwood, CO Network Operation Engineer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Admin / Part Time AT&T - Greenwood Village, CO January 2013 to Present Provide Level 2/3 support for network related issues, including installation, monitoring, troubleshooting, maintenance and everyday activities related to switches, routers, wireless networks, firewalls.    Experience with IP, RF, and Subnet.  Customer support    • Troubleshooting switch stack management (i.e. configure auto software update on the master switch to make the software compatible on the whole stack). Involved in troubleshooting various layer 2 and layer 3 issues related to VRF and BGP routing.    eBGP Fundamentals    iBGP Fundamentals and Advanced    Advanced BGP Neighbors    BGP Best Path Selection and Filtering—Advanced    BGP Aggregation    Netscaler and HAProxy configuration    • Experience in configuring and troubleshooting OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, VLAN's, Trunking, VTP, STP, PVST, RSTP, HSRP, 802.1q, and Ether-channel.    • Configured VPN, ACL, and NAT in the Cisco ASA 5540 firewall to allow only authorized users to access the servers of the internal network.    • Involved in upgrading to the latest IOS images and firmware for Cisco routers and switches, firewalls.    • Familiar with IPv6, OSPFv3. Network security experience. Hands on experience on subnetting and VLSM, STP, VTP, VLAN trunking. Knowledge of network monitoring/management tools like Wire shark, Cisco Prime, Solar Winds.    • Configured route redistribution between OSPF and EIGRP in a multi-area OSPF network. Created span port configuration to capture and analyze data using Wire Shark.    Devices     • Cisco: Router, Switch, and ASA Firewall.    • Aruba: Switches, Analytics and Assurance and Wi-Fi access points. Network Administrator Jordan Services - Al Aqaba January 2007 to January 2012 Responsibilities:    • Performed installation, cabling, and cable testing. Implemented QoS for Voice traffic.  • Planned and executed the migration from PSTN to IP Telephony, CUCME, and 7960 IP Phones. Documented and maintained technical diagrams, documented logical and physical topology, and other IT procedures.  • Reviewed, approved, procured various IT hardware and software products to fulfill strategic and operational needs of various departments.  • Worked with management and various departments to develop procedures and troubleshoot problems as they arose.  • Planned, deployed and maintained wireless(Wi-Fi) and wired LAN network using Cisco 3600 routers, 2960, 3500 switches, and 7960 IP Phones.  • Protocols used OSPF,BGP,HSRP,ARP,STP(L2&L3)  • Designed IP addressing schemes, VLAN's, subnetting and trunking to meet requirements.  • Prevented rogue DHCP server to assign unwanted IP addresses scopes by configuring the switch with DHCP snooping globally and on VLAN level. Help Desk Specialist Zain Group - Amman - Jordan December 2003 to December 2006 RESPONSIBILITIES  Be the first level of support for all end user related IT issues via phone, ticketing system, and email or in person.  Escalate Tier 2/3 tickets to appropriate IT team members and follow through to completion.  Provide support for Windows, Microsoft Office, VPN, and other internal business applications.  Troubleshoot a variety of end user devices such as laptops, tablets, IP phones, smart phones and printers.  Independently research and implement solutions to technical issues and requests.  Assist with monitoring and support of the client/desktop operating environment.  Maintain, monitor and practice departmental standards, policies, and procedures.  Perform other duties as assigned. Education Bachelor's in Science International University - Graduated Skills BGP (8 years), OSPF (8 years), VOIP (2 years), VPN (4 years), QoS (3 years), STP (8 years), VLAN (8 years), Wireless (2 years), Project Management (4 years), ASA (7 years), HSRP (10+ years), Nexus Switches 2K,5k,7k (4 years), WAP (6 years), EIGRP (7 years), ACL(Access Control List) (8 years), Technical Support, Windows, Networking Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mohanadhm Certifications/Licenses Computer & Network {present) CCNA Routing and Switching {Active} CCNA Security July 2016 to July 2019 Digital sales certification google May 2020 Additional Information ((If required I can work overnight and weekend))    Knowledge of network monitoring/management tools like Wireshark, Cisco Prime, SolarWinds.