Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer And Administrator Owings Mills, MD The Network engineer with a hands-on approach and technological mindset for designing and implementing IT network architecture, including configuration, optimization and supporting network management systems. If there is a problem , you can be sure I would not go to sleep until I find the solution. Work Experience Network Administrator ACTION WORSHIP CENTER September 2016 to Present • Troubleshooting, diagnosing and resolving hardware, software, and other network and system problems.  • Replacing faulty network hardware components when required.  • Maintaining, configuring, and monitoring virus protection software and email applications.  • Monitoring network performance to determine if adjustments need to be made.  • Conferring with network users about solving existing system problems.  • Operating master consoles to monitor the performance of networks and computer systems.  • Coordinating computer network access and use.  • Designing, configuring and testing networking software, computer hardware, and operating system software. Education Associate in Computer Science University Of Education Winneba - Ghana February 2014 to May 2016 Associate in Computer Software And Hardware IMS Computer Training School - Lagos Nigeria June 2014 to March 2015 Skills Network Security (3 years), Operating System Security (3 years), Security Layers (Less than 1 year), Security Software (Less than 1 year), Basic Network Infrastructure (3 years), Internet Protocol (4 years), Network Security (2 years), Networking Services (3 years), OSI Model TCP-IP Wide Area Networks Wired And Wireless Networks (5 years), Operating System Configuration Operating System Maintenance (3 years), Local Area Networking (5 years) Links https://www.youracclaim.com/users/jesutofunmi-joseph-ajayi http://instagram.com/coachtoph Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security August 2018 to August 2021 Earners of the CompTIA Security+ certification have the knowledge and skills necessary to perform core security functions required of any cybersecurity role. CompTIA Security+ professionals know how to identify and address potential threats, attacks and vulnerabilities and they have established techniques in risk management, risk mitigation, threat management and intrusion detection. MTA: Security Fundamentals July 2018 to Present Earners of the MTA: Security Fundamentals certification have demonstrated fundamental security knowledge and skills. The MTA program provides an appropriate entry point to a future career in technology. MTA: Networking Fundamentals June 2018 to Present Earners of the MTA: Networking Fundamentals certification have demonstrated knowledge of fundamental networking concepts. The MTA program provides an appropriate entry point to a future career in technology. MTA: Windows Operating System Fundamentals May 2018 to Present Earners of the MTA: Windows Operating System Fundamentals certification have demonstrated fundamental knowledge of Operating System Configurations, Installing and Upgrading Client Systems, Managing Applications, Managing Files and Folders, Managing Devices, and Operating System Maintenance. The MTA program provides an appropriate entry point to a future career in technology. IT Fundamentals Certification March 2018 to Present Earners of the IT Fundamentals certification have the essential IT skills and knowledge needed by advanced end-users and those considering careers in IT. These essentials skills include identifying and explaining computer components, setting up a workstation, conducting software installations, establishing network connectivity, and managing end-user security risks. CCNA Routing and Switching January 2019 to January 2022 This certification validates the skills required of associate-level network professionals to understand network fundamentals, LAN switching technologies, IPv4 and IPv6 routing technologies, WAN technologies, infrastructure services, security, and management Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bihkpsjx5dvs9s6j Critical Thinking — Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/k0lo7reiyv2mb7gq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.