Network Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician NETWORK TECHNICIAN - Actionet San Antonio, TX Expert Network Administrator with 5 years experience with Windows, Linux, and Unix combination environment and cloud based solutions with a current TS/SCI security clearance. Adept in handling a fast paced environment providing quick resolutions for trouble tickets while managing network infrastructure and policy enforcement. Accurately troubleshoots, installs, upgrades network capabilities, and provides top notch technical support to end users. Work Experience Network Technician Actionet, Inc - San Antonio, TX November 2018 to Present Provided assistance and expertise in developing, testing, and maintaining cybersecurity systems for the 92nd and 834th Cyber Operation Squadron’s. Performed maintenance and imaging services for 92nd and 834th server hardware providing an evaluation of each server detecting anomalies and deviations of industry standards and company policy. Installed and configured VMware with various different virtual machines and operating systems. Met and/or exceeded image time requirements allowing Cyber Squadrons to continue operation uninterrupted. Provided support for systems currently on mission (on call).  Excellent record and experience in supporting the CVH/A mission elements and maintained a solid relationship with all CVA/H partners and clients. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR USS DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER 2016 to November 2018 Supplying over 200 network users with prompt customer service and solutions to their issues. Took part in the cyber security task force in order to provide a secure and safe network by keeping up with organization standards. Managed user accounts, policies, and creation/removal of accounts with active directory. Created weekly and monthly SQL archives for back up purposes. Re-imaged desktop computers and server hardware to keep network up and running at near 100% capacity. Provided and maintained a cloud based solution (SaaS) for users to access and perform their services on. NETWORK & PC TECHNICIAN OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE 2014 to 2016 Assisted clients in navigating the documentation necessary for requisitioning new devices. Provided training to new and existing personnel on changes to policies and procedures of issuing COMSEC devices and computers. Primary technical expert for over 200 NMCI assets in support of 120 navy reserve clients comprised of over 3,000 accounts. Responded to network outages and cable issues providing clients with minimal network down time due to hardware issues. Education Bachelors in Cyber Security ECPI University - Virginia Beach, VA 2019 Certificate in A+, Network Administration, Server Administration, Unix OS. Information Systems Maintenance Technician - San Diego, CA September 2013 to December 2013 Certificate in Electronic Communications, Systems Troubleshooting and Repair, Radar systems, and Radar Systems Troubleshooting & Repair Electronics Technician 'A' School - Great Lakes, IL April 2013 to August 2013 certificate in AC/DC cucuits, comminications technology, RADAR, digital and analogue devices/ components, solid state electronics, first aid Aprentice Technical Training - Great Lakes, IL January 2013 to March 2013 Skills CYBER SECURITY (1 year), HARDWARE TROUBLESHOOTING (5 years), IMAC (6 years), IPAD (6 years), IPHONE (6 years), System Administrator (3 years), Vmware (3 years), Active Directory (3 years), Network Management (5 years), Network Administration (5 years), Server (3 years), Linux (3 years), Windows 7 (5 years), Windows Server 2008 (3 years), Virtualization (3 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), Training Delivery (4 years), Military (6 years), Microsoft office (5 years), Mac OS X (6 years), Switches (3 years), Routers (3 years), Windows 10 (1 year), linux redhat (2 years), Risk Management (5 years), Inventory Management (2 years), Linux (1 year), Customer Service (5 years), Visio (Less than 1 year), MySQL (1 year), Virtualization (1 year), Firewalls (1 year), IDS (1 year), server hardware (3 years), Cisco routers & switches (Less than 1 year), Alcatel lucent switches (3 years), C (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), HTML (1 year), SSH (3 years), Telnet (Less than 1 year), NTP (3 years), PC troubleshooting (5 years), Software troubleshooting (5 years), Computer Repair (3 years), fiber optic cables (3 years), CAT5 cables (5 years), Layer 1 - 3 management (5 years), Application level troubleshooting (3 years), Ccna (Less than 1 year), Cisco Military Service Branch: U. Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 November 2012 to November 2018 Certifications/Licenses Security+ December 2018 to December 2021 Assessments Technical Support Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ntoucu8ltjkbjknb Problem Solving — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/c2aesbhl1kqw4aqr Attention to Detail Skills — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use diligence when drafting and editing documents. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zylzq7puua1qjmw9 Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ugqnxallqpnztmzf Customer Service Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ybdb0tgw839lgvue Written Communication — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n-q0q1d1ycjm8iec Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Cyber Security Work Force January 2016 to November 2018 The goal of the cyber security workforce is to maintain a level of knowledge and readiness to ensure personnel are competent on best security practices for their networks and systems. Additional Information My skills range from simple helpdesk duties to complex network administration and they include, but are not limited to, the following; PC OS's such as Windows 7, 8, & 10 as well as Linux and Mac OSX, Windows server 2008, Linux RedHat. Sun systems Unix systems, maintaining MySQL data base servers, PC hardware troubleshooting and diagnostics repair, network infrastructure and designs, policy enforcement such as password policies, physical security policies, and more, programming switches and routers both Alcatel and Cisco, customer service, organizational, and communication skills. Troubleshooting and terminating Fiber optic and CAT5 cables. Microsoft office products such as Excel, Word, Power point, Vizio, and more. Apple office products such as Keynote, Pages, and numbers.