SR. Network Equipment Engineer SR. <span class="hl">Network</span> Equipment Engineer Network Engineer Melbourne, FL Experienced Network Engineer with Secret clearance and a demonstrated history of working in the IT and services industries. Skilled in routing and switching, Cisco products and appliances, Microsoft Office including Visio, and Windows Server. An IT professional with a BSAS (STEM) in Computer Information Systems and minor in Business from Youngstown State University. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR. Network Equipment Engineer RGNext - Patrick Afb, FL May 2019 to Present • Responsible for the identification of requirements consistent with the range architecture, coordinates hardware, software and specialty engineering in order to meet the customer's requirements.  • Work with project management and the project Senior Principal Engineer to prioritize project tasks and milestones. Participates in the design and development of integrated solutions to meet customer requirements.  • Responsible for the preparation of contractual, programmatic, and required technical documentation to support engineering activities  • Integrates network operations functions between range assets and coordinates across other LTRS assets impacted by the relocation  • Understand, utilize, and persevere the government processes to design, implement, and document Range Hardware System modifications.  • Analyzes systems and prepares supporting documentation for performance, stability, interoperability and systems management/life cycle issues  • Analyze, decomposes and allocates communications requirements from the subsystem level down through the CI level to the XY Relocation project  • Applies methods and techniques to assist in the development, implementation and documentation of impact assessments, architecture change recommendations and CONOPS change recommendations  • Provides technical consultation and expertise on communications systems modeling and simulation  • Responsible for other duties as assigned Network Engineer Tsymmetry Inc April 2018 to January 2019 • Supporting DOS INL/A, (AKA DOS Air Wing).   • Manage LAN/WAN including Cisco switches/routers in multiple CONUS/OCONUS locations.   • Configured switches/routers including VLANs, VPN, RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, GRE tunnels over IPSEC, and multicast routing using scripts and macros.   • Manage and monitor the network using Cisco Secure ACS, Cisco ISE, and Cisco Prime.   • Use of Solar Winds for network and security monitoring.   • Upgrade Data Center with Cisco Cat 9500, Nexus 6000 and Cisco 2000 series switches.   • Install and configure WLAN, Cisco Aironet AP1825I access points, Cisco 3504 Wireless Controllers.  • Server 2008 R2 and 2012 VMS in a VMware vSphere environment using VMWare VCenter.   • Troubleshoot and resolve LAN /WAN issues.   • Change management experience, network/system documentation using Visio, Excel and Word 2016. Sr. Network/Systems Administrator Execusys LLC - Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, FL January 2014 to April 2018 • Launch Operation Support Contract (LOSC) at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS).   • Manage LAN/WAN - Cisco switches and routers, Cisco ASA5520 - firewall and VPN configurations.   • Configure and manage Cisco IPS, FirePower, ACS and Bluecoat Proxy SG  • Manage Windows Servers 2008 R2 - 2012 - VM and physical, AD and GPO, Exchange 2010  • Manage/monitor Barracuda Appliance, HBSS (McAfee ESM), Blue Coat Proxyr, Whats Up Gold   • VMware VSphere ESXi, Horizon View, Teradici PCoIP, MS ADFS  • CA Patch Manager, BlackBerry Enterprise Mobility Suite (formerly Good Secure Mobility Suites).  • Procurement for IT including software, support, and hardware (for systems, server, and network). Network Engineer Von Technologies September 2013 to January 2014 • WLAN survey, install, system upgrade/replacement.  • Replaced existing WAPs and added new WAPs to double wireless coverage.   • Upgraded Cisco WLC, added new Cisco switches to existing LAN to accommodate added WAPs. Used AirMagnet - Survey to survey locations and make recommendations.  • WAN migration to new routers and expanded network, at customer owned sites.   • LAN migration to new Cisco switches, (stacked and standalone) that included physical placement of new network devices as well as planning, documentation and labeling devices, cable, etc. Senior Network Engineer RTI International Metals - Niles, OH August 1998 to May 2013 • Manage LAN/WAN including Cisco switches and routers, with RIP, EIGRP, MPLS, BGP, VPN PPTP tunnels over IPSEC.   • Work to resolve WAN problems with local and long distance carriers.   • Designed and implemented WLAN at 19 of 23 locations in the USA, Cisco WiSMs, WLCs, LWAPs, and Cisco WCS for managing.   • Manage Cisco ASA 5520 (Firewall and VPN configurations), Cisco IPS and WAAS Appliances.   • System Administration including Windows Server (VMs and physical), AD, GPO, Exchange  • Security - Cisco ESA (email), St Bernard’s  iPrism (web)  • Applications servers including, McAfee EPO, RSA, Radius and Blackberry Enterprise Server. Education Bachelor of Science in an Applied Science in Computer Information Systems in Business Youngstown State University, STEM College Skills ESM (4 years), R2 (10+ years), SAP (10+ years), security (10+ years), SolarWinds (Less than 1 year), Active Directory (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), Cisco (10+ years), VPN (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), LAN (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), firewalls (10+ years), MPLS (10+ years), SQL (2 years) Awards Above & Beyond Award 2015-05 From Space Coast Launch Services, LLC (Cape Canaveral)...    "Thank you for the positive way you are making a difference at SCLS and your effort to go beyond the scope of your normal job duties." Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) August 2016 to January 2021 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) August 2016 to January 2021 Cisco CCNA Security January 2018 to January 2021 Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) June 2013 to June 2016 Cisco Certified Design Associate (CCDA) June 2013 to June 2016 Additional Information Awards:    Above & Beyond Award  May 2015    From Space Coast Launch Services, LLC (Cape Canaveral)...    "Thank you for the positive way you are making a difference at SCLS and your effort to go beyond the scope of your normal job duties."