Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Villa Park, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer United Airlines - Chicago, IL December 2018 to Present IoT / IPCCTV / PACS; Contract (Dec 2018 - Dec 2019)  • Installed and configured Milestone XProtect software in standalone and custom mode defined by site.  • Built a virtual lab environment to test the script based automated install of Milestone XProtect software and its  components consisting of one Domain Controller, one Milestone Management Server, one Milestone Event  Server, one Microsoft SQL Server Express running as a separate instance on its own server, and one Milestone  Recording Server. PowerShell scripts I created were utilized to perform the automation tasks. All servers run  Windows Server 2016.  • Adhering consistency, I created various forms utilizing a Single Payne of Glass approach to streamline and facilitate collaboration between various teams involved with the project. The submitter submits the form which is  used by each team to complete their task using the information contained within the form. Once the team  completes their task, updates the form, and returns it back to the submitter, the submitter submits the form to the next team until all the fields and the tasks within the form have been completed.  • Collaborated with various teams including the DDI (DNS, DHCP, and IPAM) team, storage team, VMWare  team, Windows Server team, Symantec Endpoint team, SQL team, Account Provisioning team, Platform  Engineering Operations team, and onsite personnel throughout the migration process in order to obtain static  IPs, storage disks, virtual machines, server certifications, SQL 2016 software installation and configuration, Symantec exclusions, Active Directory security groups and organizational units, and usernames and  workstation hostnames so that the workstations will be entitled by the Platform Operations team and install the Milestone software client.  • Designed, developed, tested, and executed various PowerShell scripts to interface with the AXIS API to configure and collect data that cannot be completed within the Axis Device Manager that elsewise would have  been completed manually by hand. The scripts enabled bulk functions to be performed on bulk camera devices.  • Designed, developed, tested, and executed various PowerShell scripts to interface with the Milestone API to assist with the automation of the software installation package and the management server configuration  consisting of auto authorization of recording servers, bulk adding camera hardware, configuring recording  parameters such as framerate and resolution.  • Created OU structure within Active Directory to segregate Milestone servers by individual roles. Group Policy  Objects are linked to parent and child OUs to apply custom configuration settings per server role.  • Created Group Policies and linked those policies to the Milestone server OUs to apply configuration settings  based on server role.  • Monitored the progress of work requests submitted to various United teams to ensure requests are fulfilled  without causing delays to the project.  • Migrated 10 Airport terminals, many United clubs, and many Chelsea Food kitchens from the Lenel Prism  Video Management System to the Milestone XProtect Video Management System.  • Performed Root Cause Analysis regarding a Lenel recording service not starting after a server reboot had  been performed. Multi-part cause; Part 1 Service account was not a member of the security group that grants  interactive logon rights that are required for the service to run. Part 2 The service account was not in the correct  OU that applies the User Rights Assignments granting the run as a service right.  • Coordinated a two-part after hour camera hardening initiative between team members. Part 1 Validated the Video Management System is configured to use the correct "VMS" user for each camera connection. Part 2  Modify/update the root password on all AXIS cameras at each site to adhere to the Security Mandate.  • Assigned a Proof of Concept project by my Senior Manager with a due date within 6 months. The Proof of Concept entered production within 60 days from the start of the project. The project provides an insight to the  engineering teams metrics such as daily, weekly, or monthly scheduled changes, completed changes, incidents, requests, etc. This project had high leadership visibility and is now being used by many teams.  • Created SharePoint lists to keep track of team projects, system inventory, and delegated tasks.  • Worked with vendors and onsite technicians to troubleshoot camera connectivity issues.  • Participated in afterhours projects to perform various tasks that cannot be completed during business hours. Systems Administrator Global Technology Solutions, LLC - Brooklyn, NY February 2017 to Present • Played a key role in establishing and managing the Chicago office.  • Determine solutions for unique problems, that are not prevalent in the field, that concern operating systems and application software, and identify the problem(s)' origins in terms of nature, importance, and standard/degree.  • Configure, deploy, maintain, troubleshoot and support digital video recorders, servers, workstations, laptops, printers, mobile devices, the internet of things, and other computer equipment.    • Analyze and make recommendations for hardware and software standardization.  • Document procedures, company standards, best practice configurations, client settings, and installation sequences.  • Enabled File and Folder Auditing on file servers to track who, what, where, and when a file or folder was saved, modified, or deleted.  • Setup a standard procedure with extensive documentation for a VPN solution across all clients.  • Introduced DFS Replication into the network infrastructure of the Chicago clients to replicate all facilities with the corporate office.  • Assisted numerous co-workers with problems they were experiencing and thoroughly and extensively coached them  through with explanations and hands on demonstrations.  • Frequently travel out of the state to conduct comprehensive site surveys at Client facilities.  • On call after hours for emergency assistance every other week. United Airlines - Chicago, IL December 2017 to December 2018 Active Directory Administrator December 2017 to December 2018 Work with a highly secure environment utilizing RSAT tools, PowerShell, PSExec, WinRM, and various other  tools and procedures.  • Participated in quarterly Disaster Recovery team exercises consisting in multi-day and multi-step complete  Forest Recovery, SYSVOL Recovery, and Object Recovery within an isolated production bubble environment.  • Backup, update, document, and manage GPOs across a complex multi domain network environment.  • Maintain the Group Policy infrastructure based on the company policies and guidelines.  • Knowledge and troubleshooting skills for Group Policy on local workstations and servers.  • Deep Dive knowledge of the Kerberos authentication protocol and the Windows Logon Authentication  process. Utilized this knowledge to assist the Account Provisioning team with persistent account lockouts, when escalated.  • Performed Root Cause Analysis on persistent Account Lockout for Vice President of Operations Technology.  After changing his domain password and entering the newly changed password in his Outlook client on his  MacBook Pro, the Apple Calendar application did not update the password and attempted to authenticate against the server thus locking the account. The solution is remove the exchange account from the Apple  Calendar application.  • Designed, developed, tested, and executed various PowerShell scripts to automate discovery of null, invalid, obsolete objects, and other potential issues that affect Active Directory database performance. As well as  scripts to quickly and efficiently perform bulk tasks such as site and subnet additions, deletions, and reclaims.  • Designed, developed, tested, and executed PowerShell scripts designed to test connectivity to the client and server service ports used by LDAP, Kerberos, and CIFS between all Domain Controllers to ensure healthy  communication between Domain Controllers and clients.  • Document and enforce the standards, security procedures, and controls for access to ensure the integrity of Active Directory and related systems.  • Perform Active Directory Services administration and management to include cleanup and routine  maintenance.  • Adhere to corporate standards/problem and change management policies.  • Fulfill Service Manager incident ticket requests that range in complexity.  • Approve or Deny Service Requests within the Service Request Portal.  • Create Request for Change (RFC) tickets, schedule, and implement.  • Decommissioned legacy forests by demoting all resource servers to member servers.  • Hands on participation in the Disaster Recovery Exercises.  • Added, deleted, and modified sites and subnets to maintain consistency between Microsoft Sites and Services and Infoblox.  • Created various comprehensive guides to assist other teams and fellow teammates in troubleshooting and configuration.  • Assist fellow teammates in correcting PowerShell code issues and enhance overall script functionality. Senior System Administrator Creative Technology Solutions, LLC - Skokie, IL July 2014 to February 2017 • Promoted from a Level 2 IT Support Technician to a Senior System Administrator on 01/2015.  • Designed a comprehensive and complex prospective employee assessment consisting of a written examination and an interactive exercise within a virtual environment.  • Conducted prospective employee interviews for positions Level 1 through 3 and System Administrators.  • Responsible for all modifications to file permissions due to the sensitive nature of many files and folders.  • Standardized RAID10 storage configuration throughout the company.  • Implemented the first proven way to prevent CryptoLocker, CryptoWall, and other variants of ransomware.  • Configured File Server Resource Manager to control the data stored on the file servers and to prevent executable  files from potentially harming a workstation or server.  • Enhanced the file recovery capabilities on file servers by implementing Volume Shadow Copy as an additional file  recovery method.  • Enabled File and Folder Auditing on file servers to track who, what, where, and when a file or folder was saved, modified, or deleted.  • Developed a group policy that enabled Software Restriction Policies to control the ability of downloaded executables  stored anywhere within AppData to run.  • Developed group policies from scratch, understood inheritance, permissions, item-level targeting, and the order in which policies are applied.  • Analyzed, diagnosed, and corrected problematic software and hardware that was negatively affecting servers.  • Created well-written and detailed technical documentation and submitted to our documents division.  • Administration of Active directory - Users, Groups, OU's etc.  • Provisioned user accounts and group permissions for shared resources.  • Interacted and coordinated with co-workers, clients, and hardware/software vendors on complex issue resolution.  • Researched and deployed new technology to be used for clients - examples include Disaster Recovery strategies, cloud based content filtering and Anti-Virus, virtualization environments, etc.  • Troubleshot and corrected issues associated with Remote Desktop Services, installing new software, pushing out policies, policies not applying, folder redirection, user profiles, and VPN connectivity.  • Installed, configured, and administered Hyper-V and ESXi hosts.    • Resolved any hardware/software issues.  • Effectively communicated with hardware technicians and on-site personnel to replace or troubleshoot hardware  issues.  • Managed Office365 & Google Apps accounts - including the creation and deletion of users and groups.  • Networking - Switches, Routers, Subnetting & IP's, VLAN, LAN/WAN, DNS, DHCP.  • Administered on-premises Exchange environments consisting of hundreds of mailboxes.  • Managed Remote Desktop Services and nComputing desktop virtualization environments.  • Installed and configured Hyper-V and VMWare ESXi hypervisors.  • Windows Server Administration - 2008/R2, 2012/R2.  • Client OS troubleshooting - Windows XP/7/8/8.1 and Mac OSX 10.x.  • Domain Administration - Domain Controllers, Replication, Health, FSMO Roles, etc. Systems Administrator Next Generation Consulting - Chicago, IL October 2013 to July 2014 • Next Generation Consulting is the Management Company for Salvatore's Ristorante and Sully's House.  • Systems Administrator for Salvatore's and Sully's House.  • Responsible for research, acquisition, installation, and configuration of all hardware, software, and cloud services.  • Upgraded existing network topology to Gigabit and implemented separate business and guest secure wireless  access throughout both businesses.  • Designed, purchased, assembled, and configured all Point of Sale (POS) systems and servers.  • Implemented a disaster recovery plan for all servers and office workstations.  • Entered data for a large scale QuickBooks data entry project for both businesses.  • Maintain all aspects of the network including servers, workstations, switches, routers, and cloud services.  • Provide extensive desktop support to all employees. Network Administrator Medical Express Ambulance Service - Skokie, IL August 2013 to October 2013 • Completed assigned project consisting of replacing 72 monitors, 15 printers, 36 wireless keyboard and mice, 2 all-in one devices, and installing 18 dual monitor mounts in less than one week.  • Delivered desk side, helpdesk, server, and network services for 50+ seats.  • Setup, configured, and managed company wide Help Desk system.  • Installed, configured, and administered a file system auditor with Active Directory integration allowing company to track creation, deletion, and modification of all files and folders on the fileserver.  • Administered Microsoft Exchange 2007 Server, IIS Server 6.0, Active Directory Domain, and (8) Microsoft Windows  2003 servers.  • Researched and procured products for a project requiring the installation of wireless gateways on each ambulance.  • Performed backups utilizing Yosemite Server Backup.  • On call 24/7. IT Consultant Singer Networks, LLC - Lincolnwood, IL October 2010 to December 2012 • Highly requisitioned by many clients.  • First consultant within company possessing setup, configuration, and troubleshooting knowledge of Apple products.  • Assigned special projects requiring skills and knowledge of advanced tools used for removing infections on workstations and servers.  • Meet with clients to determine their system specifications and to understand their work practices and the nature of their business.  • Analyzed software, hardware, and network requirements within a client's organization and provided independent and objective advice on how to use and implement the technology.  • Designed, deployed, and tested security of wireless networks within healthcare facilities.  • Implemented new workstations (Apple and Microsoft), servers, printers, faxes, and software into existing network  infrastructure.  • Setup, configured, and deployed network firewalls, switches, access points.  • Analyzed network security to prevent and monitor unauthorized access, misuse, modification, or denial of a client's  network-accessible resources.  • Installed and configured Acronis Backup & Recovery and managed libraries.  • Utilized tools and methods to discover workstations and hardware causing network slowdowns and repaired  accordingly.  • Configured VPN connections for remote access to company network shares both client side and server side on Windows and Mac.  • Performed real-time packet capturing to quickly pinpoint and resolve various application problems.  • Developed elaborate documentation of client's entire network infrastructure.  • Participated in a rotating 24/7 on-call IT support center. Network Administrator Ingersoll Rand Security Technologies - Addison, IL May 2007 to October 2010 • On-site Network Administrator stationed at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago administrating all aspects of the Cash Departments surveillance network.  • Network included 50+ Digital Video Recorders, 325+ Cameras, 25 Workstations, 1 Windows Domain Controller, and  1 Video Matrix.  • Maintained all aspects of the network including cameras, servers, workstations, and switches.  • Developed emergency strategies and fault tolerance for all systems.  • Provided Tier 3 support for Federal Reserve management.  • Responsible for research, acquisition, installation, and configuration of all network and server hardware system  upgrades.  • Conducted tours of surveillance server room and control center for high-ranking military personnel, students, and the public. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Ldap, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vm, Vmware, Dns, Encryption, Exchange, Firewalls, Iis, Virtualization, Kerberos, Nmap, Wireshark, Oracle, Malware, Visio, System Administrator Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating Systems Windows: Workstations: Vista, Windows 7, 8, & 10  Servers: 2003, 2008 R2, Server 2012 R2, Server 2016, Server  2019  Apple-Mac: OS X 10.x  Linux: Ubuntu, Kali Linux 2018.2  Mobile: Android, iOS, Windows Mobile  Virtualization VMware Setup and configuration of host and VMs  ESXi  Hyper-V Setup and configuration of host and VMs    Hardware Switches: Netgear, HP, Linksys, and Cisco  Firewalls: Netgear, Linksys, Cisco, SonicWALL  Wireless: Netgear, Linksys, Cisco, SonicPoint    Protocols Network: TCP/IP, UDP/IP Socket Connections, DHCP, DNS, FTP, POP3, HTTP,  IMAP, SMTP, and SNMP, LDAP, Kerberos    Network Services Windows: Active Directory, Exchange, and IIS    Troubleshooting Hardware: Advanced experience, knowledge, and methods for testing and verifying  damaged hardware.  Software: Virus, Trojan, Malware, and Root Kit detection and removal by utilizing  advanced tools and knowledge about the compromised system.  Network: Connectivity, Speed, and Packet Loss Issues    Applications Recovery: Password: Ophcrack, Active Password Changer Professional,  ElcomSoft Password Recovery Bundle, Brutus  Data: Recuva, Recover My Files, R-Studio Network  Network: Enumeration: Nmap, Lan Helper, Unicornscan, Advanced IP Scanner,  Angry IP Scanner  Analysis: Colasoft Capsa Enterprise, Wireshark  Testing: Graphical Network Simulator (GNS3)  Design: Microsoft Visio, OmniGraffle Pro  Wireless: Enumeration: Netstumbler, Kismet, Airopeek & AirSnort  Analysis: AirMagnet WiFi Analyzer  Testing: PassMark WirelessMon  Encryption: TrueCrypt, BitLocker  Backup: Acronis Backup and Recovery  Virtual: Oracle VM VirtualBox, VMware, Windows Virtual PC  Office: Microsoft Office, WPS Office, Open Office, Google Docs