Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - www.campost.cm Germantown, MD * Routing, Switching and Troubleshooting TCP/IP Networks  ? LAN Switching, Static and Dynamic Routing, IPv4 and IPv6 Addressing, Network Management, Network Programmability, Network Security, WAN Topologies, Troubleshooting, DHCP, eBGP, EIGRP, FHRP, GRE, OSPF, PPPoE, QoS, RIPv2, VPN MPLS.  * Cloud Services  ? IaaS (Infrastructure-as-a-Service), SaaS (Software-as-a-Service), PaaS (Platform-as-a-Service)  ? Storage, Database, Information, Process, Application, Integration, Security, Management and Testing-as-a-service.  ? Virtualization  * Telecommunications and Transmission Systems and Services  ? SDH, VSAT, Wireless Access Systems, 802.11x  ? Optical Fiber Splicing  * VoIP Implementations  ? SIP  * Computer hardware and software installation, maintenance and upgrade.  ? WINDOWS OS, (+2008 SERVER) Installation, Service configurations, troubleshooting and Error reporting.  * Client-Server applications.    * Others Competencies  ? IP/GSM based Wireless Alarm Systems.  ? Fundamentals of Management and Leadership. Work Experience Network Administrator www.campost.cm February 2007 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Backed up network configurations regularly and implemented disaster recovery options when needed.  ? Tested and Replaced hardware and software regularly (when needed)  ? Diagnosed and resolved hardware, software, and networking issues.  ? Implemented and monitored network security measures including data protection, secured email configuration, and malware, spyware, and viral protection.  ? Analyze corporate need for LAN computer networking systems.  ? Design and present recommendations for required hardware, software, and system configuration.  ? Purchase approved hardware and software, and install networking system, including user stations.  ? Configure and test network and each workstation.  ? Monitor and maintain system at all times to ensure zero outages. Network Support Engineer Orange Cameroon S.A January 2005 to January 2007 www.orange.cm)    Responsibilities:  ? Planning and designing the routing and switching policies of the Edge networks of the Service Provider.  ? Test and implement adopted policies and related services.  ? Network management, network monitoring of the Provider Edge network comprising of Motorola Canopy, Alvarion, Siemens Walkair, Skypilot and Speedlan base stations, Cisco ISR routers, Cisco Catalyst Switches  ? Work with the core team for the Global network strategies of the Service Provider.  ? Manage a team of four (04) network specialists in charge of the provider's Edge network.  ? Management of C-band and Ku-band transmitters at various remote sites.  ? Install, maintain and upgrade computer hardware and software by providing routine maintenance such as backups, patches and updates LAN/WAN Technician Satvision Sarl February 2003 to December 2004 Responsibilities:  ? Trained users on computer, voice mail, and other networking equipment.  ? Liaised with users to solve any existing system problems they were experiencing.  ? Provided technical support for all networked devices, including computers and voice systems.  ? Tested network, shut down, startup, and functionality, and maintained control and functionality logs.  ? Provided workstation support: on all windows OS, Outlook, remote management tools, remote dial-in, virtual private network, office productivity tools, web-based applications, TCP/IP and Documentation  ? Restructure the corporate WAN into different administrative VLANS (using Cisco catalysts (2950) switches and 3Com switches), insuring security at different levels.  ? Troubleshoot Internet connectivity issues  ? PC hardware and Software installation and support  ? Helpdesk support  ? Network and Desktop printer installation, configuration and support  ? Wide installation and deployment of Antivirus Education Diploma in Posts and Telecommunications National Advanced School of Posts and Telecommunications Yaoundé 2003 Bilingual Grammar School Skills Active directory, Cisco, Network security, Networking, Solarwinds, Vpn, Deployment, Remote access, Ftp, Ieee, Ppp, Sip, Telephony, Voip, Wireless, Security, Visio, Video conference, Powerpoint, Pbx, Vmware, Technical Support Additional Information Skills:    * Planning, Analysis, Design, implementation and administration of corporate LANs and WANs.  * Integration of satellite-based communications systems (VSATs) with corporate networks.  * Installation, Configuration and upgrade of CISCO and HUAWEI routers and switches.  * Management of Optical Fiber-based Networks.  * Network Security based on CISCO/HUWEI Technologies (Access-lists, VLANS) and Windows Server Security + VPN.  * Wireless broadband communications technologies, IEEE 802.11x, Bluetooth technology.  * Active Directory User Account Management.  * PPP and other remote access services.  * Installation, activation and maintenance of C-Band and Ku-Band VSAT systems.  * Setup and maintenance of Video conference equipment.  * Help desk support and training of end-users both onsite and remotely.  * Design and implementation of VoIP telephony systems and integration with corporate PBXs (CISCO ATA, Quintum, Mediatrix, Grandstream): PBX and SIP server Installation and Administration  * Installation and deployment of Networking software and utilities (Microsoft Visio, Solarwinds, PRTG/ MRTG Traffic Monitor/Grapher, TFTP server, FTP server etc.).  * Installation, configuration and administration of Windows platforms (Up to Windows 10).  * Animation of seminars (with modern tools; PowerPoint, digital retro projectors, )