Sr. Network Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Sr. Network Engineer - Potter County Amarillo, TX Work Experience Sr. Network Engineer Potter County - Amarillo, TX August 2013 to Present Maintain, plan, and upgrade Cisco equipment - Routers, switches, firewalls, Meraki access  points, Cisco access points  ? Maintain, plan, and upgrade Windows operating systems, VMware, Dell hardware, Storage, and disaster recovery for data center.  ? Troubleshooting network and datacenter to minimize downtime and ensure security.  ? Document network and day to day tasks  ? Provide technical support to users for PC, printers, scanners, and special programs  ? Maintain laptops, cameras, and cradlepoint routers in patrol cars  ? Contact technical support for bigger issues and work with them to resolve. Document those  issues and share with team.  ? Implement new hardware and software solutions  ? Provide leadership to our team for big projects including implementation of DR solutions, Upgrade of data center layout to improve airflow and remove older equipment.  ? Responsible for connections to remote locations - T1, Wireless, Fiber connected, ethernet, all WAN infrastructure Manager of I.T. Support AQHA - Amarillo, TX November 2011 to August 2013 Responsible for WAN infrastructure - Ethernet MPLS to locations in town and in OKC    2    ? Management and upgrade of data center  ? Technical support for end users  ? Maintenance and troubleshooting of datacenter equipment  ? Planning and implementation of new technology in the data center  ? Set up and support of equipment for shows - Laptops, switches, access points, tablets, smartphones  ? Experience includes Windows Server and client OS, AS400, Cisco routers, switches, firewall, and web filtering, Barracuda, Smartphone supprt, MAC support, Linux support,  VMWare Desktop OS - Palo Alto, CA 2003 to 2012 Experience includes Microsoft Server OS (2003 - 2012), Desktop OS (XP, Windows 7, Windows 10), Smartphones (Android, IPhone, Windows), Exchange (2010 and 2016), Office  365, Spillman, GEMS, ACT, Odyssey, Tyler Eagle, Netvault, Acronis, VMWare, Equalogic  storage, Powervault Storage, HP Lefthand Storage, Brother, HP, and Canon printers, Fujitsu scanners, Cradlepoint, Palo Alto, Sentinel, Barracuda webfilter, mail server, and load  balancers, Cisco (routers, switches, firewalls, access points), Dell Force 10 and Poweredge  switches. Network Administrator III Anderson Merchandisers - Amarillo, TX February 1995 to August 2011 Installation and troubleshooting of Cisco network infrastructure - routers, switches, access  points, WLAN controllers, firewalls.  ? Maintenance and troubleshooting of Cisco Call Manager and Call center - Express and Enterprise. Wrote call scripts, upgraded system multiple times, set up phones and call  routing, maintained PRI and POTS lines.  ? Upgrade, set up, and maintain Unity voice mail system  ? NEC phone system maintenance  ? Datacenter maintenance - Windows server OS, AS400, Linux, Cisco  ? Earned CCNA, CCSP, CCVP, MCP, Network+, A+ Certifications Skills Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Vmware, Printers, Maintenance Additional Information Skills  Maintenance, troubleshooting and implementation of new technologies for a medium to large  datacenter, Experience with VMWare, Microsoft Server and client OS, Exchange, Cisco firewalls,  switches, access points, routers, phones, Dell switches and hardware, HP printers and PC's, Many  other versions of software and hardware.