IT Network Analyst II IT <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst II IT Network/Telecom Administrator Miramar, FL Solutions-focused, team-oriented Telecommunication/ Network Administrator with broad-based experience and hands-on skill in the successful implementation of highly effective phone, and network solutions. Energetic, driven, and accomplished Project Manager with a track record of success in managing complex IT modernization and system integration projects. Sophisticated software development and engineering skills with a genuine enthusiasm for resolving business challenges through technical innovation. Solutions driver who bridges the gap between business and technology while envisioning the bigger picture. Devises strategies to align multiple disciplines, coordinating efforts between business groups and driving complex systems integration for robust, high-quality systems that solve business problems and provide business results. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Network Analyst II City of Miramar - Miramar, FL November 2016 to Present ·        Lead the design, development, implementation, and management of Cisco Unified Communications Systems  ·        Install, maintain, support and administer Enterprise IP Telephony hardware across the whole city including mission-critical operations - Public Safety, Fire and Police.  ·        Assist in the review/assessment of user needs, and the evaluation and selection of equipment and supporting hardware/software configurations.  ·        Participated in planning, implementing, and supporting new or existing complex telecom systems  ·        Provided advanced technical assistance in planning, architecture, and execution  ·        Researched and analyze voice and video collaboration systems, procedures and information requirements  ·        Implemented and maintained servers, gateways, PSTN circuits, and analog telecommunications circuits  ·        Ensured connectivity of all PRI circuits, POTS lines, and SIP trunks  ·        Implemented and maintained overhead paging and other mass communication systems  ·        Provided project support, technical support, and vendor escalation as needed to support the telecommunications environment  ·        Configured call routing, recording, and other software systems that support the voice environment  ·        Monitored and analyzed the performance of voice systems  ·        Prepared and distributed technical documentation for all assigned systems and projects including processes, procedures, troubleshooting, training and change management  ·        Analyzed existing networks and equipment and identifies opportunities for improvement. Senior VoIP Manager TELX TELECOM - Miami, FL September 2013 to November 2016 As a manager, I was responsible and accountable for the smooth running of our client's computer systems and VoIP System within the limits of requirements, specifications, costs, and timelines. I supervised the implementation and maintenance of our client's computing and VoIP needs.  ·        Managed information technology and VoIP PBX Systems  ·        Planned, organized, controlled and evaluated IT and electronic data operations  ·        Designed, developed, implemented and coordinated systems, policies and procedures  ·        Ensured security of data, network access, and backup systems  ·        Acted in alignment with user needs and system functionality to contribute to organizational policy  ·        Managed staff by recruiting, training and coaching employees, communicating job expectations and appraising their performance  ·        Identified problematic areas and implement strategic solutions in time  ·        Audit systems and assess their outcomes  ·          Preserve assets, information security and control structures    VoIP Engineer  As Senior Network/VoIP Engineer, I help extend the capabilities of our current network to accommodate our future growth. I qualified and implemented new equipment from our vendors, and recommended solutions to issues that would arise.Designed and configured TCP/IP and VoIP networks.  ·        Designed and configured TCP/IP and VoIP networks.  ·        Troubleshoot network and telco problems.  ·        Performed and analyzed packet captures of network traffic.  ·        Performed interoperability testing with VoIP vendors.  ·        Qualified and evaluated network and VoIP equipment.  ·        Worked with the business side to understand their objectives and account for them in the system Design.  ·        Worked with the software and systems engineering teams to understand and implement technical requirements.  ·        Configured DHCP, access-lists, and VLANs. Network Administrator Techsupportwizards.com - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2008 to September 2013 Hospitality IT Administration   ·        Implemented and supported many IP Network solutions for Resorts, Social Clubs and Restaurants.  ·        Very knowledgeable with many industries leading POS and PMS systems like MICROS, Springer Miller, Opera, Open Course, North Star, and Aloha.  VoIP Systems   ·        Provided support and installed custom-built Elastix/Switchvox PBX servers at small to medium-sized business.  ·        Created extensions, IVR's and configure many Polycom, Aastra, Grandstream, YeaLink, and many other SIP Phones.  Network Installation and Support  ·        Installed racks, patch panels, switches, firewalls, Battery backup.  ·        Setup many different firewalls with port forwarding, routes, IDS/IPS.  ·        Run and Terminated Cat5/6 Cable, Coaxial Cable.  ·        Built and configure new windows servers, setup new domains, active directory, and server roles.  ·        Setup E-mails, CRM, and Backups perform regular maintenance on networks.  Wireless Networking  ·        Provided comprehensive system support, configuration, and maintenance of Ruckus Access Points.   ·        Setup WIFI hotspots in several hotels, marinas, and restaurants. Home and small business WIFI Setup. Education CCNAX New Horizons - Plantation, FL September 2018 to September 2018 CICD and CIPTV1 Global Knowledge - San Jose, CA January 2018 to January 2018 Computer System Technology Sheridan Technical Center 2012 to 2016 High School Diploma McArthur High School - Hollywood, FL 2004 to 2008 Skills It infrastructure, Technical assistance, Technical support, Large-scale, Business continuity, Change management, Security, Sip, Project support, Pstn, Telecom, Telecommunications, Communication systems, Pots, Risk management, Problem solving, Analog, Circuits, Mitigation, Strategic planning, Cisco Additional Information SKILLS  ·        IT Infrastructure & Standardization   ·        Strategic Planning & Tactical Execution  ·        Business Transformation Solutions  ·        Business Continuity & Systems Security  ·        Large-Scale Project Management  ·        Budget Management & Cost Containment  ·        Risk Management & Risk Mitigation  ·        Leadership & Performance Enhancement  ·        Analytical Problem Solving Abilities  ·        Team Collaboration, Coaching, & Motivation