Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - City of Odessa Odessa, TX Network administrator with 18 years' experience troubleshooting, building, maintaining, and monitoring wired and wireless infrastructure.  Core Qualifications  ? Cisco Switches, Routers, Access points, and Firewalls.  ? VMWare and Veam  ? UBNT Access Points, Switches, Routers, Point to Points, and firewalls.  ? Networking protocols.    ? Scheduling and rolling out network upgrades.  ? Building Quotes, graphical estimating, and Project Management.  ? Punctual reports and deadlines.  ? VOIP, analog, and digital phone systems Work Experience Network Administrator City of Odessa March 2015 to Present Domain admin and network support for the city of Odessa. Upgraded the wireless backhauls of over 23 sites and the wireless infrastructure for the entire city network. Installed and maintained servers, virtual through Veam and bare metal. Configured, installed, and monitored switches, routers, firewalls, and controllers. Installed, maintained, and repaired our VOIP, analog, and digital phone systems for the entire city. Provided estimates and lead projects for network installs, ups, generators, data center upgrades and installations of all of the above. District Field Engineer National Oilwell Varco August 2005 to April 2008 I was responsible for the installation, configuration, operation, and maintenance of office and rig networks in Texas. I installed & troubleshot all new test equipment from performance drilling systems to electronic survey equipment. I installed, calibrated, troubleshot, and repaired monitoring systems for fluid levels, pressure, RPM, gas readings, weight, & depth. (EDR/PVT ). I built custom channels and wrote algorithms for our software to do real-time calculations on PLC's and our servers. I installed, and repaired manual, and self-aligning satellite dishes for communications. I also did a large amount of training to large classes while with NOV. I trained technicians and customers on all of NOV's systems. Network Systems Specialist US Marines August 2000 to August 2004 Tactical network specialists are responsible for installation, configuration, operation, and maintenance of networking systems. This includes installing and configuring hubs, routers, bridges, and various transmission media, installing and configuring server hardware and software, and coordinating with the information systems specialist to ensure the proper installation and configuration of workstation hardware and software to ensure efficient operation on the network. Tactical network specialists also install, optimize and troubleshoot Local Area and Wide Area Networks and operate the Tactical Data Network (TDN) server. Education Associate in General Studies Community College of Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD May 2011 to May 2013 Skills Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Vmware, Customer Service, Windows 7, Sales