Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer - American Airlines Rogers, AR • CCNP certified network engineer with 8 + years of experience in IT industry which includes expertise in the areas of Routing, Switching, Firewalls management, VPN management, and Administration and troubleshooting.  • Proficient in configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, EIGRP, HSRP, OSPF, BGP and MPLS.  • Involved in configuration setup and troubleshooting of Cisco and juniper devices to perform functions at the Access, Distribution, and Core layers.  • Experience working with Nexus 9200, 9300, 9300-EX (ACI), Nexus 7018, 5020, 2148, 2248 devices.  • Experience working with Cisco Nexus 2148 Fabric Extender and Nexus 5000 series to provide a Flexible Access Solution for datacenter access architecture.  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 5000.  • Hands on experience in troubleshooting and deploying of various IP Routing Protocols OSPF & BGP on Juniper routers.  • Implemented security policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSec, VPN, AAA Security TACACS+, and Radius on different series of routers.  • Worked on Juniper devices like EX-2200, EX-4200, EX-4300, MX-80, MX-480, M Series, SRX210 and SRX240.  • Ability to manage all phases of network installation and administration.  • Excellent customer management/resolution, problem solving and debugging skills with good verbal/written communications and presentation skills.  • Experience with convert Cisco ASA rules over to the Juniper SRX based solution.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA, Juniper SRX firewall administration across customers networks.  • Excellent skills to implement VLANS, private VLANS, Voice VLANS, Port security, STP and RSTP (802.1W), standard and extended access lists for managing access based security, creating root views for administrative privileges.  • Extensive knowledge of deploying & troubleshooting TCP/IP, Implementing IPv6, Transition from IPv4 to IPv6, Multilayer Switching, UDP, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, Voice/Data Integration techniques.  • Experience in Network Management Tools and sniffers like SNMP, HP-Open view, Wireshark and Cisco works to support troubleshooting issues.  • Adept in preparing Technical Documentation, MOPS and presentations using Microsoft VISIO/Office.  • Well organized, Self-starter, Quick learner, Self-Motivated, Team player with analytical, technical and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Engineer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Create and test Cisco router and switching operations using OSPF routing protocol, ASA Firewalls, and MPLS switching for stable VPNs.  • Design Planning and Commissioning of new Wi-Fi network equipment across Hybrid Fiber Coax Networks for WAN/LAN Broadband Wi-Fi solutions.  • Design, and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Juniper Routers and SRX Firewalls.  • Configuration and implementation of Juniper and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Configured and troubleshoot Cisco WAP and Cisco prime.  • Configured Cisco Meraki's Security Appliance, MX 100 to enable Access Control Policies, Port Address Translation (PAT), Routing, and distinct network zones for the lab.  • Worked on different types of Network Design using IPsec, GRE Tunneling, VPN, Frame Relay and MPLS Core.  • Worked with Load balancing device like F5 Big-IP local traffic manager (LTM) 1600.  • Performed upgrade of Palo Alto firewall from old platforms to new platforms 6.1.5 to 6.1.10.  • Remote access and site-to-site VPN administration using Cisco ASA/ASR and Palo Alto  • Checkpoint policy Implementation, Data and URL filtering.  • Connecting enterprise networks using SD-WAN technology.  • Site-to-Site IPsec based VPN Tunnels for all 020 Communications.  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with both Checkpoint and Cisco ASA VPN experience.  • Dealt with monitoring tools like (Solar Winds, Cisco Works), network packet capture tools like Wireshark, Deployed the Nexus 7000/5000/2000 architecture.  • Implemented site to site VPN in Juniper SRX as per customer and various EX, SRX & J series Juniper devices.  • Hands-on experience with cloud infrastructure technologies like Azure, AWS.  • Excellent knowledge of Cisco ISE and TACACS authentication servers with Palo Alto.  • Troubleshoot and Worked on Security issues related to Cisco ASA, and IDS/IPS firewalls. Large-scale Deployment and installation of Juniper SSG5, Cisco ASA, and Fortinet firewalls.  • Responsible for NAT traffic flow in the Juniper SRX 3600 and support Juniper Space.    • Negotiate VPN tunnels using IPsec encryption standards and also configured and implemented site-to-site VPN, Remote VPN.  • Successfully installed Palo Alto PA-7050 firewalls to protect Data Center and provided L3 support for routers/switches/firewalls.  • Configuration, Troubleshooting and Maintenance of Palo Alto Firewalls (160+ firewalls) - PA200, PA2000 series, PA3000 series, PA4000 series and PA5000 series. Network Engineer Philips Healthcare Informatics - Foster City, CA July 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Had been responsible in the Configuration of EIGRP, OSPF and BGP. Involved in the configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols on Cisco 2900, 3900, ASR 9010, ASR 1002 devices across locations and datacenters.  • Had been responsible for Firewall Administration, Rule Analysis, Rule Modification on ASA 5585, SRX550 devices.  • Documented new VPN enrolments in a database and create standard procedures for further improvement.  • Troubleshoot traffic passing managed firewalls via logs and packet captures.  • Used Python scripting for automation.  • Implemented automation solution for BIOS validation test cases through Python programming.  • Design, implement and administer IPv4 enterprise network infrastructure utilizing Juniper routers like Juniper MX80, MX 480 and MX960.  • Implemented cluster and configuration of SRX-100 Juniper firewall.  • Extensively worked on Juniper modelsEX-2200, EX-4200, EX-4500, MX-480, M Series, SRX210 and SRX240.  • Serve as part of a team of network engineers responsible for base wide network upgrade from Cisco Layer 3 Catalyst switches to Juniper Layer 3 EX4200 & EX3200 switches.  • Managed fast Layer 3 switched/routed LAN/WAN infrastructure as a part of Network team. The LAN consisted of Cisco campus model of Cisco 3750 at access layer, Cisco 6513 at distribution/core layer.  • Created standard access lists to allow SNMP, NTP and logging servers.  • Maintained F5 BIG-IP LTM 6900 for providing application redundancy, load balancing and policies.  • Configured VRRP & GLBP and VLAN Trunking 802.1Q & ISL, STP, Port Security on Catalyst 6509 switches.  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture.  • Configured BPDU Guard, port-fast, uplink fast and other spanning tree features.  • Negotiated VPN tunnels using GRE, IPSec encryption standards and also configured and implemented site-to-site VPN, Remote VPN.  • Experience with moving data center from one location to another location, from 6500 based data center to Nexus based data center  • Experience configuring Virtual Device Context in Nexus 7010.  • Experience with converting Cisco 6500 to Cisco Nexus in the data center environment.  • Experience working with Nexus 9300, 7010, 5020, 2148, 2248 devices.  • Deploying and decommission of VLANs on core ASR 9K, Nexus 9K, 7K, 5K and its downstream devices  • DesigningF5 solutions/support for migration work of applications and websites from Cisco CSS Load Balancers to the F5 BigIP Load Balancers.  • Installed and Configured the F5 BIG-IP LTM, configure virtual servers and associate them with pools for internal web servers  • Configuring rules and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools  • Migrated from Cisco ASA 5540 firewall to Palo Alto 5250 Firewall  • Used Palo Alto 5250 Firewall for Enterprise Security, configured ACL's for Internet requests to Server Farm in LAN and DMZ.  • Proactively involved in upgrade, maintenance, monitoring and support for the PA500 Palo Alto devices.  • Modified internal infrastructure by adding switches to support server farms and added servers to existing DMZ environments to support new and existing application platforms.  • Generating RCA (Root Cause Analysis) for critical issues of layer1/layer2/layer3 problems.  • Co-ordinated with the Data Network and Security team and came up with possible solutions.  • Performed Configuration on ASR 9K Pairs includes HSRP, Bundle Ethernet Config, Assigning DHCP profiles.  • Worked on Physical site Inventory verification, gather information of various Cisco Network devices and Security Devices to develop Run book and Spec Book.  • Participated in the review and resolution of security incidents that impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of systems.  • Participated in efforts to analyze business impact and exposure based on emerging security threats, vulnerabilities, and risks.  • Conduct risk analysis and/or risk assessments both inside and outside the company (examples include physical threats, Internet attacks, malicious code attacks, national security issues and compliance with regulations) and provide recommendations and/or mitigation strategies to management.  • Configured and troubleshoot of Cisco catalyst 6509, 7613 with supervisor cards.  • Experience with implementing and maintaining network monitoring systems (SolarWinds, Cisco works and HP Open view) and experience with developing complex network design documentation and presentations using VISIO.  • Created MOPS to get approval from peers to perform configuration add/ remove changes following change management process  • Support server infrastructure for VMware environments.  • Supported management and security compliance for the virtual infrastructure software and hardware. Network Engineer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH March 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities  • Performed design and implementation of Network Management and Security policies in the Campus Network.  • Worked on implementing security policies using Access-list, Cisco ASA, and Routers as per the customer requirements.  • Configured on BIG IP (F5) Load balancers and also monitored the Packet Flow in the load balancers.  • Experienced in installing & configuring of Cisco PIX, ASA & FWSM (Firewall service module).  • Implemented Site-to-Site VPNs over the Internet utilizing 3DES, AES/AES-256 with ASA Firewall 5505.  • Configured Protocol Handling, Object Grouping and NAT on ASA Firewalls (5505).  • Maintained complex LAN/WAN networks with several VLANS and provided support for routing protocols.  • Configured and troubleshoot VLAN, VTP, STP and Trunks.  • Worked on RADIUS and 802.1x/EAPMD5, TLS and PEAP methods for Network Access Control.  • Worked on Configuration and testing of various security features such as ACLs, Receive ACLs, Control Plane Policing, and LPTS on Cisco CRS-1, and 7200 GSR.  • Worked with Cisco ACE 4710 Load balancers.  • Experienced with moving data center from one location to another location, from 6500 based data center to Nexus based data center.  • Configured RIP, OSPF and Static routing on Juniper M and MX series Routers.  • Worked on IP address Management, Subnetting, VLSM, ARP, RARP and SNMP, also troubleshooting network problems with TCP/IP.  • Worked on Routing protocols such as OSPF and EIGRP on Cisco/Juniper routers.  • Worked on servers such as AAA, DNS, DHCP and FTP for maintenance and troubleshooting.  • Experienced in configuration and support of LAN protocols on Cisco Switches (Layer 2, Layer 3), HP open view, and configuring QoS policies, Frame Relay, MPLS, and VPN site-to-site.  • Worked on wireless networking hardware such as Cisco Wireless LAN Controller and AP 1200.  • Generated Root Cause Analysis for critical Layer2/Layer3 problems.  Worked on preparing technical documentations using Microsoft VISIO and Microsoft Office Network Security Engineer MUFG Union Bank - Monterey Park, CA January 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Create and test Cisco router and switching operations using OSPF routing protocol, ASA 5500 Firewalls, and MPLS switching for stable VPNs.  • Technical Knowledge of Cisco PIX/ASA series, Juniper Net screen/SRX firewall gateways.  • Worked on Cisco Routers, Active /Passive Hubs, Switches, Cisco PIX Firewall, Cisco ASA, Firewalls, VPN Concentrators TCP/IP, NAT and Checkpoint ESX/GSX firewall. Successfully installed Palo Alto Next-Generation PA-3060, PA-5060 firewalls to protect Data Center with the use of IPS feature.  • Implemented site to site VPN in Juniper SRX as per customer.  • Configuring Virtual Chassis for Juniper switches EX-4200, Firewalls SRX-210.  • Worked on Juniper J Series J 230, M 320 routers and EX 3200 series switch.  • Implemented, Tested and troubleshoot Juniper Firewall to establish VPN network Datacenter and wireless for the local network.  • Build IT security infrastructure including Checkpoint, Juniper, and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Load Balancing with F5 GTM and LTM across multiple data centers.  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with Cisco ASA VPN experience.  • Successfully installed Palo Alto PA-3060 firewalls to protects Data Center and provided L3 support for routers/ switches/firewalls.  • Responsible for Check Point and Juniper SRX firewall administration across our global networks.  • Implementation, maintenance and monitoring of IDS/IPS, WAF, antivirus and Syslog Servers.  • Configure and maintain Cisco IDS/IPS, ASA firewalls, and Bluecoat web proxies.  • Troubleshoot and Worked on Security issues related to Cisco ASA, and IDS/IPS firewalls. Large-scale Deployment and installation of Juniper SSG5, Cisco ASA, and Fortinet firewalls.  • Implemented site to site VPN with IPSEC via. GRE ISKAMP.  • Configured IPsec VPN access for client to site remote access.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration across our global networks.  • Involved in the redistribution into OSPF on the core ASA firewall.  • Migration of existing IPSEC VPN tunnels from Pre-Shared key to Certificate Authority for purpose of scaling.  • Hands on experience with Cisco Nexus 7K, 5K and 2K series equipment including configuration of protocols.  • Attended few conference on Cisco Meraki wireless managed network. Network Security Administrator General Electric - Plano, TX July 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the configuration of BGP as a WAN protocol, and OSPF/EIGRP as interior routing protocol.  • Monitored the NMS system for different Network Alerts.  • Ensured tickets are satisfactorily resolved in a timely manner with focus on providing a high level of support for all customers.  • Configured policies on PA-5050 for layer7 filtering.  • Involved in troubleshooting of DHCP and other IP conflict problems.  • Performed switching technology administration including VLANs, inter-VLAN routing, Trucking, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation.  • Implemented Access lists and policy mapping on Juniper router installed in each branch across all the states  • Worked on Network Monitoring tools such as Ethereal, Wireshark, and SNMP monitoring.  • Was responsible for Checkpoint firewall management and operations across our global networks.  • Worked with Checkpoint Support for resolving escalated issues.  • Configured EBGP/IBGP policies also tested BGP attributes such as Local preference, MED, AS-PATH, Community and Weight.  • Actively involved in Switching technology Administration including creating and managing VLANS, Port security- 802.1x, Trucking 802.1Q, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, and LAN security on Cisco Catalyst Switches4507R+E, 6509-E and Cisco Nexus Switches 2232, 5596, 7009  • Experience in working with Cisco Nexus 2148 Fabric Extender and Nexus 5000 series to provide a flexible Access Solution for a data center access architecture.  • Worked with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with both Checkpoint and Cisco ASA VPN experience  • Used Cisco ASA 5540 Firewall for Enterprise Security, configured ACL's for Internet requests to Server Farm in LAN and DMZ.  • Worked with Load balancing device like F5 Big-IP local traffic manager (LTM) 1600.  • Configured EIBGP load balancing and ensured stability of BGP peering interfaces.  • Resolved network issues, ran test scripts and prepared network documentation.  • Worked on Cisco 6509 and 4507 series switches for LAN requirements, that includes managing VLANs, Port Security and troubleshooting LAN issues.  • Configured of Access List ACL (Std, Ext, Named) to allow users all over the company to access different applications and blocking others.  • Dealt with NAT configuration and its troubleshooting issues related access lists and DNS/DHCP issues within the LAN network.  • Was responsible for technical documentation and Visio Drawings for the implemented projects.  • Involved in Attending meetings and technical discussions related to current project.  • Completing service requests or incidents tickets in support of the VMware infrastructure. Jr. Network Engineer St. Joseph Healthcare - Paterson, NJ March 2009 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on troubleshooting customer related issues related to router Configuration, Layer 1/Layer 2 issues.  • Configured Virtual-link between discontinuous backbone areas in the network also established authentication between all OSPF routers using MD5 authentication.  • Worked on WAN Troubleshooting for circuits like T1, T3 etc.  • Monitored network performance accompanying company service level agreements (SLA's) using Network management tools such as Cisco works and also provided necessary recommendations to improve network performance.  • Involved in configuration and management of different Layer 2 switching tasks which includes address learning, efficient switching etc.  • Involved in HSRP standby troubleshooting and load balancing protocol GLBP, Port channel management of the network.  • Provisioned and troubleshoot Ethernet services, Gigabit networks and Connectivity issues with WAN types (T1, E1 and DS3) for WAN issues.  • Installation & configuration of Cisco VPN concentrator 3060 for VPN tunnel with Cisco VPN hardware & software client and PIX firewall.  • Dealt with the escalation problems from Level1 for routing, switching and WAN connectivity issues using ticketing system Remedy.  • Designed VLAN's, access lists (ACL), troubleshooting IP addressing issues and Updating IOS images and other hardware installations.  • Experience in troubleshooting VLAN, STP (Spanning tree protocol), & Switch Trunk and IP subnet issues  • Dealt with NAT configuration and its troubleshooting issues related access lists and DNS/DHCP issues within the LAN network.  • Involved in Configuration of Access lists (ACL) on checkpoint firewall for the proper network routing for the B2B network connectivity.  • Experience in routing protocols like OSPF, BGP, and standby protocols like HSRP and VRRP application in the routers. Education Bachelor's Skills Cisco (9 years), DHCP (6 years), LAN (7 years), OSPF (9 years), switching (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Routers Cisco 2800,2900,3900, ASR 1K, ASR9K, Juniper M series, MX series, SRX series  Switches Cisco 3560, 3750,3580, Nexus 7K, 5K,2K, EX-4300, EX-4500, QFX-5100  Load Balancer Cisco CSS, F5 Networks (Big-IP)  WAN Optimization Cisco WAAS, PPP Multilink  Routing OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, PBR, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization, Static Routing  Switching  VLAN, VTP, STP, PVST+, RPVST+, Inter VLAN routing & Multi-Layer Switching, Multicast Operations, Layer 3 Switches, Ether channels, Transparent Bridging    LAN Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, FDDI, CDDI, Frame Relay  WAN Channelized links (E1/T1/E3/T3), Fiber Optic Circuits(OC-3, OC-12), Frame Relay  Features & Services IOS and Junos Features, HSRP, GLBP, VRRP, NAT, SNMP, SYSLOG, NTP, DHCP, CDP, DNS, SFLOW, JFLOW TFTP and FTP Management  AAA Architecture TACACS+, RADIUS, Cisco ACS  Monitoring Wireshark, Solarwinds, Xenoss  Language Python