Consulting Engineer Consulting Engineer Consulting Engineer - Cisco Systems Greensburg, PA Work Experience Consulting Engineer Cisco Systems - Pittsburgh, PA October 2011 to Present Provided consultation, design, and engineering work for numerous customers in the healthcare vertical, including Hospital Corporation of America (HCA), Children's National Medical Center, Adventist Health  System, and Northwell Health  ? Designed, engineered, and deployed highly secure wireless networks for the NYPD and Alabama Law  Enforcement Agency, which met FBI's CJIS requirements for security  ? Deployed the latest technology in wireless, including the 9800 Series IOS-XE WLCs, DNA Center, and SDA wireless  ? Performed consultation work for Comcast on a high-speed wireless network design for the 2012 North  American International Auto Show in Detroit, MI  ? Provided ongoing consultation to PricewaterhouseCoopers, Exelon, and BP  ? Designed and engineered a complete wireless network solution for GlaxoSmithKline's new facility at the Philadelphia Navy Yard  ? Performed comprehensive wireless site surveys for Fidelity Information Services, Goodrich Corporation, and MD Anderson Cancer Center  ? Provided wireless network design support for many pharmaceutical customers, including  GlaxoSmithkline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck, Baxalta, Mylan, and Express Scripts  ? Performed consultation for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to help them develop a centralized  wireless guest access solution for all their agencies Network Architect Bayer - Pittsburgh, PA February 2008 to September 2011 Managed the Fixed Mobile Convergence pilot project at Bayer. Worked directly with AT&T and Verizon  Wireless to evaluate their offerings in this market. Wrote up an evaluation report for management that  was ultimately used to determine the service provider chosen for corporate-wide deployment.  ? Integrated the wireless networks of multiple Bayer acquisitions, which included the wireless networks of Berlex, Medrad, Possis, iSense, and Athenix.  ? Developed and managed a new work-from-home solution for Bayer. This product has enabled Bayer to save money in real estate and utility costs, while allowing employees to be more productive.  "Access@Home" was showcased at Bayer's 2010 Innovation Fair in New Jersey.  ? Designed, engineered, and maintained an enterprise-class Cisco Unified Wireless Network utilizing over  50 Cisco 4402, 4404, and WiSM WLAN controllers, multiple 2700 series Wireless Location Appliances, the Cisco Wireless Control System software, and over 1200 Aironet access points and bridges  ? Deployed multiple Cisco ACS servers for TACACS+ and RADIUS authentication using multiple EAP  types, including EAP-TLS and PEAP-MSCHAPv2 Network Administrator Management Science Associates, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA February 2005 to February 2008 Designed LAN architecture using various Cisco Catalyst switches, including the 3550s, 3560s, 3650s,  3750s, 4510s, and 6509s running Cisco IOS  ? Worked on Cisco firewalls, including the Cisco PIX 501 and Cisco ASA 5505, which include versions 6.x,  7.x, and 8.x code. Deployed site-to-site, remote access, and SSL VPNs using the ASA.  ? Performed an enterprise deployment of PRTG to monitor network traffic  ? Developed an enterprise deployment of Nagios to monitor network health Systems Administrator Carnegie Library - Pittsburgh, PA June 2002 to August 2004 Deployed and managed Red Hat Linux servers  ? Held training classes for the community to teach people of all age groups how to use computers and the Internet  ? Developed a quality assurance test plan for building desktop images Education Master of Business Administration in Management Specialization Seton Hill University 2013 Bachelor of Science in Information Sciences and Technology The Pennsylvania State University 2004