IT Manager IT Manager Field Technician - CTech Solutions Puyallup, WA • 20 years professional IT experience through informal self-teaching of standards in the IT field  learning Microsoft Operating Systems to include Microsoft Server and more recently Ubuntu  Linux administration and scripting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager Poker Palace Casino - North Las Vegas, NV June 2018 to Present • Management of all technical assets on property.  • Deploy Servers (virtual and physical) and workstations inclusive of pertinent software when necessary.  • Assist employees locally or remotely whenever necessary to resolve issues.  • Manage AD accounts on Windows Server 2012 R2.  • Manage Endpoint Security Software.  • Manage Sage accounts and database server.  • Manage Micros HMS 9700 accounts and database server.  • Manage Kronos accounts and server.  • Collaborate & coordinate with vendors to complete IT projects.  • Update marketing material for website and in-house gaming servers.  • Management of Aristocrat Oasis User and Player accounts. Field Technician CTech Solutions - Las Vegas, NV May 2013 to March 2019 • Responsible for deployment of customer workstations and servers.  • First responder to emergency recovery and/or troubleshooting.  • Develop training materials for client.  • Responsible for managing hardware RMA tickets.  • Assist in hardware inventory management.  • Assist in Linux and Windows scripting for desktop and server application.  • Provided technical support on-site and remotely for over 500 users. Systems Technician LV Med IT - Las Vegas, NV January 2018 to May 2018 • Manage Windows Server 2003, 2008 & 2012 AD & GPO  • Deploy customer workstation and servers.  • Manage firewall using Watchguard products.  • Install VOIP hardware and maintain user accounts through Fortinet web UI.  • Manage Exchange accounts through Microsoft Office 365.  • Provided technical support on-site and remotely for 50+ companies.  • Research and troubleshoot medical and engineering software and hardware issues. Network/Systems Administrator United Electrical Services, Inc. - Minden, NV July 2017 to November 2017 Network/Systems Administrator  • Manage Microsoft Exchange server integrated with Gmail.  • Administer domain logins and policies using Windows Active Directory.  • Maintain network stability and security.  • Troubleshoot and repair/replace hardware as necessary.  • Install and update security measures.  • Use remote access for advanced software troubleshooting and minor updates. Network Administrator All Lit Up Electric, Inc. - Las Vegas, NV May 2013 to April 2014 • Research software for use in drafting and office productivity.  • Maintain network stability & security using Active Directory.  • Monitor network assets using Spiceworks.  • Implement workstation/server security.  • Implement & maintain backup system.  • Use Microsoft & third-party remote access software for troubleshooting & maintenance.  • Maintain & troubleshoot Server  • Provide Technical Assistance when necessary Junior Systems Administrator DMA Financial, Inc - Henderson, NV January 2013 to May 2013 • Worked with supervisor using Spiceworks Ticketing system in order to resolve or elevate  technical situations.  • Troubleshoot/diagnose/resolve problems at workstations and network.  • Push Group or User policy through Active Directory or personalized startup scripting.  • Work at local and remote server room to manage file or web servers.  • Manage domain and website accounts.  • Manage inventory of computer components. Systems/ Network Administrator Pacific Island Engineers, Inc - Tamuning, GU March 2001 to December 2012 388 S. Marine Corps Dr., Suite 304  Tamuning, Gu 96913  (671) 646-7431    Systems/ Network Administrator  • Maintain/upgrade workstations and printers when necessary  • Document network infrastructure through Spiceworks and manual verification.  • Track purchases and rma.  • Track plotter maintenance schedule.  • Check & verify regular security updates.  • Maintain backup schedule of work files. Owner/Operations Manager New Tropic Industries - Tamuning, GU June 1996 to March 2001 • Procure hardware and software (operating system and office productivity) for implementation in client work environment.  • Setup and configure workstations, server and network for various job sites.  • Install and manage security measures in network and workstations/servers.  • Troubleshoot and manage client computer, network and printer problems.  • Oversee and manage computer deployments according to schedule and budget.  • Train technicians on emerging technical standards.  • Streamline operations by researching and developing new deployment techniques.  • Use imaging software for backup and deployment purposes.  • Manage network and computer systems in office. Education Computer Science Saddleback Community College - Mission Viejo, CA August 1993 to May 1994 Electrical Engineering Fullerton College - Fullerton, CA August 1992 to May 1993 Electrical Engineering San Diego Mesa College - San Diego, CA August 1991 to May 1992 John F. Kennedy High School - Tamuning, GU 1991 Skills MAINTENANCE (10+ years), SCRIPTING (5 years), LINUX (4 years), TECHNICAL SUPPORT (4 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/jeremias-carrera/73/685/271 Additional Information Skills:    • Technical support for diagnosing and troubleshooting Windows 2007/8/10 software and network  problems  • Experience in Active Directory and Group Policy implementation for Windows Server 2003,  2008 and 2012 R2.  • Installation and maintenance of Windows Server 2008  • Full computer assembly and replacement experience to include hardware/driver diagnostics and  firmware upgrading.  • Maintenance & troubleshooting technical assets on the hardware and software levels.  • Microsoft Office administration and troubleshooting  • Adobe Acrobat Professional editing and creation.  • Triage & long-term solutions for mission critical systems.  • Laptop repair and parts replacement experience.  • Remote administration of servers and workstations using Remote Desktop and other software.  • Ubuntu Linux experience in installation, updating and scripting.  • Familiarity with rack-mounted servers (Dell PowerEdge Systems & HP Blade Server)  • Knowledge of TCP/IP and related services - DHCP/DNS/WINS  • Network design, troubleshooting & maintenance.  • Windows print server configuration through network & desktop shared device.  • CAT5/CAT6 crimping & installation, diagnostics & repair experience.