System and Network Engineer System and <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer System and Network Engineer Simi Valley, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System and Network Engineer Interdealer Trading Solutions - Simi Valley, CA January 2012 to January 2016 Configuration and troubleshooting of VPNs with partners for development and production  trading using Cisco ASAs  Provided network design and troubleshooting for 5 locations  Preparing systems for various projects using Windows server products and Ubuntu  Maintenance and installation of Citrix Presentation Server for production and disaster  recovery.  Installation and maintenance of XenServer 6.2 and 6.5 with the migration of various  development environments from physical machines to virtual machines  Member of security and disaster recovery steering teams.  Set up and administration of Microsoft SQL Server and MySQL servers.  Mentoring of junior technicians and programmers.  After failure of main hub site during Hurricane Sandy, restructured WAN connectivity to get  business back up and running using virtual private networks.  Created Teleconferencing solution using FreePBX on Ubuntu. System and Network Administrator Timely Industries - Pacoima, CA July 2008 to December 2011 Maintained Microsoft Exchange 2003 based messaging system.  Setup and maintenance of all desktops, servers and printers  Windows NT/2000/2003 Administrator  Backup and restore using Symantec BackupExec  Installed and maintained GFI Faxmaker fax server  Installed and maintained Sonicwall firewall  Administered Microsoft GP Dynamics System and Network Administrator Ronco Corporation - Simi Valley, CA June 2006 to April 2008 Network Administration  Setup and maintenance of all desktops, servers and printers  Backup and Restore with Symantec BackupExec  Help desk support  Active Directory and Exchange Administration  Cisco PIX Administration Network Administrator NetworkOmni Language Services - Thousand Oaks, CA March 2004 to June 2006 Designed and maintained Microsoft Exchange 2003 based messaging system.  Provide help desk support for 150 users.  Windows NT/2000/2003 Administrator  Backup and Restore with Veritas BackupExec  Installation and Administration of Redhat Linux FTP server and Fedora core 3 firewall  Installation and Administration of Watchguard firewalls Programmer Analyst PTI Technologies Inc 1999 to 2001 Administered Oracle Database.  Project Manager for installation and implementation of enterprise resource planning system.  Provided senior level support for the help desk.  Interviewed applicants to determine level of technical abilities.  Used SQL and PLSQL to provide reporting and clean up data.  Wrote and maintained UNIX shell scripts.  Specified network hardware and software. Network Administrator PTI Technologies Inc 1993 to 1999 Designed, installed and maintained Microsoft Exchange based messaging system across three separate companies.  Provide help desk support for 250 users.  Senior Windows NT Administrator.  Developed companywide software standards.  Backup and restore using ARCServe  Specified network hardware and software  Designed and maintained intranet web site.  Maintained DEC OpenVMS machines running ASK Manman with duties including:  - maintain user security  - backup and restore data using DEC OpenVMS backup  - job scheduling scripts  - PC to OpenVMS connectivity  - install software and upgrades  - configure and maintain all system devices  - assist programming staff with data gathering. Buyer PTI Technologies Inc 1991 to 1993 Receiving Inspector PTI Technologies Inc 1987 to 1991 Electronics Technician HR Textron - Valencia, CA November 1984 to January 1987 Test and troubleshoot electronic hardware Education High school or equivalent Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  Microsoft: All desktop versions of Windows from 2.0 through 10, all versions of Windows  Server from NT 3.1 through Server 2012, .  Platforms/Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, OpenVMS, Linux, Citrix, XenServer  Hardware: Dell, HP and SuperMicro servers.  Buffalo and QNAP network attached storage.  Dell, HP, Cisco, Intel, and Arista managed network switches  Cisco, Sonicwall and Watchguard firewalls  Backend Services: IIS, Exchange, SQL Server, Apache, Postfix, MySQL, Symantec  Endpoint Protection, Backup Exec, Active Directory.  Other: Wireshark, nMap, Visio.