Network Operation Center (NOC) Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Operation Center (NOC) Analyst Network Operation Center (NOC) Analyst - DKW Communications INC Washington, DC 15 years of substantial experience and outstanding skills in the information technology industry seeking to utilize my skills to craft solutions to challenging problems related to Information Systems. Work Experience Network Operation Center (NOC) Analyst DKW Communications INC - Washington, DC March 2011 to Present • Actively monitor and troubleshoot network events utilizing Solarwinds, IssueTrak ticketing System 9.9.5, Palo Alto Endpoint Security Manager/Diagnostics, Cisco Unified Call Manager 11.5.1.13902-2, GEMX, VNC Viewer, Cisco Prime Collaboration Assurance, Secure CRT 6.5, Structure ware Data Center Expert 7.4.3, MCU Gatekeeper (Source Distribution), Link Command System (LCS) control for Redcomm phone bridge, Microsoft Management Console (MMC) user account management, TMS, BRG Clock Manager, Schneider Electric Data Center Expert 7.4.3 and provide updated status on the secure video and data network  • Performs Network Monitoring Services support, communications link data collection, and analyses in order to extract useful information about the status of CMS networks  • Actively monitors network events, and provide update status on the secure video and data network  • Interprets system alarms and messages and reports all SFTS problems and outages to Program Manager  • Provides CMS Trouble Ticket Management Services by maintaining daily logs, and opening/closing maintenance tickets  • Provides Help Desk services to the CMS Community by providing global system management services as the primary interconnection point between each of the Sites  • Protects levels of confidentiality, integrity, availability, authentication, and non-repudiation through the use of information assurance safeguards and operational procedures  • Performs Ticket queries and submittals that include extended ticket searching processes to sort and browse historical archive data  • Provides Information Assurance Services through monitoring Anti-Virus Services to protect the CMS systems from viruses, worms and other malicious code Provides Intrusion Detection and Response Services support  • Coordinates systems maintenance schedules and directory assistance  • Manages the configuration and change request process to CMS services  • Maintains COMSEC, OPSEC and site physical security  • ASI manager for all ASIs Network Administrator DKW Communications INC - Washington, DC September 2006 to 2016 Coordinates support of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Enterprise-wide systems and services associated with networking, voice services, security operations, email and related collaboration tools, and Enterprise mobility and messaging. Maintain, repair and upgraded the network infrastructure which includes the servers, routers, firewall, backup system and the desktop computers. Maintained the effectiveness and efficiency of the Incident and Change Management framework and processes. Interface, coordinate, and resolve issues with multiple senior government managers. Conducts data analysis independently and in coordination with service areas to quickly identify system and service issues. Conducts long range planning to ensure system and service continuity of operations (i.e. power outages and Enterprise-affecting projects). Frequently interacts with outside customers and functional peer groups. Develops written procedures related to service activities. Ensure that all outages and issues are reported in an accurate and timely fashion. System Administrator L-3/ Titian Group - Arlington, VA January 2005 to September 2006 Responsible for installing new software released, system upgrades via Network Application Manager United States Air Force at Pentagon. Responsible for installing patches to resolve software related problems. Responsible for the setup and maintenance of user's account and data recovery using Directory Resource Administrator and Enterprise Administrator. Perform on-site and remote technical support. Responsible for providing accurate and timely logging of problems and resolution for problems in Remedy ticketing system. Responsible for processing emails for user account creation and personnel requests for technical support. Provide one-on-one end user problem resolution over the phone. Provide Technical Infrastructure Training Sessions for new IT staff. Diagnose and resolve Level I problems for U.S Air Force end users, computer software, hardware and the intranet in a call center environment Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems Delaware State University - Dover, DE August 2004 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, EXCHANGE, CITRIX, LAN/WAN, GHOSTING, SHAREPOINT, MS PROJECT, VISIO, VISUAL BASIC, CRISIS MANAGEMENT, MS EXCHANGE, LAN Additional Information Technical Skills  Knowledge of LAN/WAN technologies, Citrix, Norton Anti-Virus, MacAfee, Visual Basic, Ghosting, Fast Travel Manager, Visio, Active Directory, SharePoint, MS Exchange, MS Project, Solar Winds, Crisis Management System, Password Manager Pro, Cisco Unified CM Administration, Crisis Management System Community TMS, Variphy Insight, Cisco Prime Collaboration Assurance