Information Security Specialist Information Security Specialist Information Security Specialist Kennett Square, PA Windows System Administrator and Cisco Certified Network Associate with background in helpdesk, managed services, infrastructure management and cloud configuration pursuing a career that offers exposure to innovative technology, acquisition of new skills and ever-increasing responsibilities in an enterprise environment. Work Experience Information Security Specialist Newark, DE July 2018 to June 2019 Two month assignment to assist in preparation for a security audit and maintain the standards of ISO 27001:  ? Review existing documentation for gaps and create new documentation to establish compliance.  ? Establish employee information security training, enroll employees in training and confirm completion rates across all departments.  ? Implement an internal audit calendar based off of the target points outlined in policy and procedure documentation and set dates for individual review tasks.  Network Engineer  ? Four month assignment to assist in network configuration of DNS, security, IP routing, HTTP and VPNs:  ? Setup Cisco firewalls, VPN concentrators and security appliances for vital business applications.  ? Work with carriers to establish, upgrade, maintain and troubleshoot external connectivity.  ? Manage assigned projects and program components to deliver services in accordance with established objectives. System Administrator Arkieva - Wilmington, DE March 2017 to July 2018 System and network admin responsible for maintaining programming server environment, answering help desk emails, suggesting and making infrastructure updates, SQL database and backup management, network and VPN configuration and management.  ? Document and reconfigure network environment to implement VLANs and streamline troubleshooting and accounting procedures. Server room cleanup of cable infrastructure including replacement of old Dell PowerConnect switches with newer Cisco Catalyst switch stack. Creation of AAA server and staff training on access of Cisco switches. Planning for network address migration from large network to smaller networks to minimize broadcast traffic and simplify troubleshooting. Planned migration from pfSense firewalls to Cisco Meraki firewalls.  ? Creation of internal Linux MediaWiki server to centralize IT documentation. Cleanup of Spiceworks environment and Nagios alerting server.  ? Install new servers and networking equipment (Dell PowerEdge and Cisco Meraki) in datacenter environment to provide better performance for clients and for internal employees to demo company software.  ? Configure new cloud based Wifi controller with Ubiquiti/Unifi devices and update to latest firmware (replaced old guest wifi). Resolved issue with secondary Comcast circuit to alleviate issue with guest wireless performance. Network Administrator/Project Coordinator Physiotherapy Associates - Exton, PA June 2015 to September 2016 Network admin responsible for all ASA configuration/deployment to approximately 550 sites across the US. Creates and edits VPN tunnels as needed. Troubleshooting hardware and software failures as well as VPN mismatch or other connectivity issues.  ? Make configuration changes to Barracuda web filter based on company policy. Escalate change requests to managers as needed. Create access groups and whitelist URLs to allow detailed access to broader websites or embedded content  ? Day to day monitoring and management of Aruba wireless environment. Troubleshooting signal quality issues with controller tools and coordinating moves of equipment as needed.  ? Project coordination: Locating new ISPs for sites with poor quality data and voice services. Upgrading from DSL service to Cable service, including scheduling remote technicians for installs and relocations with ISP techs to guarantee minimal downtime/impact on clinic service.  ? Deployment of new Aruba Airwave products to replace aging wireless controllers and configuring and deploying new access points to top grossing clinics. Import of floorplans into Airwave to determine the best placement of wireless access points based on signal quality. SysAdmin/Helpdesk Lead Medical Billing and Management Services - Newark, DE September 2013 to April 2015 Sole helpdesk technician responsible for supporting all end users (approximately 250 users across 8 sites as close as Reading, PA and as far as Denver, CO). Handles all phone/email/web based support requests and resolves or escalates as required.  ? Handle all hardware deployments of PCs and phones using imaging software (Acronis) or pre-programming and then ships or delivers and installs on site.  ? Day to day management of servers, including any hardware or software maintenance, monitoring and periodic health checks.  ? Interface with third party to manage Polycom/Limebox VOIP phone system which includes new user setup, call flow configuration and troubleshooting, and real-time monitoring of call queues.  ? Project work: Migrate NetPrint file management software to a virtual machine for better performance, install and configure Spiceworks system monitoring software, administration and configuration of Kayako support ticketing software, migrate company intranet site from old version of Joomla to current version of Wordpress (including installing/learning Ubuntu/MySQL/PHPAdmin), configuration and setup of Openfire/Spark chat software, setup/installation and administration of WSFTP file transfer software including Outlook secure email client. System Administrator Brandywine Technology - Wilmington, DE September 2011 to June 2013 Working as part of a helpdesk team of two technicians, two administrators and three engineers to resolve issues for Brandywine's Managed Service customers.  ? Day to day tasks include: real time monitoring of network devices to prevent downtime and respond to error statuses using Groundworks systems, checking antivirus management and verifying nightly backups using Symantec Endpoint Protection and Backup Exec, performing weekly or monthly backups of internal knowledge base and network devices (Sonicwall, Cisco ASA, wireless access points).  ? Helpdesk coverage: Providing 1st and 2nd tier support to end users for workstation and server requests, communication and scheduling to customer management of downtime events, server patching and needed hardware replacement, scheduling of preventative maintenance for customer sites on a regular basis as needed, coordinate with 3rd party hardware or software vendors to research and resolve issues including software errors or ISP outages.  ? Project work: Experience working with staff to complete projects such as creating and applying images to new desktop and laptop computers, installing VOIP phone systems in high security areas, setting up new Windows servers to handle new server roles or transfer roles from aging systems (Terminal Server, DNS, DHCP), setup virtual desktop environments for legacy software and install dedicated application servers, creating Group Policy objects to increase security or deploy software packages or network printers, coordinate with remote sites to install medical transcription software. Network Technician TeamLogicIT of Newark - Newark, DE August 2008 to September 2011 Customer First Contact: Interact with customers via phone and/or email to acquire preliminary information and address support issues. Advise potential clients of current rates for services. Coordinate with customers to setup support sessions either via remote support or on-site support. Research for the ordering of replacement parts or new/refurbished computers and computer equipment or peripherals.  ? Day to Day Administration: Setup and maintain via proprietary software client (Systemwatch) PC audits, patch scan and update schedules, anti-virus protection updates and scan schedules, remote support client updates. Receiving and recording parts shipments for customers or office use. Creation of job tickets for work performed for new and current customers via CRM software (Autotask). Maintain customer records and information such as site locations, network configurations, current contacts and work history.  ? Project Planning and Installation: Setup of operating systems and software on multiple hardware platforms including Dell servers, Dell/HP/Toshiba/Compaq workstations, Linksys/Cisco/Netgear routers and wireless access points and IoSafe/Western Digital/ReadyNAS external storage devices. Configuration of network security software (Untangle) to protect internal networks from unauthorized access and virus/malware threats. Delivery and installation of equipment on schedule with customers' requests and transfer of all important data from legacy infrastructure.  ? Troubleshooting: Resolution of issues caused by hardware or software failure with support manuals or diagnostic utilities. Research of problems via the internet (support forums and blogs) and coordination with hardware and software manufacturers and 3rd party technical support staff to resolve issues. Education Microsoft Certification Computertraining.com - Annapolis Junction, MD June 2006 to December 2006 Skills Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Network security, Tcp/ip, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Network connectivity, Tcp, Vmware, Sharepoint, Ethernet, Linux, Deployment, Hyper-v, Firewall, Microsoft exchange, Lan, Microsoft office, Microsoft office 2010 Certifications/Licenses MCSA 2012 Present CCNA Routing and Switching Present CCNA Security Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Microsoft Server 2008/2012/2016 installation and administration, Microsoft Exchange 2003-2013 administration and troubleshooting, Microsoft cloud services (Exchange hosted, Online Protection, Office 365) configuration and troubleshooting, Microsoft Windows 7/8/10 installation and configuration, Microsoft Office 2010/2013/2016 deployment, Microsoft Hyper-V experience and knowledge of VMWare, knowledge of Linux via Ubuntu server, Sharepoint administration, Active Directory administration and design, DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP and network connectivity, LAN/WAN, Ethernet, routers, switches, firewall, fault tolerance, Server/Workstation hardware upgrade and diagnostics, network security and virus protection/spyware removal experience.