Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> network administrator Miramar, FL Work Experience Network Administrator Cisco January 2012 to Present networking routers and switching configuration and correcting the problems in the infrastructures.  • Experience of Cisco LAN switches and installation requirements and guidelines.  • Installation and setup of routers and switches.  • Responsible for troubleshooting of networking equipment across multiple sites.  • Creation and delivery of training materials and support to staff on customer sites  • Full Command on Cisco IOS Commands.  • Router IOS Backup and Recovery.  • Setting up Serial and Ethernet Interfaces.  • Routing Protocol Configurations.  • CDP Configuration.  • Full Command in Inter-VLAN Routing.  • Switching, Standard Access-list, Extended Access-list and Vlans Configurations.  • Everything of Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS).    • Sound knowledge of OSI 7 Layer Model, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, TFTP.  • Knowledge of LAN technologies, Switches, Cables, Bridges.  • Good working knowledge of routing protocols such as RIP v1/v2, OSPF, IGRP and EIGRP.  • Experience of IP addressing, administrating sub-nets and various routing models.  • Sound knowledge of WAN technologies such as PPP, Frame-relay, dedicated T1s, ISDN and Routing Protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, IGRP, eBGP, RIP and RIPv2.  • Familiar with the setup and basic configuration of Cisco 2950, 2960 Switches  • Implementation of HSRP, DHCP, DNS, FTP, TFTP.  • Experience of configuring and monitoring CISCO 2500, 2600 and 1800  • Responsible for the regular back up and restoration of all critical assets  • Understanding of how to configure WAN Protocols, including HDLC, PPP, FRAME RELAY  • Experience of implementing SNMP on various devices, allowing for network management  • Put in place traffic filters using IP Access Lists, Distribute-Lists, and Route Maps.  • Set up and configuration of remote access solutions including Fractional T1, VPN and ISDN dial up  • Using 600 series router, experience of implementing Cisco IOS Firewall IDS  • Negotiation of service contracts with suppliers, including circuit carriers  • Creation, management and maintenance of database of network topology using Microsoft Visio  • Involvement in the creation and establishment of internal  • Design and implementation of LAN/WAN, using Cisco routers, hubs and switches  • Implementing a file security system, in line with internal guidelines and industry best practice  • Using shared folder permissions, implemented security for network resources.    Cisco certified Designer Associate CCDA    • Maintaining and administering computer networks and related computing environments including systems software, applications software, hardware, and configurations.  • Performing disaster recovery operations and data backups when required.  • Protecting data, software, and hardware by coordinating, planning and implementing network security measures.  • Troubleshooting, diagnosing and resolving hardware, software, and other network and system problems.  • Replacing faulty network hardware components when required.  • Monitoring network performance to determine if adjustments need to be made.  • Conferring with network users about solving existing system problems.  • Operating master consoles to monitor the performance of networks and computer systems.  • Coordinating computer network access and use.  • Designing, configuring and testing networking software, computer hardware, and operating system software.    Juniper network JNCIA-102    • Set up Configuration of root authentication and users password and login.  • Configured load factory-default setting  • Set Configuration for IPv4 an IPv6 interfaces and system syslog message.  • Configuration of OSPF and RIP network protocols. Configured authentication for each protocol and metric.  • Configured IS-IS and MPLs protocol,  • Enable dynamic and static routes.  • Configuration of banner login message.  • Configuration of NTP time zone on routers.  • Set and configured routing-options and policy-options.  • Configured vlan tagging on interfaces.  Linux System  • install and configure Ubuntu desktop.  • Configured SSH and firewall on server.  • Participated in team activities as a member of the Linux System Administration.    • Set up and administer user and groups accounts, setting permissions for users.  • Build and installed multiple Linux machines.  • Provided management of system process in areas like boot process, startup and system shutdown.  • Planned and executed packages and updates installations necessary for optimal system performance.  • Ubuntu Linux, configure user account add to group or groups. Managed, monitored and tested individual and group user access privileges and security.  • Know how to use vim and nano editors.    Microsoft server 2016    • Developed organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies.  • Performed cross platform audits of Active Directory (AD) objects and user permissions.  • Managed Group Policy Objects (GPOs) throughout the Active Directory (AD) enterprise  • Created user ID's, roles, groups OU's etc. Installer Cisco - Miami, FL April 2014 to January 2015 Installed cable, high speed internet, and voice service for business and residential customers. Full data circuits and FX lines. Provided maintenance and reparation on office equipment.    • Responded in a timely fashion to customer locations for scheduled installations.  • Inspected installation sites to determine best line placement.  • Drilled holes when needed and ran lines.  • Installed Xfinity entertainment systems regular cable systems networking systems and security systems.  • Tested all installed components to insure they were working properly.  • Activated new installations on-site.  • Gave customers brief tutorials on their new equipment.  • Responded to Comcast repair calls.  • Tested existing systems with which customers were experiencing problems.  • Tested lines and signals using meters and tools.  • Replaced lines as needed.  • If issue was not Comcast's fault gave customer explanation and price quote for repair to site issues.  • Exhibited excellent customer responsiveness and received high marks on telephone and computer surveys.  • Successfully completed intensive technician training course Network Technician NETWORK, INC - Miami, FL October 2001 to 2015 on IT networks.  Installation, configuration and administration of Cisco IT infrastructures - CISCO switches, routers, security applications, firewalls and network protocols.    Jam dung Web Design and Networking Technology - West Palm Beach, FL Ramp Agent NETWORK, INC - Fort Lauderdale, FL May 2011 to April 2013 Examine and inspect aircraft components, including landing gear, hydraulic systems and deicers to locate cracks, breaks, leaks or other problems Owner Global Mortgage & Investment Funding - Fort Lauderdale, FL June 2003 to December 2011 Solicit new business; manage and supervise staff of fourteen; devise and implement innovative marketing principles and promotional sales events for commercial projects to further support financial growth. Cross-sell banking services and products to clientele; participant in community events to position the bank as a leader within the territory. Interact with customers daily and provide accurate follow-up on inquires. Education CCNA University of Phoenix BS in PC Professor Microsoft Server R2 University of Phoenix Advance A.S. in Computer Security Network Engineering Florida Career College Skills Active directory, Bgp, Catalyst, Ccna, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Mpls, Ospf, Switching, T1, T3, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vpn, Dns, Networking, Frame relay, Ftp, Http, Telecommunication, Cabling, Data Center Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ September 2013 to August 2016 Additional Information Customer focused professional seeking a full-time position to become an integral part of an organization, where I may use my diverse business and technical skills to coordinate smooth flow of operations and contribute to its success and growth.  • Knowledge of system and network administration • Familiar with PC installation and repair  • Adept at troubleshooting computers and user support • Hard working, detail oriented multi-tasker  • Able to maintain hardware and software • Excellent verbal/written communication skills    TECHNICAL SKILLS    CompTIA A+, Network+, Security +  Networking: CCNA Routing and Switching  • Routing Cisco 1941, 2901, 2600 ASR series IOS, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, Multicast  . Frame Relay  • Switching Catalyst, 2960, 2950-24 and 2950T  • WAN Technologies, MPLS, T1/T3/OC3, Cisco WAAS  • TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, SMTP, POP3, HTTP, FTP    Troubleshooting:    OS Boot, Recovery Console/Windows Recovery Environment, VPN setup, Windows Server r2 2012  (DNS and DHCP setup, active directory, group policy backup and configuration, file and printer  sharing, adding workstations), Local Area Networking, power supply  Linux:  Ubuntu Linux, configure user account add to group or groups. Managed, monitored and tested individual and group user access privileges and security