Network/Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span>/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Pittsfield, NH Accomplished and highly motivated IT professional with demonstrated success in engineering, administration and support of information systems. Strong ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development and systems/ network optimization. Possess excellent communication and collaboration skills to work with diverse groups effectively while managing systems, projects and teams in a wide range of IT environments. Proven ability to diagnose complex problems and provide effective solutions in an efficient manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network/Systems Administrator Lindt & Sprüngli USA - Stratham, NH May 2014 to Present • Provide tier 2/3 support for all desktop, server and network issues  • Perform administrative tasks and maintenance for all network equipment(70 Switches, 2 Routers, 2 Firewall Appliances, 2 Wireless Controllers, 230 Wireless Access Points)   • Implement, maintain and administer new wireless network infrastructure including guest access(Aruba Networks ClearPass/AirWave)  • Implement wired and wireless network security  • Provide support for all datacenter and server related issues  • Perform administrative tasks, maintenance and patching for all servers (15 physical servers, 10 VMware Host, 2 Hyper-V Host, 2 XenServer Host, 120 virtual servers)  • Perform administrative tasks and provide support for IBM XIV and Infinidat SAN  • Developed and implemented disaster recovery plans  • Implemented and administrate backup solution using Veeam Backup & Replication  • Provide support for all Mac OS X based computers and laptops  • Configure, maintain and provide support for email/user accounts using Microsoft Exchange 2010/2016 and Windows 2012 Active Directory  • Configure, maintain and support VoIP network and equipment consisting of Microsoft Lync/Skype for Business server with Polycom VoIP phones and Spectralink Wireless Phones  • Perform administrative tasks, maintain and support Citrix XenApp/XenDesktop environment.   • Implemented and maintain Microsoft System Center(SCCM) environment  • Maintain and create group policy for user and computer objects on the network  • Write and maintain network and server documentation   • Write and maintain network security policies and monitor compliance  • Identify and recommend needed and optimal infrastructure improvements  • Manage and assist in IT related projects including planning, budgeting and implementation    Accomplishments    Implemented a new wireless network infrastructure.  • Implementation consisted of migrating from HP MSM wireless access points to Aruba wireless access points and 2 Aruba 7210 controllers.  • Implemented Aruba ClearPass to perform all wireless authentication for all corporate and manufacturing devices  • Implemented Aruba Airwave for wireless monitoring    Migrated from a HP wired network infrastructure to Cisco  • Implementation consisted of replacing all HP switches with new Cisco core, distribution and edge switches.   • Implemented Cisco DNA Center for network health and monitoring    Replaced legacy backup system with Veeam  • Implemented Veeam Availability Suite to perform and monitor all back up operations for virtual environment. Systems Engineer Newmarket International August 2013 to March 2014 Define and implement solutions to meet client's needs including network design, server build-outs, technical installation of products, upgrades, troubleshooting and consultations.  • Create customer consumable and internal documentation for each new installation, upgrade or other technical service performed.  • Coordinate and performing required communication between the Project Manager, the client and other departments to facilitate cohesive and timely progression of a successful implementation.  • Create and submit detailed project scopes for each new installation, upgrade or other technical service performed.  • Install and configure Windows 2008/Windows 2012 Server  • Install and configure Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 and SRSS.  • Install and configure Newmarket Delphi, I-Server, MeetingBroker and Diagrams software Network Administrator K-Force/CTIS Inc March 2013 to July 2013 Provide technical support to users located at headquarters and satellite locations  • Troubleshoot LAN and site to site VPN issues  • Maintain backups of all servers and data using Symantec Backup Exec 2012  • Created and maintained user accounts and security using Active Directory  • Manage and maintain Citrix Farm and servers.  • Implement VMware ESXi Hypervisor and migrate servers to virtual environment  • Move Citrix Xenapp Farm (5.0/6.5) from physical to virtual environment  • Setup and Deploy desktop computers  • Setup and Deploy Checkpoint Appliances for new site locations Network Administrator Granite State Credit Union October 2011 to March 2013 Oversee day to day operation of computer networks including hardware/software support and training  • Provide technical support to all users at headquarters and branch locations  • Install, support and maintain both physical and virtual network servers and appliances  • Install, configure and maintain system hardware and software.  • Establish and maintain user accounts, profiles, access privileges and security using Active Directory  • Perform daily, weekly and monthly server data and tape backups using EMC Networker and DataDomain  • Monitored and supported EMC Clariion SAN and data duplication to DR facility  • Maintain and implement network hardware(Extreme Switch, Cisco WAAS)  • Monitored and analyzed network traffic using SolarWinds NPM/NFA  • Research, evaluate and recommend new technologies  • Assist in planning, coordinating and consulting with vendors and clients for hardware/software purchases, product services and support  • Monitor and test Disaster Recovery solution IT Support Technician Technical Needs/GT Solar Inc March 2010 to October 2011 Provide direct support for 300 users located at the corporate and remote locations.  • Manage user accounts, groups and distribution list using Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange Server  • Implement and manage asset management and tracking systems for all hardware and software licensing.  • Implement and manage computer imaging and deployment software.  • Create How To documentation on use of new technologies and IT equipment for users.  • Provide training to users on new software and hardware.  • Research, test and deploy new technologies for users and IT support Network Administrator Walter Investment Management Inc - Tampa, FL June 2006 to March 2010 Oversee network operations and troubleshoot any issues that arise.  • Maintain, support and troubleshoot network issues on Cisco routers on MPLS network  • Implemented and installed Cisco wireless devices at headquarters and branch locations.  • Provide direct support for 250 users in 56 locations for all hardware, software and networking issues.  • Manage user accounts, groups and distribution list using Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange.  • Perform administrative duties for users using Blackberry equipment using Blackberry Enterprise Server software.  • Perform troubleshooting for Windows/Exchange server  • Provide support for branch offices connecting wirelessly using Cisco LEAP Protocol and WPA/PSK protocol over Cisco wireless access points.  • Assist in the establishing IT policies which defined acceptable use of IT assets within the company.  • Manage software-based inventory tracking system of all workstations, laptops as well as other IT assets.  • Assisted in the installation and configuration of HP Blade Server technology for the use of Citrix Presentation Server 4.5.  • Directly supervised 2 contractors in support of field deployment operations  • Research, test and deploy new technologies for users and IT support Helpdesk Consultant Verizon/Pomeroy Technologies - Tampa, FL November 2003 to June 2006 Provide support & troubleshooting, including tier II support, for application problems, outage reports, system access problems, equipment failures, terminal, printer, PC and LAN software and hardware problems.  • Support and troubleshoot Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP errors.  • Support and troubleshoot Office 97/2000/XP errors.  • Support and troubleshoot Netscape 3.0, 4.05, 4.6 and IE 5.5 and 6.0.  • Support and troubleshoot Lotus Notes 5 and 6.  • ADSL configuration & support.  • Support, Configuration and troubleshoot network connectivity and TCP/IP errors.  • Responsible for getting all customer problems solved Education Associates of Science in Computer Information Systems Remington College - Tampa, FL May 2005 Skills Networking, Active Directory, Windows, Vmware, Technical Support Additional Information Technical Expertise    Operating Systems: Windows 7/8/10, Windows Server (2008/2012/2016), Mac OS X    Hardware: Dell, HP and IBM Servers, EMC Clariion, IBM XIV and Infinidat SAN, Extreme Switches, Cisco/Meraki Routers/Switches, HPE Procurve/Comware Switches, HP/Aruba Wireless, Wyse Thin Terminals, Biometric Readers, Apple/Android mobile devices    Software: MS Exchange, MS SQL, SCCM, Skype for Business, Office 365, Azure, Veeam, Hyper-V,VMware ESXi/vSphere/vCenter/SRM, VMWare Horizon Mirage, Citrix XenDesktop/XenApp, XenServer, SolarWinds NPM/NFA, SAP, Antivirus, Symantec Ghost Suite, Aruba Airwave/ClearPass, Powershell    Network/Protocols: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, Wireless, DNS, DHCP, VPN, 802.1X