Logical & Physical Security Manager Logical &amp; Physical Security Manager Logical & Physical Security Manager Joliet, IL To secure a position with a Great Company where I can apply the skills that I have acquired as a Manager, CCNA and CISA. Work Experience Logical & Physical Security Manager Valid USA April 2013 to May 2019 Lead for all compliance audits including PCI, GSMA, SOC.  IS acquisition, Implementation & governance.  Member of the Change Management Committee and Risk Management team.  Responsible for the day to day operations for logical and physical security for 4 secure facilities in Illinois, New Jersey, White Bear Lake, MN. IT Help desk Manager 2013 to 2016 Network Administrator Walgreens January 2011 to April 2013 Walgreens NSS roll out Project (2 Yrs). Upgraded all network equipment at all 9000+ Walgreens. Including Fortigate Firewalls Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, Cisco WAP, Cisco VoIP Phones, Cisco wireless phones Network Administrator/Engineer Vardex Laser Corporation 2007 to 2011 Network Administrator Macy's Flooring 2005 to 2007 Network Technician/ Network Manager in the Enterprise NOC AT&T 1983 to 2004 Managed various access Circuits for AT&T fortune 500 companies. Troubleshoot various access circuits including T1, ATM, Optical Fiber, Frame Relay, MPLS. Maintain updated information in the ticketing system and report back to customers every 2 hours. Escalate problems as required to different levels of management. Skills Security, Cisco, Pci, Routing protocols, It infrastructure, Lan/wan, Router, Bcp, Soc, Remediation, Internal audit, Audit, Help desk, Documentation, Lan Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES:    External and Internal Audit according to PCI, SOC & GSMA standards.  Security lead in charge of maintaining compliance and remediation of audit findings including:  Documentation, control self assessment, gathering and submission of evidence of remediation.  Oversight and follow up for quarterly vulnerability scans and annual penetration testing.  Management of removable media & brass keys as required by PCI & GSMA.  Management of Logical Keys.  Acquisition of IT infrastructure equipment assuring alignment with business goals and objectives.  Annual BCP/DR exercise.    Cisco FW, Router & Switch Configuration. Cisco command line, routing protocols.  IT Help desk, LAN/WAN