Sr. Network Engineer - Operational Lead Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer - Operational Lead Sr. Network Engineer / Network Manager Richmond, VA Results driven IT professional with demonstrated success in design, implementation and management of complex IT networking solutions that complement and advance business initiatives; proven leadership skills that encourage and motivate teams to maximize productivity whether participating as a team manager, lead or member; experienced engineer with broad knowledge base that allows transition into new environments and technologies with ease; possesses strong collaboration and communication skills allowing seamless leadership and integration into diverse teams. Work Experience Sr. Network Engineer - Operational Lead Patient First - Glen Allen, VA July 2019 to Present Senior Network Engineer BH Media Group - Richmond, VA January 2013 to February 2019 • Maintained enterprise network consisting of 2 data centers and approximately 78 remote sites.  • Provided oversight and participated on network maintenance / enhancement / upgrade projects.  • Mentored and provided guidance to Network Administrators.  • Engaged with hardware / software / communications vendors with regards to new product offerings.   • Evaluated / recommended new networking products.  • Installed and migrated to new data center core networking gear consisting of Cisco Nexus products.  • Transitioned data center from core/distribution, top-of-rack to collapsed core, end-of-row topology.  • Responsible for enterprise network security ensuring firewalls (Cisco) and IPS (Zscaler) properly configured to protect enterprise.  • Installed and configured Dell SonicWall firewalls to protect CDE (cardholder data environment).  • Standardized remote sites in regards to network topology and hardware selection where possible.  • Upgraded sites to include all networking gear while minimizing downtime.  • Implemented DMVPN allowing for fully meshed WAN.  • Upgraded communications by converting larger remote sites from multi-linked T1 point-to-point to MPLS networks using multi-linked T1s and Ethernet circuits where available.   • Responsible for VoIP MPLS network and QoS configuration ensuring reliable voice communications. Network Manager World Media Enterprises, Inc. - Richmond, VA July 2012 to December 2012 • Established new data center.  •     Specified hardware, recommended purchase, installed, and configured.  •     Established communications in new data center (Internet, private line, and MPLS).  •     Installed/configured new Production, DMZ, and Web Hosting environments.  • Managed the day-to-day operations of corporate network consisting of 31 major locations with numerous smaller locations (approx. 2500 users in total) Network Manager Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA July 2007 to June 2012 • Responsible for the day-to-day operations and functionality of the enterprise networks and  telecommunications systems spanning 63 major properties as well as many smaller locations.  • Managed a staff of 8 responsible for all networking / telecommunication systems.  • Provided oversight of all maintenance / enhancements / upgrades of the enterprise network and telecommunications systems.  • Mentored and motivated staff on assigned tasks / projects ensuring desired results while maximizing productivity.  • Assisted staff on projects when additional technical expertise was required.  • Worked closely with all IT staff, departments, management, and remote properties ensuring networks / telecommunications met all corporate business needs.  • Tasked with looking for means to enhance and improve enterprise networks while containing costs.  • Team relocated private data center to co-location facility using L2TP resulting in no changes to LAN IP addressing schema and minimal downtime.  • Established communications for disparate data centers such that content from either data center could be served from the other should their be a failure of Internet communications thus eliminating the need for costly dual Internet access at either location.  • Implemented B.E.S.T. (Burstable Enterprise Shared Trunking) significantly reducing voice costs. Senior Network Administrator Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA February 2005 to June 2007 • Responsibilities included all duties performed as Network Administrator,  • Provided oversight of projects in regards to network maintenance / enhancements / upgrades.  • Mentored and assisted Network Administrators.  • Collaborated with vendors to review new hardware and software technology offerings.  • Evaluated / recommended new technology products to management.  • Provided oversight of staff evaluations and testing of new products.  • Charged with the tracking and auditing of communications contracts for compliance and spending  • Provided guidance and assisted in negotiating new communications contracts.  • Served as team lead to add 4 new sites to enterprise network during acquisition of new TV stations.  • Installed OC-48 SONET ring between data-centers to enhance communications and add redundancy. while reducing costs of other communication mediums. (just over 1 OC12 used).  • Installed application specific MPLS network to enhance broadcast television division’s advertising systems while reducing overall costs. Network Administrator Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA January 2000 to January 2005 • Charged with ensuring the integrity of corporate WAN/LANs consisting of 63 primary sites. (7000 users)   • Configured / maintained networking hardware to include but not limited to routers, switches, firewalls, VPN concentrators.  • Implemented network enhancements and upgrade projects.  • Monitored the network using Nagios, MRTG, RANCID, Manage Engine.   • Resolved networking issues using various tools to include sniffer, Ethereal  • Monitored communications circuits between HQ and remote sites to ensure reliable WAN.  • Worked with vendors to install and troubleshoot comm. circuits ranging in size from DSL/Cable to DS3.  • Replaced remote site frame-relay (fractional T1) circuits with dedicated T1 point-2-point circuits.  • Met with vendors to review new technology offerings.  • Evaluated and tested new network hardware technology and offered recommendations to superiors Data Communications Manager Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA May 1993 to December 1999 • Installed/maintained first corporate network consisting of Novell 3.1X servers.  • Managed installation/maintenance of same at remote sites.  • Provided support for all networking and communications hardware (all Hewlett-Packard equipment to include routers, bridges, remote bridges, hubs, long-haul modems.   • Installed initial Cisco routers replacing older HP routers to better accommodate frame-relay networking..  • Replaced leased line communications with frame-relay/ATM networking  • Provided desktop support for all workstations, network based applications, and peripherals. Project Leader Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA August 1988 to April 1993 • Continued Systems Programming responsibilities.  • Additional responsibilities included augmenting programming staff for software applications written in house in support of the newspaper operations; Circulation and Classified pagination systems. Systems Programmer Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA April 1985 to July 1988 • Supported network of 17 HP3000 mainframes; Series II, III, 42, 48, 64, 68, and 72.  • Responsible for all facets of support; new installations, OS upgrades, disk management, application software upgrades, backups, dial-in and leased line communications, troubleshooting.  • Performed all desktop support required of HP 3000 users; supported in-house written and vendor supplied applications and all peripherals connected to mainframes; CRTs, printers, plotters, etc. Programmer / System programmer trainee Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA October 1983 to March 1985 • Software coding – two major applications written.         Magnetic Tape Management System – in use 15+ years.         Source Code Management Library – in use 15+ years.  • Acquired systems programming skills required to manage HP3000 computer systems. Education Bachelor's in Mathematics and Computer Science Hampden-Sydney College - Richmond, VA May 1983 Skills Team Leadership, Design and Implementaton, Technical Analysis, Multisite Enterprises, Site-Site communications, Data Center networking, Migrations and Upgrades, Vendor Management, Project Management (10+ years), Management Experience (5 years), Cisco Routers, Switches (Catalyst) and Firewall (PIX & ASA) (10+ years), Cisco Switches (NEXUS) (3 years), Dell SonicWall firewalls (5 years), HP Swiches (ProCurve & AdvanceStack) (10+ years), Cisco AnyConnct, Cisco VPN 3000, and F5 Firepass SSL-VPN remote access server (5 years), Dell switces, 3Comm switches, Juniper firewalls, Checkpoint firewalls, and Kemp load balancers (1 year), Riverbed WAN optimizer (3 years), HP AdvanceStack routers, HP Ethertwist hubs, bridges, and switching hubs (5 years), AT&T/Paradyne CSU/DSU (10+ years), DSL, Cable (10+ years), Frame-relay, ATM (9 years), MPLS, T1, DS3 (10+ years), SONET OC3, OC12, OC48 (7 years), leased lines (10+ years), ISDN (2 years), AAA (5 years), ARP, BGP, CDP, DHCP, DNS, EIGRP, FTP, GBP, H.323, HDLC, HSRP, ICMP, IGRP, IKE, IPSec, IP SLA, IMAP, and POP3 (10+ years), L2TP (2 years), NAT,PAT, PBR, PPP, PVST, QoS, RIP, RSTP, RTP, SFTP (10+ years), SIP (7 years), SMTP, SNMP, SSH, STP, TCP/IP (10+ years), DMVPN, TACACS+ (5 years), TELNT, TFTP, VPN, VRRP (10+ years), SolarWinds, Netflow, Wireshark/Ethereal (10+ years), What's Up Gold and HP Openview (5 years), ManageEngine and CiscoWorks (3 years), Access-list, Prefix-list, routing, switching, subetting, port-channel, ether-channel, PPP multlink, route-maps (10+ years), VFC, VPC, FCOE (3 years), BGP, Nexus, Cisco, MPLS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Cisco Router platforms: 800/1600/2500/2600/2800/2900/3600/3700/3800/3900/4300/4400/7200/7400/7600  Cisco Switch platforms 2900/3600/3700/3800/4500/6500, Nexus5000/3000/2000   Cisco fFirewall platforms pix 501/509/515/515E, ASA55xx, ASA55xx-X.  Cisco VPN concentrator 3000  F5 Firepass SSL-VPN remote access server  Hewlett-Packard Procurve switches – 4000M/2520/2524/2824/2510/2810/1700/1800  Hewlett-Packard AdvanceStack routers, switches  Hewlett-Packard hubs, switching hubs,, bridges  Various work group switches: 3Comm and Dell switches  Sonicwall, Juniper (Netscreen), and Checkpoint firewalls.  Kemp Load Balancers  Riverbed WAN Optimizers (Steelhead appliance).    Communications:  ISDN, DSL, Cable, Leased Lines, Frame-Relay, ATM, MPLS, T1, DS3,  Sonet: OC3, OC12, OC48  Ethernet, FastEthernet, Gigabit Ethernet, 10Gig Ethernet    Networks/protocols:  AAA, BGP, DHCP, DMVPN, DNS, EIGRP, FCOE, FTP, GLBP, H.323, HSRP, ICMP, IGRP, IKE, IMAP, IPSEC, IP SLA, L2TP, LACP, NAT, PAT, PBR, PAGP, POP3, PPP, PVST, QOS, RIP, RSTP, RTP, SFTP, SIP, SMTP, SNMP, SSH, STP, TACACS+, TCP/IP, TELNET, TFTP, VLANs, VFC, VPC, VPN, VRRP.    Management Apps:  SolarWinds, WhatsUp Gold, Netflow, Wireshark (Ethereal), OpenView, ManageEngine, CiscoWorks