Student - GI Bill Student - GI Bill NETWORK MANAGER Oceanside, CA Experienced IT Manager with 13 years supporting the technology and personnel requirements to administer, deploy, secure and maintain a growing and evolving IT infrastructure. Managed the Wide Area Network (WAN) and Local Area Network (LAN), two Data Centers, nine remote Branches, one Mobile Branch, and multiple VPN and firewall configurations. Supported an Enterprise Active Directory Domain of 385 Windows computer and 87 Windows virtual servers in a VMware/SAN environment. Maintained system updates and security utilizing Symantec, Microsoft and Tenable software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Student - GI Bill California Technical Academy - Escondido, CA September 2018 to July 2019 Utilizing my Military GI Bill to update and add on to my IT certifications. NETWORK MANAGER PACIFIC MARINE CREDIT UNION June 2007 to May 2018 I managed the daily activity of personnel and their support and responses to requests from end users. As needed, I would interview end users to collect information on recurring problems, assess the situation, and lead both end users and technicians through diagnostic procedures to identify the faulty equipment, software, or procedures.    I oversaw the build out of four remote Credit Union Branches, one Mobile Branch, and the planning, construction and transfer of the Credit Union's Headquarters from their small Camp Pendleton location to a new 60,000 square foot, two story building in Oceanside. Planning and construction requirements included working with the Architects, the General Contractor and various vendors, in all facets of the Information Services requirements, including electrical, data, telecommunications, air conditioning and emergency power.    I oversaw the planning, design and installation of WAN upgrades from T1 speeds to required Ethernet speeds utilizing Metro-E, E-Line and MPLS technologies. Utilized VPN technologies as backup circuits.    I oversaw the planning and design of a second Data Center in Mesa, Arizona and personally began the initial build of the power, WAN, Internet and firewall installation and testing. I oversaw the plan and execution of the move of physical and virtual server infrastructure from our backup Data Center aboard Camp Pendleton to the Mesa Arizona Data Center. This critical move was successfully completed over the weekend with no impact to the Credit Union or its members.    I was responsible for providing budgetary requests, requirements and justifications twice a year, to support equipment retirement, replacement and incorporation of emerging technology. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR PACIFIC MARINE CREDIT UNION June 2005 to June 2007 Working with one PC Technician, managed the Credit Union's Wide Area Network (WAN) and Local Area Network (LAN), one Data Center, seven remote Branches, multiple VPN, firewall, router and switch configurations. Supported 150 Windows based computers, 13 servers, and required ancillary equipment. Also responsible for providing budgetary requests, requirements and justifications twice a year, to support equipment retirement, replacement and incorporation of emerging technology. Education High school or equivalent Skills Cisco Routers and Switches (10+ years), WAN connections including T1, E-line, MetroEthernet, MPLS (10+ years), IT Management (10+ years), Microsoft Servers (10+ years), Symantec AV and Backup (10+ years), Microsoft Exchange (10+ years), Firewalls and VPN devices (10+ years), Help Desk, Active Directory, Desktop Support, Active Directory, Tech Support Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E8 Aviation Electronics Technician Senior Chief Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CE November 2018 to July 2022 CompTIA Network+ CE January 2019 to July 2022 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) May 2019 to Present Windows 10 CompTIA Security+ CE July 2019 to July 2022 CCNA Routing and Switching July 2019 to July 2022