Network Operations Support Engineer (@Facebook) <span class="hl">Network</span> Operations Support Engineer (@Facebook) Network Engineer Bergenfield, NJ I am looking for a technical position, one that will fully utilize my technical background and gives me full opportunity to develop and to excel. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Operations Support Engineer (@Facebook) EOS IT Management Solutions - New York, NY July 2019 to Present Senior Network Engineer Teletech Customer Care Management Phils. Inc May 2018 to August 2018 Network Engineering    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  • Responsible for design, planning, and implementation of network related initiatives, projects and requirements of the business like installations of new hardware, assigning IP space for new VLANs, VLAN expansions, routing and switching design, network devices upgrades and new site builds.  • Creates, modifies or updates network process or documentation, including establishing standard procedures that may be followed by the Network Operations and Network Engineering Team.  • Provide support to network related escalations by joining in conference calls and bridges for live troubleshooting.  • 2nd to 3rd level support on all wired and wireless data network and network facilities such as CISCO and HP routers and switches, Meraki and Cisco Wireless LAN Controller and Access Points via Wireless Control System.  • Provide training to Network operations team. Network Engineer Chevron Holdings Inc March 2016 to April 2018 IT - Global Network Operations Level 2    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  • Responsible for the maintenance and support of the Chevron Holdings Inc. Network globally.  • Responsible for network related projects like Device Life Cycle Management, Site LAN and WAN upgrades, Site and device commissioning/decommissioning, circuit upgrades/downgrades.  • Installs, supports, upgrades and maintains essential network devices, services and tools such as Juniper MX Series routers, Cisco Routers and Switches, Riverbed Steelhead Optimizer, Big Switch, Wireless LAN Controllers.  • Troubleshooting on network related alarms and incidents reported by different groups in the company.  • 2nd level support on all wired and wireless data network escalations related to any network device, routing and switching, and traffic optimization.  • Responsible in managing incidents, requests and problems tickets, as well as implementation of changes in the network as required in the Change Management Requests.  • Act as a Change Manager that review and authorize changes related to Network to ensure the correct information and change request quality are met.  • Creates, modifies or updates network process or documentation, including establishing standard procedures that may be followed by the Team.  • Joining conference calls and bridges for live troubleshooting.  • Responsible in keeping all the network devices compliant with the Chevron Global Compliance Policy including software and hardware used as well as the configurations running on the devices. Principal Network Administrator Teletech Customer Care Management Phils. Inc September 2011 to March 2016 Network Communications Center    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  • Responsible for the maintenance and support of the Teletech Network globally.  • Responsible for network related projects like Site LAN upgrades, circuit turn-ups, circuit migrations and circuit upgrades/downgrades.  • Installs, supports, upgrades and maintains essential network devices, services and tools.  • 24/7 monitoring network alarms using monitoring tools such as Nimsoft, HPOV, CACTI, Netflow, and Statseeker.  • Troubleshooting on network related alarms and incidents reported by different groups in the company.  • 2nd to 3rd level support on all wired and wireless data network and network facilities such as CISCO and HP routers and switches and Cisco Wireless LAN Controller and Access Points via Wireless Control System.  • Managing network related activities like traffic shifting on BGP links, bandwidth analysis, QOS shaping and troubleshooting issues related to routing and switching.  • 1st to 2nd level support on network related requests and incidents that involve Checkpoint and ASA Firewalls, F5 BIG-IP LTM and GTM and Cisco CSS Load Balancers and VPN concentrators.  • Responsible in managing incidents, requests and problems tickets, as well as implementation of changes in the network as required in the Change Management Requests.  • Responsible for coordination and escalation to carriers and vendors for troubleshooting and support.  • Creates, modifies or updates network process or documentation, including establishing standard procedures that may be followed by the Team.  • Joining conference calls and bridges for live troubleshooting.  • Administers network access and security to all users.  • Provides trainings for Tier I and Tier II supports about process and their responsibilities.  • Provides trainings for Site IT Support about their responsibilites (VLAN configurations, Network overview). Data Network Engineer Teletech Customer Care Management Phils. Inc August 2007 to August 2011 Data Network Operations Center    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  • Data Network Operations Center  • Activation and restoration of Dedicated Least Lines, IPVPN, IPSec, Frame Relay circuits, Digital Subscriber Line, Internet Access Service and other circuits.  • Provides 24 x 7 technical support for Data Network Operation Center  • Maintains and monitors communication equipments such as TDM multiplexers (GDC), Lucent's Any Media Access System, Nortel's Programmable Digital Multiplexer, Nortel's Magellan Passport, Lucent Max TNT, Ericsson's IP DSLAM technology  • Maintains several Network Management Servers used to manage different equipments.  • Provides technical analysis for network traffic and network related problems and concerns.  • Coordinate and tests network design, development, implementation, support and optimization to various industry vendors and regional service providers..  • Provides troubleshooting and immediate resolution for network and circuit related faults.  • Escalate fault to higher management if circuit is not restored within specified time.  • Configuring of the new installed ERICSSON IPDSLAMs.  • Port testing and commissioning of the additional ports of ERICSSON IPDSLAMs. Education Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communications Engineering in Electronics and Communications Engineering Polytechnic University of the Philippines - Manila 2002 to 2007 Skills CISCO (7 years), SWITCHING (7 years), WIRELESS (7 years), CHANGE MANAGEMENT (2 years), LAN (7 years), CCNP, Ccna, BGP, Ospf, Juniper, Nexus, F5, MPLS, Switch, Router, Palo Alto, WAN Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) June 2016 to June 2019 CISCO ID: CSCO11720999 Additional Information SKILLS AND PERSONAL QUALITIES    • Cisco routing and switching using CISCO IOS and CATOS. Knowledgeable in TCP/IP, RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, DHCP, VLAN configuration, STP, VTP, NAT, IPSec, Frame Relay, ATM  • Juniper MX Series Routers  • Cisco ISR4000, 3900, 3800, 3600, 7200, 7500, 7600, ASR1002 routers and Cisco Catalyst Switch 6800, 6500, 4500, 2900, 3600, 3700 and 3800  • Cisco Nexus Fabric Network using 7k, 5k and 2k models.  • Cisco Wireless Controller 4400 and 5500 series and Cisco Aironet 3500 and 1100 series.  • Meraki  • HP 7506, 5500 and 5800 switches.  • Riverbed Steelhead WAN Optimizer  • Big Switch in line aggregation switch.  • F5 BIG-IP 1600, 3600, 2000 and Cisco CSS11503 Load Balancers.  • Basic troubleshooting with Checkpoint SmartView R65 and R71 Firewalls, Palo Alto, Bluecoat Proxy Servers, and Cisco ASA  • Experience in Automation tools like Juniper Junos Space and Voyence and HP Network Automation tool.  • Experience in monitoring tools such as NPC, Solarwinds, Splunk, CA Spectrum, HP Open View, Netflow, CACTI, OP Manager, Statseeker and What's up.  • Managing Nortel Magellan Passport ATM/Frame Relay switch, Access Multiplexers such as Any Media Access System, Nortel Programmable Digital Multiplexer as well as Lucent Max TNT.  • Installation and configuration of Ericsson IP DSLAM Technology.  • Managing ECI, Redback, H3C, HP, and Huawei switches  • Knowledgeable in Microsoft Office and basic UNIX.  • ITIL V3 Foundations, Incident Management, Change Management and Problem Management.  • A team player with a positive attitude  • Able to handle multitasking jobs  • Results and customer oriented  • Self-reliant, Self-motivated and always eager to learn    PROJECTS HANDLED  • Various user expansion by adding additional Network devices, VLANs, adding new IP space and creating route configurations for new clients.  • New client build which requires planning on how users access the systems which may go through Internet, VPN, or BPN (Business Partner Network).  • Asia PAC Device Life Cycle Management Including Cisco Routers, Switches, Wireless Controllers, Access points and Riverbed Steelhead WAN Optimizer.  • Pakistan Expansion site Build  • Global Access List Clean up  • Global Juniper Core Junos Code Upgrade  • Riverbed Steelhead Refresh and Code Upgrade  • Border Routers (Cisco 3845 and 3945) IOS Upgrade  • WAN Circuit Bandwidth Upgrade, Downgrade, Turn up and Decommission  • Tier I NOC and Site IT Training - Network overview and VLAN configurations  • Lan Refresh, Upgrade, and Expansion - Replacement of old CORE and ACCESS switches with newer hardware and software  • QOS TCP port configuration rollout - allowed addition TCP port  • Migration of devices to Nimsoft - Migration of devices to a new SNMP server and monitoring tool  • Migration of Virtual Servers from CSS Load Balancer to F5 BIG-IP Load Balancer  • Site Build - Installation and Configuration of new network equipment for a new site.  • F5 LTM and GTM Firmware Upgrade  • Global Site Facilities VLAN Implementation - Creation of VLAN dedicated for facilities devices like PDUs, Cameras, Access Doors, etc.