Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer - Nuspire Networks ? 10+ years experience with multiple Operating systems with heavy focus on linux (Ubuntu)  ? Experience with Cloudera and it's included services (HDFS, Kafka, Impala, Zookeeper)  ? Currently heavily focused on configuration management and deployment Technologies including Ansible, Jenkins, and Gitlab.  ? Ability to research, learn, and implement new core technologies in a timely manner.  ? 6+ years experience with various NGFW with a heavy focus on Fortinet products.  ? Production experience with multiple database and web server technologies including Nginx, Apache, Mysql and Postgres  ? Experience with working with various teams within an organization with tight deadlines focusing on efficiency and quality.  ? Heavily focused on using free open source software where viable throughout my career. Work Experience Infrastructure Engineer Nuspire Networks March 2015 to Present Responsible for management, deployment, and implementation of custom built SIEM.  ? Monitoring and maintenance of all internal networks and data centers using Zabbix and various customized applications and graphing technologies  ? Responsible for deploying cloud edge data processing and configuration via Ansible and other in-house tools. Network Engineer January 2013 to March 2015 Management of Firewalls and networks for over 200 customers focusing on FortiGate firewalls.  ? Using custom-built in-house service Logmojo to Monitor over 4000 devices.  ? Sole IT provider for over 50 customers environments including Windows, Linux, and VMware products. Network Administrator Community Management Corp - Cincinnati, OH June 2008 to April 2012 Managed Over 100 users at over 35 remote sites on Multiple Operating Systems over Microsoft RDP and OpenVPN  ? Troubleshooting various hardware and software issues  ? Responsible for all software and hardware updates that include new OS roll-outs, Building and Implementing Virtual Machine templates for server and end user deployment.  ? Managed help desk ticketing system and processed tickets in a timely manner with descriptive solution report's daily.  ? Worked in VMware ESX Virtual Server Environment That included vSphere, Vcenter, VMware Workstation.  ? Provided Project Management with strict deadlines and tight budgets, while balancing resources, for LAN, SAN and Application Integration projects.    PERSONAL  I enjoy spending time with my friends and family. When I'm not doing the former I have heavy interest in home automation and various automation technologies using Raspberry Pi's. I also enjoy online gaming when time allows. Education High school or equivalent