Desktop Support Technician Desktop Support Technician Desktop Support Technician - Radial Eau Claire, WI • Over 23 years of supporting local/remote users and hardware troubleshooting experience.  • Consistently fast response time for troubleshooting; solve issues quickly as they arise.  • Work well with people one on one; consistently commended by users on exceptional quality and speed of service.  • Motivated and self-reliant; able to find solutions to problems in a timely manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Desktop Support Technician Radial, Inc. - Eau Claire, WI July 2012 to Present • Deploy new Dell Desktops, Laptops and Monitors, and Deploy SCCM Images  • • Create and manage user login accounts in Active Directory.  • Configure, deploy and support RSA soft/hard tokens and Cisco VPN client software.  • Perform password resets on various proprietary software packages.  • Install and maintain HP networked printers  • Provide timely remote support to in house and Work from Home users. Desktop Support Technician Think Finance - Fort Worth, TX June 2011 to June 2012 Provided software and hardware support for Windows XP and Windows 7 laptops/desktops and peripherals.  • Migrated existing machines from Windows XP to Windows 7 operating system.  • Configured, deployed and supported local and network printers, including IP address configuration.  • Created and managed user login accounts in Active Directory.  • Installed Desktops, laptops and monitors for new employees.  • Served as an on-call person on a rotating basis.  • Configured, deployed and supported RSA soft tokens and Cisco VPN client software.  • Installed and maintained Dell projectors for conference rooms.  • Provided as-needed support for newly opened office in Dallas.  • Proficient in the use of Ghost Imaging software for existing Windows XP machines.  • Monitored ChangeGear ticketing queues and close tickets according to SLA's. Network Administrator Citadel Media - Dallas, TX April 2007 to November 2010 Provided support for two Radio Traffic Systems, Marketron and Counterpoint.  • Acted as a liaison between approximately 400 end-users and both software vendor help desks to trouble shoot software issues and implement fixes.  • Performed software upgrades on both traffic systems.  • Supported approximately 50-60 Counterpoint users and approximately 350 Marketron users nationwide including account creation, and general account/password maintenance. Responsible for approximately 100 full time users and 20 part time users.  • Responsible for creating and managing user accounts on Citrix server farm installation, upgrades, and troubleshooting connection issues of Citrix desktop clients.  • Assisted in configuration and rollout of new Windows based servers including Windows software installation.  • Created and administered user accounts in Windows Active Directory and in Microsoft SQL 2005 databases.  • Connected via remote desktop clients to resolve client software and hardware issues. Network Administrator WBAP/KSCS/ESPN - Arlington, TX February 2005 to April 2007 Responsible for approximately 100 full time users and 20 part time users.  • Installed of file and print servers, Dell laptops and desktops, HP networked and local printers.  • Ensured daily operation of tape backup software and coordinate offsite storage of backup tapes.  • Supported Sales applications including Arbitron sales software, and XRAY. Installation and support of all versions of Microsoft Office.  • Assisted station engineers as needed with Audio Vault server upgrades and Audio Vault server operating system, and computer hardware/software issues in the various broadcast studios.  • Installed new server hardware and new end user hardware - desktops, laptops, and new HP printers.  • Gained a working knowledge of network switches and routers and assisted in troubleshooting network connectivity issues.  • Prepared technical documents for various software installations that were performed by users. Network Administrator KQRS/KXXR/Radio Disney - Minneapolis, MN October 1996 to February 2005 Setup IT environment from scratch at 4 Radio Disney radio stations in Wichita, Kansas City, Cleveland and St Louis.  • Provided remote support of the stations, including desktop and laptop computers, Windows servers and networked printers.  • On-site tech support as needed at other ABCRADIO and Radio Disney stations.  • Supported approximately 90 Full time computer users in Minneapolis and approximately 15 remote users.  • Responsible for daily operation of tape backup software; ensured offsite storage of backup tapes.  • Managed Dell and Digital Servers, Compaq desktops, Dell laptop and desktops, HP printers (desktop and networked).  • Assisted Station Engineers with in-studio PC software and hardware support. Desktop Support Xcel Energy - Roseville, MN February 1993 to October 1996 Unloaded and loaded data from handheld meter reading devices using PC interface.  • Provided end user support for desktop PC and printer issues.  • Responsible for installing and troubleshooting of Terminal emulation software. Education Other Military Service Branch: U S NAVY Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 June 1971 to June 1975 Radioman third class stationed onboard USS McMorris De 1036    Served During the Viet Nam war. Assessments Verbal Communication — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tnn0telzr8eibcol Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o4ukgdovxvpw2vhi Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bjemfxtcsgnljtye Call Center Customer Service — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to demonstrate customer service skills in a call center setting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pum-iw4ukqnau7yb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Expertise    Hardware Troubleshoot, install, and maintain a wide variety of servers servers, laptops, and printers (desktop and networked). Install various computer peripherals, including monitors, sound/video cards and network interface cards.    Software Windows XP and Windows 7; Microsoft Office; Adobe Acrobat; Windows 2003 Server operating system; Active directory; SQL 2000 and SQL 2005 database administration; Symantec Antivirus install and maintenance; Citrix desktop client and server client; Internet Explorer and Firefox; Citrix GoTo Assist; Cisco VPN software and RSA soft tokens; Interaction Client telephony software.    Operating Systems All versions of Windows desktop and Windows 2000, 2003, and 2008 server operating systems.    Networking Protocols TCP-IP.