Network Administrator/Site Lead <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Site Lead Network Administrator/Site Lead Little Elm, TX To secure a position in the Computer Information Systems field, that will allow me to apply my computer  literacy skills as well as accomplish any given task involving the application of a computer operating  system in a network environment. Work Experience Network Administrator/Site Lead Cleaver Brooks Sales and Service - Dallas, TX 2008 to 2019 Responsible for providing as well as implementing WAN/LAN network support, phone support  and helpdesk support including, network and mail security, software, hardware and user  connectivity issues, VPN and remote, and other technical matters to over 400+ employees in 13  remote locations across the US.  • Maintained integrity of network by providing OS and software updates, patches, group policies,  network and mail security, monitoring network, data backups and configuration changes.  • Provided extensive support of network and server software such as Active Directory, GPO, IIS,  SQL, DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, NAT, VLAN, VPN, MPLS, routing, and switching.  • Provided support for company accounting software Microsoft Great Plains  • Maintained network security and wan connectivity with Watchguard firewall and VPN.  • Managed on-prem AD and Azure AD environments, HyperV and O365.  • Managed helpdesk tickets, inventory, and documentation using Manage Engine.  • Maintained and deployed network servers such as domain, file, mail, database, webapp,  accounting applications, remote, virtual and intrusion detection systems.  • Responsible for asset management including purchasing, configuration, and maintenance of all  IT related hardware and software such as servers, computers, printers, routers, switches,  firewalls, access points, VOIP services, desk phones, and cell phones. Network Administrator Davaco Inc - Dallas, TX 2002 to 2008 Responsible for providing network support, phone support and helpdesk support including  software errors, printer and user connectivity issues, VPN and remote connectivity issues.  • Supported and managed Voice over Ip Cisco phone systems using Call Manager 4.0 on Cisco  Unity Servers.  • Support and managed Blackberry Server along with configurations for Blackberry phones as well  as Mail configurations for pocket pcs.  • Provided extensive support of network and server software such as Active Directory, Exchange,  Microsoft Office, Adobe, Netscreen VPN, Norton Anti-virus, Blackberry Desktop Manager, and Oracle connectivity.  • Responsible for setting up new users in Active Directory, including enabling Exchange mailboxes,  creating fileserver shares, managing distribution list memberships, and desk phones.  • Created images of computer software builds and restoring them utilizing Ghost imaging software.  • Ordering/receiving IT equipment and following proper procedures to document/manage the inventory and licensing.  • Heavy emphasis supporting hardware such as desktops, laptops, printers, scanners, copiers, and projectors of many makes and models such as HP/Compaq, IBM, and Dell, and schedule vendor  maintenance when required.  • Provided in-person and phone support for 500+ users throughout the company, including in- office and field personnel for IT technical matters.  • Completed helpdesk tickets in a timely manner with accuracy and quality using customer service  skills including utilizing ElemenTool (online helpdesk software) to properly document support  activities. Lan/Wan Administrator MTS Wireless Components - Euless, TX 2000 to 2002 Installed configured, maintained, and administered local area network as well as performed daily  network backups.  • Provided strong technical support for Microsoft Office 2000/XP, Windows 9x/2000/XP, Lotus  Notes 4.6, Oracle, Citrix, SQL 7.0/2000, and Windows 2000 Server on-site for 75 plus employees  as well as two smaller offices located in DFW area. Also provided same technical support for employees located in offices across the country using remote control software as well as phone  support.  • Administered and maintained phones and phone lines on a NEC Neax 2000 integrated voice  server using NEC NeaxMail voice mail software.  • Repaired, maintained, and or performed necessary steps to keep network infrastructure working  at all times.  • Performed and worked with Data Center to provide technical support of deployment of Oracle to all employees across the country.  • Configured and deployed all workstations, laptops, and printers to all new employees as well as replacing all damaged computers to current employees across the country.  • Maintenance and deployed all corporate software in Microsoft Windows 9x, Windows 2000 and XP environments. 3rd Level Help Desk Analyst/Mentor Software Spectrum/Nokia Inc - Garland, TX 1997 to 2000 Provided telephone support on all software applications listed under Technical Skills and 3rd  party software packages for Corporate and Credit Card order customers.  • Delivered timely, accurate technical answers and providing a high degree of customer service  satisfaction.  • Maintained corporate software in Microsoft Windows 3.1, 9x and NT environments.  • Provided prompt answers to issues in PC and Macintosh machines.  • Provided highest level of support for the TCP- Helpdesk desktop department.  • Provided on-site consultation to Nokia Inc.  • Provided phone and on-site technical support for company employees during Microsoft Outlook  e-mail migration period.  • Provided second level support for Microsoft Outlook with first level support of Microsoft  Exchange Server. Education Computer Business Administration and Computer Science Computer Learning Center - Garland, TX 1996 to 1997 High School Diploma Nimitz Chester High School - Irving, TX 1992 to 1995 Skills ACCPAC (Less than 1 year), Active Directory (10+ years), Catalyst (Less than 1 year), Cisco (6 years), Citrix (2 years), DHCP (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Domino (Less than 1 year), Exchange (9 years), Exchange 2000 (Less than 1 year), Frontpage (Less than 1 year), Great Plains (10+ years), Groupwise (Less than 1 year), IIS (10+ years), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (10+ years), MS Office (8 years), Oracle (8 years), pcs. (6 years), SQL (10+ years), voice mail (2 years)