Security Administrator/Analyst Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Analyst Security Administrator/ Ops Analyst Louisville, KY I currently reside in Louisville Ky. I am looking to relocate to the Sarasota Fl / Venice area shortly. I have family who currently live there. I have over 10 years experience in IT and 5 in my current role as an analyst in Security Administration for a fortune 100 healthcare company. Work Experience Security Administrator/Analyst Humana - Louisville, KY July 2014 to Present •Grant/Revoke access across multiple platforms and applications in a roughly 90,000 user Enterprise network  •Administer changes via ticketing system: ServiceNow, to adhere to SOP and SLA's  •Lotus notes, Microsoft Access, SQL, Citrix, SWAT, Sharepoint, AD, ServiceNow, HSS, CCP, SPS, EMME, Insystems Communicator, Sailpoint IIQ, are a few of the applications I use and provision in everyday. Also provisioned EOR (Evidence of review) requests which coincided with COMPLIANCE  •Involved with LP's (Large Projects) change requests that range from a few hundred users on up to multiple thousands of users.  •Trained new contractors within the department on all systems pertinent to perform their daily duties and as they progressed into more complex systems.  •Assisted in departmental move towards RBAC. Setting up leavers/movers in system and Identifying applications that coincided with a particular role Consultant Tech-Knowledge-Ease - Louisville, KY February 2009 to July 2014 •Traveled to customer's homes to diagnose, assess, and repair Pc's and laptops for repair.  •Hardware and component level repair.  •Setup network printers and media servers and Wifi.  •Diagnosed, assessed, and repaired basic network malfunctions in a home network/small business environment.  •Upsell customer if new equipment/devices were needed or recommended Network Administrator RCS - Louisville, KY May 2007 to February 2009 •Provided Help Desk support using Spiceworks ticketing system  •Implemented design and deployment of network infrastructure. This includes running cable, provisioning of hubs/switches/gateways, cable termination and the actual topography of the network.  •Active Directory/User Control (rights/permissions/group policy/add user/add group) in a Domain environment.  •Microsoft Exchange Server 2008 ( Setting up mail accounts )  •Mainframe AS400 experience  •VOIP/Telephony Exp. Utilizing CISCO Call Manager.  •Performed server maintenance, checking event logs and rotating data backups.  •Hardware and Network Troubleshooting. (Pinging devices, checking Static and Dynamic IP addresses. Hub/Switch configuration etc)  •Performed Field Service Technician duties when needed at customer locations for their point to point systems. Education of Associate in Computer Network Administration Sullivan Institute of Technology and Design - Louisville, KY Olean high School - Olean, NY Skills PROBLEM SOLVER, TEAM PLAYER, Training & Development (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ December 2008 to Present COMP001007676281