Transport Officer Transport Officer Transport Officer - Security Transport Services Kissimmee, FL Work Experience Transport Officer Security Transport Services - Topeka, KS May 2018 to Present Conducted pre-trip, during-trip, and post-trip inspections of all vehicles operated.  ? Completed all necessary paperwork and reports in an accurate and thorough manner.  ? Reported transport incidents to facility management.  ? Provided detailed information to law enforcement and requesting authorities.  ? Transported inmates, mental health patients and foster children across the state of Kansas with safety in mind Security Officer Brewster Living - Topeka, KS July 2017 to April 2018 Monitored and reported suspicious activity to the communications center using the Motorola radio ensuring all residents were safe    ? Inspected the buildings and the entire campus making sure that all code and protocols were satisfied    ? Maintained constant watch of all security checkpoints, documenting all activities to the manager    ? Operated the security vehicle and maintained a daily log of all changes made to the vehicle    ? Familiar with law enforcement type radio jargon J.R Network Administrator SMC Ltd - Sterling, MA June 2011 to October 2011 Assisted the Network administrator with desktop, server and the networking issues making sure that the organization's infrastructure was properly maintained    ? Provided users with password and share and file permissions through active directory    ? Performed incremental and full backups of company data with the Dell power vault tape back drives and VERITAS backup exec software.    ? Helped network administrator with daily projects including Cat 5e cabling and the setup of multiple dumb terminals running windows    ? Conferred and advised the administrator in the purchase of computer hardware and peripherals Help Desk St. Croix Insurance February 2003 to October 2003 Provided day to day troubleshooting of the company's computers, printers and one Dell server    ? Responsible for the company wide upgrade of their computer systems, both hardware and software    ? Installed and maintained the insurance database TAM    ? Recommended hardware and software purchases Education Bachelors of Science in Technical Management DeVry University - Orlando, FL Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E4 October 1994 to October 1997 Additional Information ? DeVry University graduate offering a strong academic background in Technical Management  ? Commercial Driver Learner's Permit in hand  ? U.S Army veteran with strong leadership abilities