Network Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Systems Engineer Network Systems Engineer Castro Valley, CA Work Experience Network Systems Engineer Impax Laboratories Inc - Hayward, CA May 2016 to April 2019 * Successfully migrates 2K+ mailboxes of an Exchange 2010 environment to Office 365 Exchange Online in hybrid Active Directory deployment with Azure AD resulting in eliminating on-prem legacy exchange servers with no interruption of service and minimized end-user inconvenience.  * Implements Office 365 Exchange Online Protection and Advanced Threat Protection with Barracuda and IronPort spam firewall that ensured for Messaging Security.  * Manages Mobile Device Management with Mobile Iron MDM (registration, wipe, retirement, and manage sentry for Exchange Online) to improve user productivity.  * Administers and troubleshoots Office 365 Exchange Online, Skype for Business Online, SharePoint Online, OneDrive issues using PowerShell.  * Administers Microsoft Azure and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud Platform.  * Manages scheduled system security scanning via Qualys to identify system vulnerabilities.  * Supports and maintains enterprise server and desktop security patching using Shavlik to protect cyberattacks exploited known vulnerabilities with patches.  * Assists to deliver Cybersecurity Awareness Training using Wombat Security System to enhance overall IT security.  * Manages Anti-virus software such Symantec and Trend Micro to protect company assets.  * Implements a change control management to provide audit trail of system modifications.  * Manages and Configures VMware 6.5 environment including HA and DRS.  * Working knowledge in Cisco Switches, Routers and Wireless Controllers, Checkpoint firewalls, Citrix NetScaler load-balancers, HP 3PAR and EMC Data Domain storage, EMC Avamar and Unitrends for backup, Source One for E-discovery and OKTA for single Sign-On (SSO).  * Manages Allied Digital managed NOC services to monitor mission critical systems and devices to ensure GMP/ cGMP standards compliance.  * Basic Linux operating systems administration.  * Provides 3rd level end-user technical support over 2000 users with direct and remote support in eight buildings resulting in a high level of user confidence and frequent positive feedback to IT. Network and System Administrator CHC Hydro - Hayward, CA March 2005 to May 2016 * Managed Fortinet and Juniper Networks Firewall's access policies, IPsec/SSL VPN, including Intrusion Prevention, Data leak prevention and Application control/IP Reputation.  * Managed Dell VRTX Chassis with 7 blade server nodes with Hyper-V failover cluster.  * Managed Hyper-V hosts and guest virtual machines in Hyper V virtualized environment.  * Managed Citrix XenDesktop, thin client and Terminal server with XenApp 6.5 server farm  * Migrated Windows servers, create site links, OUs, GOPs and DFS file replication.  * Performed Exchange 2013 DAGs to replicate between headquarter site and Co-location through a site to site VPN IPSEC tunnel for email redundancy.  * Deployed Riverbed WAN ( Network Optimization) steelhead Appliances to optimized email traffic and speeds up large file access between all 5 remote locations.  * Managed backup and data protection with deduplication technology using Unitrends.  * Managed Aerohive controller-less Wireless Access Points by using HiveManager System to provide a single centralized management for the entire wireless network on the cloud.  * Maintained and managed Mitel voice over IP infrastructure including PBXs, call management systems, voice mail and video conferencing systems. Network and Helpdesk Administrator Xper2go-Inc - Fremont, CA December 2003 to March 2005 * Configured, installed and Maintain NetScreen-5XP firewall and Linksys Wireless routers  * Maintained window servers including DNS, DHCP, VPN, FTP, terminal services, remote access, forest Domain Controller, member server, Active Directory, group policy.  * Managed and configured Trend Micro Neat Suite virus protection and Symantec Anti-Virus  * Managed and configured Microsoft Exchange Server including web mail and outlook Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems and Telecommunications Management in Computer Information Systems and Telecommunications Management California State University - Hayward, CA Skills Active directory, Cisco, Ldap, Vpn, Data center Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jack-tsang