Consultant Consultant Consultant Augusta, GA Senior level Information Technologist with extensive background in database administration, Help Desk, Web development, Distance learning systems and Network Management. Over nine years' experience in design, testing, implementation and maintenance of information technology systems. Expertise in hardware and software troubleshooting and integration, as well as Microsoft Server products and services including IIS, FTP, SMTP, SQL, SharePoint Server, DNS, DHCP, Exchange and Active Directory. Managed a Mitel integrated communications platform carrying both data and telephony via internet between Augusta, GA and Fairfax, VA enabling 4-digit dialing between locations. Work Experience Consultant Self employed Contractor - Augusta, GA 2013 to Present Provided hardware support diagnostics and repair to local customers. Performed troubleshooting and solutions locally and remotely as well as expert consultation for Open-Ware database work and web applications. Performed data recovery for customers.  • Specialize in application support/ troubleshooting  • 20 years experience solving complex issues  • Extensive hardware and software field testing   • Customer support and satisfaction Systems/ Network Administrator 2008 to 2013 TATRC South  System Administrator for the mCare project to provide enhanced mobile healthcare for wounded warriors returning from combat with Traumatic Brain Injuries (TBI) and / or PTSD by leveraging the use of their own mobile devices. This project was developed by the Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center (TATRC) south office. Managed databases, Web Applications and physical equipment that supported this project. Consultant 2007 to 2008 Performed database and web application installation and maintenance  Installed a new physical network to replace outdated CAT- 3 equipment with CAT-6 cabling at the National Science Center occupied by Global Emergency Resources. Built multiple servers from Dell hardware and installed IIS with reporting services, SQL and custom applications for emergency/catastrophe management. Networked all servers and tested all components. Senior Field Engineer Allen Corporation of America, Inc 2004 to 2007 Responsible for network and database administration as well as Help Desk duties Developed custom Microsoft SharePoint solutions for training Veterans Administration personnel. Installed, maintained and customized Allen University distance learning management systems.  Developed and installed the Volunteer Coordination Center Database system and provided training and support to users. Network Engineer US Army Medical Command 1998 to 2004 Center for Total Access  Managed and maintained web applications and SQL Database System with an emphasis on data security, integrity and recovery implementation.  Performed maintenance and development of web-based distance learning systems.  Supported connectivity for medium to large networks as well as testing and implementation of Palm and Pocket PC-based medical applications. Education Associates of Applied Technology in Information Technology Augusta Technical College - Augusta, GA Skills Data recovery, Networking, Integration, Help desk, Strategic planning Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Certification #10181760 April 2000 to Present ServSafe Food Protection Manager ANSI Accredited Certification #17676400 April 2019 to April 2024 Assessments Basic Maintenance and Repair — Highly Proficient August 2019 Performing basic repairs and maintenance for apartment complexes, office buildings, and other facilities. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fjmjtloti8wi20ku Workplace English — Expert August 2019 Understanding spoken and written English in work situations. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hjzat6netcztno7v Email — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8igippj7ckhp5bxr Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zgua5xwrc3lahzne Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f-jzodamipxryam Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Top Skills  Networking, Strategic Planning  Integration, Data Recovery  Help Desk, Troubleshooting