Cardiology Applications Support Analyst Cardiology Applications Support Analyst System Administrator Mentor, OH To utilize my computing skills to work as a Systems Administrator. To find a long-term career in a workplace with a challenging environment. To help people. Work Experience Cardiology Applications Support Analyst UH Hospitals - Cleveland, OH February 2019 to Present Cardiology Applications Support  ? Assist with answering emails and routing work when appropriate  ? Answer pager 9-5 for Cardiology App Team  ? 1st level of support for Elyria, St. John, Parma, Ahuja, CMC and outpatient offices and hospitals  ? Transfer studies to and from other partnered hospitals  ? Assist is supporting large collection of Cardio applications:  ? Nucleus.io  ? Sectra IEP, VNA and PACS  ? GE XPER, MUSE, Cardio lab, Centricity and DMS  ? Synapse  ? Siemens Syngo Dynamics  ? Heart flow  ? Paceart  ? Assist with vendor escalations for Cath, PEDS and Echo  ? Assist Cardio Applications Team by collecting data, contacting vendors, assisting teams with reappointment info for Docs  ? Use ServiceNow to answer ticket requests from call ins to the Helpdesk and resolving tickets or forwarding to correct departments Senior Network Engineer Click IT - Chagrin Falls, OH July 2018 to February 2019 Responsible for company infrastructure  ? Managed clients server infrastructure and network  ? Lead tech and consultant  ? Responsible for Firewall deploy and Solarwinds monitoring platform for MSP management Network Engineer Starfish Computer Corp July 2017 to July 2018 Responsible for clients Onsite IT needs including Server, Software and Workstations  ? Helpdesk duties as needed. Answered phones and remoted into client's systems to address issues.  ? Worked with Tigerpaw Helpdesk and Continuum  ? Maintained clients servers and workstations  ? Worked primarily with VMware and Windows Server 2012 R2  ? Worked with Datto backup systems  ? Primarily worked with HP server, workstations and switches  ? Help customers manage VLAN environments for phones and PCs  ? Certified in Digium/SwitchVox VoIP Systems Senior Network Engineer ClickIT - Chagrin Falls, OH October 2016 to July 2017 Responsible for company infrastructure  ? Managed clients server infrastructure and network  ? Lead tech and consultant  ? Responsible for Firewall deploy and Solarwinds monitoring platform for MSP management Server Infrastructure Engineer CompuCom - Cleveland, OH November 2015 to October 2016 Responsible for international servers, printers and multi national Lighting environment  ? Leading migration efforts to GE Corporate split from Appliances due to sale of GE Appliances division  ? Represent GE to Xerox for GE Lighting business vendor relations.  ? Lead P2V of remaining physical servers to reduce waste footprint across all Lighting manufacturing facilities  ? Use Cisco Network registry and Cisco IPAM to document and procure DHCP across all Lighting business.  ? Assist in migration of DHCP from CNR to Inter Connect (GE Corp solution for DHCP)  ? Run ITIL reporting across Service Now helpdesk for GE Lighting Compute Team. Work HD tickets as required.  ? Lead migrations of servers into GE Corp from Legacy GE Lighting and Appliances domain.  ? Run utilization reports for all EMC Avamar, Celera and Data Domain environments for storage use and take over for GE Corp.  ? Maintain Cisco UCS VMware environment. Build servers for new APP deploys and upgrades.  ? Goto server team lead for all of Nela Park. Assist new users onboarding into International Lighting L2 Compute Team for migration  to GE Corp. Network Manager Lake Metroparks - Concord, OH May 2015 to November 2015 Responsible for 4 sites  ? Hired to manage AD infrastructure and find flaws in Site replication.  ? Windows Server 2008/2012 R2 and HyperV environment  ? Manage email systems and all network related issues Self Employed Boutique IT Solutions February 2013 to May 2015 Click IT Northeast Ohio  Senior Network Consultant  ? Routine/preventative Maintenance for several NEO companies.  ? Maintain personal Clients including  ? 5 POS systems and server for Giuseppe's Pizza.  ? Older servers and Sales and Catering Systems for Embassy Suites Beachwood. (Currently in negotiations for site  survey upgrade)  ? 2 Servers and workstations including OpenTable PC for Quail Hollow Resort.  ? Maintain and troubleshoot Windows SBS 2003, 2008, 20012 server.  ? Maintain, setup and troubleshoot Windows XP, 7 and 8 client PC's in domain and non domain environments.  ? Support of many different types of industry from: aerospace, manufacturing, accounting, attorney, and doctors offices  ? Responsible for several web servers (IIS6, 7 and 8), internally hosted DNS, Managed services dashboard of about 30 clients and setup of new infrastructure for clients including Windows 2012 and Anywhere access of Windows Essentials.  ? Responsible for purchase and installation of SSL certs.  ? Responsible for GoDaddy accounts.  ? Maintain Hyper-V servers with 12 virtuals. Network Consultant Cleveland Clinic Foundation - Cleveland, OH October 2009 to December 2012 Critical Care support for ICU's and OR's for all CCF Hospitals and family health centers.  ? Specific support for Cardiac Imaging programs: Syngo Dynamics, Syngo Imaging, TeraReacon, Syngo VIA  ? On call holidays and weekends  ? Maintain Non-Domain PC's for doctors and critical care staff  ? Approx. responsible for 1900 users and 700 PC's  ? Create Symantec Ghost Images for critical areas including Cath, Echo, OR's and ICU's  ? Server maintenance for specified software above.  ? Helpdesk, pager and phone support, including RSA VPN access on the weekends.  ? Archiver support on OpenSolaris for all modality and studies. 6000TB SAN  ? Troubleshoot Ultrasound machines.  ? Structured Reporting go to person for Echo and PEDS  ? Develop PEDS Cath report for billing to Epic system  ? HL7 reconciliation of health care records for billing systems in EPIC from Syngo Dynamics. IT Director Elkins Earthworks LLC - Medina, OH September 2008 to September 2009 Setup and maintain client's infrastructure including software, hardware, and security.  ? In charge for all purchasing of IT based software and hardware.  ? Diagnose Windows Mobile 2003, 5 and 6.x Trimble devices for data collection.  ? Symantec Endpoint deployment with custom policy creation.  ? Develop proper company computer usage policy.  ? Maintain company cell phones and records. (Used Sharepoint services to make all bills searchable)  ? Website maintenance of 2 websites. Custom ftp backup for remote laptops (19 users) Network Consultant Network Results Inc - Willoughby, OH December 2007 to September 2008 Setup and maintain client's infrastructure including software, hardware, and security.  ? Act as several North East Ohio's small business' IT department.  ? Deploy SBS 2003 to several clients.  ? Maintain clients environments through monthly service contracts. Network Administrator / Mobile Communications Administrator Flight Options LLC - Richmond Heights, OH February 2006 to December 2007 Responsible for 800+ Blackberry's  ? Repaired / Replaced Blackberry's as needed (Approx. 75 per month)  ? Manage 4 Blackberry Enterprise Servers  ? Manage updates for the entire company through Windows Software Update Server (WSUS)  ? Manage backups for the company, (LTO Library)  ? Monitor and deploy all antivirus software to clients, servers, and email systems  ? Manage SPAM whitelists and blacklists on Astaro firewall and Symantec Mail Security  ? Assisted with Group Policy implementation  ? Communicate and work with all levels of the business:  * Executive  * Management / Director  * User / General Employee Network Administrator Javitch, Block and Rathbone - Cleveland, OH February 2003 to February 2006 Level II  ? Setup new users with PC's  ? Microsoft " Windows Software Update Services" (WSUS) administrator  ? Record business processes for software use  ? Group Policy Administrator for the firm  ? Monitor all aspects of the computer network  ? Setup Client for Cisco 3000 VPN Concentrator  ? Novell, Windows NT, 2000, 2003, 98, and XP environment. Microsoft Office Suite 2000-2003  ? Maintain existing Intrasite web  ? 350+ users in 6 offices in 2 states  ? Administration of Exchange 5.5 mail server  ? Upgrade and Migrate existing NT4 servers over to Windows 2000 Server  ? Decision maker in purchasing software and systems  ? Maintain inventory of all computers, servers and software with Alloy Network Analyzer Software  ? Maintain backups for all servers: LTO, DDS4, DDS3  ? Responsible for phone systems using MatWorx phone suite (NEC Dterm Digital Phones)    Part time help (6 Years) Command Business Systems Willoughby, OH  PC Support  -Travel and on-site  Required to travel to client's business to resolve computer and printer problems  (Travel all around Cleveland)  ? Driver problems  ? Printer Problem resolution  ? Installs and upgrades  ? Network fixes  ? Troubleshoot problems with printers and computers  ? Build custom systems for clients (ground up building)  ? Mostly maintenance contract work  ? Responsible for Best Buy, Circuit City and Micro Center's in-home warranty service PC Help Desk RHI Consulting - Cleveland, OH 1999 to 1999 -University Hospitals of Cleveland  ? Pager and phone support required  ? Responsible for 600 users  ? Offered support for printers, dumb terminals, and some PC  ? Used COPATH Laboratory Systems program  ? Mainframe access to view problem as first line of defense  ? Interaction with clients and working as a team to resolve problems  ? Several help desk references available if question could not be answer Norstan Communications Y2k Help Desk Alternative Resources Corp - Cleveland, OH 1999 to 1999 Take incoming calls and answer question regarding Year 2000 compliance of telecommunication equipment.  ? Quote customers if upgrade on equipment is needed.  ? Redirect customers on some equipment to appropriate regional representative for quote.  ? Used Microsoft Access to make queries to collect data linked to customer table.  ? Used Access to update customer tables.  ? Used Microsoft Word's "Mail Merge" to link Access queries to "auto format" contracts.  ? Used Clarify (phone recorder software) and TeleMagic to look up customer records, create cases, record phone notes etc.. when calls where received.  ? Used Aspect and ROLM phone systems to place and receive calls.  ? Used the Internet to gather information regarding Year 2000 readiness on telecommunication equipment.  ? Used Microsoft Exchange and Outlook 98' to receive e-mail.  ? Used Right Fax (fax software) and fax machine to send out documents, information, and quotes to customers.  ? Had Technicians dial into phone switches to verify software levels of phone switch.  ? Dispatched technicians if needed to check status of equipment and to process work.  ? Worked in Windows 95 environment with Office 97  ? Logged onto Windows NT 4.0 and Unix Servers  - Auto Zone (Server and Satellite Upgrade) 30 day contract  ? Determine if site had updated Unix server.  ? If new server required, backup system files on SCSI tape drive, insert into new server and upload files.  ? Change Network Interface Card setting from 10Base/2 to 10Base/T  ? Add additional satellite unit called a SAR (Stand Alone Relay).  ? Reconfigure Unix server to read SAR unit. Had to change TCP/IP address.  ? Replaced BNC connector on NIC card with RJ-45 cable.  ? Connect all RJ-45 cables into new Ethernet HUB.  ? After all work completed, verify that system applications all run correctly. Education Cleveland State University and Lakeland Community College 1994 to 1996 Skills Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux Assessments Technical Support — Completed April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tqghxnmrttrzvhhs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technologies Desktop Systems  ? Windows XP  ? Windows 7  ? Winodows 8 and 8.1  ? Windows 10    Server Systems  ? Windows 2003  ? Windows 2008 and 2008 R2  ? Windows 2012 and 2012 R2  ? Windows SBS 2003, 2008, 2011  ? VMWare ESXi 5, 5.5, 6, 6.7  ? HyperV Server 2016  ? Citrix XenServer 7.x Std.    Utilities and Other Known Technologies  ? Linux Openfiler (iSCSI)  ? iSCSI (Microsoft)  ? Watchguard Firewalls  ? High Availability Cluster Services for HyperV  ? Active Directory and Group Policy  ? WSUS (Windows Server Update Services)  ? HyperV  ? Basic Powershell  ? Other virtualization utilities such as P2V, Vmware Player  ? Sonicwall Firewall  ? Sophos Firewall  ? pfsense Firewall  ? Untangle Firewall  ? Microsoft TMG (Threat Management Gateway)  ? Site to Site VPN  ? Microsoft CHAP and CHAP v2  ? OpenVPN  ? IIS, SSL administration, DNS and DHCP  ? SQL maintenance and installation  ? Exchange Server 5.5, 2000, 2003, 2007, 2010  ? ServiceNow ITIL