Information Technology Specialist Information Technology Specialist Information Technology Specialist - LSINC Corporation Fayetteville, TN 13 years experience as a maintenance mechanic.  8+ years experience in computer repair and service.  Plumbing Experience.  Electrical Experience.  HVAC Experience  Boiler experience  Flooring Experience  Construction Experience Work Experience Information Technology Specialist LSINC Corporation July 2017 to Present Administration of VM servers and hosts (Hyper V), Administration of Active Directory, Administration of user workstations, Administration of Network devices including all Wi-Fi, Firewall, Switches, Administration of Office 365, Google Administration, QuickBooks Administration, Exchange Email Administration, Monitoring of all traffic coming in and out of the network, Maintenance of all devices including security patches and software updates. Network Administrator Traveller Multimedia Network August 2011 to June 2017 Primary responsibility is to manage and maintain the core network for sending and storing studies for Radiology of Huntsville. Core devices include but not limited to Cisco ASA Firewalls, Cisco Routers and Switches, Linux Servers, and APC UPS' Other responsibilities include the management of demark locations and customer equipment needed for the Internet access that we provide as a WISP. Machine Specialist Cinram Mfg 1998 to 2011 Primary responsibilities included front line maintenance, troubleshooting, and preventive maintenance for hydraulic, pneumatic, electric, and vacuum systems related to the manufacturing of optical disks. Schwarze Industries, Inc May 1997 to August 1998 Responsibilities included the assembly of parking lot sweepers for the company. Education diploma Madison County High School 1993 to 1997 Skills Networking, Active Directory, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Vmware, Customer Service, Security Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s4swbckbosxosnij Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zakkxd3yjh9vpt-3 Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sj1rwwynkasqukar Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.