President President Akron, OH Work Experience President SMB Solutions - Akron, OH 2002 to 2014 Programmer Network Design Natural Leadership Computer Configuration    Dynamic and experienced Network and System Administrator with 25+ years' experience in multiple IT Technology Administration roles including project management, software development, and network administration. EnsureD comprehensive implementation of processes and policies to maximize production and streamline core operations. Consummate professional with comprehensive business acumen, skilled interpersonal skills, and solid negotiation skills. Innate ability to drive high-functioning teams in fast-paced and complex situations. Effective and proven track record of critical thinking, process improvement, and efficiencies.    Active Directory Collaborative Team Building IT Administration Technical Requirements Staff Training Thought Leader Logistics Windows Client and Server Organizational Effectiveness Project Management Strategic Vision Critical Thinking Analytical Skills Microsoft Certified iOS Device Support Android Support Process Improvement    Professional Experience  SMB Solutions Akron, OH 2002 - 2014  President  * Ensured customer programming and network design through root cause analysis and troubleshooting per client specifications.  * Provided world class customer and client service in a professional and courteous manner.  * Authored multiple software packages including a Borland Delphi freeware packet sniffer, a Borland Delphi VNC password decoder, and a Borland Delphi Microsoft SQL Server authentication packet monitor and decoder.  * Developed and implemented a Borland Delphi encryption / decryption DLL for use with Alaska xBase++ IT Manager Gougler Industries - Kent, OH January 2011 to May 2012 * Oversaw all aspects of IT management including two separate sites with field employees.  * Effectively upgraded client desktops to new hardware with Microsoft Windows 7 and Office 2010.  * Drove infrastructure improvements moving from Windows Server 2000/2003 to Windows Server 20008 R2.  * Ensured the virtualization of existing servers on IBM Blade Centers using Hyper-V.  * Developed custom reports in Microsoft Dynamics NAV 2009 R2, Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services and customer programming in Embarcadero Delphi.    SELECT ACCOMPLISHMENTS  * Realized improvement in unreliable equipment through upgrading to four IBM x series blade servers.  * Upgraded all different style PCs to one standard across the board creating a standardized image of Microsoft Windows 7.  * Effectively negotiated a contract with Verizon for all corporate cell phones to be replaced with iPhones resulting in a cost reduction of $1000 a month. Network Administrator Linden Industries - Cuyahoga Falls, OH April 2006 to April 2007 * Successfully installed and maintained all network equipment, workstations, printers, and servers per company specifications.  * Oversaw IT operations for two separate sites including delegating workload and driving expectations.  * Created and implemented reports utilizing Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services. Programmer / Analyst TPA Computer Systems - Akron, OH July 2004 to April 2006 * Utilized Alaska Software xBase++ and Inprise Delphi to develop reporting and security programs for proprietary third-party insurance administrator software.  * Authored and edited Inprise Delphi programs to better e-mail PDF reports to clients ensuring solid customer service.  * Drove the implementation of e-mail and internet access using Windows Small Business Server 2003. Programmer / Analyst Foundation Software Inc - Brunswick, OH 2003 to 2004 * Successfully created and implemented customer reporting using Crystal Reports and Borland Delphi from Microsoft SQL Server databases.  * Authored Borland Delphi programs to apply schema updates to customer updates.  * Successfully evaluated new software tools and procedures to better streamline operations. Network Administrator Steelcase Inc - Solon, OH 1999 to 2002 * Successfully installed and maintained all network equipment, workstations, printers, and servers per company specifications.  * Maintained SQL databases for ERP system. Network Administrator American Architectural Products Corp - Boardman, OH 1998 to 1999 * Successfully installed and maintained all network equipment, workstations, printers, and servers per company specifications for nine sites.  * Maintained SQL databases for ERP system. Network Administrator Louisiana-Pacific Corp - Barberton, OH 1996 to 1998 * Successfully installed and maintained all network equipment, workstations, printers, and servers per company specifications for three sites.  * Utilized Nantucket Clipper to develop proprietary software tailored for scheduling and tracking manufacturing windows and window parts. Programmer / Analyst Elite Software and Consulting Inc - Akron, OH 1995 to 1996 Utilized Borland Delphi to develop proprietary software tailored to each client's individual needs. Education Bachelor's Degree in Network Design and Management Western Governor's University Associate's Degree in Applied Business University of Akron Skills System Administrator, Mcse, Networking, Active Directory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/don-geiger-356370171 Certifications/Licenses MCP Present MCSA Present MCSE Present MCDBA Present A+ Certified Present Network+ Present Security+ Present Server+