Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Georgia Community Bancorp Leesburg, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Georgia Community Bancorp - Dawson, GA January 2011 to Present • Review project plans to plan and coordinate project activity.  • Manage backup, security and user help systems.  • Develop and interpret organizational goals, policies, and procedures.  • Develop computer information resources, providing for data security and control, strategic computing, and disaster recovery.  • Consult with users, management, vendors, and technicians to assess computing needs and system requirements.  • Stay abreast of advances in technology.  • Meet with department heads, managers, supervisors, vendors, and others, to solicit cooperation and resolve problems.  • Provide users with technical support for computer problems.  • Recruit, hire, train and supervise staff, or participate in staffing decisions.  • Evaluate data processing proposals to assess project feasibility and requirements.  • Control operational budget and expenditures.  • Review and approve all systems charts and programs prior to their implementation.  • Direct daily operations of department, analyzing workflow, establishing priorities, developing standards and setting deadlines.  • Evaluate the organization's technology use and needs and recommend improvements, such as hardware and software upgrades.  • Prepare and review operational reports or project progress reports.  • Purchase necessary equipment.  • Review project plans to plan and coordinate project activity.  • Manage backup, security and user help systems.  • Develop and interpret organizational goals, policies, and procedures.  • Develop computer information resources, providing for data security and control, strategic computing, and disaster recovery.  • Consult with users, management, vendors, and technicians to assess computing needs and system requirements.  • Designed and implemented all technology related policies.  • Managed data processing department. Data Processing Technician Bank of Terrell - Dawson, GA August 2008 to January 2011 • Enter commands, using computer terminal, and activate controls on computer and peripheral equipment to integrate and operate equipment.  • Monitor the system for equipment failure or errors in performance.  • Respond to program error messages by finding and correcting problems or terminating the program.  • Answer telephone calls to assist computer users encountering problems.  • Record information such as computer operating time, problems that occurred, and actions taken.  • Operate spreadsheet programs and other types of software to load and manipulate data and to produce reports.  • Retrieve, separate and sort program output as needed, and send data to specified users.  • Oversee the operation of computer hardware systems, including coordinating and scheduling the use of computer terminals and networks to ensure efficient use.  • Read job set-up instructions to determine equipment to be used, order of use, material such as disks and paper to be loaded, and control settings.  • Load peripheral equipment with selected materials for operating runs, or oversee loading of peripheral equipment by peripheral equipment operators.  • Type command on keyboard to transfer encoded data from memory unit to magnetic tape and assist in labeling, classifying, cataloging and maintaining tapes.  • Enter commands, using computer terminal, and activate controls on computer and peripheral equipment to integrate and operate equipment. Bookkeeper Bank of Terrell - Dawson, GA May 2008 to August 2008 • Check figures, postings, and documents for correct entry, mathematical accuracy, and proper codes.  • Classify, record, and summarize numerical and financial data to compile and keep financial records, using journals and ledgers or computers.  • Comply with federal, state, and company policies, procedures, and regulations.  • Compile statistical, financial, accounting or auditing reports and tables pertaining to such matters as cash receipts, expenditures, accounts payable and receivable, and profits and losses.  • Code documents according to company procedures.  • Reconcile or note and report discrepancies found in records.  • Perform general office duties such as filing, answering telephones, and handling routine correspondence.  • Perform personal bookkeeping services.  • Prepare bank deposits by compiling data from cashiers, verifying and balancing receipts, and sending cash, checks, or other forms of payment to banks.  • Reconcile records of bank transactions. Education Master of Arts University of Georgia - Athens, GA June 1995 Bachelor of Fine Arts in Fine Arts University of Georgia - Athens, GA June 1992 Skills System Administrator, Windows, Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support