Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology - GAUDENZIA, INC Wilmington, DE • Spearheaded an upgrade project that resulted in $400K worth of savings in equipment.  • Providing prompt and tactful support for a multi-state company with more than 1K end-users.  • Implementing a number of electronic document management systems to increase productivity.  • Reduced bandwidth through VPN tunnels by facilitating the migration of more than 1K employees to Office 365.  • Streamlined support request processes to enable a quicker response and maximize productivity.  • Played essential role in increasing revenue by 9% through the implementation of an electronic health record system. Work Experience Director of Information Technology GAUDENZIA, INC - Norristown, PA 2012 to Present Drive implementation of technical solutions for this non-profit healthcare services company. Direct IT staff in providing support service for 65 remote sites. Lead network engineering endeavors, telecommunications priorities, and vendor contract negotiations. Analyze efficiency of current systems and identify enhancement opportunities.  • Orchestrated successful migration from LAN-based systems to the cloud.  • Updated disaster recovery plan to ensure minimal downtime.  • Directed installation of Comstar VoIP phone systems while serving as project manager.  • Increased employee work efficiency after deploying Aruba enterprise wireless network at all sites.  • Facilitated migration to a web-based accounting software while ensuring absolute integrity to sensitive data. Network Administrator GLEN MILLS SCHOOL - Concordville, PA 2002 to 2012 Provided executive-level technical support for a wide-range of systems for a network of more than 1K end-users. Prioritized requests from help desk and delegated tasks to IT support staff. Delivered hand-on training for classroom teachers and administrators on a variety of applications.  • Oversaw multiple deployments of new technology with zero disruption to daily operations.  • Strengthened employee morale by improving support desk operations. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX Associate of Applied Science in Architectural Engineering in Architectural Engineering DELAWARE TECHNICAL AND COMMUNITY COLLEGE Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a6epjm04pwsa6bqn Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lnugfnyo5wubj4bx Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.