IT Director IT Director IT Director - LIVING WATER INTERNATIONAL Richmond, TX Work Experience IT Director LIVING WATER INTERNATIONAL - Stafford, TX 2009 to Present Stafford, TX - 2009-Present  Faith-based, non-profit organization that helps communities in developing countries to create sustainable water,  sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) programs in response to the global water crisis.  IT Director  Manage all information technology functions and activities for the organization (380 Employees worldwide).  Recruit, hire, mentor, and supervise team members; report to the Senior IT Director. Manage 6-figure budget and direct the full lifecycles of software development projects.  Establish and maintain relationships with regional offices as well as international teams to identify  opportunities for improvement, including email and remote access to network resources. Oversee Azure-based  data warehouse infrastructure.  KEY CONTRIBUTIONS & ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  ? Led multiple key projects and initiatives over a 9-year period that included:  - Designing and implementing Citrix high-availability XenServer environment  - Configure and Support Microsoft Azure Environment  - Creating network/server architecture to protect against hardware failure and natural disasters.  ? Improved auditing efficiency by over 50% through centralizing all international accounting data to provide easier, quicker information access.  ? Increased the organization's internet access speed by 75% through overseeing internet upgrade from T-1 to a direct fiber access.  https://www.linkedin.com/in/tony-archibold-97172039/  Houston, TX 77084• 713-503-0733 • tarchibold@outlook.com    ? Improved server speed and uptime through researching, selecting, and implementing redundant  ISCSI storage network.  ? Increased computing ROI via Cloud solution, leveraging Azure for data warehouse infrastructure. Network Administrator TEXAS SYSTEMS AND CONTROLS - Tomball, TX 2007 to 2009 Held full responsibility for all aspects of IT, including 8 servers and over 65 workstations (office-level computers  to 3D CAD design systems). Directed and mentored support team members who fielded inquiries from the staff and performed maintenance/troubleshooting/repair activities.  KEY CONTRIBUTIONS & ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  ? Achieved completion of technology requirements for the Austin satellite office ahead of time and under budget, including configuration and connection to the HQ location.  ? Introduced system of performing impromptu security checks of servers and networks to verify  adequate virus protection and compliance with corporate procedures.  ? Led team of electricians to install network cabling and phone wiring to industry standards for an office expansion project, resulting $1,000s in savings on contracted labor.  ? Created intranet support blog with comprehensive guides and FAQs to help users resolve issues as well as learn new procedures. Systems Support Technician ITT TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Houston, TX 2006 to 2007 In charge of the Student & Staff Network within the Houston West ITT campus. Supervised maintenance and repair activities for 200+ workstations and 5 servers. Led team of 6 in hardware and software deployments.  Provided detailed technical training and guidance to direct-report student workers. Completed data backups and maintained both application and curriculum software.  KEY CONTRIBUTIONS & ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  ? Reduced PC rollout times and generated savings in labor hours through analyzing and optimizing the image delivery process.  ? Produced unexpected revenues from excess equipment following project management of office  space reduction initiative.  ? Trained and mentored direct reports in IT best practices. Education BS in Information Technology Colorado State University Skills Active Directory (Less than 1 year), Exchange (Less than 1 year), Firewalls (Less than 1 year), Solutions (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tony-archibold-97172039