Core Network Engineer/ Consultant Core <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/ Consultant Core Network Engineer/ Consultant - TravelClick - Amadeus Company Arlington Heights, IL An experienced IT professional with over 8 years of progressive Networking experiance is seeking a Network engineering position that would allow me to apply and enhance my technical skills. Work Experience Core Network Engineer/ Consultant TravelClick - Amadeus Company - Schaumburg, IL January 2019 to Present • Sets up, configures, and supports internal and external networks.  • Administering and supporting of Palo Alto & Cisco firewalls.  • Administering and supporting of Cisco ACI  • Administration and troubleshooting of Cisco ISE.  • Implementation, management, and troubleshooting connectivity, routing, and configuration issues in a data center environment.  • VPN deployment and management.  • Administration, deployment and troubleshooting for Cisco Meraki Wi-Fi infrastructure.  • Maintaining Cisco Meraki Dashboard (configurations, statistics, and client-device information )  • F5 administration ( LTM and GTM )  • Supports internal network infrastructure consisting of predominantly Cisco switching platforms Nexus 9K,7K,5K's,2950,3500,3650,4000,4500,6500, 6800,and 3850 and routers 1800/2800/2900 /4300/920  • Troubleshooting and configuring BGP, OSP ,and EIGRP routing protocols..  • Troubleshoots network performance issues and assists with creating and maintaining a disaster recovery plan.  • Recommends network and systems upgrades.  • Provides consultation/management/contribution on complex projects as assigned.  • Supports implementation of TACACS+ server on Cisco devices.  • Implements SSL VPN/DMVPN for remote sites. Core Network Engineer/ Consultant EXELON Corporation March 2018 to December 2018 • Maintain Core Network Component Vendors to create specific Service and Application Roadmap.  • Daily maintenance, troubleshooting , and design activities on company network infrastructure including but not limited to the following: switches and routers (Cisco Catalyst and Nexus), firewalls (Cisco ASA/Palo Alto), URL filtering, IPSEC and SSL VPN technologies (Cisco ASA), load balancers (F5) , and monitoring platform (SolarWinds )  • Administration, deployment and troubleshooting for Cisco Meraki Wi-Fi infrastructure.  • Maintaining Cisco Meraki Dashboard (including both; network and organization levels )  • Cisco ACI administration - leaf/spin ACI fabric.  • Day to day FW cluster administration  • Conduct background in IP/Layer 2/Layer 3 networking, LAN/WAN and EMS network architecture.  • Troubleshooting and configuring dynamic routing protocols such as BGP, EIGRP, and OSPF  • Engage in Core Network Component Price Negotiations.  • Assess L2/L3 IP test plans, tunnels, and acceptance criteria for network designs.  • Handle proof of concept testing and network design validation in lab.  • Function as POC for Core Network Planning efforts on new systems implementation within national network.  • Grasp Core Network design, functionality and operation.  • Create capacity planning standards and guidelines for network's expansion.  • Coordinate with OPS Engineering groups and SG Engineering.  • Support network and space development, system acceptance test criteria and performance applications.  • Extend technical support to customers through remote and on-site troubleshooting.  • Offer technical solutions and hands-on support on networking core infrastructure projects.  • Work in fast paced dynamic environment and under high pressure. Senior Network Engineer INTLFCStone - Chicago, IL August 2017 to January 2018 • Sets up, configures, and supports internal and external networks.  • Administering and supporting of Palo Alto & Cisco firewalls.  • Administration and troubleshooting of Cisco ISE.  • Implementation, management, and troubleshooting connectivity, routing, and configuration issues in a data center environment.  • VPN deployment and management.  • Administration, deployment and troubleshooting for Cisco Meraki Wi-Fi infrastructure.  • Maintaining Cisco Meraki Dashboard (configurations, statistics, and client-device information )  • F5 administration  • Supports internal network infrastructure consisting of predominantly Cisco switching platforms Nexus 9K,7K,5K's,2950,3500,3650,4000,4500,6500, 6800,and 3850 and routers 1800/2800/2900 /4300/920  • Troubleshooting and configuring BGP, and OSPF routing protocols.  • Develops and maintains all systems, applications, and network configurations.  • Troubleshoots network performance issues and assists with creating and maintaining a disaster recovery plan.  • Recommends network and systems upgrades.  • Provides technical support and guidance to users and IT staff.  • Provides consultation/management/contribution on complex projects as assigned.  • Supports implementation of TACACS+ server on Cisco devices.  • Implements SSL VPN/DMVPN for remote sites  • Configures and tests new Cisco devices before addition to production environment Senior Network /Telecom Engineer - Consultant Verizon Wireless - Schaumburg, IL April 2015 to August 2017 • Network design and implementation of 4G/5GLTE backbone and cell sites facilities.  • Configured and maintained Cisco networking devices and infrastructure such as Cisco 2900, 3900, and 7200, 920, 1800 series routers and 2900, 3700, 38006850, 3850, and 4500 series switches.  • Troubleshooting and configuring MPLS, and OSPF routing protocols.  • Administration and troubleshooting of Cisco ISE.  • Implementation, management, and troubleshooting connectivity, routing, and configuration issues in a data center environment.  • VPN deployment and management.  • F5 administration  • Administering and supporting Cisco firewalls  • Provided support for installation and configuration of SNMP based monitoring.  • VPN deployment and management.  • Ensured conformity to operational standards by implementing QoS techniques such as traffic shaping.  • Actively involved in route filtering and redistribution.  • Supported implementation of TACACS+ server on Cisco devices.  • Monitored and analyzed network traffic and performance.  • Responsible for documenting upgrades/changes by use of Microsoft Visio.  • Configured and tested new Cisco devices before addition to production environment.  • Actively involved in integration projects with focus on documentation and maintenance of new solutions.  • Implemented SSL VPN/DMVPN for remote sites.  • Performed backups of router configuration files.  • Firewall cluster modifications - editing and adding new access rules/ groups  • Modifying VRF families if required Network Engineer IPSoft, Inc - Chicago, IL October 2014 to April 2015 • Configured and maintained Cisco networking devices and infrastructure such as Cisco 2900, 3900, and 7200 series routers and 2900, 3700, 3800, and 4500 series switches.  • Provided support for installation and configuration of SNMP based monitoring.  • Implementation, management, and troubleshooting connectivity, routing, and configuration issues in a data center environment.  • VPN deployment and management.  • F5 administration  • Ensured conformity to operational standards by implementing QoS techniques such as traffic shaping.  • Actively involved in route filtering and redistribution.  • Supported implementation of TACACS+ server on Cisco devices.  • Monitored and analyzed network traffic and performance.  • VPN deployment and management.  • Juniper SRX firewall administration.  • Responsible for documenting upgrades/changes by use of Microsoft Visio.  • Configured and tested new Cisco devices before addition to production environment.  • Actively involved in integration projects with focus on documentation and maintenance of new solutions.  • Implemented SSL VPN/DMVPN for remote sites.  • Performed backups of router configuration files.  • Firewall cluster modifications - editing and adding new access rules/ groups  • Modifying VRF families if required  • Provides 1st and 2nd-tier support for networks, systems, databases and applications  • Automates tasks as much as possible through the development of scripts and administration tools. Monitoring of system stability, availability and performance.  • Ensuring 24x7x365 operation of internal and client systems.  • Supports client network connections and devices.  • Interacts with clients and service providers to ensure timely correction of network issues.  • Assists in implementing new network technologies and equipment by working with a team of network engineers.  • Performs documentation of procedures.    OnX Managed Services Naperville, IL Cloud Management Network Engineer June 2014 to October 2014 • Participates in various network projects including design, implementation and troubleshooting.  • Heavy Network Security experience with IPSec, AnyConnect, NAT, VPN modules  • Provides 3rd level troubleshooting.  • Designs, setup, and implement VPN and WAN solutions.  • Test/Update IPS signature sets as they are released by Cisco.  • Maintain comprehensive documentation for all implemented networks.  • Performs network infrastructure upgrades and routine hardware configuration.  • BGP, OSPF, RIPV2, EIGRP, L3-7 switching, HSRP, VoIP and Multicast;  • Experience with configuring and/or provisioning of various WAN technologies including MPLS, Frame-relay, point-to-point Network / Telecom Transport Engineer - Contractor Verizon Wireless - Schaumburg, IL August 2011 to June 2014 • Provides engineering support of multi-user telecommunications system hardware and software, to include design, installation and implementation, analysis, operation, maintenance, training, and problem resolutions.  • Network design and implementation of 4G LTE backbone and cell sites facilities.  • Prepares installation s specifications, and monitors progress of installation to ensure facilities are ready on specified date.  • Investigates, plans, implements, and tests telecommunications software.  • Prepares on-line and hard copy documentation of systems and user applications.  • Provides recommendations for system changes.  • DS1 and DS3 access and troubleshooting.  • Working knowledge with SONET, Ethernet backhaul and microwave networks.  • Telco coordination and escalation for chronic spans. Network Administrator/ IT Consultant Global Mobility Services - Schaumburg, IL June 2010 to August 2011 • Implementing and Troubleshooting Routers, Switches, WLAN etc.  • Vlan configuration to segment the traffic based on user requirements.  • Structured cable laying plan and connectivity.  • Installation of Switch Rack, Jack panel  • Hardware and software installation of 4G LTE ALU 7705 Alcatel-Lucent Router.  • Voice Vlan installation and troubleshooting.  • Configuration and troubleshooting routing protocols.  • Troubleshooting Ethernet, FDDI and interoperability issues with protocols TCP/IP Participating in SNMP based Security-Alarm in building project with Verizon wireless.  • Network design, installation, monitoring and troubleshooting  • Develop and maintain documentation and procedures for systems (hardware & software)  • Installation and troubleshooting of Alcatel-Lucent and Cisco 4G LTE equipment  • Managing organization's external communication with its clients and supplier. Network Administrator Sani Insurance - Lincolnwood, IL July 2009 to June 2010 • Building small office network from ground up.  • Cable layout plan and connectivity.  • Troubleshooting T1 lines.  • Resolving common Cisco Catalyst switch network connectivity issues.  • Common NIC issues and resolutions.  • Cisco 1841 Router firmware upgrade.  • Vlan configuration and troubleshooting.  • Troubleshoot PC, network, and Internet hardware malfunctions to determine source of the problems  • Configuration of Local and Network Printing  • Solve the day-by-day problem of Internet, Intranet and Computer hardware  • Establish and maintain vendor relationships for related software and hardware. Serves as resource to Help Desk in solving complex problems. Education Masters of Science in Human Resource Management in Human Resource Management Roosevelt University - Chicago, IL September 2007 to December 2009 Skills Bgp, Ccnp, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Juniper, Mpls, Ospf, Remote access, Router, Switching, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Vpn, Cisco certified network professional, Dns, Firewalls, Load balancing, Network security Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Operating Systems: Windows 95/98/NT/2000/2003/XP/7/8, Granite Inventory, and CTS  • Networking: Routing, Switching, Wireless, Cisco Meraki, Remote Access, Network Trouble-Shooting  • Protocols & Connectivity: TCP/IP, EIGRP, OSPF and OSPFV3, RIP, BGP, SNMP, ICMP, PPP, HDLC, GRE,DMVPN, SSL, IPSec, MPLS, VRF, Metro WAN/LAN, HSRP, QoS, F5 Load Balancing, ACL, VLAN, Port Security, RPVST+, VTP, DHCP, DNS, VLSM, Netflow, Wireshark  • Router platform: 1600/1750/1800/2800/2900 /4300/920  • Switch platform: Nexus 5K, 7K, and 9K/2950/3500/3650/4000/4500/6500/6800/3850  • VPN/ Network security platforms: IPSEC, DMVPN , Cisco ASA 5505/5510 and ASA X generation firewalls, CheckPoint, Palo Alto, Juniper SRX,CISCO ISE  • Network Telecom Applications: Cisco ACI, Granite Inventory, Sitera, Citrux , SiteTracker, and CTS    SUMMARY OF IT QUALIFICATIONS:  • Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP)  • Track record solving network issues in timely and cost efficient manner while maintaining client Service Level Agreements up-time.  • Working knowledge with VoLTE, 3G, 4G LTE, and 5G Equipment.  • Exceptional experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments  • Possess excellent interpersonal, organizational, and communication skills.