Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Hilo, HI Enthusiastic self-starter with record of excellent performance in Information Technology and electronic repair support. Experience includes network and systems administration for Microsoft applications and server operating systems. Experience and training complimented by aviation electronics military background. Reputation for dependability, mature work ethic. Commitment to providing exceptional service and support. Co-operative, team oriented professional. Work Experience Network Administrator Mauna Loa Macadamia Nut Corp - Hilo, HI May 2004 to October 2018 Performed network and system administration for the Hershey Company. Provided desktop for Windows and Macintosh PC's, network and software support for employees at the Hilo and Halawa locations. Experience in the manufacturing IT environment. Supported inventory, barcode and manufacturing system (Great Plains MFG module). Supported retail visitor center at Mauna Loa. Installed and maintained current POS (Counterpoint). Designed and engineered self-guided tour video system. Maintained network requirements for PCI compliance on all credit card terminals. Installed and maintained door access and video surveillance systems. Network Engineer IT Source - Federal Way, WA January 2002 to June 2003 Performed network engineer services for IT outsourcing company. Provided desktop, network and software support to multiple clients throughout Federal Way and surrounding Seattle area. Systems Engineer NAS Products, Connex - San Jose, CA September 2000 to June 2001 Perform System Engineering and sales services for Account Executives for this IT storage industry leader offering intuitive interfaces, set-up, and support in NAS systems to private businesses and corporate accounts.  NOTED STRENGTHS  • Personable and professional IT customer service expert.  • Efficient, effective problem-solver who recognizes need for process improvement, takes control and initiates appropriate action.  • Recognized ability to make effective decisions under pressure.  • Extensive experience working successfully with management, staff, and customers from diverse cultural, economic, and social backgrounds.  • Motivated, high-energy team member who uses tact and diplomacy in negotiating to achieve consensus and meet project goals. Skills Technical Support, Windows, Active Directory, Networking, Mac, Microsoft Office Certifications/Licenses MCSE Present Microsoft Certified System Engineer