Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Ancora Education Phoenix, AZ Work Experience Network Administrator Ancora Education January 2018 to Present • Manage and monitor a datacenter for an online college, includes ASRs, Nexus 5k and ASAs.  • Handle all network related escalations from our centralized help desk.  • Primary network administrator for over fifty campuses configured with Meraki firewalls and APs.  • Primary VoIP tech for over 5000 end users, includes call routing and number management.  • DNS management for all websites, web redirects and SSL management.  • Build and merge new sites or acquisitions.  • Manage and monitor over five thousand network devices within Solarwinds. Network Support Specialist Delta Career Education Corporation January 2014 to January 2018 Ancora Education buy out)  • Complete site builds, from all systems and network equipment, included travel.  • Migrated over three thousand Altigen phones to Cisco phones hosted by sprint.  • Cisco WLC management, deployment, configuration and support.  • Replaced MPLS to dual cisco firewalls with dual circuits.  • Administrator for Windows DNS, DCHP, Active Directory, Group Policy, Radius.  • Lead Solarwinds Administrator. Administrator Pius Technologies December 2012 to January 2014 • Setup, maintain, and manage client servers and workstations on Windows 2008R2.  • Complete site builds for clients, including network and server setups.  • Centralized Office 365 and Bitdefender security account management.  • Setup networks and site-to-site VPN connectivity for clients using ZyXEL USG 20w firewalls.  • Administration and monitoring sites through Solarwinds N-Able. Help Desk Circle K Stores Inc January 2011 to December 2012 Help Desk Apollo Group 2007 to January 2010 Education CCNP Mesa Community College Skills Vmware, Customer Service, Active Directory, Networking Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching CCNP Route and Switch