Independent Contractor Independent Contractor Independent Contractor - Velocity NOC Houston, TX Exceptionally motivated talented Technician with over years dedicated experience in installations and maintenance of network infrastructure, able to work as a part of a team and highly motivated self-starter. Ability to acquire news skill sets in short amount of time, always dedicated to achieve projects scope in accordance to the project management office Work Experience Independent Contractor Velocity NOC - Holland, OH May 2018 to Present 43528  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Installation and troubleshooting of different kinds of cables including Cat5e, Cat6 and fibre installation. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR BOLLORE TRANSPORT & LOGISITICS NIG. LTD - Lagos, NG June 2011 to September 2017 Nigeria  • Responsible for assisting the Project Managers in coordinating personnel assigned to perform the detailed engineering, procurement, and delivery for project(s).  • Responsible for leading and implementing wireless networks and applications projects for industrial customers.  • Develop, maintain, and implement a project execution plan and quality plan for each assigned project. Perform required project closeout procedures.  • Experience in using ticketing software such as Remedy for expert knowledge of incident management and ticket documentations.  • Hand on experience on configuration and implementation of various Cisco Routers & L2/L3 Switches  • Extensive experience in configuring and implementing OSPF, EIGRP, and BGP  •Technical support and administration for All OS platforms including Microsoft Windows 7/8/10, Microsoft Office 2016/2013/2010/2007, Windows Server 2012/2008/2003 (Active Directory Administration / Group Policy), Microsoft Exchange Server; Mac OS; Linux systems  •Resolve technical support issues that cannot be resolved via telephone by Service Desk, in person or using remote tools  • Diagnose and repair hardware problems, set up, configure and test equipment.  •Perform preventative maintenance and install upgrades and options  •Ownership of incidents/requests from start until resolution  • Providing daily network support for wide area network consisting of MPLS, VPN and point-to point site.  • Installation, configures, maintain and troubleshoot VoIP end points and voicemail accounts  • Installation Low voltage Network Cable for voice and data networks  • Developed documentation, system standards and SOPs within the organization.  • Provide Tier1 technical support; assist users facing network problems. Perform advanced troubleshooting, diagnostics and provide tier/level-1 solutions to network failures. Senior Systems Technician DATAFLEX NIGERIA LIMITED ? 227B MURI-OKUNOLA STREET VICTORIA ISLAND - LAGOS, NG October 1998 to June 2011 • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Monitor network performance to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine where changes will need to be made in the future.  • Gather data pertaining to customer needs, and use the information to identify, predict, interpret, and evaluate system and network requirements.  • Installations, configures, maintain and troubleshoot VoIP end points and voicemail accounts.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Installation and maintenance of Servers and computer systems  • Installation and troubleshooting of different kinds of cables including Cat3, Cat5, Cat6 and fibre installation. Education Master of Science in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF LAGOS - Lagos, NG 1999 Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering LAGOS STATE UNIVERSITY ? OJO-LAGOS STATE 1995 Skills Layer 2, Firewalls, Itil, Networking, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Microsoft word, Word, Outlook express, Rf, Documentation, Written and verbal, Cpr, Cpr and first aid Additional Information SKILLS  • NETWORKING: • Dept Knowledge of Firewalls, Routers, layer 2/3 switches, and other Networking devices.  • OPERATING SYSTEM: Window server 2012/2016, linuxRedHat, AWS Cloud.    Experience in Data Storage, Microsoft Remote Desktop Services  • ADDITIONALS: RF awareness, CPR and First Aid, , ITIL framework, Hardware, Installation, Rack and stack, Testing, Termination, Grounding, Bonding, Labeling, Documentation, Quick learner, Leadership, Safety conscious, High Attention to Detail, Work well with a group or alone, Great Written and Verbal communication. Proficient with Microsoft Word, Power Point, Excel, Access, Outlook Express and Microsoft Office 365