Account Manager Account Manager Account Manager Jacksonville, FL Work Experience Account Manager TERMINIX LLC 2015 to 2016 Managing Client account for services and related clients issues not limited to billings and contract renewal Its Lead provided Sales involved talking to clients about the service that we provided, Insulation, Termite control Pest control and more. I also do a Home inspection including Attic inspection and perimeter of the house as well and talk to the customers about the benefits and overcome any objections they may have.    Miracle Windows and Sunrooms  Sales Consultant: Lead provided by the marketing the department; be at the customer house on time do a warm up with the customer. There is a requirement if there is a couple both parties need to be involved in the sale process. I do a 2 to 3 hours presentations take measure of the windows and do the estimate. During the presentations of the windows I show the customer the benefits in my product create the needs and urgency for the investment. Account Manager COMCAST/XFINITY 2011 to 2015 Managing Client account for services and related clients issues not limited to billings and contract renewal It's a door to door Sales position that's involved talking to prospects about the product that Xfinity offer TV, Phone, Internet and Home security services Explain the benefits and how Xfinity can change their Home entertainment experience and overcome any objections they may have. Network Administrator Satjax Communications Corp 2007 to 2011 Recruited to establish and manage enterprise-wide information-security programmed. Oversee companywide efforts to identify and evaluate all critical systems. Design and implement security processes and procedures and perform cost benefit analysis on all recommended strategies. Collaborate with external auditors to conduct in-depth compliance audits and penetration testing, presenting all results to senior management. Develop curricula and facilitate awareness training for management and employees. Supervise daily activities of Computer Security Assistant and Internet Administrator.  Key Contributions:  * Instrumental in developing and implementing Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCP & DRP) Plans for corporate sites throughout the North-East.  * Spearheaded creation of four new information-security departments, including Risk Assessment, Hand selected employees from Information Technology department to build Risk Assessment Team charged with analyzing all critical systems, developing reports to document systems vulnerabilities and recommending appropriate solutions.  * Created company policies and procedures governing corporate security, email and Internet usage, access control, and incident response. Manager A. Jacksonville computer Solutions - Jacksonville, FL 1997 to 2007 Promoted to manage Network Infrastructure and charged with performing new Design. Supervised release testing for new applications; provided final approval for bug-free, fully functional commercial solutions. Oversaw training, resource allocation, and Help employee assessment functions. Built and mentored cohesive, qualified teams committed to meeting schedule and budgetary needs.  Key Contributions:  * Authored numerous Servers procedures and security policies in support of operations, participating in regular audits to ensure regulatory compliance.  * Managed creation of high-profile HATP (High Availability Transaction Processing) solution, supervising working in multiple locations.  * Implemented highly effective Software Manager Application to enable disk-free software upgrades deployed through ATMs and desktop systems worldwide.    Provided comprehensive remote and onsite support for domestic and international customers including Tier-III support for LAN/WAN products and sales support for key accounts of all sizes.  Key Contributions:  * Designed and implemented customer call-center support procedures and customer network design strategy for sales and marketing teams.  * Recognized for outstanding quality of customer service with numerous customer-support awards and personal commendation from clients. Education Bachelor of Science in communications Haiti state university Additional Information Core Competencies: Network & Systems Security; Business Impact Analysis; Regulatory Adherence; Data Integrity/Recovery; Disaster Recovery Planning; Contingency Planning; Research & Development; Risk Assessment; Cost Benefits Analysis    * Platforms: UNIX (Solaris, HP-UX), Microsoft Windows® operating systems from 95 on, Linux (Red Hat, Yellow Dog), Mac OS, VM/370, OS2 Warp.  * Networking: TCP/IP, Novell, DECnet, ISO/OSI, IPX/SPX, SNA, SMS/SQL, Ethernet, Token Ring, VPN, SSH, Secure ID, PGP, PKI.  * Languages: C, Basic, HTML, java, JavaScript, VBScript.  * Tools: LAN Manager, ISS RealSecure, Checkpoint Firewall, Norton Firewall and Ghost, McAfee/Norton Virus Protection Utilities, HP OpenView, Network Flight Recorder, IBM Tivoli, Tripwire, Snort, Lotus Notes, Microsoft Office System (including Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint®, Microsoft Access, and Microsoft Outlook®), Microsoft Project, and Microsoft FrontPage®.