Senior Consultant Senior Consultant Senior Consultant - MBL Technologies, Inc Choctaw, OK Work Experience Senior Consultant MBL Technologies, Inc - Oklahoma City, OK May 2018 to Present Cyber Analytics sub-contract position supporting Booz Allen Hamilton's (BAH) VA contract.  Analyze Federal agency systems using NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF).  Nessus scan data translated to a usable format (Excel), analyzed and reported to the VA.  Prepare security assessment reports based on the data such as Component Level Assessment (CLA), System Level Assessment (SLA), Security Event Report (SER), System Case Studies, etc.  Obtain various VA system IT security artifacts from the VA Data Repository systems (Risk Vision).  Document types that were reviewed and analyzed include Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M), System Security Plans (SSP), Risk Assessments, Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA), Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), Incident Response Plans (IRP), Secure Code Validation Reports, Quality Code Validation Reports, Information System Contingency Plans (ISCP), Configuration Management Plans (CMP), Disaster Recovery Plans (DRP), Penetration Test Reports, Nessus Scans, and Authorization to Operate reports (ATO).  Review/edit other team members reports as required by Team Leads.  Reports to numerous management team members with MBL Technologies and BAH.  Completed FedRAMP and Amazon Web Services (AWS) security education for work with the MBL 3PAO team.  Work with 3PAO software (Allgress) to analyze documented evidence and produce accompanying reports in the system, to be utilized for 3PAO clients as needed.  Seeks other assignments that offer opportunities to lead and increase levels of client interaction.  Demonstrates awareness of project management basics (i.e., forecasting own hours and level of effort).  Demonstrates a willingness to commit the effort necessary to meet project milestones and implementation deadlines.  Proactively identify development actions to support professional goals and career direction.  Express ideas for opportunities to serve the client and MBL.  Demonstrate commitment to professional development through training and industry awareness.  Able to guide team activities on a set of defined tasks.  Supportive of the team decision making processes.    1725 Butterfield Trail Phone (405) 620-3252  Choctaw, OK 73020 danno446@gmail.com ITSS Contract Support SAIC September 2016 to May 2018 Designs, tests, and implements secure operating systems, networks, security monitoring, tuning and management of IT security systems and applications, incident response, digital forensics, loss prevention, and eDiscovery actions.  Conducts risk and vulnerability assessment at the network, system and application level.  Conduct threat analysis exercises.  Develops and implements security controls and formulates operational risk mitigations along with assisting in security awareness programs.  Involved in a wide range of security issues including architecture, firewalls, electronic data traffic, and network access.  Researches, evaluates and recommends new security tools, techniques, and technologies and introduces them to the enterprise in alignment with IT security strategy.  Prepares and reviews system connection documentation of Memorandums of Understanding (MOU), Interconnection Service Agreements (ISA), Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), and Privacy Impact Analysis (PIA).  Create and conduct reviews of each assigned system's audits and monitors the corrective actions (POA&Ms) until all actions are closed.  Supports the formal Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) required by each government accrediting authority through pre-test preparations, participation in the tests, analysis of the results, and preparation of required reports.  Other documents prepared included: System Security Plans (SSP), Risk Assessments, Incident Response Plans (IRP), Information System Contingency Plans (ISCP), Configuration Management Plans (CMP), and Disaster Recovery Plans (DRP).  Utilizes COTS/GOTS and custom tools and processes/procedures in order to scan, identify, contain, mitigate and remediate vulnerabilities, and intrusions.  Assists in the implementation of the required government policy and makes recommendations on process tailoring.  Performs analyses to validate established security requirements and recommend additional security requirements and safeguards.    1725 Butterfield Trail Phone (405) 620-3252  Choctaw, OK 73020 danno446@gmail.com Network Administrator Braum's, Inc June 1993 to February 2016 Lead the team in Design, Configuration, Rollout, and Maintenance of a 275 node Wide Area Network.  Cisco Equipment - Install, configure, update, harden and log analysis- Routers, Switches, ASA devices with IPS/IDS modules, VPN Concentrators, IronPort Appliance, Wireless Access Points (WAP) and Bridges, Software, etc.  Barracuda Spam Firewall - Install, update, log monitoring and examining email issues from incorrect scoring.  McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator(ePO) - Install, configure, maintain, update - used for SIEM monitoring services of servers and POS systems.  IBM servers - i Series, X Series, Blade Centers S & H - Install, configure, maintain and log analysis with.  Dell servers - Install, configure, maintain, and log analysis.  Dell EqualLogic 6000 SAN - Configure, maintain, update software- 16 Terrabytes capacity.  VMWare - ESXi and VCenter Server - Installation, maintenance, upkeep of, Physical to Virtual migrations of servers, Creating new Virtual servers  Microsoft Server and Client Software - Install, update, configure and harden- Windows 95, 98, XP, 7 (32 and 64 bit), Windows Server NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2008R2. I have worked with Active Directory and WSUS services also.  Apple MacOS - Install, update, harden, and use - MacBook Pro and Mac server for marketing teams use to do video advertising work.  Nessus - Install, update, configure and testing with - This was the Open Source version before it was changed to closed source. This was used as a vulnerability scanner and for finding rogue wireless access points.  Novell software and SUSE SLES - Install, update, configure, harden and log analysis of server software - Novell version 3.12 and up. SUSE SLES starting with version 11 SP2 that has Novell integrated into it. This was used mainly for file sharing.  VHD - Visual Help Desk - Setup, Installed and was second/third level support for our helpdesk. My support was usually tied to network devices, connections, email, and other IP related issues.  Installed and experience with 125 + end users in multiple locations - End Users of various skills in a five (5) state area from farm workers to C-level executives.  Experience with Telephone Systems -Managed a Toshiba system that handles analog, digital and Voice-Over-IP phones, including faxing. This system had 3 nodes located in 2 states.    1725 Butterfield Trail Phone (405) 620-3252  Choctaw, OK 73020 danno446@gmail.com    Lotus Domino (now called IBM Domino) and Lotus Notes (Now called IBM Notes Social Edition) - Installation, Configuration, Deployment - Two (2) server deployment (1 as primary, the second as a backup) for email, 1 Server for Lotus Traveler which delivers email to portable devices, 1 Server for Lotus Sametime for Instant messaging.  Mobile and Smart Phones - Ordering, Deploying, Maintaining, Securing 200+ mobile devices such as flip phones, iPhones, iPads, Samsung Tablets, etc. Deployment/Management of MobileIron to keep track of and securing these mobile devices. Maintain and track expenses related to these devices and forward that information to CEO, CIO, and CFO.  Contract Negotiation with vendors like AT&T, IBM, Cisco, etc. on items ranging from equipment purchases, telephone/data lines, maintenance/subscription services for computer  systems, and numerous other items. I have a very good record for reducing costs down with various types of contracts.  Experience with tracking costs of equipment purchases, monthly recurring costs (i.e, cell phone costs, telephone costs, data line costs, etc.), tracking year-to-year comparisons of these expenses, tracking cost savings (if needed).  Preparing and Implementing Information Policy for PCI-DSS compliance - Includes working with PCI-DSS assessors and supervisors, the record keeping needed including change management paperwork, reports of risk management assessments, etc. Site visits, vendor interaction, File Integrity management, SIEM, scheduling Internal and External vulnerability scans, scheduling Internal and External penetration tests, keeping up to date with the requirements of an evolving compliance system.  Experience with Worker's Compensation and Insurance Claims, HIPAA compliance with data access, classification of data, physical access to printing equipment, liaison with vendors doing custom programming for Worker's Compensation claims processing and other needs on an ad hoc basis.