Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Carson, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Sabbatical January 2018 to Present Currently continuing my studies in science and mathematics to further my career. Network Engineer Info 2 Extreme, Inc January 2013 to December 2018 Designed, implemented and documented mid sized networks to include switching, routing, wireless, security, monitoring and back end server storage.  2 person team, responsible for – design, implementation, maintenance and monitoring of data infrastructure for mid-size clients.  Designed and implemented networks with security and redundancy in mind.  Configured and Managed 300+ network devices ensuring minimal downtime (Juniper SRX and EX series, Cisco ASA and ISR, Palo Alto PA, Cisco Meraki, HP Procurve, Dell Powerconnect,F5 Load Balancers).  Worked with VMnetworking and servers configuration within the environment.  Worked with 3rd party vendors interconnecting branches with WAN technologies OSPF, BGP, MPLS. (XO, Cogent, ATT, Verizon).  Surveyed and designed and implemented solutions for wireless networks (Cisco Aironet, Cisco Meraki). Network Engineer Sabbatical January 2011 to December 2012 Upon honorable discharge took a 1 year personal off to travel and go back to school Jr. Network Engineer / Systems Administrator USAF December 2007 to December 2011 6 person team, maintenance and monitoring of network and cryptographic devices.  Network Hardware/Cable installation, troubleshooting of connectivity, Ethernet/fiber optic cables.  LAN/WAN Administration firmware updates, adding new users.  Managed 200 Cisco Switches/Routers to ensure efficient Bandwidth utilization (routers 3500s/4500s/6500s,  L2/L3 switches, VoIP, Bluecoat Firewall configured/troubleshot).  Established 48 data circuits, programming several Cisco devices expanding the network to 600 users.  DNS/DHCP/WDS built the Windows 2008 server, created IP scheme, ensured that clients went to prospective scopes. Education Associate Skills Cisco (9 years), cryptographic (4 years), fiber optic (4 years), Juniper (5 years), maintenance (9 years), Vmware, Active Directory, security, VPN, AWS Cloud (3 years), firewalls, MPLS, DNS, WAN, Network Engineering, Networking, Data Center Experience, LAN, Network Infrastructure, Customer Service Military Service Branch: AF Service Country: United States Rank: Amn 2007 to 2011 Certifications/Licenses CCNA 2012