Operator Operator Williston, ND ABILITIES:  Work long days outdoors in various weather conditions, excellent interpersonal skills, hard working, quick learner, self motivated, and accountable.  Ability to work in a team environment or independently.  Capable of heavy lifting, use of various power tools, drills, impact, needle guns, grinders, jackhammers and other tools used in construction.   Maintained an accident free work history by complying with OSHA regulations. Work Experience Operator Crestwood Crude Logistics - Epping, ND August 2015 to 2018 10/2015 - 11/2018  Crestwood    Epping, ND  Operator  • Loaded NGL and crude oil to railcars.  • Operate impact guns on railcar manway.   • Microload crude oil into railcars.  • Use pipe and torque wrenches to tighten manway bolts.  • Inspect railcar wheels, knuckle pins, protective housing, manways, vent-line, product-line for faulty components before departure.  • Spot train into designated stations via radio giving engineer commands.  • Operate shuttle wagon for adding and removing rail cars.  • Perform cuts and joints on rail cars.  • Drove company truck, skid steer and tractors.  • End of month sampling and gauging on IW and crude oil tanks.  • Assisted mechanics and terminal operators when needed, opening and closing valves.  • Helped provers with proving and calibration of the LACT units,  • Performed rounds and site security. Satellite Technician MasTec - Newburgh, NY May 2013 to July 2015 Climbed 40 foot ladders to install satellite dishes for residential and commercial applications.  ? Installed all equipment (receivers, wiring, cables, dishes, etc.) for satellite TV.  ? Calibrate and monitor devices following installation.  ? Used drills on a daily basis to install satellites, cat6, rg6, and cat3 cabling throughout the customers  home or business.  ? Resolved all upper tier service calls that were escalated by DirecTV.  ? Trained new employees how to properly setup a satellite dish and run cabling.  ? Used Fall Protection, followed OSHA regulations, worked in confined places, carried a 300lbs ladder throughout the day, drove company van extensive miles 6 days a week.  ? Installed poles using concrete, dug holes and trenches. Laborer Idealgo Construction - Kingston, NY July 2011 to April 2013 Operate jackhammers, compressors, needle guns, grinders, and other equipment necessary for construction work.  ? Fix and remove temporary scaffolding for erecting of concrete structures.  ? Poured concrete, blacktopped, painted bridges.  ? Sound ability to operate the specialized tools and equipment used in performing work in the area of assignment.  ? Perform heavy manual labor under adverse working conditions.  ? Exceptional ability to perform work involving prolonged periods of standing, stooping, reaching,  crawling and climbing.  ? Performed physical labor for masonry projects including: mixing mortars and cements, lifting and moving materials to and from various job sites. Network Administrator Stadri Emblems, Inc - Woodstock, NY April 2006 to June 2011 Diagnosed and resolved technical problems in a multiuser environment.  ? Analyzed, purchased and maintained the organization's technical support requirements.  ? Installed and configured operating systems and software for deployment to end users.  ? Provided subsequent ongoing maintenance and security for organization's computers and peripherals.  ? Evaluated new information systems and products/services to improve end user experiences to ensure  more efficiency in the organization.  ? Actively researched and executed internet marketing tools and sales to ensure increased profits for the organization.  ? Assembled, installed and tested a wide array of computer systems, workstations, peripheral hardware and maintained backup of vital data for organization.  ? Provided technical support for software, internet, email and hardware to enduser.  ? Setup all servers, FTP, remote access, POS, and software for over 40 users.  ? Performed day to day operations of every aspect of the network, including educating users using the software and equipment.  ? Trained personnel overseas using how to manuals and on call support. Education Bachelors of Science in Network Administration State University of New York at Alfred - Alfred, NY May 2006 Associates of Science in Computer Information Systems State University of New York at Alfred - Alfred, NY Skills Communications, Excel, Microsoft Excel, Maintenance Certifications/Licenses Certifications SBCA / Mastec / 2013 - 2015  PEC Safety 2015  Hazardous Materials 2016 & 2018  BNSF Contractor 2018 Drivers License