Manager of Information Technology Manager of Information Technology Manager of Information Technology - Supreme Energy, Inc Township of Warren, NJ Accomplished IT and Business leader with 14+ years of hardware, systems, and solutions expertise. Demonstrated success implementing key IT initiatives that improve and simplify business functionality while reducing overall operating costs. Comfortable operating in a demanding and time-sensitive environment requiring critical thinking. Work Experience Manager of Information Technology Supreme Energy, Inc 2012 to Present Provide strategic IT leadership and deliver technical guidance for all aspects of business. Key member of Senior  Management Team. Frequently interact with and present to President, CFO, and Director of Sales.    • Design, project manage, and implement custom ERP/CRM solution that fully integrates Salesforce and ThingWorx platforms, allowing real time management of sales, customers, inventory, accounting, dispatching,  and data analytics, resulting in a 50-60% savings ($130,000 annually) moving forward.    • Lead a team of over twenty individuals consisting of developers, software and hardware providers, and vendors from seven different companies along with senior internal subject matter experts while also acting as  the primary decision maker and executor on long term agreements in excess of $800,000 across 5 years.    • Responsible for acquisition of three competing energy companies over the course of one heating season;  resulting in merging of approximately 15,000 accounts, porting of telecommunication systems, and acquisition of all corresponding customer data with no interruption of service to acquired customers.    • Oversee and administer annual budgets in excess of $750,000 in addition to managing relationships with key  vendors and suppliers.    • Expanded IT staff due to increasing departmental responsibilities; manage, train, and develop direct report.    • Completed network and telecommunications infrastructure upgrade, including the architecture of a completely  new Server 2012 R2 domain with virtualization, advanced load balancing and failover capabilities, enterprise  class fiber WAN circuit, and advanced UTM firewall and PoE gigabit switches, which saved over $50,000 in implementation costs while boosting security and performance.    • In-house migration of legacy, analog PBX telecommunications system to 100% digital, fiber optic powered,  hosted VoIP solution that fully integrates with the Salesforce CRM platform, saving over $12,000 annually.    • Designed SharePoint site for management team to share ideas, project plans and create dynamic dashboards.    • Configured hybrid backup and disaster recovery system that continually backs up files in real-time and allows  for archives with unlimited versioning in 448-bit encryption, providing maximum security and flexibility.    • Implemented an affordable, high reliability backup WAN solution to further bolster load balancing across concurrent circuits for business-critical VPN tunnels that resulted in a 70% savings ($4,500 annually).  • Migrated communications platform from a near obsolete Exchange 2003 server to Office 365 in order to provide maximum reliability, enhanced capabilities, and virtually maintenance-free operation.    • Upgraded entire fleet of workstations from Windows XP to Windows 7, then to Windows 10 platform, while only replacing obsolete equipment, performing key component upgrades on capable machines, and procuring  discounted pricing on hardware; resulted in an approximate savings of $10,000, while completing the entire  initiative in less than one month, side by side with an Office 365 migration.    • Managed data migration of energy utility EDI database, providing reports and raw data to new provider while ensuring conversion accuracy and data integrity.    • Implemented automated network-based inventory management and network monitoring systems to monitor  remote and local connected devices, and track hardware and software across five independent systems.    • Standardized company issued smartphones to iOS platform to ensure compatibility with iPad initiative created  for Salesforce and DocuSign platforms.    • Implemented IT ticketing system and call queue which efficiently routes calls and load balances requests.    • Reorganized corporate cellular account, which resulted in a 46% savings, or $36,000 annually. Network Administrator II FlightSafety International 2004 to 2012 Primary responsibilities included administration of network infrastructure, telecommunications systems, and all  other business-related IT systems, which supported over 200 local employees.    • Directed, supervised and trained 5 network staff members while providing daily critical support to users.    • Developed and implemented new classroom standardization process.    • Facilitated server data backups and ensured effective storage methods for recovery were in place.    • Responsible for purchasing hardware and software while maintaining accurate records for inventory, licensing,  voice and data cabling, and equipment configuration and documentation.    • Coordinated and oversaw WAN uplift projects, Blade server migration, and LAN upgrades.    • Interacted and communicated on complex initiatives with center manager on a regular basis concerning goals  and objectives in creating the optimal environment for all teammates.    • Designed & developed interactive multimedia client kiosk and messaging system.    • Planned and implemented seamless hardware and software updates and upgrades with senior management.    • Responsible for the management, deployment, and integration of desktop-based MATRIX flight simulation.    • Developed and maintained ground training courseware and reference materials.    • Configured, tested, and integrated classroom technology used to generate business's primary revenue stream.    • Promoted from Courseware Intern, Network Technician, Network Administrator I. Education B.S. in Management Information Systems Seton Hall University - Stillman School of Business - South Orange, NJ 2005 Skills Network Administration, IT Management, Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Excel, Exchange, Vmware