Change Management Analyst Change Management Analyst Administration Support Specialist Gautier, MS Very technical Network Support Technician has terrific troubleshooting and good interpersonal skills to assist with customer services. Possesses a thorough knowledge of computer hardware and software applications. Has a very successful and diverse career background that has taught me many different skills. Looking to gain full time employment with an exciting company that will utilize my managerial, communication, and technology skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Change Management Analyst Uniti Fiber - Mobile, AL February 2019 to Present ·      Coordinates and facilitates scheduled network maintenance to minimize risk and exposure within the operations network and revenue customers.   ·      Coordinates with field technicians, operations and engineering to identify the impact and assemble the details necessary to communicate to all departments involved in scheduled maintenance.   ·      Assists in the preparation of detailed reports noting status of the maintenance tickets and assess trending data for performance improvement.  ·      Actively and consistently support all efforts to simplify and enhance the customer experience.   ·      Ensures maintenance tickets are accurately submitted with required data to meet compliance and are designed to improve the stability of the network or provide controlled expansion or addition of services and/or network equipment. Network Administrator I & II Uniti Fiber - Mobile, AL April 2018 to February 2019 ·      Monitored network activity on multiple network platforms which included the fiber network, internet and Ethernet clients, VOIP, cell phone towers, small cell and microwave towers.   ·      Critical thinking, organization, and an adherence to detail to provide troubleshooting, break/fix, and resolve issues within the network.   ·      Fast pace, critical customer service interaction, through both telephone and e-mail.   ·      Assisted all operation field techs in with onsite troubleshooting and dispatched for network resolution.   ·      Answered and triaged requests for assistance to provide top-notch support within salesforce ticking system.   ·      Advocated for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for server, desktop and IT infrastructure work.   ·      Oversaw monitoring critical network elements and proactively troubleshooting network systems. IT Support Specialist Lewiston School District - Lewistown, MT September 2016 to October 2017 ·      Provided maintenance, repair, and end user support for 14 schools.   ·      Installations and upgrades on all school issued equipment.  ·      Engaged end users and answered questions via email, phone, website live chat and in forums.   ·      Removed and replaced malfunctioning computer parts to correct hardware problems.   ·      Analyzed system issues and software issues to identify troubleshooting methods needed for quick remediation.   ·      Demonstrated professionalism and courtesy with customers while working to resolve complaints, problems or respond to questions.   ·      Monitored systems in operation and input commands to troubleshoot areas.   ·      Configured hardware, devices and software to set up new work stations for employees.   ·      Uploaded new software, rolled out updates and applied patches to servers and school issued devices. Education Associate in Applied Science in Information Technology Kaplan University-Davenport Campus - Work at Home June 2015 to September 2017 Certification in Office System Technology Mississippi Gulf Coast Community College - Long Beach, MS August 2002 to May 2004 Skills Change Management, Organization, Organizational Change Management, Account Management (5 years), Salesforce (1 year), Billing (4 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Data Entry (10+ years), Time Keeper (5 years), Networking (5 years), Notary Public (3 years), Office Management (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Quickbooks (5 years), Receptionist (10+ years), Teaching (5 years), Web Design (Less than 1 year), Windows (10+ years), Apple Products (5 years), Taxes (6 years), Sales Support (5 years), Administrative Skills (10+ years), Professional Development (10+ years), Accounting (10+ years), Software Applications (10+ years), Hardware Installation (6 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Device Repair (10+ years), Bookkeeping (10+ years), Appointment Scheduling (10+ years), Credit Card Processing (10+ years), Payroll (10+ years), Inventory Control (10+ years), Invoicing (10+ years), Research (10+ years), Database Management (5 years), Switches (5 years), Operating Systems (10+ years), Communications (10+ years), Call Center (10+ years), Javascript (6 years), Java (6 years), sq (3 years), Basic Computer Skills (10+ years), Basic Html (6 years), Project Management (10+ years), Phones (10+ years), Digital Marketing (5 years), Telecommunications (10+ years), Network Security (10+ years), Google Docs (6 years), Active Directory, Help Desk, MAC, Service Desk, Tech Support, Apple Links https://www.facebook.com/christymsetzer Groups Phi Theta Kappa Honor Society August 2016 to Present The mission of Phi Theta Kappa is to recognize academic achievement of college students and to provide opportunities for them to grow as scholars and leaders. National Society of Collegiate Scholars November 2016 to September 2017 The National Society of Collegiate Scholars (NSCS) is an honors organization that recognizes and elevates high-achieving students. NSCS provides career and graduate school connections, leadership and service opportunities, and gives out more than $1 million annually in scholarships, awards, and chapter funds. Additional Information Years of customer service & administrative skills. Experience in professional development, business accounting, & office management. Software & desktop applications, computer & office equipment repair and troubleshooting, web development, & business communications. Years of experience with Ap/Ar, bookkeeping, organizing, scheduling appointments & plan meetings with taking detailed notes, write & distribute email, correspondence memos, letters, faxes & forms, preparation of regularly scheduled reports, credit card processing, processing payroll, handling cash & inventory control. Able to utilize & maintain database files & electronic records. Proficient in all Microsoft office programs & all desktop system applications. Online research and excellent time management skills with the ability to prioritize work. Attention to detail & problem-solving skills. Can update & maintain office policies and procedures, order office supplies & research new deals & suppliers, book travel arrangements, submit & reconcile expense reports. Can provide desktop system & application educational support to customers, diagnose critical technology issues while acting as the point of contact for internal & external clients. Able to work extremely well as a team player & in unsupervised situations. Strong work ethic & drive for success. Able to work well in high volume, stressful atmospheres. Very professional demeanor. Detailed oriented. Able to work, troubleshoot and setup multi phone lines & multi task with many projects.