Server Technician Server Technician Holly, MI Cyber Security Student with entry to mid level support knowledge focused on gaining experience, and exceeding  expectations with a technology company to assist them in achieving their goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Server Technician Eos Business Surveillance Solutions - Flint, MI October 2018 to Present Design and build servers for security camera systems. Troubleshoot and repair servers that come in from the field. Project management and implementation. Work Study Network Administrator Baker College - Flint, MI September 2017 to September 2018 As a Network Administrator I run a 2012 R2 Windows Domain for the Technology Building at Baker College. Other tasks include fixing computers with hardware or software problems. Lead Officer Teachout Security Solutions December 2016 to June 2017 Dec. 2016 - June 2017  ? Used leadership skills to ensure hospital security  ran effective and smooth.  ? Put teamwork skills to use during difficult situations  to guarantee patient and staff safety.  ? Achieved position of Lead Officer. Education Cyber Defense in Information Technology Baker College of Flint - Flint, MI August 2017 to August 2021 General Studies Oakland Community College - Auburn Hills, MI September 2016 to June 2017 Lake Fenton High School - Linden, MI 2016 Skills IOS (3 years), Linux Administrator (2 years), Ethical Hacking (2 years), Vmware, System Administrator, Computer Hardware (3 years), Computer Repair (3 years), Technical Support, Active Directory, Windows, Networking, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Cyber Security, Information Security, It Security, Linux Certifications/Licenses Currently working on getting my CCNA Groups Baker College Cyber Defense Team August 2017 to Present Current position of President of the Club. I am also a Linux admin on the Varsity team. Additional Information Skills & Achievements    ? Knowledgeable with Windows (10, 8.1, 7), and Linux operating systems.    ? Exposure to HP & Dell Laptops/Desktops