IT Business Specialist III IT Business Specialist III IT Business Specialist III Memphis, TN Obtain a junior software development position where I can grow my skills as a developer and write high quality code. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Business Specialist III International Paper - Memphis, TN February 2019 to May 2019 • Managed the software that runs box plants and sheet feeder plants, Kiwiplan and Axiom.  • Developed Bash and Powershell scripts to automate tasks.  • Automation of report generation in Crystal Reports.  • Handled support tickets that involved issues halting or affecting production in a timely manner. IT Systems Analyst Sedgwick - Memphis, TN March 2016 to February 2019 • Performed ETL transformations of insurance claim data for large corporations into an Oracle database. Required writing advanced PL/SQL queries and views to migrate and validate data.  • Financial balancing of the loaded transformed data to what was received.  • Communicate conversion issues to Clients and help them identify a fix.  • Resolved problem tickets by correcting data, writing code fixes, etc. Assistant Network Administrator University of Mississippi, Computer Science Department May 2014 to December 2015 University, MS  • Managed over 150 computers, including 4 labs and the faculty computers.  • Handled support tickets, ranging from printer failures to email system failures and everything inbetween.  • Developed a RESTful API to consolidate hosts.deny files across multiple Linux boxes to protect against brute force attacks.  • Managed the Computer Science Department website using Drupal, also using frameworks such as Bootstrap and Foundation. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Mississippi - Oxford, MS Skills Pl/sql, Progress, Progress 4gl, Sql, Html, Linux (4 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Windows (5 years) Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/udxpd7izxulwazrn Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.