Network and system administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> and system <span class="hl">administrator</span> Wappingers Falls, NY To obtain a challenging IT position to utilize my knowledge and earned skills from experience. The experience gained from working as IT System; Network Administrator, Security, Support, Technician, Ethical Hacker, Penetration Tester, and Network professional. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network and system administrator Premiatek - Tripoli, IA July 2018 to July 2019 ·         Network and system administrator: responsible for the day-to-day operation of these networks, organize, install, and support an organization's computer systems, including local area networks (LANs), network segments, intranets, and other data communication systems.  ·        Project Manager: responsible of planning, procurement and execution of a project  ·        IT consultant: determine client’s requirements, define the scope of a project, system specifications, understand their work within the nature of their business, define software, hardware and network requirements.  ·        Penetration Tester: detect security vulnerabilities within the system or network that an attacker could exploit or take advantage of.  ·        Web development  ·         Network Engineer: design and implement network configurations, troubleshoot performance issues, carry out network monitoring and configure security systems such as firewalls. Reporting to a line-of-business leader to discuss and decide upon overall business goals, policies and network status updates.  ·        Support Specialist: provide technical support, advice, and assistance to consumers and businesses with technical, hardware, and software system problems. Dealing directly with end users and must effectively communicate answers in a way they can understand. IT support Municipality of Tripoli - Tripoli, LB March 2017 to August 2017 •       IT Support: responsible for the smooth running of computer systems and ensuring users get maximum benefits from them.   •        Network & System Admin Assistant: help a network to run smoothly, efficiently and keep the servers in full availability. IT Assistant American University of Technology - Tripoli, IA June 2016 to August 2017 •        Network and Security: Scanning for vulnerabilities, exploits under supervisor vision, developing and testing software deployment tools, firewalls and intrusion detection systems, and give best low cost solution.  •       IT Assistant: configuring hardware and software, setting up peripherals such as printers or routers, repairing equipment, and providing daily support for computer network users. IT System & Network Administration Consolidated Consultancy Group - Tripoli, LB April 2016 to October 2016 •       IT field service: Provide technical assistance with computer hardware and software, resolve issues for clients via phone, in person, or remotely, and track customer issues and resolutions.  •       IT System & Network Administration: daily support for systems activities, Active Directory, improvement of network security, improvement of network security to ensure all IT systems are up and running 24/7. IT Help Desk Qabassat Computer - Tripoli, LB May 2015 to June 2015 •       IT Help Desk: maintaining devices and provide support needed. IT Technician/Help Desk TRUST TECHNOLOGIES - Tripoli, LB July 2014 to September 2014 •       IT Technician: Responsible for computer maintenance and assembling new computers and upgrades for all brands.   •       Conduct prevent maintenance and troubleshooting for all sectors. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology America University of Technology 2013 to 2017 certificate in Information Technology Lebanese Institution of Technology 2009 to 2012 Skills Servers (3 years), Information Security (2 years), Information Technology (5 years), Computer Repair (3 years), System Administration (3 years), Technical Support (5 years), Information Architecture (1 year), Network Management (2 years), Networking (5 years), Network Administration (3 years), Network Security (2 years), Security, MAC, Customer Service, Windows, Active Directory, Databases (2 years), Data Entry (2 years), Vmware, access, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Javascript, Sales, Data Analysis (1 year) Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching November 2015 to Present CompTIA A+ July 2013 to Present Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) April 2017 to Present Microsoft Office Specialist August 2012 to Present Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) September 2016 to October 2019 EC-Council Certified Security Analyst December 2016 to November 2019 CCNA July 2019 to Present Additional Information •       Configure and install network infrastructure components (routers, switches, firewalls, access points).  •       Architect network infrastructure using Microsoft Visio and construct network infrastructure using professional tools like punching tools, jack rapid for Leviton extreme connecters and Crimping tool  •       Repair/replace failed network and system, fiber or connectivity issue.  •       Troubleshoot and resolve network and system incidents.  •       Monitor networks and systems.   •       Access networks and systems to identify and resolve incidents.   •       Take initiative to make and/or suggest improvements or innovations.   •       Maintain and update monitoring infrastructure and automation tools.   •       Handle infrastructure and system alerts, appropriate action to classify, prioritize and resolve complex network and system issues.   •       Build positive relationships with Effective communication of incident customers  •       Configure with Access List creation in Cisco ASA and URL filtration plus application blocking on Firepower on models (earlier, 5505, 5506, 5508) with PBR failover.  •       Replication and failover function at VSphere 6.5 version and later while creating virtual machines.  •       Configure Mikrotik router board with pertaining full configuration includes Assign IP Addresses, DHCP servers, Caps manager, User manager, Access lists and firewall rules.  •       Build ESET advance endpoint protection centralized server with server proxy update; the end user will obtain the antivirus signature and module update from ESET server itself.  •       Knowledge of providing load balancing with Peplink devices and intense failover configuration for VoIP.  •       Good knowledge in Fortinet firewall.  •       Basic knowledge of fusion hub.  •       Basic knowledge in F5 WAF firewall System.  •       Basic knowledge in WatchGuard firewall System.  •       Expert knowledge configuring CCTV system like Hikvision and Dahua.  •       Provide full wireless coverage via Cisco, Ubiquti, and mikrotik Access Points.   •       Configure Cisco AP 1815i access point as controller.  •       Build full enterprise network via Cisco and HP switches, for example: Assign IP Addresses, DHCP pools, Access lists, VLans, VTP and GVRP, and link aggregation while configuring HSRP failover in Cisco Switches.   •       Knowledge of Synology products with file sharing and backup technologies.  •       Build an enterprise server enjoinment on Cisco and HP servers with different models and series.  •       Knowledge of using diagnostic tools, service aids, and product schematics, to assess and resolve equipment and system failures.  •       Cisco ASA with VPN configuration and IDS in addition of IPS   •       Programing language (C/C++, C #, vb.net, UNIX/Linux), Website (HTML, PHP, CSS, JavaScript) and Scripting languages (Python, command line, Power Shell)  •       Database use of xampp and wamp with MySQL, MySQLi, PDO, PHP, Apache HTTP server, phpmyadmin, filezilla.  •       Windows-Server: Active Directory Domain with full replication, Create Account with individual privilege, Distributed File System (DFS) namespace and replication, Hyper-V, failover cluster, and group policy.   •       Linux: Apache2, DHCP-server, bind9-DNS-server, Samba, ftp-server, Squid proxy server, Openssh-server, Snort, IPtables, Aircrack-ng, Wireshark, PfSense, IPCop, Nginx with caching system.