IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist - Morrisville Auxiliary Corp Fayetteville, NY Work Experience IT Support Specialist Morrisville Auxiliary Corp - Morrisville, NY August 2017 to Present Duties: Supporting diverse faculty, staff, and student populations with Windows OS's. Creating and deploying images in MDT. Managing domain accounts, responsible for entire organization mailbox provisioning in exchange. Network troubleshooting and diagnostics. Implementing menu system and engaging end users to provide practical and useful UI designs for new menu system in Micros 3700 POS system devices. Containment and removal of malware threats found on client machines. Support for cell phone and provisioning for 100 users. Canon and HP printer maintenance and diagnostics. Integrating closely with network team to provide Ethernet across campus Network Administrator Intern HP switches and Cisco ASA firewalls - Syracuse, NY May 2017 to August 2017 Duties: Desktop support for Windows 10 clients. Resolving tickets through Spiceworks. Performing configuration of HP switches and Cisco ASA firewalls. Summer ITS Technician Colgate University - Colgate, NY, US June 2015 to August 2015 Duties: Setting up power supply monitoring. Data entry. Configuration of Cisco switches. Configuration and installation of Aruba access points. Education Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology - Network Administration SUNY Morrisville August 2013 to August 2017 Skills Active Directory (Less than 1 year), BGP. (Less than 1 year), deployment (Less than 1 year), firewalls (Less than 1 year), provisioning (1 year), Help Desk, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Tech Support, Customer Service, Networking, Technical Support, Microsoft Office Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/b8vsg15arwievssa Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.