Help Desk Technician Help Desk Technician Help Desk Technician Chattanooga, TN Work Experience Help Desk Technician United States Army - Fort Campbell, KY May 2018 to May 2019 Processed incoming trouble tickets, resulting in issues resolved within 2 hours with daily reports to supervisors  ? Maintained records of paperwork critical to user accounts and computers, ensuring a balanced workload for the unit IT department  ? Collaborated in a team of four soldiers to execute system image deployments for over 300 computers in a two week deadline  ? Delivered support to users in the organization, creating a strong technical understanding as well as receiving a high degree of customer satisfaction  ? Provided IT support to over 300 users within the organization, specializing in end-user devices and networking devices  ? Conducted hardware repairs and services, and accounting for components and assets worth over $3,000,000 Network Administrator United States Army, Camp Humphreys, Gyeonggi-do - KR April 2017 to May 2018 Administered a unique mobile LAN equipped with Switches, VLANS, Routers, Firewalls, IP Phones and VMware, designed to be deployed anywhere the commander wishes  ? Operated and maintained a Satellite Transmission Trailer with a value of $1,500,000. Enabling the mobile LAN to connect to the internet in even the most remote locations  ? Managed a team of five soldiers whose mission was to maintain 100% network uptime in support of a major nationwide joint training exercise  ? Attributed a 100% success rate of multiple training validations, and served as the first response team in support of the entire US 8th Army. Information Technology Specialist United States Army - Fort Gordon, GA June 2016 to April 2017 Installed, configured and maintained a wide variety of Cisco devices, including Switches, Firewalls and Routers.  ? Configured multiple types of network routing, such as static routes, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, Telnet and SSH connection protocols  ? Deployed Windows Server 2008, equipped with DHCP, DNS, Active Directory for user and group accounts, Organizational Units, and Microsoft Exchange  ? Implemented network security features, such as hardware firewalls, Access Control Lists, Public Key Infrastructure and Anti Virus configurations Education High School Diploma Plainfield East High School - Fort Gordon, GA August 2016 to February 2017 Information Technology Specialist Training Course in Information Technology United States Army Cyber Center of Excellence - Fort Gordon, GA August 2016 to February 2017 Skills Active Directory (3 years), Network Administration (3 years), Switching (3 years), Image Deployment (3 years), Customer Support (3 years), Desktop Support (3 years), Helpdesk Support (3 years), Tech Support (3 years), Service Desk (3 years), VPN (3 years), Help Desk (3 years), MAC (3 years), Windows 7 (3 years), Communication Protocols (3 years), Windows (3 years), Technical Support (3 years), Vmware (3 years), Security (3 years), Technical Support (3 years) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist (E-4) Additional Information Professional References are available upon request    Detailed Training record is available upon request