Network Operator/Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Operator/Systems Engineer Network Operator/Systems Engineer - United States Air Force, Active Duty Saint Petersburg, FL Versatile management professional seeks a career in Information Technology where I can challenge and apply my skills and interests in Management Information Systems to advance company performance and productivity, as well as satisfying personal and professional goals.    Security Clearance  • Active Top Secret, TS/SCI: 2015- 2021 Work Experience Network Operator/Systems Engineer United States Air Force, Active Duty - Robins AFB, GA 2014 to Present • Responsible for network/system management including multi-platform server, network performance tuning, security configuration/monitoring, file server backups, and email server administration.  • Implement, configure, install, and maintain all network security and monitoring measures for the base (Web Firewall, Spam Firewall, Intrusion Prevention System, VPN, remote management, network monitor, and edge Firewall).  • Planned, coordinated, and installed application software and hardware for operating systems, utilizing Microsoft and OpenVMS systems.  • Set up, loaded and configured hardware and software on Linux and OpenVMS systems to operate in accordance with technical manuals and design plans.  • Safeguard, maintain and inventory over 4800 pieces of classified media assets.  • Initiated instillation of various system patches and improvements to guarantee system integrity on E-8C aircraft and ground support systems. Systems Administrator United States Air Force, Active Duty - Robins AFB, GA 2017 to 2018 • Managed and supported 5,000+ desktop/laptop systems base wide with the use of Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange.  • Perform hands-on Installation, configuration, and support an organization's local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), and internet systems or a segment of a network system. Resulting in optimum performance and minimum downtime.  • Responsible for hardware and software applications for workstations, servers, and network data communications.  • Windows/Unix/Linux systems administrator with experience configuring, monitoring, upgrading and maintaining systems hardware, software and related infrastructure.  • Monitor network to ensure network availability to all system users and may perform necessary maintenance to support network availability.  • Performed desktop migration from Windows 8 to Windows 10 and provided technical support for corporate client/server systems.  • TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, WINS, SMTP. NFS, VMware vSphere, Cisco routers, hubs, switches, Firewall, McAfee Antivirus. IT Specialist United States Air Force, Active Duty - Robins AFB, GA 2017 to 2018 • Performed activities such as configuring and monitoring hardware and software for systems operation, processing and control of data flow, and New Technology (NT) server's multi-user system support.  • Provided customer service to assist in operation, restoral, and configuration of functionally operated systems base wide.  • Setup and maintained system imaging software used to stage multiple systems.  • Provides core services by designing, configuring, installing, and managing data services at the operating system and server application level  • Applies computer security policies to safeguard systems and information. Categorizes, isolates, and resolves system problems. Performs fault isolation by validating, isolating, correcting faults, and verifying service restore.  • Performs system resource management, manages system accounts, performs system-wide backups and data recovery, and load and capacity planning and management. Information Systems Security Officer United States Air Force, Active Duty - Robins AFB, GA 2017 to 2018 • Developed and implemented cyber security guides for requirements/templates for joint worldwide intelligence communication systems supporting command (JWICS) and control intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C2ISR).  • Managed JWICS cyber security program as information systems security officer/manager overseeing authority to connect/operate accreditation, audits, account administration, risk framework management, hardware/software configuration, and network schematics for multiple sensitive compartmented information facilities (SCIF).  • Inspected, validated and certified emission security programs for classified networks. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Park University - Parkville, MO 2017 to Present Skills Linux, Red hat, Active directory, Cisco, Network monitoring, Ds3, T1, Telnet, Vmware, Vpn, Remedy, Virtualization, Security, Ethernet, Optics, Database, Mysql, Sql, Android, Iphone Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Staff Sergeant Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ March 2015 to March 2021