Network Operator/Level 2 Tech Support <span class="hl">Network</span> Operator/Level 2 Tech Support Network Operator/Level 2 Tech Support Milwaukee, WI Seeking an Network Systems Administration position where my proven knowledge and experience in Information Technology and Networking Systems can be put to good use by helping your IT Department run securely and efficiently. Work Experience Network Operator/Level 2 Tech Support Footlocker Corporate March 2018 to July 2019 • Completed a network refresh which consisted of 3,000 footlocker stores. Migrated stores from DSL to Cable modems. Task included the Setup and configuration of network printers, point of sale, WAP, servers, IPV, and security cameras, while migrating from one static IP address to another remotely.  • Provide level 2 of support to end users by handling service requests that have been escalated by lower tiers remotely, over the phone, or via email.  • Develop solutions for network, desktop, and server problems by analyzing existing systems and making proactive recommendations for improvements.  • Maintain, and implement all system, applications, and networking configurations including DHCP/static IP addresses, DNS, Cisco Meraki firewalls, routers, and switches.  • Schedule and dispatch technicians/ISP if problem cannot be solved remotely.  • Maintained and troubleshot networks based off a ticketing system. Director Dreamland Child Care - Milwaukee, WI October 2016 to February 2018 • Engage in a system of data feedback and data utilization for individualized planning for children and families and continuous program improvement.  • Participate in Practice Groups and Reflective Supervision to support professional growth.  • Support and provide continuity of care to help children develop secure relationships.  • Participate in Family Child Service Reviews as scheduled.  • Attend and participate in all trainings  • Provide enhanced curriculum: Network System Administrator Intern ITT Technical Institute - Greenfield, WI December 2015 to August 2016 • Help desk administrator, assigning task/help desk tickets to others within my team/department.  • Responding to help desk tickets in a timely manner to help resolve IT issues and complaints around the campus.  • Software installation, upgrades and configuration for Windows XP, Windows Server 2003 & 2008, Microsoft Office, and various anti-virus, malware, spyware, worm scanning and removal  • Implementation of software installation, and password policies through Active Directory, group policy and user accounts  • Router configuration and troubleshooting of group policy and local security policy.  • Server hardening techniques including closing ports, installation of anti-viruses, firewalls, intrusion detection  • Firewalls and virtual private networks configuration and security  • Secure ftp, World Wide Web and mail services  • Complete PC hardware installations of monitors, servers, printers, routers, and switches  • Implement a disaster recovery plan for an information security policy  • Virus, spyware and malware detection and removal. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Networking Systems in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - Greenfield, WI June 2015 Additional Information Operating Systems/Software  * Windows desktop, Server, and Exchange Server  installation and configuration  * VMware  * Microsoft Access  * Microsoft Office/365  * Microsoft Outlook  * Mozilla Thunderbird  * Putty  * Wireshark  * Cisco Meraki  Security  * Configuration and implementation of Active Directory, Group Policy, Local/Domain Security Policy  * Monitoring system performance Developing and writing procedures for installation and use of hardware and software  * Desktop support for Windows clients  * Barracuda    Networking  * Cisco Router and Switch configuration (Meraki)  * Design, implementation and troubleshooting LAN and WAN technologies  * TCP/IP configuration  * DNS, DHCP  * Active Directory, Group Policy, Shared folders, and User Accounts  Hardware  * Implementing, managing and troubleshooting hardware devices and drivers  * Hard Drives, Motherboards, RAM, Network Interface Cards, Power Supplies  * Setup and configuration of network printers