Network Specialist/Operations Supervisor <span class="hl">Network</span> Specialist/Operations Supervisor Network Specialist/Operations Supervisor Idabel, OK Dedicated Network Specialist with 7+ years of experience working in an ISP operations center while simultaneously serving for 3+ years as Operations Supervisor. Proven ability to complete projects and reduce  costs through team building and skill development. Highly motivated to gain expertise and train others to improve staff quality.  Highlights:  • Reduced professional support expenses for Check Point 5600, Check Point SMP, Juniper SRX550, Adtran TA5000, Cisco switches, IPTV equipment, and other support systems by learning to operate and manage them while maintaining role as Operations Supervisor.  • Increased service installation by 70% and ticket resolution by 40% without a significant increase in staffing through work scheduling, remote access VPN, collaboration software, and training.  • Saved the company $84,000 annually in outsourced subscriber support expenses through the formation of a help-desk support team.  • Reduced subcontracted fiber splicing expenses by establishing an in-house fiber splice crew.  • Cut hosting cost down from $1.25 to $0.50/user/month for 9,000 email accounts by negotiating pricing and supervising the migration. Work Experience Network Specialist/Operations Supervisor Pine Telephone Company - Broken Bow, OK July 2016 to July 2019 • Monitored and maintained FTTH/IPTV equipment (Adtran TA5000 (48 nodes, 4 fiber rings), MetaSwitch IS, Minerva BackOffice, Sencore Probes) supporting 6000+ fiber customers with 2000+ IPTV subscribers.  • Reconfigured IGMP proxy settings on all Adtran fiber nodes resulting in a 45% IPTV ticket reduction and a significant improvement in video quality and set top box connectivity.  • Cut company expenses by up to $15,000 annually towards professional support for Check Point 5600 and Juniper SRX550 firewalls by learning to manage/configure security policies, site-to-site VPNs, remote client VPNs, IPS and IDS screens, and tracing and logging.  • Secured subscriber network from vulnerability scans and limited downtime to an average of 10 mins. upon flagging a DDOS target through the Juniper SRX550 IDS screens by applying firewall rules against the target or dropping the subscriber from the network. This, along with upstream support, has provided the company with a low-cost DDOS mitigation solution.  • Developed an SLA revenue stream using the Check Point SMP allowing the company to charge business subscribers with security and compliance requirements a recurring service cost for firewall installations, configurations and monitoring.  • Increased service production to a weekly average of 40 installs, 75 tickets, 30 drops, and 40 locates with a crew of 7 fiber/IPTV technicians, 5 drop construction crew, 4 fiber splicers, and 1 cable locator.  • Reduced service installation and troubleshooting time by 2 hours for internet only and 1 hour for internet/IPTV by researching use of ruggedized fiber jumpers, ONT/router equipment, using mechanical splicing when applicable and redesigning overall installation procedures.  • Established technical support guidelines for on-going effort to improve the quality of customer support services and overall subscriber satisfaction. For the past 2 years and with the expansion of FTTH coverage, we have seen an upsurge of positive reviews and customer relations.  • Reduced new build-out subcontracting expenses by establishing an in-house fiber splicing crew.  • Coordinated, within 2 weeks, the deployment of the Sandvine Traffic/Quota Manager which involved virtual hosts configuration, inline testing, API plugin development, and cutover MOP. Network Specialist Pine Telephone Company - Broken Bow, OK September 2012 to July 2016 • Established hierarchical ticket escalation procedures to guarantee normal ticket response time to within 24 hours, resolution to no more than 48 hours for FTTH, IPTV, and cellular services using 3 in-office support technicians.  • Reduced downtime and allowed preemptive maintenance for key network elements by deploying Nagios NMS and Cacti Graphs (later migrated to Zabbix NMS).  • Improved network infrastructure by installing and managing support systems such as clustered FreeBSD DHCP servers, CentOS DNS, HTTP/FTP host servers, and PostFix Local SMTP to send alerts from NMS, graphing tools and log servers.  • Hardened security and lessened risks of downtime by installing Juniper SRX300 firewalls to secure key network systems with internet accessible interfaces. A notable accomplishment is the setup of a site-to- site VPN using two SRX220 to transport video content using GRE over IPSec for multicast traffic.  • Supervised the migration of 9,000 subscriber email accounts to Rackspace. Network Administrator Ministry of Education - Majuro January 2004 to August 2012 • Optimized the existing network of 250+ hosts using VLAN segmentation, expanded wireless coverage, installed Smoothwall (open-source firewall) and Dansguardian (web content filter). Open-source software was used to create a low-cost solution to be presented during budget requests.  • Designed and built a trial network for the One Laptop Per Child Project using 150+ XO Laptops and X- Servers in preparation for a 1000+ unit deployment.  • Designed and built a campus network connecting 9 buildings with support for up to 200 hosts. Relied heavily on open-source software to cut costs. This network, although upgrades had been made, continues to serve the school and community.  • Developed a student database system using Filemaker Pro. This was only used for 5 years as the nation's ICT Plan for 2007 required all institutions to use a national student data management system.  • Deployed Koha ILS, open-source library management system, in 3 school libraries.  • Instrumental in developing the IT Standards and Benchmarks included in the Ministry's National Curriculum for 2006.  • Established internship programs for locals interested in Information Technology.  • Taught IT Fluency for 3 years in the Marshall Islands High School and 2 years in the Upward Bound Program. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science AMA Computer College