IT Administrator IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Administrator - idX Jeffersonville, IN My goal is to establish new employment in a position which would allow me to utilize my education and  experience to grow both professionally and as an individual. With a passion for learning and a disciplined  work ethic, it is my intention to build a mutually beneficial relationship with my employer enabling us both  to grow and achieve success. Work Experience IT Administrator idX September 2018 to Present Purchased, configured, and maintained Windows workstations and servers across multiple divisions.  Completely re-neworked large building of over 200 users with Cisco equipment. Supported over a dozen  CNC machines and their operators including Engineers utilizing Autodesk products. Provided support through Citrix for a myriad of virtual applications as well as Ncomputing thin clients. Developed AppLocker  and Device Guard policies for the organization. Administered O365 accounts and managed security settings through the Azure console. Monitored and responded to risk events and malware infected machines  throughout the company. Global Pay - Desktop Support Technician September 2017 to September 2018 Supported in house and remote users physical and virtualized workstations. Configured and maintained  Cisco networking equipment including cable runs and maintenance. Worked in various consoles and platforms including: VMware Vsphere and Horizon View, Active Directory, Safeguard Encryption, Safenet  OTP, and Palo Alto Firewall. Worked with HP zero clients and created documentation for other IT staff. Network Support Administrator Accucode May 2017 to September 2017 Contracted position to provided technical support for nationwide network conversions. Resolved  connectivity and hardware issues with equipment remotely. Worked with Cisco Meraki including  configuring, shipping, and troubleshooting of Meraki networking equipment. Internship Heritage Place of Indianapolis August 2016 to May 2017 Completed an extensive risk assessment on client's network infrastructure. Identified compliance issues and provided solutions. Led security awareness training courses for staff. Worked with project manager closely to plan and implement technology solutions. General networking and desktop troubleshooting. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Technology Purdue School of Engineering and Technology - Indianapolis, IN August 2012 to May 2017 Certificate of Completion in Computer Programming Charles Allen Prosser School of Technology 2010 to 2012