Network & System Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> &amp; System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network & System Administrator - InterBay Technologies Lombard, IL Work Experience Network & System Administrator InterBay Technologies - Huntley, IL September 2018 to Present IT Network Management  - Install the LAN, MAN, WAN, Routers and Switches.  - Configured the computer systems and software.  - Used monitoring tools to detect problems with customers' computers and remotely applied patches  and software.  - Used monitoring tools to detect problems with customer's computers and remotely applied patches  & software.  - Work on VMWARE and manage the system and application running on vmware.  - Resolve issues escalated by the Help Desk team.  - Diagnose and rectify any problems highlighted by Monitoring system.  - Responsible to scan all the packages of hardware.  - Malware removal and recommendations for hardware problems    Computer Associate  IT Network Technician (Independent Consultant)  March 2018 to August 2018    - Install the LAN, MAN, WAN, Routers and Switches.  - Configured the computer systems and software.  - Used monitoring tools to detect problems with customers' computers and remotely applied patches  and software.    - Used monitoring tools to detect problems with customers' computers and remotely applied patches  and software.  - Manage all VMWare work station and Application Network Admin Amazon Logistics - Chicago, IL March 2017 to September 2017 • Hardware break Fix and Network Topologies,  • I worked as an IT Network Support in Hardware /software Installations, maintenance and troubleshooting.  • I gained familiarity and knowledge of a broad range of technologies on LAN, WANS and WLANs.  • Used monitoring tools to detect problems with customers' computers and remotely applied patches  and software.  • Resolve issues escalated by the Help Desk team.  • Diagnose and rectify any problems highlighted by Monitoring system.  • Responsible to scan all the packages of hardware.  • Malware removal and recommendations for hardware problems System Support Consultant Shabakah Net - Jeddah, SA January 2015 to July 2016 • Responsible for Security & Integrated Systems and Automation Systems.  • Generated leads via various CRM channels such as phone communications, emails, LinkedIn, social networks and supported medium and large business accounts.  • Contacted and secured new business as well as maintain and grow existing business through interactive communications, job site visits, distributor / dealer trainings, trade shows, etc.  • Prepared documents such as price quotations, terms of sales, delivery dates, and service obligations.    • Supported clients for both pre-sales and post-sales end-to-end solutions.  • Implemented CCTV & IP Cameras and designed installation of site requirement.  • Automated System Of American Brand of Control 4 Units. Business Development Executive Hamid Nazar Contracting Company - Jeddah, SA December 2013 to November 2014 • Responsible for sales of modern houses and private villas equipped with home automation technology. CCTV, Access Control, IP Telephones & Burglar Alarm systems were used as cross selling products.  • Responsible for Sales Leads with New Clients & maintaining Existing Client Services.  • Presented Complete Product Knowledge with advanced Technology features.  • Delivered all the Task on or before deadlines with complete Analytical Reports.  • Maintained relations with Clients for after Sales Services & Support. Sales & Marketing Executive TIMA Trading, Advertising & Marketing Company - Jeddah, SA January 2011 to September 2011 • Responsible for Sales of Advertising, Security and Data Networking solutions to medium, Large & Mega Projects  • Successfully achieved a target of 2 Million SAR with over 7 Million worth of Prospects under Pipeline for the following year. Education Masters of Business Administration in Business Administration in Business Administration Academy of Management Studies at Osmania University July 2013 Skills ASSOCIATE, ACCESS CONTROL, CCNA, CISCO, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION