Network Services Manager / Senior Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Services Manager / Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Services Manager / Senior Network Engineer - New York & Company Wantagh, NY • Keen critical thinking ability • Ability to prioritize workload  • Attention to detail with solid work ethic • Reliable, Innovative and enthusiastic Work Experience Network Services Manager / Senior Network Engineer New York & Company - New York, NY March 2017 to Present • Responsible for maintenance of (LAN/WAN) enterprise network infrastructure (Cisco Eco-system).  • Access switch configuration and maintenance (2960-X flex stack plus) for multiple IDF closets.  • Management of 6807-XL VSS enabled Core Switches (VLANs, Port-channel, SPAN).  • Administration and deployment Cisco ISR's /switches throughout 430 company stores (router-on-a-stick configuration).  • Proficient with OSPF and BGP, including peering and redistribution.  • Layer 2 security measures including Dot1x / Mac Authentication bypass on Catalyst switches via Cisco ISE (NAC), DHCP Snooping / Dynamic Arp Inspection configuration.  • RADIUS/TACACS+ implementation on Cisco Catalyst switches and ISR routers.  • Configuration and Management of Citrix NetScaler Load Balancers for application delivery control  • Administration and maintenance of Cisco ISE 2.x in a distributed environment spanning multiple PANs and PSNs,  • Administration of ASA 5545 firewalls with HA configuration including scheduled failovers, OS upgrades / CVE countermeasures, configuration backups and proactive maintenance.  • IPsec / site-to-site VPN configuration / troubleshooting as well as redundant VPN configuration for colocation / DR site.  • Cisco 2140 FTD and Firepower Management Console administration.  • Cisco Prime and Umbrella/OpenDNS administration.  • Management and configuration of foreign and multiple anchor Cisco WLC configuration.  • Management of MDF and multiple IDF's including access switches, AV equipment and Alarm panels  • Administration of HP C7000 chassis throughout multiple data centers.  • Pure Storage Configuration and management / LUN mapping.  • Administrator for PRTG Network Monitor.  • RedHat Enterprise Linux administrator  • Management of Brocade Fibre San Switches / Fibre Channel (FC) / Multipath configuration.  • Management of 14 esx-i hosts / VCenter Cluster consisting of 620 VM clients across three data centers.  • Project Management as required for POC's / Technical Business Initiatives / Refresh projects.  • Collaborating with information security team and audit team on compliance remediation (PCI-DSS, Sarbane-oxley 404).  • Proficiency with network documentation including Visio/excel topology diagrams and rack elevations.  • Cyber Security enthusiast with educational background concentrated in security facets, including penetration, countermeasures, compliance and best practice in an enterprise setting.  • Member of the leadership team and change advisory board. Network Engineer OptumCare - Lake Success, NY January 2016 to March 2017 • Network support, design, and implementation.  • Ensuring network stability on Campus and for all remote practices.  • Deployment of network equipment to remote sites.  • Providing onsite support for remote sites as needed.  • Configuration and management of Cisco Catalyst switches including 2960S flex stack  • Cisco ASA management and configuration of the client profile objects and access rules.  • Configuration, installation, and maintenance of SonicWALL's and Sonic Points  • Site to site IPSEC VPN configuration and troubleshooting.  • DMVPN configuration on ISR's (Spoke) and ASR's (Hub).  • B2B VPN configuration and passive monitoring via Palo Alto 3060  • VLAN configuration for voice traffic, enterprise, and guest wireless.  • (Metro Ethernet) E-line configuration from the hand-off for remote offices.  • IP Management and distribution using IPAM  • VLAN configuration for VoIP communication.  • Network monitoring and interface analyzation via WhatsUpGold and Xenoss.  • Management of RADIUS server and configuration of clients.  • Network segmentation (Subnetting / VLSM).  • Cisco 5520 WLC management and configuration  • Monitoring using Cisco Prime 3.1  • Configuration of access rules in MS Threat Management Gateway Proxy.  • SonicWALL management and maintenance via GMS.  • RSA hard/soft token configuration and management.  • Implementing security best practices.  • Responsible for training documentation and Service-Now Network KB  • Extensive troubleshooting using Wireshark for packet captures and diagnosis.  • Data Center maintenance.  • Various projects on a needed basis. Network Administrator Empire City Casino - Yonkers, NY June 2015 to June 2016 • Network and Desktop support covering the 2nd shift  • Cisco ASA, Router, and Switch management.  • Configuring extended ACLs for static packet filtering on Server traffic.  • Port Security management and auto VLAN assignment with Cisco Identity Service Engine.  • Network Monitoring using PRTG.  • VLAN assignment and configuration.  • Network Segmentation  • Cisco Aironet configuration and management.  • Network printer configuration, management, and maintenance.  • Isolation and analyzation of all network related issues.  • Maintenance of MS Exchange Environment.  • Server maintenance including VMware environment.  • Anti-spam/email security management using barracuda.  • Unique Resource Locator monitoring via Palo Alto (Application Command Center).  • Application packaging, deployment and vulnerability patches using PDQ.  • Implementing security best practices, threat countermeasures (defense in depth).  • Active Directory users and groups management.  • Data Center maintenance including cable maintenance, temperature monitoring, rack, and stack.  • Monitor alerts SAN Storage (HP left-hand).  • Creating a standard process for group policy deployment.  • Network diagrams using Visio.  • Windows Imaging and deployment  • IP Camera configuration and management for Food and beverage department.  • Additional responsibilities including Support for POS systems and Digital signage for Casino.  • Management of proprietary applications for the Casino Market Place.  • Inventory management  • Documentation and SOP's Education Master of Science in Cyber Security in Cyber Security New York University Tandon School of Engineering - Brooklyn, NY 2018 to Present Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in IT Security Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2013 to 2018 Skills Cisco, Exchange, Security, Vmware, VPN, MPLS, DNS, Active Directory Assessments Conscientiousness — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's tendency to be rule-abiding, well-organized, hard-working, confident, and think before acting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kzpsauchnznnmifa Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.