IT Consultant IT Consultant IT Consultant - Westcor Industries Carlsbad, CA My career in technology has permitted me to provide remote and onsite support to production environments in many  different industries. Designing, implementing and managing technology for various departments within any organization has  me fully involved with how the applied technology is affecting the overall flow of business processes, revenue generation  and work environment culture. It is also further exposing me to many different personalities and helping me improve on  effective communication in a business environment.    I have been providing managed information technology services for small businesses in Southern California as a 1099  employee/contractor since 2005. I have been in the IT support industry since 1989. I am a network engineer with a focus on  business processes, data management and communication services from the perspective of the business owner, manager  and its supporting organization members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant Westcor Industries August 2015 to Present Windows 2008/2016 AD: Configured AD for 9-member local domain using server shares for home drives for each  user, a company shared folder with group level access policies to the folders, remote access for management.    Construction Partner: Configured application for centralized flat file storage on shared DFS folder. Legacy app. IT Consultant IVMed Services May 2011 to Present Windows 2012 AD setup and administration. Phone and network circuit punch/cross-connect/activation. data/  video/voice cable installation. Security camera network and DVR installation. Abacus system connection. Data  cross connect for infusion system. CPR+ support and administration. IT Consultant General Aviation April 2011 to Present Fuel Island: Chip controlled fuel dispenser M3000 configuration and support. Analog line cross-connect. Windows  based Fuel terminal software for fuel levels, sales activity and reporting.    Wireless: Meraki MR24. Configured on local subnet. Guest accounts have no access to local subnet.    Data State: Business management app is proprietary running on Mac OS. Redundancy Is through encrypted  remote backup.    Video Security: All mechanic bays, grounds and executive hanger are monitored by NVR devices and HD  cameras.    Cabling: CAT5/RG59. Cross-connects, patches from MPoE to main office and hangers.  Website and Social Media: Design and create content for company website using WordPress and Divi Theme.  Utilize Google AdWords to manage campaigns of website-based sales posts linked to keywords in several  categories. Negative keyword management. Demographic Reporting. Facebook ads and promotions. Network Administrator Brea 76 - Brea, CA April 2011 to Present Brea76 and Lakewood Mobil  Video Security: Integrate Petrosoft router and IP HD cameras to LAN.    Data and Video Cabling: CAT5/6 cabling for all fuel station equipment. RG59 cabling for video security network    Tank Level Communications: Veeder Root router integration with Petrosoft router for comprehensive management of video camera data, tank level readings and c-store activity. IT Consultant Law Office of Kent Snyder July 2010 to Present Data State: Files and data shared through this company is controlled using Box.com. The lead attorney and his  partner needed access to all files at all times. Using a corporate VPN led to many obstacles, was limited and clunky at best. I demonstrated the security and redundancy of corporate level file storage and management and  migrated the locally stored data to Box.com and applied discussed access standards and retention policies for all users. The users were slowly migrated from using WebDev to access files from their comfortable Windows  Explorer environment to the desktop version of Box.    Data Backup and Recovery: Zetta/Arcserve Encrypted Cloud Backup. Network Engineer Balboa Management Group April 2010 to Present VoIP: Installed and configured Asterisk based on-premise VoIP server with 5 departments, auto-attendant, voicemail, follow-me, remote phone sets, ring groups.    Firewall: Installed SonicWall T Series to configure and manage VoIP network over bonded SIP circuit. Network Engineer Jgoodin Inc September 2008 to Present ERP: Migrated inventory, invoice, customer and GL data from NetSuite to .csv files. Created templates for import into Acumatica ERP platform on 11th generation Dell PowerEdge servers with MS SQL 2008-2016 and IIS 5, 6, 7.  using multiple company configuration. Acumatica 4.x to 5.x to 6.x, 2019 in a stand-alone, on-premise configuration.    VoIP: Migrated cloud-based VoIP systems to on-premise Asterisk VoIP server with Cisco, Aastra, Sangoma, Polycom, Grandstream IP phones over a dedicated bonded T-1 SIP circuit.    Email: MS Exchange 5 server to route and accept domain mail for company. Migrated Exchange server to MS  Office365 Corporate to provide standardization, security and better administration for 7 domains under the corporate umbrella. China factory employees depend on this form of communication with the management and  warehouse departments in Brea, CA.    E-Commerce: Managed LAMP project to implement a "home brew" shopping cart for early e-commerce platform  using SuperMicro, Dell PowerEdge 2850/2950 servers, SonicWall MX firewalls, no name managed switches.  Implemented X-Cart to use the API for live inventory and sales activity. The E-Commerce stack for one business  channel has matured using Shopify hosting the front-end and shopping cart, while the API is still tied to the ERP  distribution and financial modules.  Local Network: The local subnets for companies are configured as separate LANs using a SonicWall MX2400.  There are 2 WAN circuits and 3 LAN subnets. A 24/7 VPN connection to the data center subnet is maintained by the SonicWall network.    VPN: SonicWall VPN and SonicWall VPN client.    Wireless: All wireless clients are routed through Cisco Meraki MR24.    Virtualization: The preferred method for server and environment virtualization is VMWare ESXi.    Monitoring: Solarwinds Network Performance Monitor and Network Traffic Analysis with SNMP Trap. Network Engineer Achieva Learning Centers (Kaplan - Palo Alto, CA August 1998 to October 2000 Achieva Learning Centers (purchased by Kaplan) 2 years 3 months  Built 13 office, private network for Palo Alto educational startup. IT Project management, Desktop Support, New Office build-outs, CAT5 data cabling, VoIP phone system administration, ATT Definity System 75/Octel  administration. Network Administrator Merrill Lynch Institutional Sales - Atlanta, GA June 1993 to August 1998 5 years 3 months  Network Administrator for Institutional Sales branch office. Supported 50 traders/operations staff/Admin staff on Windows NT local domain. ATT Definity System 75/Octel administration, IPC Turrets, Bloomberg services, Equity  product services, direct line/private line administration. Traveled to 5 Institutional Sales offices as team member for  "rollout" of new technology over Windows NT environments. Education Certificate of Completion in Adult Professional Studies Orange Coast College 2010 to 2010 Certificate of Completion in Adult Professional Studies Orange Coast College 2009 to 2010 Certificate of Completion in Adult Professional Studies Orange Coast College 2009 to 2009 Certificate of Completion New Horizons Computer Learning Centers - Atlanta, GA 1996 to 1996 Certificate of Completion New Horizons Computer Learning Centers - Atlanta, GA 1996 to 1996 Certificate of Completion New Horizon Computer Learning Center - Atlanta, GA 1995 to 1995 Certificate of Completion in Microprocessor Technology Computer Learning Center 1988 to 1989 Zoology Howard University 1982 to 1984 Marine Science Hampton University 1982 to 1982 Zoology Virginia State University 1981 to 1982 Skills Network security, Network design, Security, It project management, Technical Support, Windows, Active Directory, Vmware, Networking Links http://linkedin.com/in/eric-dollison-8296a835 Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lrqnzojccqya-fx Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nxtnkbaawtvrslya Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.