Configuration Management Specialist Configuration Management Specialist Configuration Management Specialist - SS&C Layton, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Configuration Management Specialist SS&C - Ogden, UT September 2014 to Present • Create PowerShell scripts to automate common build management tasks.  • Expert at configuring IIS to host TimeShareWare applications.  • Buildmaster of TimeShareWare MSI files; push updates to QA environments via scripts.  • Performed common SQL Server and Reporting Server tasks such as backup and restore of DBs, shrinking log files,  and assigning SQL permissions.  • Assist Business Analysts with troubleshooting customer implementations of Enterprise TimeShareWare.  • Manage over 80 Dev and QA servers using Microsoft VMM. Support Technician Eide Bailly, LLP - Ogden, UT November 2012 to November 2012 • Provide onsite desktop support to end users.  • Troubleshoots miscellaneous software, network, server/desktop issues, and printer hardware issues. Network Administrator/Consultant Schmitt, Griffiths, Smith & Co., P.C - Ogden, UT 1999 to November 2012 Transformed job title to include IT consultant as well as network administrator by generating an additional $55K per year by consulting firm clients with their IT needs, thus reducing the cost of my salary to the firm.  • Reduced risk of financial loss to employer due to potential down time, by implementing a VMWare Essentials Plus  network infrastructure with an HP LeftHand SAN.  • Provide sales quotes and proposals for software and hardware for the purpose of translating customer needs into an affordable and technologically sound networking system.  • Design and oversee firm and client Active Directory Windows networking systems, manage servers, workstations,  printers, firewalls, network applications, user training, helpdesk support, phone system, application troubleshooting, and problem resolution.  • Excellent customer relation skills. For example, I'm frequently told by clients not to leave my current job. Network Administrator Nelson Laboratories (NL) - Salt Lake City, UT 1998 to 1999 Education BA in Communication Southern Utah University - Cedar City, UT December 1997 Skills Microsoft Office,VMWae, Hyper-V, Windows 2012/2016, Windows 7, Windows 10, Sonicwall Firewalls (10+ years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware Additional Information • Over 19 years of experience in Information Technology and networking.  • Gatekeeper of Application Life Cycle for TimeShareWare enterprise application.  • Reduced risk of financial loss to employer due to potential down time, by implementing a VMWare Essentials Plus  network infrastructure with an HP LeftHand SAN.  • Expertise in a wide aspect of IT, including system analysis and design, hardware purchasing & pricing, installation  of servers, desktops, firewalls, printers; implementation & maintenance of entire network infrastructure and apps.  • Excellent at troubleshooting and finding solutions to client's IT problems.