Sr. Network Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer IT Engineer with Vast Security Experience that is able to Think Outside the Box Lansing, KS I have a passion for technology and building infrastructure. Experience designing, implementing, securing, operating and maintaining data centers, support organizations and network infrastructures. Developed cost-effective business process enhancements and systems by creatively using existing infrastructure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Network Engineer Apex Systems / CDW for Advent Health March 2019 to Present • Network Engineering- On a team of 3 engineers that redesigned the 10+ year old 1200 device Ransom Memorial Hospital enterprise network and integrating the hospital into the Adventist Health Systems enterprise environment after the acquisition. Designed and implemented a new enterprise network infrastructure with redundant Cisco core 9500 switches, new network access layer Cisco 9300 switches, 5516X ASA firewalls, new IP subnet scheme, new Cisco APs, 10 gigabit fiber connectivity to Cisco 9300 access layer switches using layer 2 and layer 3 vlans. Put in all new UPSs, redid IDF racks & rooms and implemented new single mode fiber to the off-site offices.  • Network Security - Assisted corporate security in assessing, scanning and identifying security  opportunities with the newly acquired Ransom Memorial Hospital. Network & Security Engineer Adaptive Solutions Group May 2018 to February 2019 • IT Security -Provide support to the Westar/Evergy INFOSEC team. Managed, supported & upgraded Cisco ASA 5516-X firewalls in HA configurations at Westar. Upgraded and replaced all Cisco ASA 5516-X firewalls at all the Westar energy plants. Support SCADA integration to corporate networks. Provide firewall support and security to the energy plant operations and plant application teams. Migrate Open BSD firewalls to Cisco NGFW technology to protect corporate and operation environments. Investigate potential threats and alerts using Splunk and other tools. Provide support to enterprise internet Palo Alto firewalls.  • Endpoint Protection -Perform endpoint security monitoring, security event triage and incident response in an enterprise environment using Carbon Black, Splunk and other security tools. Support Carbon Black for the enterprise environment.  • Software Network Defined Access & Threat Intelligence -Supporting an enterprise project team to redesign the enterprise network from a Nortel to a Cisco environment. Helped implement Cisco Digital Network Architecture / DNA & Cisco Identity Service Engine / ISE technology corporate wide. Senior Network Engineer Glacier Technologies, LLC April 2017 to December 2017 • Network Engineering -Provide Tier II & III enterprise network support to the US Forest Service offices & sites nationwide that utilize a MPLS WAN in a diverse Cisco environment. Supported Cisco enterprise switches, routers, WAPs, NAC, ASAs & AnyConnect VPN. Helped identify & investigate sites that needed more WAN bandwidth for users to be able to qualify for MPLS upgrades.  • Provided support to network infrastructure and projects in the secure USDA Kansas City NITC Data Center.  • Responsible for working in a controlled environment in which strict security standards must be maintained.  • Supported & participated in national pilot projects for Cisco VPN, Riverbed NetCollector and Box Sync cloud storage network applications. Network Engineer -project contractor Farmobile.com February 2017 to April 2017 • Network Engineering -Assisted in Data Center upgrade projects to improve their world wide IoT network & corporate LAN. Evaluated and made recommendations to improve network performance, network security and firewall configurations.  • VMware & Server Administration -Built a VMWare ESXi environment to support corporate Linux and Windows shares, Mac backups and a development environment using Linux CentOS VMs. Network Operations Manager URL Digital Media, LLC June 2015 to January 2017 • Network Engineering -Designed, implemented and maintained LANs, enterprise security and supported 5 companies. Maintained & supported LANs, Cisco 3850s, SonicWALL & Cisco ASA firewalls. Designed, implemented a WAN between companies and the COLO consisting of IPSEC site to site VPN tunnels between offices with Cisco ASA and SonicWALL NSA 4600 firewalls.  • Network Security -Identified & remediated security vulnerabilities on web commerce company websites, corporate LANs, ASA firewalls and servers. Performed monthly security audits, pen testing and network vulnerability scanning on companies. Worked with the developers on web site security remediation as opportunities were identified. Evaluated new security tools and revised processes to identify security vulnerabilities. Supervised and trained my support staff to identify and assist in security tasks. Implemented managed Vipre and MalwareBytes on servers and PCs. Implemented, maintained and resolved network, server, workstation & video surveillance security opportunities.  • IT Director -Successfully managed Helpdesk staff & IT operations for 5 companies with a staff of 3 IT employees. Provided IT strategic technical direction for companies to meet business needs and objectives. Provided and directed managed Tier I - III support. Managed AWS corporate infrastructures and budgets.  • Enterprise Email Engineer -Supported e-mail services consisting of cloud Office 365 and migrated postfix email to an on premise COLO Exchange 2013 environment. Designed, implemented and supported a 10 domain multi-tenant transactional email system using an Exchange 2013 front end and back end enterprise architecture with a front end IronPort C170 Mail Security appliance for web sites. Each email domain used 2 IPs for separate inbound and outbound email for a robust design.  • Procurement -Purchased and managed all software licensing for Macs and PCs. Purchased all network, telephony & PC hardware for 5 companies. Managed datacomm contracts and IT vendor relationships for companies.  • Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery -Researched, designed and planned DR and BC solutions for our major FL company. Presented different options to management. Implemented corporate cloud based COLO email as part of an email migration project and for BC.  • VMware & Server Administration -Supported 8 VMware ESXi hosts & Microsoft server 2012R2 AD environments for Companies & COLO.  • Network & Server Support -Built and maintained VMware CentOS, Ubuntu & Windows development and test environments. Trained support staff to manage and build servers. Supported LAMP Stack, Docker & .Net Developers objectives & corporate projects. Supported & maintained 3 AD environments. Developed and implemented off site backup and disaster recovery plan and services for companies. Network Engineer Providence Medical Center January 2014 to April 2015 • Network Engineering -Successfully provided LAN and WAN support in a 24 by 7 Nortel and Cisco environment for 2 hospitals consisting of over 2000 network devices, 2 Nortel 8610 cores, 96 switches, an Imaging Center and 7 medical offices on a VPLS/MPLS WAN and LANs. In charge of all Datacomm implementation & engineering for new clinics  • Network Architecture & Integration -Integrated medical practice offices and a nursing home into the PMC WAN as they were acquired. Implemented innovative HIPAA-compliant IT infrastructure networks and solutions for Prime Healthcare medical offices. Designed network solutions to meet business medical goals.  • Network Security - Worked with corporate to install & configure McAfee SIEM for my 2 hospitals and clinics. Investigated and remediated McAfee SIEM alerts for hospitals & clinics. Investigated and remediated McAfee SIEM alerts for hospitals & clinics. Managed all user internet browser security via Websense for 2 hospitals & 8 clinics. Managed network security ASA 5505 firewalls for all clinics. Identified and investigated hospital security vulnerabilities, compromised devices and breaches. Provided support and options for remediation to corporate security.  • PACs Technology Support -Provided network and PACS DICOM support to 2 Radiology depts., Cardiology and an Imaging Center for all modalities. Provided network engineering and server support for Cardiology GE Maclab upgrades.  • Server and VMware Administration -Provided Tier II & III server and application support for an enterprise Microsoft domain and VMware environment for 2 Hospitals. Managed and supported corporate AD & GPO environments. Successfully provided and maintained internet security with Websense security for both hospitals. Provided backup support to the server and VMWare administrator. Network Engineer/Consultant Bison IT November 2010 to July 2014 • Network Engineer -Designed, implemented and maintained a WAN for 4 medical clinics via Cisco routers & P2P T1s for the Sunflower Medical Group. Designed & provided network support for the Sunflower Medical Group LANs using Cisco 3750 switch stacks. Supported Cisco, HP, Netgear, Zyxel, Linksys & Sonicwall WAPs, routers and switches for medical clinics and businesses. Provided remote VPN access for all types of applications for all types of businesses.  • IT Security Engineer - Performed PCI and HIPAA security audits for clients. Implemented Eset Nod32 managed and unmanaged AV solutions, suggested and implemented desktop and network security recommendations to clients. Analyzed malware, rootkit and trojan attack vectors to be able to improve security posture for clients. Cleaned infected PCs and laptops for clients as needed and implement solutions to prevent infections. Educated clients on desktop and network security as it pertained to their business. Continuously evaluated client's IT infrastructure for security vulnerabilities by managing firewalls, pen testing and provided options for remediation.  • Consultant -Provided and implemented cost effective technology solutions to business problems and business workflows for medical offices and other types of businesses.  • Server Administrator -Successfully implemented & provided support for windows 2000-2008R2 servers & terminal servers for clients. Upgraded client's server RAID volumes to larger volumes using imaging technology. Installed & supported a broad range of applications for clients in Windows terminal server environments.  • Allscripts Professional EHR Consultant/Support -Designed, implemented and supported 4 medical practices in robust Dell enterprise server environment using SQL, application servers and multiple terminal servers. Maintained and upgraded Allscripts PM and EHR applications. Successfully provided Tier I-III support for all aspects of Allscripts Professional EHR, interfaces and work flows. Engineered, implemented and supported Allscripts Remote for smart phones for physicians.  • Tier II & III Support -Successfully provided remote and on site support for software, hardware, networking and PACs medical support for clients ranging from medical practices, sleep labs, medical imaging practices, nursing homes and small businesses in all business sectors for all kinds of issues.  • PACs Technology Administrator and Network Integration specialist - Supported, redesigned & implemented a Win7 migration for the Sunflower Medical Group sonogram dept. Successfully supported OmniVue PACs imaging in various networking and medical environments. Provide PACs administration for Kodak Carestream PACs x-ray imaging. Install, support and integrate medical PACs technology into practices & LANs for CT, MR, CR, US and mammography. Supported Fuji, Siemens, GE, Kowa & Kodak medical PACs technology for clients. Network Engineer Absolute Computer Solutions April 2012 to April 2013 • Network Engineer -Supported diverse network infrastructures for ACS clients from small to enterprise environments. Installed and troubleshoot different switches, firewalls and routers and related datacomm opportunities  • Network Security -Successfully provided security services against Malware, Ransomware, rootkits, viruses and trojans for ACS client PCs and servers. Performed HIPAA security audits for clients.  • Tier II & III support -Successfully provided remote and onsite hardware, software and network support for ACS medical clients in different network environments for over 150 diverse clients and networks. Trained users for new applications & business workflows.  • EHR / EMR Support Specialist -Provided technical support for different EHR and PM applications for medical practices in the Kansas City area such as Allscripts, PDS, eClinicalWorks, McKesson, NextGen, NuMed, Pulse and Millennium. Installed, supported and integrated medical EHR & PM in practices & clinics.  • Server Administrator -Provided on going Windows server 2003 and server 2008 support and maintenance for medical clients in the Kansas City area for diverse network environments.  • Backup & Disaster Recovery -Provided support for Backup Exec & Datto DR technologies to clients. Network & Security Engineer Armed Forces Insurance December 2007 to March 2010 • Network Engineer -Designed & implemented a 100 megabit metro ethernet connectivity between 2 sites. Designed, maintained & upgraded 2 corporate LANs consisting of 3 Cisco 3750 switch stacks consisting of 620+ ports with Mainframe, VoIP, SAN and ESX connectivity.  • Network Monitoring & Security -Monitored, upgraded and maintained corporate Cisco ASA and PIX firewalls. Upgraded, monitored and maintained a 25 megabit symmetrical internet connection with SNMP and Syslog monitoring tools. Designed and implemented network SNMP Management with Solarwinds Engineering Tools, Syslog & Whats Up Gold 14.2 to monitor servers, LANs and the WAN.  • Network VoIP Engineer -Supported network connectivity for Avaya S8500 Media Servers in an ESS configuration and an Avaya Modular Messaging Server. Maintained and supported Avaya voicemail and Exchange 2k3 integration. Successfully designed & implemented an Avaya PoE VoIP pilot project over a Cisco network infrastructure consisting of Avaya H.323 9620 and 4621 Avaya VoIP phones.  • Network Administrator -Supported EMC SANs & NAS storage for Windows 2003/2008 servers in a VMWare ESX environment. Supported production Win2003 AD server environment consisting of over 20 servers. Helped migrate physical Win 2003 servers to ESX VM environment. Planned AD migration from server 2003R2 to Server 2008R2.  • Exchange E-Mail Messaging -Designed maintained & supported a 450+ mailbox Exchange 2003 environment with RightFAX and Avaya voicemail integration. Provided e-mail security with an IronPort C160 E-Mail security appliance and RBLs.  • Managed Server Patch Management -Successfully implemented, trained and mentored staff to and supported a compliant server patch management methodology for keeping corporate servers secure and compliant with Windows critical updates and security patches for production & test server environments.  • VMWare ESX Support - Tier I and II ESX support. Supported ESX 3.5x environment by troubleshooting VM issues, upgrading clients and served as backup to VMWare administrator.  • HelpDesk Manager -Trained and developed support staff to successfully provide network, e-mail and application support to IT staff and 200+ users for all kinds of issues. Supported Commvault backup operators and related infrastructure. Network & Security Administrator First Group June 2005 to November 2007 • Network Security -Implemented and managed corporate virus protection from servers to workstations via managed Symantec anti-virus servers and clients. Monitored LANs & Cisco ASA firewalls for security and SOX compliancy. Performed security vulnerability scans, identified issues and resolution. Recommend and implemented SOX & HIPAA IT best security practices for LTS corporate networks. Continuously monitored and reviewed syslog ASA firewall logs and AD security logs.  • NOC/SOC & COLO - Designed and managed a NOC/SOC. Assisted in the design of an off site Data Center / Co Location for operations and Disaster Recovery for our SaaS enterprise environment. Supported corporate DNS needs on two F5 BigIP DNS appliances for multiple web site domains.  • E-Mail Administrator -Successfully managed and supported a 850 mailbox Exchange 2003 corporate e-mail system across the U.S. with three user clients, FAX and Cisco voicemail integration. Developed and maintained a successful tiered virus and spam defense strategy. Supported BES server and ActiveSync smartphone e-mail connectivity.  • Server Patch Management -Successfully implemented and supported a SOX & HIPAA compliant server patch management methodology using a GSX VMware test environment for keeping corporate servers secure with Windows critical updates and security patches for a large enterprise server environment.  • Server Hardware Specialist -Successfully provided tier I and tier II user and network support for a diverse corporate network environment with installations, repairs and support.  • Cisco VoIP Support -Provided tier II & III support for a Cisco Unity VoIP phone system, voicemail integration and the call center.  • Support Specialist -Successfully provided tier II and tier III user and network support for a diverse corporate network environment. Supported, recommended and implemented applications, network hardware and servers. System Support Specialist First Group June 2004 to June 2005 • System Support Specialist -Successfully provided tier I, II & tier III user and network support for a diverse corporate network environment across the U.S. Supported corporate .Net applications and developers nationwide.  • Cisco VoIP Support -Provided tier I & II support for a Cisco Unity VoIP phone system and voicemail by successfully doing adds, moves and changes to IP phones and Voicemail  • Workstation Patch Management -Successfully supported a corporate environment by applying corporate applications upgrades and Windows critical updates and security patches  • Helpdesk Support -Successfully provided tier I, II & III support for software, hardware, network and application support for LTS personnel in a decentralized network environment. Provided PC security for LTS users in terms of virus/worm and spyware removal. Identified and resolved compromised PCs and networks for LTS sites nation-wide. Education BS in Information Systems Kansas State University - Manhattan, KS AA Plymouth State College - Plymouth, NH Skills Active directory, Cisco, Data center, Dns, MS Exchange (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Iis, Networking (10+ years), Sms, SNA, TCP/IP (10+ years), Appletalk, Bgp, Catalyst, Citrix, Cognos, DHCP (10+ years), Eigrp, Layer 2 (10+ years), MPLS (5 years), LAN (10+ years), Security (10+ years), Vmware ESXi (10+ years), VPN (10+ years), SQL, AWS, PowerShell, TCP, Project Management Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Present Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  Medical: Zeiss OCT Cirrus, Fuji, GE & Siemens medical imaging technology for all modalities, Kodak  Carestream PACs, DICOM networking & VPN connectivity, Allscripts EHR Pro & PM,  eClinicalWorks, EyeMD, NextGen, NuMed, McKesson, Millennium, PDS, PointClickCare  Software: Office 365, MS Exchange Server 5.0, 5.5, 2000, 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013 (Domains, Clusters,  Transactional Multi-Tenant), Epicor, Active Directory, Group Policy, BES, Cognos, MS  SQL Server 6.5-2008, SUS, WSUS, SMS, CommVault, Backup Exec, Veam, Apache, IIS,  Powershell, Bash  Load Balancer: F5 DNS BigIP Load Balancer Servers, Cisco ACE  Firewalls: Sonicwall appliances, PIX 505-525, ASA 5505-5555-x, NGFW 2110s & 4120s  Networking: Appletalk, BGP, CDP, DHCP, DLC, DNS, EIGRP, Frame Relay, FTP, IPX, IMAP, ISDN,  MPLS, NetBIOS, NetBEUI, OSPF, POP3, PPP, P2P Circuits, PIP Circuits, SNA, SMNP,  SNMP, SSL, TCP/IP,TLS, TFTP, VLANs, VPLS, Metro Ethernet, Fiber connectivity, T1s-  OC3s, VPN Site to Site tunnels, VPN Technologies  Wifi: Aruba, Cisco, Meraki, Sonicwall  OS: Linux, Windows 7 - 10, MS Server 2000 -2016, Citrix 1.7 - XP, Novell Netware 2-5.1,  OS/2, MS Terminal Server, CentOS, AIX, NetBSD, SCO, Solaris, Ubuntu, VMWare ESX  3.5x-4.0x, ESXi 5.0 - 6.x  VoIP: Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Unity, Avaya, Grandstream / Asterisk, SureTel, H323, SIP Trunks  Hardware: AWS, Data Center technology, APC & Eaton UPSs, RS/6000s, EMC & HP SANs, HP Blade  servers, most HP, IBM, Dell servers, Nortel layer 2/3 switching, IoT, Out of Band Server  Management products, SaaS, IaaS, PaaS  Cisco: ACS, Catalyst 9500, 9300, 6513, 6509, 5500 & 5000, 2950x, 2960x, 3750, 3750x, 3850x switches,  VPN 3000 series concentrators, routers ASR1001xs - 4300s, UCS  E-Mail Security: IronPort C160 & IronPort C170 E-mail Security appliances, Symantec Bright Works  Appliances, GFI Mail essentials, Symantec Mail Security  Security: Carbon Black, McAfee & Splunk SIEMs, Nmap, NetStumbler, OpenDNS, Snort, Nessus, Wireshark  Network Mgmt: PRTG, Solar Winds Orion & Engineering Tools, Spice Works, Syslog, Whats up Gold