Clinical Systems Administrator Clinical Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Clinical Systems Administrator - Community Medical Centers Clovis, CA Work Experience Clinical Systems Administrator Community Medical Centers - Fresno, CA 2014 to Present Fresno, California 2014 - Present  Private Fresno based, not-for-profit healthcare network serving the Central San Joaquin Valley.  Clinical Systems Administrator @ Corporate Information Systems Department; Fresno, California  Ensure the security and integrity of databases and report writing solutions. Implement data models and database  designs and queries, and data access and table maintenance codes. Participate in the research, recommendation, development and implementation of epic database solutions. Collaborated with other Information Systems  colleagues, Information Security Officer, Information Systems Leadership and other stakeholders to identify, develop, implement and support cost-effective and functional information security controls for all aspects of the  organization. Resolve complicated database performance and capacity issues, replication and other distributed data  issues. Perform audits for database quality and health. Monitor Information Systems Customer Support system for assigned tasks and functions. Perform a variety of database related tasks.  ? Design, implementation, and maintenance of Caché database system servicing clinical and administrative  Electronic Health Record (EHR) functions.  ? Install, upgrade, and support the various Epic Caché database application environments and associated  third party software products on HP-UX Unix / Redhat Enterprise Linux operating system environments in compliance with established architectural standards.  ? Provide Epic product function, design, build, and support expertise and experience for ongoing system build  and configuration.  ? Work with application end users, analysts and experts in Epic systems support to build, configure, deploy, implement, operate, support, and maintain the database.  ? Install, configure, maintain, and upgrade all Windows-based Epic applications and services, such as Epic  Print Service, Interconnect, and MyChart  ? Expertise with EPIC, Interconnect, Bridges, Data Link, and other standard data integration tools available  through Epic required.  559.260.8348 jose@joseglopez.com www.linkedin.com/in/lopez-jose-g  ? Perform Caché Instance and Epic EHR environment set up and configuration, proactive Epic systems  monitoring and maintenance. Managing the organizations database environments that serve production, reporting, disaster recovery, training, and non-production needs.  ? Actively participate in all phases of the testing lifecycle and performs unit, system, regression and integrated testing tasks and activities.  ? Responsible for upgrades/patches to assigned database systems and software tools as required by vendor  partners.  ? Formulating and defining systems scope and objectives based on both user needs and a thorough  understanding of (clinical/business) information systems and (patient care/business) end user  requirements.  ? Updated job knowledge by participating in educational opportunities; reading technical publications.  ? Adhere to organizational standards for application configuration and system Change Control.  ? Attend team meetings to discuss team and project related activities, work tasks, and issues.  ? Complete specific team task activities as outlined in the project work plan and other job-related duties as assigned.  ? Ensure the reliability, security, and performance of numerous environments within the system including  production, development, test, and training environments. Fresno Pacific University - Fresno, CA 2007 to 2014 Manager of Network Services Fresno Pacific University 2007 to 2014 Under general direction, planned, managed, supported, and executed large scale and/or complex  telecommunications projects across the campus, while promoting the understanding of project management  principles across the University. Managed projects to insure telecommunications designs and installations are  compliant, secure, within budget, and satisfy the needs of University staff and end-users. Engaged and worked with other university departments in the areas of network infrastructure design, construction, and project management.  Responsible for all aspects of the planning, development and implementation of assigned projects; provided a single point of contact for all constituents, served as the project lead/liaison. Reviewed specifications, blueprints or  other plans to ensure installations are technically correct and compliant with regulations, codes and internal/industry standards. Provided guidance to project teams and made recommendations based on the analysis  of complex problems. Developed network project budget estimates and managed network project budget and expenditures over the life of a project.  ? Manage voice and data (HP Networking, Aruba Networks, AeroHive Wireless) communications for a twenty-acre university campus and four remote regional centers.  ? Responsible for the maintenance of universities network infrastructure including but not limited to all  components of its local area and wide area (Century Link FDDI) networks governing the data  communications among personal computers. This includes computer Dell Windows PC, HP networks, MS  Exchange Email and Calendar, and Siemens HIPath and 3Com VCX telecommunications for microcomputers and servers.  ? Project manage, design, and implementation of the fibre and Category 5e/6 Ethernet network  infrastructure. Oversaw help-desk technical support and help functions that relate to HP networks, security, F5 redundancy, and connectivity.  ? Coordinated problem isolation and repair with IT peers, other campus system and network administrators, and outside vendors, such as technical personnel from service providers, or network equipment  manufacturers.  ? Performed corrective measures to resolve medium to complex PBX phone switch and Voice-over-IP server  configuration call routing, PRI and other voice related service problems.  559.260.8348 jose@joseglopez.com www.linkedin.com/in/lopez-jose-g Education Certificate in Networking/Computer Technician Fresno City College - Fresno, CA 1998 Skills Cache, Database, Hp-ux, Ux, Unix, Linux, Epic Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lopez-jose-g Additional Information Areas of Expertise  Electronic Health Record  Epic Client Systems  Care Everywhere  Cache Systems Administrator  Interconnects  Hyperspace Web  Epic Print Service  Windows Servers  BCA components  MyChart  Epic application upgrades  Redhat Enterprise Linux  HP-UX Unix  Caché database upgrades  SystemPulse  RedAlert