IT Specialist Support IT Specialist Support IT Specialist Support - Signature Mortgage Inc Novi, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist Support Signature Mortgage Inc - Canton, OH October 2018 to July 2019 Canton - Ohio October 2018 - current part-time  Since 1996 is an INC 500 fastest growing lender company.    Position Title: IT Specialist Support  • LAN Administrator and Technical Support.  • Inventory the hardware and software. Documentation the FAQ applying RCA.  • Troubleshooting of issues in desktops/laptops with Windows 7/10 and printers.  • Windows 2016 Server Administrator and hyper-Virtual servers.  • Setup the new computers, install the software, drivers, applications, antivirus, office cloud,  encompass loan application.  • I create a plan of preventive maintenance of HW/SW of workstations and servers. Network Administrator Canton, OH 2016 to September 2018 Immigrant Worker Project - Canton - Ohio 2016- September 2018  NGO dedicated to the struggle for justice and human dignity for rural immigrant workers.    Position Title: Network Administrator  • LAN and Wire Less Administrator. Users account management in local domain.  • IT Support and upgrade de hardware and software Windows, troubleshooting OpenOffice  suite. Replaced the SATA hard drive by SSD in laptops to improve the performance.  • Installation of File Server and implementing the access policies to shared folders/files.  • Backup/Restore Administrator with EaseUS Todo Backup.  • I improved the information's access and security moving the files from workstations to server.  Group policies applied IT Infrastructure & Systems/ Network Administrator DRP Smelter and Refinery - Perú 2001 to 2015 at USA) 2001-2015  Is a mining and metallurgical company, is one of the largest corporations in the Peruvian central  Andes. During 2007 was the country's fourth largest exporter, with annual sales of US$ 1,450  million. It provides the global market with Copper, Zinc, Lead and Silver.    Position Title: IT Infrastructure & Systems/ Network Administrator    • Administrator of multiple IT services 24x7 and on-call including the service desk and remote  support in the main data center and 4 branch offices with attention to 2,500 users exceeding  levels 95% of end-user satisfaction applying ITIL with Peregrine Systems Ticketing  • Administrator of ERP People Soft, MAXIMO, Primavera, Microsoft Exchange Server, Domain  Controllers, Active Directory, DHCP, WINS, Hyper-V, Databases.  • Network Administrator of LAN/WAN TCP/IP with 60 switches Cisco Catalyst 4500, 3Com, Allied  Telesis media converters and 60 Konica/Xerox printer's management. Preventive Maintenance.  • Wireless Network Administrator of 50 Cisco Access Point indoor Aironet in mesh mode with Wi-  Fi LAN Controller and Cisco Works to extend the network in the industrial campus.  • Windows Systems Administrator in platform Microsoft 2003/2008/2012 Server and Red Hat  Linux Administration installed in 40 servers Dell PowerEdge, HP ProLiant, IBM Blade Center,  IBM SAN DS4800 with Tivoli Enterprise Framework, General Network Sniffer, and Orion  SolarWinds to monitoring and control. RAID implementing and preventive maintenance.    1  • IT Support in HW/SW for 2,000 PCs, 250 laptops (Lenovo/HP/Dell) Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10,  MS Office, Project, Visio, AutoCAD. Upgrade/replaced the hardware in workstations. Cloning.  • Knowledge, experience and documentation of security and control standards such as  Sarbanes-Oxley, ISO9000, ISO14001, COBIT, Ethical Hacking, Business Continuity  Management, Disaster Recovery Plan, Data Center Services, Access under biometric, check- in records, control, precision A/C, UPS, structured wiring, fiber optic, fire alerts management  panel control and periodic testing integral systems of security.  • Administration and support of industrial network and monitoring environmental with Windows and SCADA systems using equipment Allen-Bradley and Rockwell Automation software.  • Network Security Administrator, management of network security devices such as firewalls  Juniper Networks, Check Point and Fortinet.  • Administration and monitoring of IPS/IDS Intrusion Systems of the Juniper Networks.  • Management of technologies Antispam cloud, Web Filter Websense, Kaspersky and  Symantec Antivirus Enterprise. Applying updates/patches with Microsoft WSUS, GFI software and Backups/Restore with IBM Tivoli TSM/ArcServe and LTOs tapes.  • Technical leader at Peru of the Project of Migration of the platform from Windows NT 4.0 & Exchange 5.5 to Windows 2003 & Exchange 2003 in coordination with the I.T of Doe Run  Company at Saint Louis, Missouri.  • Responsible to building working relationships with stakeholders, core team members, internal  team members, external customers, and providers.  • Evaluation and implemented the new technologies to support the core business. Education Project Management New Horizons Computer Learning Centers 2016 Bachelor's in Perú Scientific University of South 2008 to 2012 Cisco CCNA at iSIL Tech