Forward Engineer Forward Engineer IT Lafayette, LA A professional adept at scheduling major network upgrades making certain that users get the  proper technical and educational assistance. Experienced at budgeting and forecasting expenses. Developing plans on how IT will grow to adapt to the company's needs. Customer-focused professional with experience with a variety of computer operating systems, servers, applications, and hardware. Excellent interpersonal and assessment, critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Multi-task oriented and consistently meets company deadlines. Continually updating personal knowledge of computing hardware operating systems and software. In pursuit of a master's degree. Work Experience Forward Engineer Voovio - Lafayette, LA November 2018 to Present • Effective Communication with client to developed innovative solutions  • Meticulous documentation of process to create Digital SOPS  • Creating 3D images of environment  • Development of Voovio projects for simulation of industrial plants  • Transforming raw data into a finish product.  • Working on Project from Infancy to it reveal and completion.  • Consultancy of processes in client installation.  • Collection of information and photography and accurately labeling them.  • Development of software tools.  IT Consultant July- November  • Acted as IT consultant and business analyst in improving and maintaining software systems across the firm, ensuring both data  • Extensive work with configuration design, implementation, testing application support and maintenance.  • Led several successful process improvement efforts - for instance by simplifying the data backup process through a reduced number of data  • Developed IT system specifications after evaluating customer's nature of work and business volume  • Solved clients IT issues - Determined changes, recommended quality software, projected modifications of software, hardware and networking Taurus - Comfort, TX July 2018 to July 2018 November  • Take readings read gauges, and write results.  • Prepare equipment for maintenance; follow-up after repair.  • Follow SOP's and general guidelines.  • Utilize computer systems, both process and personal.  • Operate analytical and detection equipment.  • Vigorous training with 100% passing score requirement.  • Maintain accurate and concise log sheets and other written records.  • Basic trouble-shooting skills.  • Conform to all OSHA and Environmental agency laws.  • Follow log sheet when taking readings and document any required action. IT Specialist AGI Industries - Lafayette, LA January 2018 to July 2018 • Developed IT system specifications after evaluating customer's nature of work and business volume  • Updated and maintained virus protection software, performed system scans and removed any detected viruses, spyware and malware.  • Able to express ideas and communicate with non-technical users as well as hardware/software technicians.  • Created Documentation to deploy for GoFormz and work with the corresponding managers to ensure its success.  • Programmed/Deployed a cost effective customized APP for Emergency Situations to contact all employees.  • Assist in maintaining/updating inventory of IT assets.  • Decommission of computers/ networks  • Researched and documented existing and new processes for IT Support Teams.  • Solved clients IT issues - Determined changes, recommended quality software, projected modifications of software, hardware and networking Network Administrator M C Bank & Trust - Morgan City, LA March 2016 to November 2017 • Proactively resolved customer equipment and service problems  • Reduced workstation prices 32.5% by assessing and recommending hardware that was 4 times more efficient.  • Apply OS patches and upgrades for servers and desktops monthly and upgrade administrative applications and tools  • Monitored and managed email spam filters, firewalls, anti-virus systems, and vulnerability scanner.  • Investigated incidents caused by malicious activities and identified false positives.  • Implementation imaging and deployment of systems.  • Recommend process improvements and implement new systems on the network by conducting research on new products and how to implement them  • Configure, deploy, maintain, troubleshoot and support computer workstations, laptops, printers, mobile devices, phones and other computer and telecommunications equipment.  • Supervising installation and test systems to ensure functionality. IT Consultant Better Call Sam IT Services - Patterson, LA April 2017 to October 2017 • Managed and improved IT program  • Diagnosed and resolved hardware/software related problems with laptop computers, desktop computers, printers, scanners and other PC based peripherals.  • Implemented innovative cost effective solutions without compromising network security.  • Worked with senior management to implement new technologies. IT Technician Amelia Belle Casino - Amelia, LA June 2015 to March 2016 • Supervised CMS-ACSE local tape backups/restores.  • Provided Technical support to over 400 end users.  • Create new procedure to reduce incidents in the casino cage.  • Ensured business continuity by participating in Louisiana State Police disaster recovery scenarios and audits.  • Redesigned TCP-IP RJ45 Cat6 infrastructure to make it manageable and increase its reliability  • Controlled user access for Active Directory, Outlook, Cognos, Micros, Micro Gaming Technology(MGT), Iseries (AS/400), Bally Casino Management System (CMS), VIP Lightspeed, NRT, Keywatcher, Mitel, VMware and Infotronics.  • Designed and Built MGT Kiosk to provide cost effective support. Education Bachelor's Degree in Petroleum Services Engineering Technology and Management in Engineering Design Nicholls State University Skills Active Directory (4 years), AS/400 (4 years), firewalls (4 years), printers (4 years), VMware (4 years) Assessments Technical Support — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fd3mrt4c5wiqd1dl Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • SUPPORT: Responded to requests for technical assistance in person and remotely for the following technologies: Windows 7, 8, 10; Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2, 2012, and 2016; Windows Office Suite, Office 365, AS/400, Apple Mac OS and IOS, Telephone, Security Cameras, Active Directory Group Policy, VMware, Printers, Veeam, Auvik, Virus removal.  • SECURITY: Monitored OS Event Logs, Performed SSL certificate configuration and management, Installed token generators on computers, Configured Sonic Wall/ Palo Alto Networks firewall devices.  • NETWORKING: Configured various HP ProCurve switches, routers, and SonicWall and Palo Alto firewalls. Managed ESET Antivirus Console; Performed monitoring of network assets with Kaseya with Kaspersky Client; Utilized and monitored ConnectWise (formerly LabTech) for IT Automation.