Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network/Systems Engineer Pearland, TX Highly competent Network Engineer with telecom and customer service experience. Seeking an opportunity where extensive problem solving skills, troubleshooting experience and implementation background will benefit and improve overall network operations. Fast learner with proven ability to spearhead IT initiatives from design to completion while reducing expenditures. Cisco CCNA Routing & Switching. Work Experience Network Engineer Infosys - Houston, TX August 2018 to Present Provided high-level support as a member of the Global Network Operations team for a multinational Mining & Energy company with over 40,000 employees. Engaged in 24x7 incident response for IT & OT networks.  • Created multiple Splunk dashboards, alerts, and reports that were utilized across the organization  • Led automation initiative using Ansible to ensure IOS/NX-OS configurations met compliance standards ? Worked with Project teams to complete a major data center exit with minimal downtime  • Administered Cisco vEdge based SD-WAN environment utilizing vManage  • Utilized Cisco ISE for TACACS and RADIUS authentication  • Assisted with the migration to Cisco Firepower 2100/4100 NGFWs from ASA firewalls Network Administrator Smart Financial Credit Union - Houston, TX December 2014 to Present Administered the network infrastructure for a 23 site, 300 user financial institution. Responsible for all physical and virtual networking equipment and oversaw the opening of 5 new branches. Allowed the Credit Union to bring managed security, monitoring and VoIP services back in-house which reduced IT OPEX. Tested and installed the Cisco FirePOWER & AMP for Endpoints solutions to strengthen security posture.  • Managed an AT&T MPLS based network running BGP through Cisco routers   • Overhauled Cisco ASA configurations to improve efficiency and meet NCUA and PCI compliance  • In charge of Cisco UCM, Unity, UCCX & IM&P in a fully redundant UCS/VMware based system  • Implemented OTV using Cisco ASR-1001X routers to enable Layer 2 connectivity between Data Centers  • Provided High-level Support to 300 end-users, including C-level Executives and remote users  • Finalized the network migration to a new Corporate Headquarters and Data Center  • Administered Office 365 and setup hybrid connection to Microsoft using Azure Active Directory Connect  • Utilized ManageEngine OpManager and Kaseya VSA for monitoring and documentation  • Provided project management of branch openings and major IT initiatives  • Added Duo 2FA solution to secure VPN and 3rd party authentication  • Migrated entire organization to new DIA circuit which dramatically improved end user experience Systems/ Network Engineer Axip Energy Services - Houston, TX August 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities  Contracted to provide Network and Systems support to a 50+ Hyper-V/Microsoft Azure Virtual Server environment. Successfully troubleshooted and updated the Office 365 Directory Sync implementation, which allowed over 500 licenses to be reclaimed which will result in a savings of over $130,000/yr. Tested and installed an ITSM for configuration backup and asset inventory management.  • Configured virtual machines using Microsoft Hyper-V connected to a Nimble Storage array  • Administered VMs running Windows Server 2008 R2 & 2012 R2  • Managed a multi-site network connected via Cisco routers over MPLS   • Performed adds, moves & changes to Cisco CallManager and Wireless systems  • Setup Spiceworks ITSM server for inventory and configuration management  • Provided Tier 2 & 3 Desktop Support to over 200 end-users Network Engineer I Prince Corp - Houston, TX 2013 to August 2014 Responsible for the overall operations and performance of a 20+ Site (US & Int'l), 1000+ node network. Oversaw the opening of a major US administrative office and the rollout of a companywide, ruggedized wireless network to complement a complete ERP migration. Transitioned organization from a DMVPN to a firewall based, cloud  managed network.  • Implemented Voice VLAN and QoS to work between Cisco, Cisco Meraki & HP hardware  • Configured routers to work with Cisco IP Phones and ShoreTel SKY Hosted VoIP  • Directly in charge of IT Purchasing and took lead on multiple projects  • Administered Active Directory and synchronized user accounts with Office 365  • Created and maintained virtual machines using VMware vSphere 5.0 and 5.5  • Utilized Remedyforce Help Desk environment w/ Change & Release Management  • Operated using best practices while adhering to SOX compliance Network Administrator Star Toyota - League City, TX 2011 to 2013 In charge of all IT operations within the dealership. Managed network containing 90+ workstations, 10 servers, and over 120 users. Responsible for Cisco Unified CallManager Express VoIP phone system. Upgraded WAN  connections and moved voice from POTS to a PRI Trunk circuit.  • Responsible for migration of entire dealership from Windows XP to 7  • Managed Network infrastructure, including wiring, switches, routers, and demarc equipment  • Experienced with trouble ticket and inventory tracking systems  • Reduced monthly recurring IT expenditures by 60% by upgrading WAN and Voice circuits IT Technician CompuVision Systems USA - Texas City, TX 2010 to 2011 Provided IT support services to Dow Chemical, Texas City Operations. Migrated all plant workstations from  Windows XP to Windows 7 OS. Configured and upgraded Cisco switches throughout facility.  • Assisted users with hardware, software, and peripheral support  • Replaced and upgraded obsolete workstations with new IBM units  • Used Active Directory to administer User accounts and Group Policies  • Configured various network protocols such as TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and Static IP  • Worked with Avaya IP Office VoIP System Computer Technician Practical Computer Solutions, LLC - Galveston, TX 2009 to 2011 Delivered general IT services to residential and small business clients throughout Galveston County. Offered  support for hardware and software issues in addition to the installation and configuration of new systems.  • Removed malware/spyware from client systems, and ensured complete computer protection  • Implemented both wired and wireless networks, while maintaining network security  • Worked with Windows and Mac systems  • Instructed and educated clients on preventative measures to avoid malware infection Cable Technician Advanced Cable Technologies - Houston, TX 2008 to 2009 Installed Cable, Internet, Networking, and VoIP services as a contractor for Comcast. Served both residential and commercial clients.  • Provided demonstration and instruction of services and equipment features to customers  • Setup and secured both wired and wireless routers, switches, and VoIP gateways  • Implemented an efficient network installation procedure which was passed to other Technicians  • Received an almost flawless satisfaction rating based upon customer feedback Education Some college Skills Cisco ASA, Cisco, Ccna, BGP, Ospf, Fortinet, Cisco UCM (CallManager), Cisco UCCX, Meraki, Cisco Nexus, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Active Directory, Security, Vmware, DNS, MPLS Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Networking Associate (CCNA Routing & Switching) January 2014 to January 2020 CompTIA A+ January 2011 to October 2015 CompTIA Network+ June 2012 to October 2015 CompTIA Security+ October 2012 to October 2015 Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Systems: Microsoft Windows (7,8 & 10), Server (2000, 2003, 2008 R2, 2012 R2, 2016), Exchange (2010 & 2013), Exchange Online, Mac OSX, VMware (vSphere, vCenter), Hyper-V, SharePoint 2013    Hardware: Routers/Switches/Firewalls (Cisco, HP, Meraki, Fortinet), Access Points (Cisco, Ubiquiti, Meraki), Laptops/Desktops/Workstations (Dell, HP), Servers (Dell, Cisco, HP), SAN (Nimble, Dell), MDM/MAM (Intune, Blackberry, Meraki)     Software: Microsoft Office (2010, 2013 & 2016), PowerShell, Symantec Endpoint Protection & Backup Exec, PuTTY, LogMeIn, GoToMeeting, Adobe Reader & Acrobat Pro, Kaseya, Mimecast    Networking: 802.11 WLAN, Fiber & Copper media, TCP/IP, BGP, EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, IPSec VPN, DMVPN, Cisco ISR, ASR, Catalyst & Nexus, HP ProCurve & 3Com, Cisco VoIP (UCM, Unity, UCCX, IM&P), TACACS+, RADIUS, DNS, DHCP, SMTP, SNMP, TFTP, Cisco Security (ASA, FirePOWER, AMP for Endpoints)    Cloud Office365 (Email, S4B, SharePoint, OneDrive), Microsoft Azure, Cisco Meraki, Mimecast Email, ShoreTel Sky VoIP, Microsoft Azure, Salesforce.com, Barracuda & Veeam Cloud Backup