Network Administrator / Desktop Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Desktop Technician Network Administrator / Desktop Technician - Occupational Training Center of Burlington County Little Egg Harbor, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator / Desktop Technician Occupational Training Center of Burlington County - Burlington, NJ February 2016 to Present Accountable for planning and executing new network technology functions. Maintains computing environment by identifying network requirements; installing upgrades; monitoring network performance.  Key Accomplishments:  • Implemented and migrated all landlines to VoIP in house distributed SIP PBX. Reducing communication cost by 40% annually. The new PBX allows calls to be transferred to any of our locations and has greatly improved the organizations ability to handle a large amount of calls and provide great customer service.  • Upgraded enterprise-wide Wi-Fi to a centralized system that can be easily managed and monitored. This significantly improved accessibility and collaboration through the organization.  • Upgrade all firewall hardware enterprise-wide. Replacement hardware improved processor power, memory, I/O (input/output) speed, and bus speed. The hardware replacement also required less power, and improved system distribution and cooling.  • Collaborated with all departments in an enterprise-wide desktop software refresh upgrade to windows 10. Utilizing Windows Deployment Services (WDS) and Preboot Execution Environment PXE allowed for a smooth transition.  Responsibilities:  Network Administrator:  • Sets up and configures local area networks  • Administer all LAN/WAN-related network services  • Coordinate and implement network upgrades  • Troubleshoot and resolve LAN/WAN network problems  • Monitors for network traffic for bottlenecks  • Administer LAN/WAN security and Antivirus solutions  • Monitor for firewall intrusions  • Manage requests for Web Filter bypass  • Maintain changes for VPN networks  • Implement and update user access policies  • Implement approved requests for port forwarding  • Recommends upgrades, patches, new applications and equipment  • Manages network discovery and monitoring  • Updates network topology graphs  • Monitors and applies changes to DNS  • Monitors and applies necessary changes to DHCP and subnets  • Manages VoIP phones and their networks  • Manages camera systems and their networks  • Installs network cabling and wall jacks when needed    Desktop Technician:  • Installs software on desktop including operating system deployment and upgrades.  • Installs, troubleshoots, and maintains peripherals; including but not limited to mice, keyboards, monitors, and printers  • Troubleshoots copier issues as needed  • Decommissions old equipment and migrates data to new machines  • Repairs desktop computer hardware including internal components  • Provide training to end users  • Resets network accounts when required  • Monitor help desk for new tickets and correct issues within the help desk policy timeframe  • Escalate or ask for assistance from Help Desk Analyst for advanced assigned tickets  • Escalate tickets to appropriate IT staff member when necessary  • Setup and maintains off-domain laptops BitLocker and RDS connections. Communication Technician 5 Comcast - Ship Bottom, NJ March 2000 to February 2016 15+ years in the cable industry providing exceptional customer service.    Key Accomplishments & Responsibilities:  • Install and repair, internet, video, phone, and home security to over 1 million subscribers in the tri state area.  • Assisted in developing goals and procedures for daily work tasks.  • Developed efficient time management procedures to assist technicians complete daily workload.  • Excellent customer service skills with the ability to listen and instruct customers with complex issues, and advise of products and service.  • Efficient in finding and resolving complex problems.  • Including but not limited to cable installation, maintenance and repair  • Assist customers with installing and maintaining, PC's, printers, and routers.  • Provide technical support for small to medium size business level customers with video, phone, and internet products.  • Support and maintain commercial customers with network and phone related issues  • Lead technician to assist coworkers with troubleshooting complex issues with cabling, video, phone, internet, and home security.  • Lead technician for consulting and maintaining high profile customers.  • Works independently and willing to travel. Education Associates Degree in Network Systems Administration DeVry University - Cherry Hill, NJ Skills PRINTERS (10+ years), CABLING (10+ years), VPN (2 years), VOIP (2 years), FIREWALL (2 years), System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Certifications/Licenses MTA: Windows Operating System Fundamentals March 2016 to Present Additional Information Key Expertise  • Network Design and Implementation  • Migrations/Upgrades  • Cabling Wide Variety of Technology Devices  • Testing/Quality Assurance  • IT Strategy Development  • Technical Zeal    • Project Management  • Multi-Platform Networking  • Client & Vendor Relationships  • Systems Integration & Modernization  • Operations Management  • Problem Solving    Technical Proficiencies  • RemoteApp / RDS  • VDI  • Hyper-V  • Active Directory  • Azure / Office 365    • Advanced Network Services  • Advanced File Service  • Untangle Firewall    • Network Load Balancing  • HTTP    • Configuring Encryption and Advanced Auditing  • Create and secure files shares and shared printers  • Create and manage Group Policy objects.  • Secure Windows Servers by Using Group Policy  • VPN    • Implementing a Group Policy Infrastructure  • Managing User Desktops with Group Policy  • Managing User and Service Accounts  • Maintaining Active Directory Domain Services  • Implementing Network Access Protection  • Deploying and Maintaining Server Images  • SSL Certificate Management  • VoIP, SIP, Secure SIP over TLS  • TCP, UDP, ICMP, GRE, ESP, AH, SCTP