Virginia Highlands Community College Adjunct Instructor Virginia Highlands Community College Adjunct Instructor Chilhowie, VA Work Experience Virginia Highlands Community College Adjunct Instructor Cyber - Highlands, VA 2019 to Present Security Instructor  Instructor for courses that encompass in-depth exploration of various methods for attacking and defending a network. Explores network security concepts from the viewpoint hackers and their attack methodologies. Includes topics about hackers, attacks, Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) malicious code, computer crime and industrial espionage. Network Engineer/ Administrator TEKsystems 2018 to Present Collaborated, coordinated, and executed enterprise network design changes within a team environment, whose purpose is to improve overall network performance. Create, troubleshoot, and resolve incident tickets that may relate to customer requests and/or internal network upgrades. Engineered and administered simultaneous NIPR and SIPR enterprise networks to include all security, infrastructure, and QOS devices.  • Responsible for the maintenance, implementation, and documentation of a variety of network devices to include BIG-IP F5 Load Balancers, Palo Alto Firewalls, Cisco ASA's, Nexus 7k's, Cisco Switches and Routers, and a variety of network monitoring tools.  • Responsible for generating key-pairs and requesting follow-on Certificates from designated CA's.  • Communicate and troubleshoot with customers to fix any and all issues that may arise.  • Preform monthly improvements in a coordinated event as to allow the most up-to-date network while simultaneously keeping users QoS at a maximum.  • Working an on-call schedule to ensure 100% Network up-time.  • Consistently updated out-of-date records in order to ensure smooth transition for new employees while also setting a standard SOP for the team.  • Administratively responsible for over $10,000,000 worth of equipment whose services are required by millions of users daily.  • Daily interactions with network tools and protocols to include IKEv1, IKEv2, IPsec, TACACS+, Radius, 802.1x, VPC, Load Balancing, SNAT, VIP, PAgP, LACP, SSL/TLS, 802.1ab, CDP, 802.1q, ACLs, etc. Special Operations Communicator Marine Corps Special Operations Command 2013 to 2017 in an ever-changing team environment where a diverse skillset and solid leadership abilities dictate the success of the mission. Engineered and managed simultaneous NIPR and SIPR networks which would include all voice, data, and storage services needed for mission success. Adapt, lead, and excel in the roles of system administrator, network administrator, cybersecurity manager, and information assurance analyst. Designed, implemented, troubleshot, and documented various Satellite node implementations to include the V3A, V3B, VX, and V3 Medium satellite suites.  • Led a team of 12 personnel in the establishment of a network operations center providing service to 40 end-users utilizing the Host Based Security System (HBSS) and Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVA). Thus, resulting in 100% compliance to all information assurance policies and procedures with zero security incidents.  • Established, enforced, and refined company information assurance policies to ensure classified information-maintained integrity, confidentiality, and availability through proper education and training of over 60 personnel and the implementation of appropriate security protocols, to include dual-factor authentication, network security best practices, symmetric and asymmetric encryption, and physical security  • Led an enterprise support team of 4 personnel as lead Network Engineer/ Administrator and Security Manager, utilizing and accounting for over $3,000,000 worth of various network and communications equipment while also implementing physical security, policy functions (end user agreements and acceptable use policies), and network hardening (group policies, port security, proper patching, MAC address filtering, etc.)  • Designed and implemented a failover plan and redundant transport link via Ku band satellite and LTE cellular for all networks to maximize availability and quality of service (QoS). Resulting in a resilient and reliable network with an up-time of 99.999%  • Developed a training plan to improve the proficiency and skill sets of 40 personnel in order to maximize productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness which resulted in the capitalization of company time whose training budget was in excess of $400,000 Education Associate in General Studies Virginia Highlands Community College - Abingdon, VA August 2017 to May 2019 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) May 2018 to June 2022 Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) June 2019 to June 2022 Cisco Certified Network Associate: Security (CCNA Security) October 2018 to June 2022 CompTIA Security+ June 2015 to June 2022 Palo Alto: Accredited Configurations Engineer (ACE) May 2018 to May 2021