Information Technology Architect Information Technology Architect Information Technology Architect Garden Grove, CA Over ten years of experience in Information Technology design and engineering for Southern California-based Managed Services Providers and small and medium-sized business. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology Architect Accent Computer Solutions, Inc January 2017 to August 2019 • Responsible for the design and implementation of Information Technology solutions for the Professional Services team of a Southern California-based Managed Services Provider.    • Develop comprehensive Statement of Work, Bill of Materials and Labor Estimate for the pre-sale and post-sale of new projects. Meet regularly with client management and executives for whiteboard presentations, as well as project delivery, assessment and review.     • Collaborate regularly with internal teams, including: Technology Advisors, Client Success Managers, and Centralized Services (NOC) to ensure that proposed solutions adhere to internal supportability standards and best practices while also meeting client specifications.     • Plan and execute migrations of legacy on-premise systems and services to Microsoft Azure and Microsoft Office 365.     • Migrate email services to Microsoft Office 365 from on-premise deployments of Microsoft Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010 and 2013, and from other hosted email providers such as Intermedia, and Google.     • Implement Azure Active Directory Connect to enable Hybrid Identity authentication methods, including: Password Hash Synchronization with Single Sign-on.    • Migrate on-premise physical and virtual Windows-based servers to Microsoft Azure-hosted virtual machines.    • Migrate on-premise deployments of Microsoft Terminal Server to Microsoft Azure-hosted Remote Desktop Services to standardize and centralize end-user desktop experience.     • Migrate on-premise line-of-business application database servers to Microsoft Azure SQL Database Service, and to instances of Microsoft SQL Server running on Microsoft Azure-hosted Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) virtual machines.    • Leverage Microsoft Intune to implement Mobile Device Management (MDM) policies and Conditional Access Policies to restrict access to internal company resources and hosted services to specific mobile device platforms, operating systems and locations.     • Plan and execute upgrades and modifications to local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) routing and switching.     • Provision of data, voice and guest wireless VLANs on Hewlett-Packard, Aruba and Cisco managed switches.     • Subnet of IPv4 address space to meet design specifications and allow for efficient route summarization and filtering.     • Redistribute routes from EIGRP into OSPFv2 over MPLS following organizational merger.     • Establish LAN and WAN connectivity for multitenant office space in San Francisco, CA utilizing a Cisco ASA-series Firewalls, Cisco Catalyst-series switches with SFP+ fiber termination and Cisco Aironet-series wireless access points running Cisco Mobility Express (CME).     • Replace end-of-life Cisco ASA-series Firewalls with WatchGuard XTM and M-series Firewalls for an industrial manufacturer with production facilities in CA, TX and IL.    • Establish IPSEC IKEv2 site-to-site VPN connectivity for secure branch-office connectivity over the internet between multiple branded Firewalls and VPN concentrator appliances.     • Establish Mobile SSL VPN connectivity with Microsoft Active Directory authentication for secure end-user remote access. Information Technology Network Administrator BJ's Restaurants, Inc August 2016 to December 2016 • Managed and configured Palo Alto PA-3050 Firewalls. Experience with policy configuration and management, including NAT, Application Override, and Policy Based Forwarding.     • Managed GlobalProtect VPN configuration and deployment to managed endpoints, Created address, application and service objects, as well as security profiles and profile groups within Panorama.    • Configured and managed Cisco UCS 5108 blade chassis and 6248UP Fabric Interconnects; installed and commissioned new B2000 M3 blades with VMWare ESXi 6 hypervisors.    • Configured and managed FiberChannel VSANs, zones and zone sets across multiple Cisco Nexus 5548 switches at the corporate and co- location data centers.    • Managed point-to-point link between two Cisco 3750 switch stacks at the corporate and co-location datacenters to maintain layer-2 adjacency.    • Managed enterprise storage solutions, including NetApp FAS2240-2 and PureStorage FA-400 in a high availability iSCSI and FiberChannel environment. Provisioned volumes, LUNs, and aggregates across multiple SATA, SAS and SSD arrays.    • Upgraded VMWare environment at corporate and co-location data centers from version 5.1 to 6 update 2.     • Migrated two data centers of ESXi Host clusters to a new Single Sign-On domain via external Platform Service Controllers. Configured and assigned vDS port groups with static and ephemeral bindings as necessary, and configured HA and DRS within both datacenters respectively.     • Configured Enhanced Linked Mode between both sites for centralized management within both vCenter instances.    • Managed an environment of over 120 ShoreTel SG-50 and SG-90 voice switches across a nationwide MPLS network. Responsible for moves, adds, and changes to handsets, hunt groups, and auto-attendant menus.    • Managed Aruba wireless access points, physical controllers, and IAPs. Information Technology Network Administrator Accent Computer Solutions, Inc January 2013 to August 2016 • VMware ESXi 5 & 6 Host implementation and maintenance, datastore provisioning, HA and DRS configuration.    • Configuration and maintenance of enterprise storage (SAN and NAS) solutions. Primarily dealing with HP, EMC and QNAP solutions.    • Responsible for maintaining disk health and volume fault tolerance; RAID 5, 6, and 10 deployments.    • Active Directory implementation and maintenance in a Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2 and 2012 R2 environment. Implementation of Windows Domain Controller(s) within a given forest and schema, separating FSMO roles, LWDS and LDAP integration for third-party applications. Management and deployment of Group Policy, Remote Desktop Services, File and Print Services.    • Support and configuration of hosted and on-premise E-mail solutions, including: Microsoft Exchange 2013, 2010, 2007 and 2003. Managing logging and database performance via EMC and EMS as necessary. Managing Exchange database(s) in relation to storage availability.    • Performing and planning of database maintenance and defragmentation as necessary. Exchange migration to (and from) various cloud services such as Intermedia and Office365.    • IIS 7 implementation and configuration, SSL certificate bindings, Web proxy configuration.    • LAN/WAN troubleshooting, switch and router configuration, VLAN and STP configuration.     • Cisco, FortiNet, WatchGuard, SonicWALL, and SOPHIS Firewall installation, configuration, and analysis: Inbound NAT policies, interface configuration, ACL entries, service-based QoS and traffic prioritization.    • IPSEC and SSL VPN configuration for branch-office and mobile connectivity.    • Barracuda Web and Spam filter device implementation, configuration and maintenance.    • Backup scheduling, maintenance, and configuration via StorageCraft; managing local backup data repositories and off-site cloud replication.    • Automation, monitoring, and reporting via N-Central Information Technology Manager CamGuard Systems, Inc May 2009 to January 2013 • Responsible for the planning and implementation of additions, removals and major modifications to the company's California and Nevada based infrastructure.    • Maintained the company's LAN & WAN. (AdTran NetVanta routers, SonicWALL TZ and NSA Firewalls, and Dell PowerConnect series layer 2 and 3 switches).    • Maintained Cisco Unified Communications VOIP telephony gateway (Cisco UC520). Responsible for moves, adds, changes and configuration of voicemail, automated attendant, single-number-reach, hunt groups, and night-service.    • Managed Microsoft Exchange 2000 and 2003 Standard and all related e-mail maintenance and support tasks. This included mailbox database management, message tracking, and queue monitoring,    • Maintained daily and weekly off-site backups of pertinent company data, including financial records, SQL databases, and system states via Symantec Backup Exec 11 and custom batch-scripts.    • Maintained inventory and tracking of the company's Information Technology assets and equipment.     • Managed and implemented project to migrate in-house Exchange E- mail to Google Apps cloud solution.    • Provided on-site Information Technology support for DVR and Access Control systems installations. Liaised with third-party product vendors to ensure solutions met with company standards and best practices. Information Technology Network Administrator Resource Computer Solutions - Claremont, CA August 2008 to January 2009 • Provided proactive and reactive Information Technology Services to K- 12 schools and small businesses throughout the Inland Empire. Performed scheduled visits to assigned clients. Responsible for maintaining client relationships.    • Supported Microsoft Windows Server 2000, 2003 Standard & Enterprise, 2003 Small Business, and 2008 Standard & Enterprise operating systems. Supported Microsoft Outlook 2003 and 2007.    • Responsible for checking and maintaining backups via NT Backup, Veritas, Windows Server Backup, and SonicWALL Continuous Data Protection.    • Responsible for maintaining Windows updates and security patches via Windows Server Upgrade Services (WSUS).    • Maintained LAN and WAN security via SonicWALL TZ series and Microsoft ISA series Firewall solutions.    • Provide basic Web development assistance to clients via Joomla and Ektron content management systems.    • Managed support requests and scheduling via FileMaker Education Associate in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - San Dimas, CA June 2007 Certifications/Licenses VMware Certified Professional 6 – Data Center Virtualization December 2017 to December 2019 • ID# VMW-01636618Y-00534300  • https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/462ed806-2824-4226-844a-fa78a46663a9/linked_in_profile Cisco Certified Network Associate – Routing and Switching February 2014 to August 2021 • ID# CSCO11742083  • https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/f77ef324-cf06-4a69-ae2a-31f15ce7a8c0/public_url