Game master / Store manager Game master / Store manager Store manager. Fort Walton Beach, FL My name is William Duke. I am an outgoing and laid back person, with a strong  sense of work ethics and professionalism. I have great self-discipline and would  like to think I am well versed in a variety of subject matter. I am very  social and have a personable attitude. I have never met someone I cannot relate  to or find some connection with on multiple levels. I have experienced the business world from as high as Corporate management, to as low as building  walls, and every nuance in-between. Work Experience Game master / Store manager Escape zone 60 - Fort Walton Beach, FL May 2019 to Present Manage and administer escape rooms at "dock on the island." Delivery Driver MyTown2go - Fort Walton Beach, FL October 2018 to May 2019 I was a delivery driver with MyTown2Go. Had to deliver fort walton, Destin, and Niceville, meet delivery time standards and check all orders for accuracy. CSR Order Processing, Adcomm - Navarre, FL May 2018 to August 2018 I was hired at Adcomm to engage in customer service, data entry, and order  processing as an authorized third party representative.    Accomplishments  ? Employed Customer Service skills to finalize sales  ? Became familiar with data entry and order processing systems  ? Employed out of the box thinking to solve unique problems and situations on a near hourly basis  ? Maintained excellent quality assurance of myself, never once having a QA report error for my work. Host Destin, FL 2018 to 2018 2018    I was hired at Joe's Crab Shack to meet and greet customers as well as make  sure that the seating sections, rotations, and scheduling are all in order and running smoothly at all times.    Accomplishments  ? Developed exceptional people skills with a huge consumer base  ? Learned the logistics of how an entire restaurant is ran  ? Created solutions to potentially critical problems on a near hourly basis  with little to no help needed from supervisory figures.  ? Had to have exceptional organizational skills and good memory to keep  track of all manner of details at all times. Technician Fort Walton Beach, FL 2013 to 2014 I was hired at DLI to do IT work, networking etc., however while working there I  performed a wide variety of tasks, ranging from installing gates and fences,  Security system troubleshooting and installation, point of access control, home  installations, construction work, and electrical work.    Accomplishments  ? Learned quite a bit about maintenance and property development  ? Developed and maintained good rapport with a diversified client base  ? Had to perform a multitude of varying job tasks to satisfaction of clientele  with little to no supervision Driver/Technician Navarre, FL 2012 to 2012 2012    I was hired on at Twelve Oaks as a patient chauffeur. Working the field and being  active in the rehabilitation work at the ground level, gave me a greater insight to the field in general, and to understand the plight of the people we tried to help.    Accomplishments  ? Came to understand the real nature of rehabilitation work, and see the system from outside of a corporate office.  ? Learned lots of useful tools for field work, such as CPI and CPR, and the proper application for said tools on patients.  ? Learned and maintained strict regulations and responsibilities with company vehicles and other compliance safety regulations.  ? Fine tuned my set of people skills to help better relate to our patients, at Twelve Oaks. Network and Systems Administrator Townsend Recovery - Destin, FL 2008 to 2010 I began working at townsend recovery in it's head corporate office for IT and technical support. Through my aptitudes however, my job responsibility  blossomed and soon I was helping roll out sites across the southern united  states. Not long after I became a systems and network administrator for the company, helping with security and technical issue resolution.    Accomplishments  ? Learned how to wire entire buildings, ground to ceiling for IT purposes.  ? Became familiar with a wide range of technology and consumer  electronics  ? Learned to manage my downtime effectively, and maintain productivity.  ? Achieved a wealth of experience in regards to the corporate business  environment. Education certification Troy State 2009 to 2009 High School Diploma Okaloosa Academy Charter School 2004 to 2007 certification Troy State for an MSCA Skills RATIONAL, Call Center, CSR, Customer Care, Customer Service Additional Information SKILLS  ? Technical proficiency with any technology or system, be it hardware or  software.  ? Very personable, easily able to make friends..  ? Highly dedicated to my morals and ethics  ? Extremely good critical thinking and rational skillset.  ? I am a fixer, highly capable of finding solutions to almost any problem  with relevance, I enjoy the task of repairing situations.  ? A long history of martial arts has taught me self discipline, and that self  discipline manifest itself in being able to stay on task, and constantly find  more work to be done without being told to do so.  ? Voracious appetite for knowledge, and new skill sets. I will do almost  any job as long as it challenges me and proves to be of interest.