Senior Specialist- Network Administrator Senior Specialist-<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Antelope, CA Work Experience Senior Specialist- Network Administrator Sacramento, CA 2010 to March 2019 Managed the planning, implementing, and analyzing system performance reviews to improve accessibility, performance, and utilization of all network components.  • Track, monitor, and integrate various service elements of the system which requires a working knowledge of Operating Systems, Vendor Applications, and Network Design  • Manage the planning, maintaining, and analyzing the systems for long term problem resolution and perform problem identification, troubleshooting, and resolution in order to ensure minimal service disruptions.  • Tier 3 coordination with clients and interdepartmental groups to resolve system issues.  • Works as part of a 24X7 staff to deliver network technical support to address escalations.  • Provides technical troubleshooting required to recover from complex network problems.  • Collaborated with business partners to identify business issues, develop and implement business strategy, and assist in setting strategic technical direction in support of customer facing organizations.  • Reviewed technical documentation and vendor specifications for inclusion/adaptation. Site Engineer, Network Facility AT&T - Sacramento, CA 2005 to 2010 Single Point-of-Contact for Multiple IVR/Voice Mail Sites within the Central Valley and Sacramento Region.  • Managed operations of multiple Central Office and Commercial Sites, incorporating daily duties such as Site Engineering, Hardware Maintenance/Upgrades, Software Uploads/Upgrades and Equipment programming.  • Single-handedly managed 500K customers on 4 voice mail platforms; Digital Sound, Nortel Periphonics, Unysis and AT&T Unified Messaging Technical Support PACIFIC BELL - Sacramento, CA 2000 to 2005 Team lead for 15 Tier 1 technicians in supporting customer Loop Exchange Center, Local Operations Center. Maintained various systems, including Lucent 5ESS, Nortel DMS-100 switches, Maintenance Loop Testhead (MLT) System, Direct Connect Test Units (DCTU), Toll grade Digital Maintenance Units, REACT, WFAC/NSDB databases and Oracle database tables.  • Managed two local system administrators in upgrade, repair and maintenance of 45 corporate computer systems.  • Automated the workflow of service orders through two work center sites for a Data Service Center.  • Setup an Automated Call Distributor (ACD) on Nortel Meridian Max telephone switch.  • Tracked $1 million in hardware inventory with 100% accountability. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Saint Leo College - Saint Leo, FL Associate in Aviation Management Air University - Montgomery, AL Skills Operations, Network operations, Network design, Process improvement Links http://linkedin.com/in/ronald-carson-99243a9 Certifications/Licenses Security+ March 2016 to March 2019 Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Leadership • Systems Implementation • Network Design  Network Operations • Global Process Improvement • Collaboration