Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Charlotte, NC Highly motivated and system savvy professional with more than 10 years of experiences supporting and engineering Cisco VoIP Deployments. Would like to assist in company growth by use of strong analytical aptitude and commitment to department productivity. Work Experience Network Administrator Delhaize America March 2008 to February 2013 Consulting on the side with A&N Consulting March 2013 till    Highly motivated and system savvy professional supported over 5000 Corporate user interface. Subject matter expert and lead resource in Cisco Voice Over IP Technology for staff.    Responsibilities  ? Worked Incident & Request tickets in SM9 (Services Management 9)  ? Supported Cisco VoIP for the Corporate (over 5000 associates)  ? Monitored & supported Customer Relations, HR, Help-Desk, Lost Prevention  ? Supported all blackberry users for company  ? Trained Network Services team (16 members) on VoIP & BAS troubleshooting  ? Monitored & supported Leo (extranet)  ? Troubleshot Cisco Tele-Presence for all videoconference rooms  ? Upgraded Unity 4.x to Unity Connections 7.x  ? Upgraded Cisco Call Manager to UCM  ? Upgraded Cisco IPCC to UCCX 7.x  ? Converted over 200 stores from PBX systems to Cisco VoIP.  ? Upgraded ISI from version 8.6 to 9.0  ? GDM (Global Data Migration) - migrated over 3000 users from Exchange 2003 to 2010. Main focus was the migrating Blackberry users to a new BAS environment.  ? Performed over 500 New (Grand Opening) Stores - ordered phone lines, T1 circuits, setup functionalities for the various department phones.    Applications, Networking Hardware & Network Technologies/Protocols  ? Cisco Unified Communication Manager (CUCM)  ? Cisco Unified Contact Center Express (UCCX)  ? Cisco Unity Connections  ? Cisco Voice Gateways  ? Cisco Video Tele-Presence  ? MPLS/T1  ? PBX Systems (Nortel)  ? BAS (Blackberry Administration Services) IT Consultant Contractor Gabriel Tech Group February 2003 to March 2008 Provided advanced level consulting on a contract basis to the company and business partners, going above and beyond expectations in the contract to deliver unparallel service.    ? Maintained & supported Cisco network for clients like CMC & First Care Medical Clinics.  ? Migrated various organizations from PBX system to Cisco VoIP.  ? Worked with Cisco on RMA of routers and switches.  ? Worked closely with Cisco-TAC on various issues.  ? Supported over 3000 users as needed.  ? Setup desk phones with extensions and voicemails.  ? Reset voicemails passwords in Unity. ISI - Pulls 2003 to 2003 2003 Microsoft Exchange fax server)    ? Leo - Extranet updating, monitoring and supporting.  ? ISI - Pulls call log details off users Cisco desk phones & reports 911 calls to Central Station.  ? Nuance - (Voice Automated Recognition) use for customers to call the associates by name from the main number.  ? Cistera - Records conversations for Customer Services, Help-desk, Central Station, etc.  ? Symon - Reports Call Center group statuses on boards for viewing, tracking and monitoring.