Network/Systems Administrator over JSOC <span class="hl">Network</span>/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> over JSOC Network/Systems Administrator over JSOC - SalientCRGT Evans, GA Work Experience Network/Systems Administrator over JSOC SalientCRGT January 2018 to Present Position location:  * Work as a Network/System Administrator on Cisco systems and services. That work includes configuring switches and routers; Administration on UCS chassis, and ESXi hosts using VMware deployements.  * Experience with Cisco ACS (Access Control System)/ISE (Integrated Service Engine) and CUCM (Cisco Unified Communication Manager)  * Use of monitor tools for network management to provide quick response to outages and current system statuses include, Netbrain, and Solarwinds.  * Provided regular monitoring and analysis regarding short and long-range planning for in-house systems and STIG compliance for Network and Server security.  * Creation of functional email accounts to include the use of Microsoft Exchange Servers and Active Directory.  * Weekly/Monthly/Annually Maintenance on UCS chassis ESXi hosts and Virtual Servers to include backups using snapshots and reboots.  * Implemented Cisco 8850's and 7965 phones to include Cisco CUCM profile creations.  * Configuring and troubleshooting Type 1 Encryption Devices and working with monitoring services.  * Responsible for Monitering, and Administration to LAN, CAN, and WAN Networks, Providing the Missions Essential access to services for 6 outsites, Over 100 Devices on 3 Domanins Network Engineer NSA Georgia - Augusta, GA November 2016 to November 2017 * Serves as the lead military engineer on Brocade and Cisco systems.  * Provides maximum resource and server uptime by providing fast and accurate troubleshooting of critical services and systems.  * Maintains mission critical WAN systems and Circuits that are valuable for communication and mission success.  * Responsibilities include providing assistance in all aspects of maintaining, configuring and sustaining the Cisco/Brocade network devices, including: network design, implementation, maintenance of existing networks, upgrading/configuration and installation of Cisco/Brocade hardware.  * Deploys, installs, maintains, and baselines systems to include SIPR, NIPR, and JWICS to high OPTEMPO customers in egregious locations at short notice.  * Network Administrator responsibilities include upgrading, configuring and managing routers, switches and security devices in the Campus Area Network and Wide Area Network spanning multiple buildings and 40 locations that are part of a global network connecting together using up to 1000 routers and switches combined  * Tasked to monitor switches and routers for port utilization and availability and create and update Visio network diagrams as needed.  * Monitoring Tools include HP Network Node Manager    Data Center Manager  Job ID: 35T-Military intelligence system maintainer and integrator Data Center Manager National Security - Augusta, GA January 2015 to May 2016 GA  • Serves as a Team Leader in a joint service environment; provided growth sustainment and developmental support for the National Security Agency/Central Security Service Georgia (NSAG) Information Technology (IT) infrastructure by evaluating customer requirements and access control enforcement, and property accountability  • Site administer to NSAG key card access system.  • Planned infrastructure growth requirements and assisted in Data Center expansion efforts  • Monitored and controlled the infrastructure's environment and supported health and status monitoring through coordination with IT Operations  • Provided first response support and coordination with Security personnel to ensure adherence to preset security guidelines and protocols  • Planned and coordinated SOP training sessions with infrastructure technicians; increased the team's knowledge and understanding of site capabilities  • Performs daily monitoring and maintenance  • Installed rack temperature sensor system and servers to better monitor system cooling and provide a more accurate reading of site capacity capabilities.  • 32200 Sq ft.    Hardware Experience  • Cisco and Brocade Networking Equipment    • Elemental Transcoding Equipment    • Multiple IP based encryption devices (KG-175D, KG-250x, KG-255, etc)    • Cisco 5108 Blade Server    • Cisco 8850 and 7965 IP phones    • Assortment of Dell Hardware which include workstations and docking stations    Software Experience  • SolarWinds Enterprise Service Management Tools    • Identity Service Engine (ISE)    • NetBrain, Network Monitoring and Configuration Tool    • Cisco ACS    • Active Directory    • VMware/VSphere    • DameWare Remote Desktop    • SecureCRT/PUTTY    • Microsoft Office Suite    • Cisco Unified Call Manager (CUCM)    • Windows 10 Administration tools Education High School Diploma Evans High School 2012 Georgia Military College - Augusta, GA campus Electronics Technology Cochise College Skills Active directory. (2 years), Brocade (2 years), Cisco (3 years), Data center (2 years), Operations (1 year) Certifications/Licenses CCNA Security CCNA Routing and Switching CEH Network+ Security+