IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager Palm Harbor, FL Excellent analytical and problem solving skills, communication, and team building skills, with ability to work independently or in a team, Fast learner, Self Motivated, with a high degree of attention and commitment to work.  • Good Understanding in Installation and Configuration of Internet sharing on Windows 2003 & 2008 server  • Installation and Configuration of different networking protocols like DHCP, DNS, and WINS etc.  • Installing of different kinds of software and connectivity  • Through understanding and experience of TCP/IP based Networks and Internet works.  • Excellent understanding and experience of administering Windows 2003 based Networks  • Conversant in setting up and configuring Remote Access Servers..  • Assembling of different kinds of PC with different configuration.  • Installation of different kinds of Hardware and Software.  • Complete knowledge of Hardware  • Ability to handle independently and troubleshoot the Hardware and Software problems Work Experience IT Manager S.A.E - Cairo, EG January 2009 to January 2018 IT Manager Pyramisa Beach Resort April 2007 to January 2009 Opening of LTI - Pyramisa Beach Resort - Sahl Hasheesh (876 rooms) (LAN Mark System) Network Administrator Zahabia Hotels & Resorts January 2002 to March 2007 Managing budgets.  350 rooms (LAN Mark System)    • Pro Act for Advertising and Marketing.  • Pro Motors for Advertising & Marketing.  • Benta Group - Hardware Technical Support.  • Computer Professional System (CPS) - Technical Support.  • El Reyad Group - Sales Representative. Education Bachelor's in Information technology Cairo September 2001 to May 2005 Skills Active Directory, Exchange Additional Information SKILLS  • A member of MCCP.  • Microsoft Exchange 2010  • Forefront Threat Management Gateway (TMG)  • Microsoft Certified System Engineer (MCSE 2003).  • Microsoft Certified IT Professional Enterprise Administrator (MCITP 2008).  • Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP).  • Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician (MCDST).  • Photoshop, Freehand, and Hardware.  • Good user of the Internet.  • Troubleshooting of LAN  • Virus and security updates for the servers and clients.  • Daily backup of the servers  • Involved in administrative affairs of the Group IT  • Purchase and follow up with the suppliers for Peripherals.  • Labeled and documented all the computer hardware and network peripherals  • Installation, Maintenance and Troubleshooting of Hardware and Operating systems.  • Installation and configuration of Windows 2003 Server/Professional  • Installation and Configuration of DHCP, DNS, WINS servers.  • Managing security administration, creation of users and accesses rights of users.  • Managing shared folders and file level security.  • Planning and designing the Network.  • Installation of Network Printers.  • Monitoring and tuning the network.  • Protecting the network from virus with Norton/Norton Anti virus  • Troubleshooting the Networking/Hardware & Software problem as per the Customer requirement.  • Install and configure TCP/IP for cross platform and Internet connectivity  • Deploy Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) to automate and centrally manage address configuration.  • Configure Domain Name System (DNS) to manage name resolution, schema, and replication.  • Plans configure & administer domain, additional domains, child domains, organizational units.  • Help ensure data and system security through Group Policy, and local shares and accounts.  • Use Active Directory technology to centrally manage users, groups, shared folders, and network resources.  • Troubleshoot hardware devices and driver