Manager IT Systems Administrator Manager IT Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Manager IT Systems Administrator - Wacom Technology Corporation IT Infrastructure Professional with 20+ years' experience. Areas of expertise include HPe hardware including 3Par SAN, C7000 Blade system and switches, as well as Dell and Cisco hardware. Professional, detail-oriented and motivated to drive projects from start to finish as part of a dynamic team. Experienced and committed to maintaining cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge. Proven analytic and problem-solving skills with the keen ability to assess needs, define requirements, develop value-added solutions, and execute technical solutions that streamline and improve operating efficiencies. Adept in communicating with technical and non-technical audiences. Work Experience Manager IT Systems Administrator Wacom Technology Corporation - Portland, OR June 2015 to Present • Instrumental in the implementation of Single Sign-On Globally thru Okta for over 1500 employees and contractors. Worked on converting all employees to Office 365 Globally.  • Working with Windows Server version thru 2016, including Active Directory, DNS and DHCP. Also working with VMware virtualization and Microsoft Azure.  • Wrote and maintain custom PowerShell scripts to increase system efficiency and performance time.  • Resolve issues related to operational components for Local Area Networks, Wide Area Networks and voice systems. Manage and monitor all installed systems and infrastructure to ensure the highest level of availability.  • Install, configure, test and maintain operating systems, application software and system management tools.  • Provide 2nd and 3rd level technical support and troubleshooting to internal and external clients.  • Communicate status updates to affected parties when issues arise. Network Administrator HealthCo Information Systems, LLC - Tualatin, OR September 1999 to August 2014 • Designed and implemented new server standards for core business services.  • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades. Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions.  • Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements. Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site.  • Recommended network security standards to management. Skills Active directory, Dhcp, Vmware, Dns, Exchange, Iis, Sso, Mitel, Voip, R2, Replication, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office, Microsoft windows, System Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/keitharmstead Certifications/Licenses Okta Certified Profession February 2019 to Present