Network Administrator/Advisor <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Advisor Network Administrator/Advisor - NTT DATA Temecula, CA Seeking a network professional position Work Experience Network Administrator/Advisor NTT DATA - Pomona, CA June 2016 to Present Cisco Voice  • Provided 2nd tier VoIP support to local and remote users utilizing Cisco Call Manager 11.5 and Cisco Unity 11.5.  • Managed and Maintained Analog fax lines, Voicemails, Auto Attendants, Phone setup, and Alarms/Alerts.  • Worked on Company's IPT project to upgrade phone systems and deploy all of CUC technologies.  • Deployed Cisco UCS C series server. Installed and configured ESXi 5.x for UC on UCS.    Cisco ISE  • Built Cisco Identity Service Engine (ISE) on Cisco UCS C series server.  • Configured access layer switches in the ISE lab for implementation testing.  • Aided in troubleshooting potential network issues in rolling out ISE.  • Ongoing moves, adds, changes to ISE solution (e.g. new device profiles).  • Provide level 2 support for ISE related issues.  • Monitored ISE logs and alert of all components related to the ISE solution.    Cisco Meraki  • Provided 2nd tier VoIP support to local and remote users utilizing Cisco Call Manager 11.5 and Cisco Unity 11.5.  • Worked directly with Cisco Meraki Engineering to resolve issues related to MDM.  • Maintained and configured Meraki APs via MDM.  • Configured access layer switch for a number of Wireless/SSID vlans.  • Administered and enforced policies across mobile devices to protect their data, control their usage and restrict access to unauthorized sites. Sr Analyst- Network Support Verizon - Perris, CA May 2003 to November 2016 • Troubleshoot Palo Alto, Checkpoint firewall configurations.  • Support Corporate managed firewall solutions.  • Implement, configure and troubleshoot Palo Alto VPNs  • Review security logs and take appropriate actions.  • Opened, resolved, or updated Tier II Firewall tickets.  • Provided clients with regular status reports of their trouble tickets.  • After hours Firewall on call support  • Assist in the evaluation of hardware platforms and software products.  • Configuring and maintaining corporate network.  • Experience using network monitoring tools (Orion SolarWinds)  • Implementing and supporting WAN technology.  • Troubleshoot MPLS Configuration, Interfaces, and Packet Flow.  • Knowledge of various routing protocols (RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP)  • Implementing and supporting LAN technology including (VLANs)(STP), Education Computer Science Santa Monica College - Los Angeles, CA 1997 to 1999