Technology Manager Technology Manager Technology Manager Woolwich Twp, NJ To obtain a position that offers opportunities for advancement and longevity while utilizing my educational background and prior work experience. Work Experience Technology Manager Buena School District 2016 to 2019 Managed Network/Technical Support District which houses 5 schools 2014 to 2016 for Pitman School District which houses 5 schools. Network Technician Gloucester County Institute of Technology - Sewell, NJ 2005 to 2013 * Under the guidance of the Director of Information Technology, provide solid customer service and technical support for both GCIT and GCSSSD School Districts.  * Technical support includes problem determination, analysis and resolution where applicable and/or technically feasible. Specialties include skills in Networking, VoIP, wide range of office systems, midrange applications software and hardware as well as excellent customer service skills. Creation/maintenance of user accounts for both school districts. Thus ensuring authorized timely access to required systems, applications and the protection of sensitive information against accidental or intentional corruption/deletion and theft.  * Telecom Administration includes creation/maintenance/training of v-mail system and resetting passwords when needed. Installing/Programming new phones/relocation of old phones.  * Daily Network Status Report includes checking the status of all servers and applications for both school districts. Thus ensuring data and voice is up and running before the users and students begin their day.  * Managing student workers during their apprenticeship in the computer center. Network Specialist/Security & Telecom Administrator Rapidforms/McBee - Thorofare, NJ 2000 to 2005 Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Phi-Theta Cappa Rowan University 2001 to 2005 Skills Customer Service, Exchange, Strategic Planning, Excel, IT Management, Network Administration, Vmware Additional Information IT professional offering training, troubleshooting, support and documentation skills. Strong communication, organizational, and problem-solving skills. Able to work independently or as part of a team. Manages others well.    SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS  All Windows Operating Systems, All Microsoft Office Applications, All Internet Browsers, NBX, DNS/DHCP, Ticketing Systems, 3COM, Power School, On Course, Virtual Servers, Google Certified, VMS Systems, AD, Novel, Projectors, Smart Boards, Citrix, SAN, Chrome Books, ID Badge card swipe reader, creation of the ID Cards for Students and Faculty. Alcatel Phone Systems, VoIP, Netstations, Telecom Switch Work, Peoplesoft, WAN/LAN(access too, file sharing across.) Firewalls, Disaster Recovery, PARCC Testing, Imaging with Ghost Server and applications such as PC World, Smart Deploy and Acronis to image over the network, security camera install, monitor and burn images. I have so much more to offer that I am sure I am forgetting, so please ask.    I am always willing to learn, and pick up on things very quickly.  Thank you for your consideration.  Best regards,  Patricia A. Fitzgerald  856.371.7981  chattypatty.1@netzero.com