Director of Technology Solutions Director of Technology Solutions Director of Technology Solutions Reading, PA Work Experience Director of Technology Solutions Schuylkill Intermediate Unit - Mar Lin, PA April 2019 to Present • Supervise and manage the daily operation of technology, NEPA WAN, and Information Management Services (IMS).  • Serve as the technology liaison for contractors and district employees.  • Research specifications for hardware and software purchases.  • Research, design, and forecast future technology needs.  • Continue to support and promote technology solutions for member districts.  • Procure information and resources for member district teachers and administrators.  • Continuously vet technology solutions for IU29, STC, and member districts. Continuously develop and maintain up-to-date technology in order to provide technical guidance and support to staff, and assist districts and community with up-to-date technology solutions.  • Develop and maintain an annual budget to insure the proper operation of the Technology and IMS Departments.  • Maintain personal contact with the districts through face-to-face meetings and promotional presentations on a regular basis.  • Provide technical support, leadership and technology insight to Intermediate Unit/STC initiatives and statewide projects.  • Plan, oversee, and direct technology policies and security.  • Provide facilitation, consultation, training, and staff development as per the Pennsylvania Department of Education initiatives and directives.  • Supervise, schedule, assign, evaluate and conduct staff meetings for the assigned members of the Technology and IMS Departments.  • Plan, deploy and manage web-based activities, including software integration, next generation planning and technology testing.  • Coordinate the operation Audio/Visual (A/V), computer, video, and communication equipment for the Intermediate Unit/STC.  • Direct Intermediate Unit/STC initiatives in Online and Hybrid Learning.  • Develop and manage a rolling technology replacement strategy. Supervisor of Informational Technology Great Valley School District - Malvern, PA August 2015 to March 2019 • Provide leadership, technical expertise and professional development to staff and the Great Valley Community.  • Coordinate the integration of technology tools and resources in collaboration with the Director of  Curriculum to meet the needs of all students K-12.  • Responsible for the development and implementation of the districts one-to-one iPad initiative.  • Assist with the development of an informational technology evaluation plan and implement changes based on the findings.  • In coordination with the technology staff, work with technology vendors and consultants in order to provide support for technology equipment and materials. Coordinate the E-Rate bidding process.  • Develop the technology budget to meet the technological needs as well as be fiscally sound for the district.   • Develop long-term plans for equipment and infrastructure as well as any capital projects required by the business manager.  • Install, maintain, upgrade and repair all file servers and network equipment within the network LAN and WAN infrastructure.  • Design a plan for replacement of obsolete devices and effectively support emerging technologies.  • Isolate and diagnose network problems including but not limited to PCs, file servers, virtual servers, and networking hardware.  • Monitor and maintain security policies using applicable network operating systems and software.  Add, change and delete all user accounts applicable to the operation of administrative networks.  • Maintain accurate inventory records on network devices (file servers and network electronics).  Properly document major modifications to the network Educational Network Engineer Instructional April 2013 to July 2015 • Provide leadership, technical expertise and professional development to staff and the Great Valley Community.  • Coordinate the integration of technology tools and resources in collaboration with the Director of Curriculum to meet  the needs of all students K-12.  • Responsible for the development and implementation of the districts one-to-one iPad initiative.  • Assist with the development of an informational technology evaluation plan and implement changes based on the findings.  • In coordination with the technology staff, work with technology vendors and consultants in order to provide support  for technology equipment and materials. Coordinate the E-Rate bidding process.  • Develop the technology budget to meet the technological needs as well as be fiscally sound for the district. Develop  long term plans for equipment and infrastructure as well as any capital projects required by the business manager.  • Install, maintain, upgrade and repair all file servers and network equipment within the network LAN and WAN  infrastructure.  • Design a plan for replacement of obsolete devices and effectively support emerging technologies.  • Isolate and diagnose network problems including but not limited to PCs, file servers, virtual servers, and networking  hardware.  • Monitor and maintain security policies using applicable network operating systems and software. Add, change and delete all user accounts applicable to the operation of administrative networks.  • Maintain accurate inventory records on network devices (file servers and network electronics). Properly document  major modifications to the network.  • Support and develop plan for mobile device management within the district.  • Maintain all building Intermediate Distribution Frames as well as the Main Distribution Frame.  • Supervise technology staff and building technicians and supply vision for technology department.  • Attend training and other meetings surrounding network management, maintenance, and utilization as directed.  • Support curriculum, instruction, and assessment as needed, to integrate network concepts into classroom practice. District Network Administrator Kutztown Area School District - Kutztown, PA April 2001 to April 2013 Supported school 1-to1 laptop program for over eight years. Provided laptop hardware and software support  for over 700 laptops. Integrated network infrastructure to allow Apple Laptops to connect Windows 2008  Active Directory and Apple OSX 10.6 and 10.7 server.  • Worked with Technology Director in developing an updated technology plan and vision for the school district.  This involved setting up a 5-year equipment refreshment and replacement policy, software upgrades and subscription plan, professional development strategies, and  • building toward a 21st century learning environment.  • Thorough understanding of Active directory, Apple Open Directory, and Novell eDirectory services. This  included the integration of all these different directory services.  • Developed procedures and practices for testing reliability and stability of software components and interfaces for network environments.    • Maintained and setup new user accounts and security policies for Windows 2008 Active Directory. Setup  network printing, file sharing, and LDAP authentication with proxy filter, Moodle, and Google Apps for Education.  • Skilled in Cisco, HP, and Meraki networking products. This includes wireless access points, switches, and routers.  • Created professional development for teacher and staff. This includes connecting to the internet, wireless  network, and access files on the district file server. Provide training to staff and students during in-service or summer training sessions. Network Administrator/Microcomputer Support Wilson School District - West Lawn, PA July 1999 to April 2001 Responsible for the networking, software, and hardware systems for all elementary schools in the district. Responsible for troubleshooting, preventive maintenance, setup and installations,  backups and recovery, and network infrastructure hardware.  • Supervised the lab assistants at each school. Ran training sessions and monthly meetings to improve overall performance and keep up to date on issues with classroom labs and building  networks. Provided training on new and existing software as well as developed troubleshooting  guidelines for staff. Networking Instructor/ Network Administrator Berks Technical Institute - Wyomissing, PA July 1997 to July 1999 Networking instructor (full and part time) for the Networking Diploma and Associate degree  programs at BTI. Taught advanced networking and certification classes for students in both degree programs.  • Worked with Department leader in designing a new Associate Degree Program for the school.  Participated in evaluating textbooks and software as well as wrote the core curriculum for the program.  • Successfully handled working as a student advisor and mentor for networking students and staff members.  • Helped maintain school network as well as repaired classroom machines and peripheral  equipment in the school labs and classrooms. Education Doctor of Information Technology in Information Technology Walden University September 2016 to Present Master's in Education in Technology Kutztown University - Kutztown, PA December 2012 Bachelor of Science in Education in Elementary/Early Childhood Education Kutztown University - Kutztown, PA May 1992 Skills Active Directory, Networking, Mac, Microsoft Office, Windows, Technical Support, Customer Service, Vmware, Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Exchange