IT Contractor IT Contractor CCENT CERTIFIED working on CCNA Baltimore, MD Dedicated United States Army veteran offering twelve years of leadership from a position of strength, focus and results. Skilled network and computer systems administrator with a successful performance record of security and improving processes. Work Experience IT Contractor April 2013 to Present Provided excellent customer service to the end users to resolve technical events in a timely manner.  Enforced network security controls, policies, and procedures, and the role these play in a data network.  Improved current technical knowledge by attending educational workshops; reviewing publications, and certification training.  Coordinated with Team Leads, higher-tier Analysts, and Engineers to identify workflow-impacting and/or service impacting issues as they arose.  Implemented new fiber circuits and repaired existing fiber circuits.  Assisted in migrating customers from a low bandwidth network to a high bandwidth network.  Worked with Exchange 2013 and Office 365 setting up users, groups, and distro lists.  Configured and troubleshot multiple sonnet ring topologies; scripted new routers for deployment as needed.  Reported and resolved quality issues to management and relevant departments.  Furnished technical assistance to quality inspection team as needed.  Assisted with engineering prototype production through optic network and circuit board assembly.  Investigated quality concerns in coordination with relevant company departments.  Assessed fiber optic and circuit board functionality and reported accordingly to management on a regular basis.  Manage the migration of email from a UNIX based decentralized email host to centralized Exchange based email host.  Advanced troubleshooting to ensure proper mail flow in compliance with FINRA regulations.  Performed on-site troubleshooting: identified problems, gave technical advice, and gave follow up scheduling. Network and Computer Systems Administrator U.S. Army July 2005 to March 2013 Monitored daily backups, antivirus status, shared storage space and network activity, adjusting network equipment and settings as needed.  Developed and supported custom backend software for use of job tracking, inventory, shipping and workflow management.  Designed, managed and maintained group policies.  Managed company's VOIP server using Cisco Call Manager and improved operations by implementing new change profiles and calling paths.  Instructed classes of how to use the Command Line Interface of Cisco Unified Call Manager Express  Trained over 35 new employees on troubleshooting routers and switches.  Introduced automatic rollover of next version crypto keys resulting in 0% down time. Education Mergenthaler Vocational Technical High School July 2005 Certifications/Licenses CCENT August 2019 to August 2022