Job Seeker Bartlesville, OK Telecom Engineer in IT Telecom with over 16 years' experience. Expertise working in various switches, routers, and testing equipment in a network operations environment. Worked in Provisioning and Install/Maintenance. Adapt well and good with change always trying to learn and improve. Well versed with all windows software, Excel, Power Point, Word, Visio, and One Note. Worked with Lan and Wan equipment. Good with OSI layer and sub netting.    • Install and Maintain various data network switches from Dms250, Dms100, Dex, 5ess, and Sonas  • Experience in setting up dial plans for Internal Verizon Network.  • Assisted with setup of cisco Call manager, cisco Voice, and cisco telepresence solutions.  • Held certification for CCNA but let it expire.  • Received training on NEC telephony voip switch and configuration.  • 16 years trouble shooting experience with network outages and solutions on how to create a redundant solution to minimize outage times.  • Provided 24 hour support as on call to network interruptions.  • Provided testing with carrier level access for ISDN t1 ds3 and above circuits. As well as preformed ping tests to verify connectivity.  • Used Active Directory at the hospital to set up diff levels of access for Nurses, Doctors and Staff.  • Setup Email domains and passwords with Microsoft exchange  • Wiped and reinstalled Windows OS when a laptop or pc information could not be saved.  • 10 years of Network Telecom wiring closet experience. Fiber, cat5, rg6 and many more. Terminated to various types of equipment and jack terminations.  • Setup of print servers for the hospital, and used Windows server to create folders for staff to access.  • Well versed in HIPAA standards and policies.  • Great at finding problems most don't know are there. While working at the hospital I found a issue with the Nortel switch that would allow you to call any phone in hospital and make it pick up via speaker wheather user wanted it to or not. There was one faint beep that was only notification that speaker was now active. Allowing to hear private conversations without permission. I found the problem then implemented a fix.  • Setup wifi permissions at the hospital giving users specific timeframe they could have access.  • Cleaned up our network closet wiring on non business hrs.  • Tons of experience dealing with telecom vendors. ATT, Verizon, L3 and many more throughout the country.  • Configuration and worked with vendors to make sure protocols matched so switches could communicate. Work Experience Verizon - Tulsa, OK 2018 to 2019 • Work with Fiber optic transmission lines  • Maintain and fix issues with network equipment  • Used excel to run reports and build reports with pivot tables and Graphs.    • Worked with Citrix and Versa equipment    • Ran ping tests to verify connectivity. Network Administrator for Pawhuska Hospital Cohesive Health Care - Pawhuska, OK 2017 to 2018 • Work with active directory giving user permissions to network.  • Configure user permissions on our email server  • Configure NEC phone system switch adding removing users and programming their phones    • Set up a Print server that we remote to and give print permissions to diff users in the hospital    • Remote to different IP addresses and remote in to user's pc's to configure desktop.    Level 3, Tulsa Ok 2016  Responsible for maintain switches and routers end to end on the level 3 network.    • Configure different Switches: Dex, Sonas, 5ess, and DMS250  • Tested Circuits using ITS end to end.  • Opened up trouble tickets with the field for test assist and to fix problems with CFA. Verizon - Tulsa, OK 1999 to 2015 Responsible for install and maintenance for all of internal Verizon telephony network. Ordered, installed, maintained SIP, and ISDN for all company sites.  • Converted Colorado Springs Garden of the Gods location to sip. Moved 2000 plus numbers over a sip circuit. Disconnected the remaining IDN circuits to save the company money.  • Due to a major outage in the Philippines, moved traffic on to dms250 switches from existing path, resulting in very little down time for the company.  • Trouble shot, identified problems, fixed problems for circuits for IPhone launch, leading to IPhone launch completion on schedule.    • Turned up 4 ds3 worth of ISDN circuits for Cary, North Carolina. Worked within a tight schedule and overtime to complete job on time. Education Associates of Arts and Science in Arts and Science Tulsa Community College - Tulsa, OK Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/billcpittser