SENIOR NETWORK/SYSTEM ENGINEER SENIOR <span class="hl">NETWORK</span>/SYSTEM ENGINEER SENIOR NETWORK/SYSTEM ENGINEER - I.T. Matters Round Rock, TX Skilled System Administrator with expertise in IT support, management, and infrastructure  planning. Experience developing multi-year strategy to modernize infrastructure and plan for  future growth. Demonstrated ability to manage and lead teams during complex projects.  Highly successful at working in a fast paced environment while managing multiple projects  and deadlines. Customer-oriented professional with a history of meeting or exceeding  project objectives. Work Experience SENIOR NETWORK/SYSTEM ENGINEER I.T. Matters - Austin, TX July 2019 to Present • Worked closely with customers, internal staff and other stakeholders to determine planning, implementation and integration of system-oriented projects.  • Conducted research that tested and analyzed feasibility, design, operation and performance of IT equipment, components and systems.  • Diagnosed issues with customer systems and quickly repaired flaws to maintain  functionality. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR McLennan County - Waco, TX March 2016 to May 2019 • Responsible for IT infrastructure and data on a network with 900+ devices.  • Directed team of professionals in special projects and daily operations.  • Created technology strategy for upgrading legacy systems in order to modernize IT  infrastructure, increase productivity, and improve security of county network.  • Reduced overall costs by deploying virtualization in entire organization.  • Developed yearly technology budget and assisted director with presenting budget to Commissioner's Court during budget workshop.  • Monitored audit logs and IDS logs for signs of malicious activity or malware infection.  • Increased system security and performance with proactive changes.  • Managed network-related projects, including liaising with clients from conception to implementation. SYSTEMS MANAGER McLennan County - Waco, TX February 2012 to March 2016 Designed and implemented Active Directory resulting in less administrative overhead for IT  staff.  • Implemented auditing software for AD and file shares, improving visibility into activity  happening on the LAN.  • Monitored network performance, availability, utilization, throughput, and latency.  • Delivered recommendations regarding infrastructure overhauls.  • Improved job tasks and mentored junior team members on best practices and standards.  • Set up user accounts, permissions and passwords and defined network policies and procedures. SENIOR NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR McLennan County - Waco, TX February 2010 to February 2012 • Maintained CJIS compliance on LAN, worked with DPS auditors during the audit period, and successfully passed each audit  • Spearheaded the technical component of migrating the legacy ERP to a modern hosted  solution  • Kept flexible schedule and resolved after-hours and weekend emergencies quickly and accurately  • Analyzed intricate server issues and supported large enterprise and business-critical  applications NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR McLennan County - Waco, TX October 2008 to February 2010 • Acted as both first level network support and advanced desktop support for 700 PCs.  • Responsible for annual lifecycle review of desktop hardware and peripherals.  • Acted as main purchaser of new desktop hardware and peripherals after annual lifecycle  review.  • Maintained asset lists of newly deployed hardware and worked with auditor's department  to give each asset its correct tag.  • Developed and maintained accurate network documentation and Visio diagrams to provide management with proper understanding of organizational needs. PC TECHNICIAN McLennan County - Waco, TX February 2005 to October 2008 Provided local and remote first line IT support for hardware and software to company  personnel.  • Worked with interns in a supervisory and mentoring capacity.  • Set up and configured new employee work stations, including all hardware, software and peripheral devices. Education Associate Degree in Network Security Texas State Technical College - Waco, TX Bachelor of Arts in English Mount Allison University - Sackville, NB Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, FIREWALLS, HIPAA, CISCO ASA, CISCO ASA FIREWALLS, DISASTER RECOVERY, HYPER-V, LINUX, SECURITY, DATA BACKUP, STRATEGIC PLANNING, PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS, EMC, GOVERNANCE Additional Information SKILLS  • Windows Server 2008R2 - 2019 • Dell EMC Isilon and Compellant SAN  • Microsoft Hyper-V and RDS • Cisco ASA Firewalls  • Security monitoring and governance • Strategic Planning and Implementation  • HIPAA, CJIS, Regulatory Protected Data • System Upgrades and Performance Analysis  • Linux (Ubuntu, Debian, CentOS, Fedora) • Data Backup and Disaster Recovery  • Active Directory and Group Policy • Project Coordination