Systems/ Network Administrator Systems/ <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems/ Network Administrator - GCommerce Inc Clive, IA Work Experience Systems/ Network Administrator GCommerce Inc - Des Moines, IA 2008 to Present Provides support for all Network operations, and equipment, including but not limited to servers, routers, switches, firewalls, data and voice communication lines, data backup and storage devices, operating systems, LAN network. Participates in infrastructure planning and design and implementation to support new applications and technologies.  • Expert in configuration, trouble shooting, and all system upgrades.  • Provides support for Data and voice communications lines and equipment, including installation, maintenance and troubleshooting.  • Prepare and maintain detailed problem resolution documentation to track nature and frequency of problems.  • Provide 24/7 ON-CALL IT support for monitoring system health.  • Maintains current inventory of configurations of all servers, PCs, shares, printers, and software installations.  • Assist with training of employees on network, hardware, and software applications.  • Oversee and conduct daily system-wide backup operations.  • Provides EDI support for all failed document transmissions.  • Assist in resolving customer issues.  • Developing and maintaining all server updates Business Support Technician Mediacom CC - Des Moines, IA May 2007 to December 2007 Assist in resolving customer issues.  • Resolved IP addressing conflicts for all Technical Business accounts.  • Answering questions related to service, pricing and configurations.  • Troubleshoot basic network and modem functionality.  • Answer questions regarding use of service with various hardware and software platforms.  • Schedule on-site service calls when necessary.  • Escalate appropriate technical issues to Internet Technical Support Associate group. Education Bachelors of Applied Science in Business Management Kaplan University - Urbandale, IA 2007 to 2008 Associates of Applied Science in Computer Information Systems Kaplan University - Urbandale, IA February 2005 to March 2007 Additional Information I am a Professional with five years of experience in Network Administration. Strengths are in organization, server maintenance and monitoring, technology, project management, hardware troubleshooting, problem analysis and resolution, customer service, and personnel management/training skills.    Operating Systems: Server organization, permissions and rights, client side issues (such as configuration), troubleshooting and installation of applications. Monitoring and maintaining Network/ server health.    Skills: Years of Experience: Expertise Level:  Exchange Server 3years Intermediate  Active Directory 4years Advanced  LAN/WAN 4years Advanced  Switches 4years Advanced  Windows Server 4years Advanced  Windows OS thru 7 4years Advanced  SAN Storage 4years Intermediate  TCP/IP 4years Intermediate  Routers 4years Intermediate  Firewall 4years Intermediate