ADVANCE REPAIR AGENT ADVANCE REPAIR AGENT ADVANCE REPAIR AGENT - GEEK SQUAD Charleston, WV To obtain a helpdesk/ Network Admin position that will use my skills and allow me to learn new skills while maintaining efficiency within the workplace. Work Experience ADVANCE REPAIR AGENT GEEK SQUAD 2010 to Present • Assist customers with service/repair issues within the Standard Operating Platform (SOP) of the Precinct  • Provides the initial contact with customers, checks in product, and runs basic tests to determine product needs and service solutions.  • Facilitates the complete solution of product sales, upgrades, installations and service in the store.  • Is expected to personify and uphold the Geek Squad service standards.  • Running diagnosis on computers, Backup customers Information to portal hard drive or new computers, Virus Removal, Reimaging Computers, upgrading laptops/desktops Installed software and maintained PC related hardware (motherboards, hard drives, etc.) as well as performing required troubleshooting.  • apple certified technician repairing iPhones, Pads, Macbook, and Imacs NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR VM Hosts and VM Machines 2010 to 2019 • Provide the setup, configuration and troubleshooting of forticlient vpn accounts  • Monitor daily symantec endpoint on physical servers and VM for updates and reconnecting to end point server  • Monitor daily DCHP/DNS Server for tax domain  • Creating and configuring VM Hosts and VM Machines  • Upgrading Vmhosts and VM to newest versions  • Creating Ethernet cables and running to switch  • Creating login accounts for vSphere  • Installing configuring, troubleshooting windows server physical and VM 2008, 2012, 2016  • Creating vm snapshot and vm migration  • Updating WSUS box  • Installing, Setting up EMC San  • Adding and Deleting users and groups in active directory  • Troubleshooting Windows 7/10 Desktops FIREDOG SUPERVISOR / TECHNICIAN CIRCUIT CITY 2005 to 2009 • Managed 3 technicians for various computer and multimedia upgrades, installs, data recovery and deliveries.  • Handled customer complaints and any issues that would arise regarding computer and networking problems for homes and businesses.  • Trained customers and employees in several PC and multimedia topics.  • Installed software and maintained PC related hardware (motherboards, hard drives, etc.) as well as performing required troubleshooting.  • Provided installations and troubleshooting for multimedia devices including projectors, televisions, DVD/Blue-ray players and sound systems. FIELD INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN WEST VIRGINIA DHHR OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY 2005 to 2007 • Provided 2nd level support for 10,000 users in various state-wide departments while using Heat to track support issues.  • Maintained software installed on desktops including migration from Microsoft Office 2003 to 2007.  • Installed, configured and updated desktop equipment for users and deployed desktop applications.  • Created and maintained user accounts using Active Directory.  • Installed switches and routers in various offices/buildings and connected LAN/WAN equipment to the network.  • Replaced all outdated desktop & laptops, which included any hardware (motherboards, power supplies, memory, etc.) and software along with installing all required system upgrades.  • Performed email migration from Novell GroupWise to Microsoft Outlook and was responsible for ensuring all employees could access and use their email accounts. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR UNION HALL 1999 to 2005 • Handled technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment for all LAN and WAN devices.  • Created and managed standard desktop & laptop images for employees, reducing the time required to install appropriate software on new hardware.  • Facilitated workstation hardware upgrades/repairs and preformed backups/restores for these devices.  • Updated Microsoft Windows workstations and resolved software configuration issues. Education Associate Degree in INFORMATION SYSTEMS WEST VIRGINIA STATE UNIVERSITY 2003 Skills active directory (10+ years), EMC (9 years), Microsoft Office (2 years), Microsoft Windows (6 years), MS OFFICE (2 years)