IT Director IT Director IT Director - Senior Living Properties Marana, AZ • Achieved 20+ years' practical experience in IT Service Management (ITSM) implementation, leading to significant increases in system efficiency and streamlined processing.  • Organized and deployed multiple networking projects, effectively managing the full project life cycle including staff training, delegating tasks and administrative responsibilities.  • Revitalized improvement programs by incorporating an in-depth scope on the Infrastructure and system standards.  • Created a new storage Infrastructure to increase space and centralize data, accomplishing numerous improvements compared to the existing programming.  • Managed team members on- and off-shore across daily operations and project life cycles.  • Played essential role in training and developing IT staff members in networking and Windows engineering, preparing new employees for work within Operations Centers and warehouse facilities.  • Designed and implemented the buildout out of 7 new distribution sites, including datacenters and warehouse facilities all below or within budget. Work Experience IT Director Senior Living Properties - Fort Worth, TX March 2019 to Present Establish key performance indicators and service level agreements for continually measuring and improving the performance of infrastructure. Manage personnel supporting, information technology infrastructure, including but not limited to: network infrastructure and helpdesk. Senior Manager, IT Ingram Micro - Fort Worth, TX 2012 to 2019 Oversee 38+ IT professionals globally; directing all Infrastructure to include telecommunications, data centers, call center team, servers, hardware and software management. Responsible for system updates, Microsoft licensing and all software licensing renewals. Principal strategist for department operations, spearheading budget management, expense reports, forecasting, and inventory data. Execute project management, leading full project life cycle, incorporating new practices to streamline problem identification and resolutions. Collaborated with senior level management, effectively communicating Infrastructure plans, department objectives ensuring alignment with company directives.  • Client Service: Exemplify adept service, successfully managing complex IT problems and escalated user situations, providing prompt solutions and comprehensive follow-up. Train team members to administer top-notch interfacing, striving for continuous customer satisfaction.  • Project Management: Recognized for conceptualizing and implementing the ITSM program, a 3-year system refresh, to decrease incident reports and user complaints, improving department functionality for better service delivery. Led a 5-year renovation of datacenters, updating all equipment to improve operations.  • Operations Management: Spearheaded hiring, onboarding, and training of the Network Operations Center staff, improving processing time for resolutions that increased overall company revenue. Completed negotiations with circuit provides, saving the company $250,000 annually. Manager, Infrastructure and Telecom Services ingram micro/dbl distributing - Scottsdale, AZ 2007 to 2012 Championed the development and analysis of dashboards to provide comprehension of staff and department performance, ticket status, and system problems. Conceptualized, designed, and implemented new storage Infrastructure. Led PC and field technical service team, simultaneously establishing and strengthening business relations with service providers. Incorporated an effective training program to improve Desktop support.  • Department Management: Initiated overhaul of department objectives, highly encouraging and leading staff members to deploy a customer focus approached and significantly improving network and Windows engineering comprehension.  • Financial Administration: Held accountability for partner accounts (RCA and SLA), purchasing, Infrastructure requirements, budget requests (Op Ex and CapEx) and roadmaps, and expense forecasts. Recognized for creating a 5-year financial plan to ensure support of business objectives.  • Systems Administration: Successfully administered upgrade to new VOIP solution for telecommunication equipment. Implemented disaster recovery and continuity plans. Upgraded all Network and wireless equipment to Cisco switches and AP's. Installed CheckPoint firewalls and Fortinet IPS. Sr. Network Administrator Teksystems Quicksilver Resources - Fort Worth, TX 2007 to 2007 Sr. Network Administrator/Team Lead over NOC General Dynamics - Fort Worth, TX 2005 to 2007 Network Specialist Global Integration Services - Dallas, TX 2005 to 2005 Network Administrator I ASD DOL/BLS - Dallas, TX 2003 to 2005 Education Computer Science in Computer Science InfoTech Career College - Fort Worth, TX March 1998 to September 1999 Skills Lan/wan, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Exchange, Remedy, Lenel, Ethernet, Microsoft exchange, Lan, Microsoft office, Mac, Mac os, Emc, IT Management, Itil, Vendor Management, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses MCSE August 2005 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Protocols: Ethernet, TCP/IP LAN/WAN environments.  Operating Systems / Software:  Windows OS, Mac OS, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Office Microsoft Server OS, VMWare, Commvault backup, Service now, Remedy. Office 365    Hardware: Dell, HP, and Lenovo, Servers, Desktops and Laptops. Hittachi and EMC san's Lenel Onguard security systems