Motorcycle Technician/Computer and Network Administrator Motorcycle Technician/Computer and <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Motorcycle Technician/Computer and Network Administrator - Cycles of Silver Spring LLC Kensington, MD I am seeking an engaging position that educates and propels me into a cyber security/data analyst position, where I can provide high quality solutions that exceed company and customer expectations. Work Experience Motorcycle Technician/Computer and Network Administrator Cycles of Silver Spring LLC - Silver Spring, MD May 2016 to Present • Designed, built and enhanced the secure posture of the company's Microsoft-based, peer-to-peer network. I currently administer and maintain the network and company workstations, applying security updates, patches and addressing functional issues.  • Investigated and resolved a persistent network latency issue by implementing a more robust network/WiFi solution.  • Educated employees and managers on proper computer utilization and good security practices.  • Successfully completed complicated engine rebuilds by precisely following specific instructions that required zero error tolerance.  • Tracked issues, recorded recommendations, documented work performed, and applied fixes in a detailed fashion on our official record tracking system maintained on the Nizex POS computer system.  • Interfaced with customers and gathered requirements to best meet their needs.  • Diagnosed malfunctioning electrical and engine component/systems, and provided consultation to customers to address their issues.  • Completed quality control peer-reviews to ensure services meet customer expectations. Service Writer/Crew Chief Suburban Solutions LLC - Kensington, MD April 2012 to September 2013 part-time), Summer 2014 (full time)  • Led a team in planning and carrying out the movement of inventory from residential houses and commercial buildings.  • Created cost estimates using Google applications and corresponded with customers via e-mail, telephone and formal letters; ensuring company understanding of customer needs.  • Maintained and tracked detailed records on business finance and job results using Excel.  • Performed post-job quality control checks; ensuring customer satisfaction for services rendered.  • Packaged and managed fragile and sensitive items for transit from one location to another. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Networks and Cyber Security in Computer Networks and Cyber Security University of Maryland University College June 2019 Skills Detail oriented (Less than 1 year), Excel. (1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Word (Less than 1 year), PowerPoint. (Less than 1 year), printers (Less than 1 year), RECEPTIONIST (Less than 1 year), RETAIL SALES (Less than 1 year), virtual server (Less than 1 year), Web Services (Less than 1 year), word (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office, customer service (Less than 1 year), Technical Support, Windows 7, Windows Additional Information Knowledge and Skills:     • Adept in Microsoft OS environments.  • Solid understanding of cybersecurity processes and procedures.   • Experienced in creating and maintaining small networks.  • Familiarity with Amazon Web Services; creating, connecting to, and updating virtual server environments.  • Proficient in the use of email applications, spreadsheets, word and presentation processing tools, including but not limited to Google’s online tools, Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint.   • Experienced using Java; created a program that allowed a user to play black-jack with the computer.  • Experienced setting up computer peripheral devices; hardware and input/output devices; setting up printers, keyboards and other devices for office use.  • Eager and able to learn new skills quickly; applied school experience to enhance functionality and security of local area network.  • Enjoy troubleshooting technical problems and achieving resolution.  • Detail oriented  • Methodical  • Superior customer service  • Flexible and adaptable  • Out-of-the-box thinking  • Results driven  • Professional and patient  • Strong interpersonal skills