Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator To obtain a position in the IT industry allowing me to utilize my years of experience to maintain and improve system functionality. Work Experience Network Administrator Warehouse Service Inc - Camden, NJ January 2017 to January 2019 Maintained Windows based Servers 2003-2016, Windows XP - 10 and Mac OS clients, Cat 5E and Cat 6 cabling, Server backup, hardware replacements and maintenance, Drive and printer mapping, imagining systems.  Duties  Managed ticket system Exchange for in house repairs. Such as Installation, configuring part replacement and repair of computer hardware, test and implementation of new software Mac and PC, networks Mac and PC based, AIO printers copier scanner setup and configuration, and scanners, planning and undertaking scheduled maintenance upgrades etc. Computer Consultant & Store Manager Camden Computers Inc - Camden, NJ November 2008 to January 2017 PC Hardware & Software Repair, Windows Training 95 - Windows 10, Windows Server 2000-2012PC & Server assemblies, Networking and Cabling, Site Surveyor, Onsite Service Technician, Hardware & Software Integrator, Project Management, Customer Sales & Service, Phone Support.  Duties  Managed ticket system Exchange for in house and in the field repairs. Satisfy clients collect payments, open and close store Installation, configuration, part replacement and repair of computer hardware, test and implementation of new software Mac and PC, networks Mac and PC based, AIO printers copier scanner setup and configuration, and scanners, planning and undertaking scheduled maintenance upgrades etc. Store Manager Mike's Communication - Camden, NJ May 2002 to November 2008 PC Hardware & Software Repair, Windows Training 95 - 2003 Server, PC & Server assemblies, Hardware & Software Integrator Networking and Cabling, Site Surveyor, Onsite Service Technician, Customer Sales & Service, Phone Support.    Duties  Managed ticket system Exchange for in house and in the field repairs. Satisfy clients collect payments, open and close store Installation, configuration, part replacement and repair of computer hardware, test and implementation of new software Mac and PC, networks Mac and PC based, AIO printers copier scanner setup and configuration, and scanners, planning and undertaking scheduled maintenance upgrades etc. Configuration Technician Compaq - Swedesboro, NJ May 2001 to May 2002 Testing for Hardware & software failures of PCs & Servers, PC & Server assemblies Network Administrator Richard Goldberg & Assoc - Ewing, NJ August 2000 to August 2001 Maintaining a Windows NT, 98, ME And 2000 environment, Hardware & Software Integrator (Advanced server 2000 PC Law & Amicus Attorney ) Hardware Management (Responsible for RMAs & Repairs for all Computer & Printer equipment) Outlook Training, & Backup Operator    Duties  Installation configuration and part replacement and repair of computer hardware, test and implementation of new software PC, networks PC based, printers, copier, scanner setup and configuration, and scanners, planning and undertaking scheduled maintenance upgrades etc. Education Network Engineering & Management Computer Learning Centers - Cherry Hill, NJ October 1999