IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Henry Schein Orthodontics Wesley Chapel, FL Information systems management professional with over 18 years of progressive experience and a heavy focus in sales and distribution companies. Strong understanding of the role that technology plays as a tool for business. Excellent technical skills combined with impeccable communication, presentation, and project management skills. Work Experience IT Manager Henry Schein Orthodontics - Tampa, FL June 2006 to Present • Currently supporting network for a 300 user medical device manufacturer and distributor of orthodontic supplies. Duties include management of a Dynamics GP ERP system, MSCRM and Accellos WMS system. As well as Physical and Virtual Servers, LAN\WAN and VOIP Telephony systems.  • Managed the implementation of the Dynamics GP ERP system, CRM system and Accellos Warehouse Management System.  • Implemented a fully 2-D barcoded and lot controlled warehouse with guided receiving and picking.  • Assisted finance and sales departments in reporting monthly/quarterly metrics, KPI's and general use of the ERP system through SQL SSRS and Crystal Reports.  • Responsible for IT budget and all IT purchasing decisions  • Managed team of systems admins and helpdesk staff and developed KPI's and metrics for team.  • Implemented cloud based disaster recovery using Veeam to insure redundancy and uptime.  • Managed the telecom system including ACD groups, call routing, and IVR applications to better facilitate the sales process as well as Cellular phones and remote connectivity for field sales staff. IT Manager Nations Fence - Tampa, FL 2005 to 2006 • Supported corporate office and 9 branch offices for a national fencing sales and installation company. Duties included: management of a Microsoft Windows 2003 server network utilizing SQL 2000, Exchange 2000, and Citrix. Support and maintenance of a Solomon accounting and distribution software system. Heavy design of Crystal Reports and FRX reports.  • Implemented a CRM system to manage sales routes and territories and to transmit jobs in real-time to field salespeople via Blackberry. MIS Manager 1 Nation Technology - Oldsmar, FL 2000 to 2005 • Supported sales office for a telecommunications distributor. Duties included: management of a Microsoft 2000/2003 server network. Solomon distribution software and MSCRM support. Generating Crystal Reports and FRX reports for senior management and managing the IT budget.  • Designed product labeling with bartender for barcoded pick/putaway  • Managed the purchase, design and implementation of Solomon and MSCRM for our environment.  • Designed a bar-coded inventory system with Solomon that has saved the company in man-hours and reduced picking and shipping times, while significantly reducing shipping errors.  • Designed a successful remote worker program utilizing VOIP and Citrix that increased sales by allowing us to place remote workers in key markets. Network Administrator Internet Broadcast Service - Tampa, FL 1999 to 2000 • Position with Aetna became contracted. Responsibilities included: day to day end-user support and Server maintenance. As well as backups, account management and PC Imaging.  • Managed a large-scale move of over 800 users to a new office. Network Administrator Aetna - High Point, NC 1998 to 1999 Position as a consultant went permanent. Responsibilities included: day to day end-user support and Server maintenance. As well as backups, account management and PC Imaging. Desktop Support Teksystems - Greensboro, NC 1997 to 1998 Worked as a consultant for Aetna supporting a 2000 user call center. Responsibilities included: day to day PC Level 2 maintenance, end-user support and Server Installation and maintenance in a Novell/NT environment. Education A.A.S. in Business Computer Programming Pitt Community College - Greenville, NC 1995 to 1997 Skills Crystal reports, Voip, Wireless, Erp, Dynamics, Dynamics gp, Macola, Symantec, Power bi, Ssrs, Veritas, Active directory, Citrix, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Vmware, Wins, Exchange, Firewalls, Virtualization, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Customer Service, Windows 7 Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4cnvxb3omered-y7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  Desktop - MS Windows: XP, 7, 10 / Server: 2003 to 2016. Server Applications: MSSQL, Exchange Server, Veritas Backup Exec, Quest Rapid Recovery, Veeam, Symantec backup exec, Dynamics GP, Accellos WMS, Macola ES ERP, MSCRM, Salesforce, Mobile Iron Mobile Device Management Crystal Reports, SSRS, Power BI, Virtualization: VMWare ESXi, Hyper-V, Citrix Xenserver.  LAN/WAN: TCPIP, DHCP, WINS, Active Directory, comprehensive working knowledge of Routers, Switches, Firewalls, VOIP, Telecom, Wireless access equipment, and cabling topologies.