Site Administrator Site <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Site Administrator - Starwood Sandy Springs, GA Network Engineer with a Bachelors in Computer and Information Sciences with a concentration in math with an  active CCNA certificate with experience performing migration and implementation of complex networks.  Experience with installation configuration of multiple technologies. Now concentrating on CCNP studies with  areas of interest in Python Programming, Virtualization and SDN. Work Experience Site Administrator Starwood - Atlanta, GA May 2013 to Present Keep data records of room availability and guests accounts using site database system. Maintained and organized master Resident Index and information files in master database. Monitored security issues and kept  shrinkage low. Answered alarms and investigated disturbances. Issued security badges and visitor passes to all guests Sustain Engineer Cox Communications Inc. - Atlanta, GA April 2016 to January 2017 Discussed design standards and procedures with the directors of design and architecture. Engineered and tested the Cox business core service routers to address the limitation of tradition IP routing. Cox business's backbone and core network consist of 40,000 Cisco, Nokia(Alcatel/Lucent) and Juniper service routers.. Developed, tested and implemented, documented local market OSPF and ISIS routing in both IPv4 and IPv6 stacks. Developed,  tested and implemented documented inter-market core ISIS Level 2 network via Cox business backbone network  using eBGP for routing and network policy. Developing, testing and implementing, documenting Layer 2 and  Layer 3 MPLS across Cox Business VPN network to address the limitation of traditional IP routing. Network Design Engineer JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH January 2010 to January 2015 Analyzed the organization's business needs and then the related design, implementation, and maintenance of the network infrastructure to support those business needs. Created network plans, ensure technology  interoperability, documented existing and proposed network infrastructure, maintained relationships with technical solution providers, and provided fourth tier troubleshooting /support. Recommended hardware and  software to meet the organization's needs, as well as managing the rolling out of new equipment and systems, and ensuring that corrective and preventative measures are performed on existing equipment and systems WAN Engineer Level 3 Communications - Atlanta, GA February 2009 to January 2010 Supports Level3's Global IP backbone, 24x7x365. Analysts provide surveillance, maintenance, and break/fix  activities for all aspects of the IP backbone and the services that ride on Level3's world wild backbone network.  ATM, Frame Relay, MPLS, LDP, RSVP, OSPF, ISIS, RIPv2, BGP, RFC 2547, DSL, DHCP, Ethernet, Gigabit  Ethernet, SONET, Traffic Engineering (BGP and MPLS), IPVPN, VOIP, SSH, Telnet, MRTG, basic/intermediate  Unix commands are required applications. Clarify trouble ticket system Remedy trouble ticket system Micro muse Network Communications Engineer Riversoft and Netcool - Atlanta, GA October 2007 to February 2009 Provided thorough network analysis and documentation for Tier II network management team. Services  supported are voice, video data and frame. Daily duties required a concentration in Network forensic analysis and connectivity problem resolution using HP Open view. Ensured adequate coverage for the 24/7/365 environment so that the network infrastructure is running effectively (includes continuous monitoring of all services and ensuring that every reasonable effort is made to restore service as quickly as possible in the event of an outage). Network Analyst Multiple Roles - Atlanta, GA December 1995 to October 2007 resolution of BGP routing issues. Extensive knowledge and experience with DS0, DS1, DS3 troubleshooting, turn and configuration. I participated in daily interactions with DCSC technicians for provisioning support of network  infrastructure. Configuring and troubleshooting Cisco 2500 series routers through the 7000 series routers.  Resolving dial issues associated with Cisco AS5200, AS5300 modem pools /routers and US Robotics Network  Access Servers (NAS), and modem pools. Performance management, IOS upgrades, change control,    configuration and technical support for the BellSouth Internet access network (ISP). Problem resolution for unbundled customer to point of demarcation I: E CSU/DSU testing. Equipment utilized in BMF site management  turn ups and installations include the following equipment BIR, BER, CAT 5000, CER, GSR, HER, LOR, IXC.  RADIUS and TACACS used for authentication.  Service Delivery Project Manager  Configuration of voice data frame relay private line ISDN point to point ATM T1 DS3 circuits and services. Equipment configuration and parameter verification for customer premise equipment. Equipment includes Cisco  25xx routers, Nortel PBX, AT&T 5E, DMS 100 -250 switches. The life cycle production of excel spreadsheets and  Visio documentation that display a full design of customer's Network. Single point of contact for all customer  issues and process interactions such as installation and configuration, billing, order verification, and access  service request.  Specialist Advanced Technical Design  Accountable for issue identification, assignment, tracking, resolution and closure processes for disaster recovery  documentation policies and procedures for Bellsouth internal systems, which also includes network security  policy development and implementation. Managed IP Filter request processing and routing access between red and green zones. Virus definition updates and security patches. Charged with ensuring all server and IP  registration status on MIR database. Designated Project Manager for WinCCT and MSSCSA client installation on windows and UNIX equipment respectively. Data receipt and Cyber fitness retirement and change of any server's  inventory status or Georgia and Alabama. Responsible for communication of all key dates and deadlines to CSA's and phone systems software upgrades. Part of Center Supports First Responders team at Lindbergh, Midtown,  BellSouth Centre and Northlake Network Analyst IV SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA August 1999 to November 2002 Network configuration and end to end problem resolution for SunTrust Banks Frame-Relay and IBM SNA  Networks. Equipment utilization includes Tandem, Bytex, IDNX, Cisco 75xx through 25xx series routers with  Catalyst 5000 Switching and Visual-Uptime CSU/DSU. The legacy network consisted of IBM mainframe and  MVS, AS/400. UNIX, LAN/WAN, NT, Tandem. Maintained security, backup, and redundancy strategies. Defined  technical integration strategy and developed Integration plans. Front Line Engineer Sprint Telecommunications - Atlanta, GA June 2000 to May 2002 Network hardware and software upgrades. Provide feedback to Platform engineers for possible network  design/improvements and performance management. Equipment utilization includes the Nortel Passport and  Vector (edge switches) and NEC 40 G core ATM switch, Broadband DACS, Adtech and HP test sets and Kentrox  AAC3 concentrator equipment, Sprints Facility Management system, HP Openview, Netcool and Teams Ticketing  system. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Sciences Morehouse College ? Atlanta - Atlanta, GA 1989 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Present