Systems Engineer / Team Lead Systems Engineer / Team Lead Experienced Team Lead / Supervisor San Jose, CA Experienced and knowledgeable Information Technology professional with a BS degree and 16 years of experience supporting, troubleshooting and maintaining of computer hardware and software related issues. In-depth knowledge and understanding of numerous software packages and operating systems. Skilled in providing customer and end-user help desk support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer / Team Lead 22nd Century Technologies - San Jose, CA 2017 to Present • Active Public Trust (NACI) Clearance. Federal Contractor to the United States Patent and Trademarks Office in San Jose, CA.  • Create daily, weekly and monthly statistical reports summarizing support efforts, monitor the EAMS Remedy ticketing system to provide support, repair, maintenance, configuration and installation of laptops and desktop, peripheral equipment and software.  • Operate, troubleshoot, install, upgrade, monitor, manage, and maintain the voice, network, software, firmware and security infrastructure.  • Plan and schedule deployment and moves of hardware such as desktop, laptops, printers, and additional peripherals. Research, monitor and implement special projects • Advanced point of escalation for resolving complex technical issues. Train and support team members on support and troubleshooting processes and procedures. Work with vendor support to resolve technical problems. Follow the approved production Problem and Change Management system to track all problems and changes.  • Subject matter expert in organizing, implementing and troubleshooting audio visual collaboration events and projects using Cisco Telepresence Devices such as SX-80 Codec and 8831 Conference Phone, Cisco WebEx, Christie projectors and Crestron A/V control systems.  • Support high-volume OkiData Group Printers, HP Multifunction printers, and PC workstations/print servers associated with the printers. Ensure preventive maintenance is performed 4 times daily.  • Perform and maintain IT asset and configuration management for voice, video teleconferencing, collaboration, network, and security systems.  • Patch network drops into switches from Patch Panel and modify for auxiliary port usage as necessary. Maintain an updated spreadsheet of all port mappings and changes.  • Assist users remotely using System Center Config Manager (SCCM), maintain users and devices in Active Directory (AD) using Active Roles. Network Administrator Maxim Integrated - San Jose, CA 2006 to 2016 • Administered IT networking systems including installation, maintenance, and programming network switch devices, routers, firewalls plus evaluation and diagnosis of network LAN/WAN systems.  • Did Palo Alto Networks firewall rollout / administration, Aruba wireless access point configuration / administration, Polycom configuration / administration, HQ Network Infrastructure installation.  • Used Infoblox reporting setup and mapping/location of all Infoblox devices, Sunnyvale / HQ Move Remote office infrastructure setup, HP managed desktop mini-switch rollout, trade show support.  • Provided emergency response for all network infrastructure systems, e.g.frequent call duty while juggling multiple tasks with competing agendas and timelines resulting in high efficiency.  • Sarbanes-Oxley Compliancy Activities, was promoted to Supervisor for the IT Services group, did Exceed on Demand laptop rollout, technical support, and off-site Conference support.  • Used Metrics from Footprints to determine cycle time and effectiveness and to determine level of support, programmed and administered ShoreTel phones and Polycom conference phones. Sr. Support Specialist InteroReal Estate Services - Cupertino, CA 2005 to 2006 • Provided excellent customer service to every real estate agent while working extensively with Corporate Executives, Branch Managers and Realtors across the WAN resulting in high profitability.  • Provided remote support for corporate and franchise branch offices within the Bay Area; configured and installed new and additional Cisco 3500 switches when needed resulting in high bandwidth.  • Systems administrator for all levels of software support and web based applications; performed adds, moves and changes of new user accounts for agent software, phone, and voicemail.  • Handled key FOB for after hour building access and firewall support using Fortigate Hardware. IT Consultant iSpace, Inc - El Segundo, CA 2003 to 2004 • Contractor to Countrywide Home Loans in Rolling Meadows, IL as part of the Production TechnologyHardware Support Team and did troubleshooting remotely using PCAnywhere.  • Provided Level II on-site hardware and software support for 400+ users and company-wide taking trouble Tickets through Remedy and rotated backup tapes for remote backups.  • Traveled out of town to open or close branch offices; set up servers, workstations and printers; ensured connectivity to the corporate offices in Arizona, California and Texas. Network Administrator CTC Services, Inc - Rosemont, IL 2000 to 2003 • Server administration and support for MS Windows Servers; used CLI commands, created user accounts and print queues, and monitored hard drive space on IBM RS/6000 servers.  • Performed administration duties on a Debian Linux box used as an email and FTP server and did security audits on the network using security tools, plus support for SonicWall and Netscreen.  • Did configuration and support for HP LaserJet printers and HP JetDirect print servers.Setup and configured all new Dell Optiplex workstations as they were purchased or passed on to others.  • Did custom builds on servers and workstations for clients, prepared and organized documentation of the company's network infrastructure, and ordered all software and hardware.  • Ensured that backups were completed using Veritas Backup Exec.and performed administration duties for AT&T Merlin II/Legend phone system and Smooth Operator voicemail system.  • Created and terminated voice and data cabling; setup MS Web Server and SQL Server for clients to access company's eTMS freight rating software; did Firewall, VPN configuration, and installation.  • Coordinated and helped setup WAN connectivity between our home and remote offices; implemented video conferencing connectivity between our home office and remote offices. Technical Support USatWork.Com/Vortech Solutions at - Rolling Meadows, IL 1999 to 2000 • Participated in planning, implementation and maintenance for the entire LAN infrastructure of an internet startup company and maintained configuration of Cisco 4000 Switches for high bandwidth.  • Participated in planning, installation, configuration and maintenance for 15 Microsoft servers; developed complete workstation and laptop images.  • Used Norton Ghost Multicast to deploy images to 100+ computers; performed MS Exchange administration duties; performed daily backups using Veritas Backup Exec.  • Performed Check Point Firewall installation, configuration, and support; Performed all essential duties required for maintaining, upgrading, changing configurations on a Nortel Meridian Option 11 switch including said duties in the Nortel CallPilot voicemail system.  • Project Lead for installation and configuration of Kronos time clocks and for deployment of CallPilot software onto 100+ computers; was in charge of creating ID badges and security monitoring. Education B.S. in Telecommunications Management DeVry Institute of Technology - Addison, IL Skills Exceed (10+ years), firewall (10+ years), networking (10+ years), Polycom (10+ years), technical support (10+ years), Team Lead Certifications/Licenses CCNA HP-AIS Additional Information Experienced and knowledgeable Information Technology professional with a BS degree and 16 years of experience supporting, troubleshooting and maintaining of computer hardware and software related issues. In-depth knowledge and understanding of numerous software packages and operating systems. Skilled in providing customer and end-user help desk support.    PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:    • Networking, Site-to-Site VPN's, Active Directory, ShoreTel, Cisco switches/routers, Firewall Concepts, Troubleshooting and fixing OS and peripheral issues, CLI, Backup and Restore.  • MS Windows 7, Windows 10, Microsoft Office, MAC OS, Apple, HP Procurve, Aruba Networks, Palo Alto Networks, VoIP, Cisco Unified, ShoreTel, Polycom, Linux, Android, McAfee, Servers.  • McAfee encrypt/decryption, Cisco AnyConnect, Palo Alto Global Protect, HP Comware, Infoblox, Riverbed Steelhead, DNS, VNC, TCP/IP, Virtela View, CA Spectrum Network Monitoring.  • Thousand Eyes Network Monitoring, Cisco IOS/CATOS, Join.Me, TeamViewer, Remote Desktop, WebEx, Remedy, Exceed on Demand, Technical Support, Networking, Network Administration.  • Operating Systems, VPN, Wireless Networking, IT Service Management, Software Installation, Microsoft Technologies, Group Policy, Remedy, Footprints, VMware, Microsoft Exchange, Visio, DHCP.  • Help Desk Support, Troubleshooting, System Administration, System Deployment, SCCM, Dameware, SharePoint.