Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Glenside, PA Proven IT experience in network administration, operations, and management and staff management. Maintenance and configuration of server and computer hardware, software, and peripherals. Network experience includes extensive testing, administration, and security configuration. Excellent customer service and effective troubleshooting and problem-solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator University of Pennsylvania - Philadelphia, PA January 2003 to Present Manages and supports all servers and hardware as part of a group in the SAS Computing networks, including configuration, security, backup, virus protection, user accounts, and permissions.  Managed the Social Sciences Computing (SSC) Helpdesk (2003-2014) to ensure that the needs of faculty, staff, and students are being met. Provides high level support to the non-senior members of the group.   Manages software licensing for faculty, staff, and public and departmental labs.   Direct liaison to supported departments to assist in planning for future departmental hardware/software upgrades, as well as ongoing needs.   Works directly with project leaders on secure data projects, ensuring that all data security specified in each agreement is adequately managed (rights and access restricted properly and data made available to required personnel). Meets with auditors when necessary to verify procedures are being followed.    Major projects:  • Established and implemented new software license manager servers (Key, Stools, and proprietary) to allow for better tracking and monitoring of licensed software.  • Administration of Qualtrics, Mozy, and SalesForce projects, user support, and liaison to respective apps for other issues.  • Implementation of data research share space for supported departments. Includes 30TB+ of disk space to be allocated for researchers as needed.   • Implementation of centralized lab Windows Remote Desktop Server for supported graduate labs (primarily statistical processing), simplified application management and software licensing.  • Standardization of shares via DFS for supported departments, to ensure seamless file server upgrades.  • Implementation of Citrix-based secure data enclave for PARC (Population Aging Research Center).  • Implementation of Windows Remote Desktop Server for high end statistical processing (PARC data). Implementing updated replacement using VMS summer 2018.  • Implementation of encrypted share host for SSC-supported departments and implementation of new Netscreen firewalls. Network Analyst Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc - Willow Grove, PA August 2001 to January 2003 Managed and supported the internal Novell NetWare 4.11, Windows NT/2000, and Microsoft Exchange Server (MS Exchange 5.5 servers running NSI Software’s Double-Take replication software) /Notes networks at K&S. Network consisted of up to 2100 token-ring and Ethernet nodes, including users via WAN links.   Provided upper-level support for Helpdesk personnel and all departments in K&S and supervised NOC personnel.  Managed and maintained LAN, including 24x7 availability.   Managed, supported, and implemented file server space allocation for users, security, virus scanning software and backup for all servers.   Maintained legacy apps servers (Best FAS, S2000, etc).   Maintained DHCP servers, troubleshooting IP/DNS/DHCP/NDS related problems, coordination with applications staff for installation and configuration of new applications and utilities on servers.   Duties also encompassed remote email management and support, Citrix Metaframe/Terminal Server admininstration and management, as well as researching new technologies and software. Basic Cisco router and CSU/DSU configuration to support remote sites. Network Administrator / Project Manager / User Support National Software Testing Laboratories - Plymouth Meeting, PA June 1990 to August 2001 Commercial Project Manager  Executed testing procedures efficiently and productively for NSTL clients. Conducted coordination of project setup and follow-up including filing equipment leasing requests, assigning and supervising testing staff, and assuring that the methodologies were current and dynamic to the product testing. Ensured data integrity while supervising/monitoring consulting staff.  BYTE Magazine/PC Digest Project Manager  Coordination of testing, data analysis, and deadline-oriented reporting for monthly BYTE Lab Reports/PC Digest Ratings Reports. Supervised lab employees running tests and compiling data from test runs to ensure methodologies were followed and results were consistent. Responsible for upgrading test methodology and monitoring implementation. Worked closely with BYTE editors to ensure data and text integrity.  Network/Email Administrator/User support   Managed the internal Novell NetWare, Windows NT, and Exchange/Notes networks at NSTL.   Managed file server backup, maintenance of DHCP and DNS servers, troubleshooting IP/DNS/DHCP related problems, installation and configuration of new applications and utilities, maintenance of file server space allocation for users and applications, and inventory management, with a critical concentration on maintaining security included major server migration from Novell to Windows NT, network transport from Token ring to Ethernet, and incorporating the current user base into the CMP Notes email server network.   Managed email management (MS Exchange and Lotus Notes) internally and replication of email directory/folders with corporate. Management duties of the NEC IMX telecom equipment and Octel Overture voicemail systems, administration, extension changes, new lines, and security. Education B.S. in Music Performance Temple University - Philadelphia, PA B.S. in Music Moravian College - Bethlehem, PA Skills Cisco, Network Security, NOC, Router, Active Directory, System Administrator