Merchandiser Merchandiser Traveling internationally as well as working for 10 years in Procurement, Planning and Supply Chain Management Bensalem, PA To obtain a position that utilizes my experience in the production industry as well as my knowledge of manufacturing operations. Enjoy challenges and growing professionally. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Merchandiser Revlon - Philadelphia, PA May 2018 to Present • Maximize sales by maintaining space, location, inventory and distribution at the retail level for the Revlon/Almay brands according to account specific plan-o-grams and directives  • Completes resets, new store sets and merchandising initiatives per identified schedules within agreed time frames  • Manages assigned territory to assure accounts are serviced within agreed time frames English Teacher Bibo Global Opportunity Inc - International December 2016 to Present • Teaching advanced conversational and business English to Japanese, Chinese, Thai and Koreans-all ages and professions Volunteer Ecuador, Thailand, and the Dominican Republic - international February 2003 to November 2018 • February 2003 until May 2005 -volunteering in Ecuador & Dominican Republic (learned Spanish)  • January 2016 – December 2016 - volunteering in the Dominican Republic  • January 2017 – November 2018– volunteering in Thailand (was learning Thai) English Teacher Bilingual Private School- Dominican Republic January 2016 to June 2016 • English teacher for kids ages 3-7 from different European countries  Planning/Procurement Manager Gamesa U.S.A - Trevose, PA March 2006 to January 2016 • Formulate and implement project plans and control systems that project labor, material and execution dates to ensure on-time maintenances as well as timely implementation of design modifications & BOMs to generate a profit at each site    • Finding the optimized combination for a job (including vendor pricing, weather, cranes, component availability, liquidated damages, etc.) prior to developing a plan and ensuring that all parties (including clients) are aligned and in-agreement.    • Excellent interpersonal skills with the ability to work with clients, contractors, and staff at all levels  • Daily negotiating with crane companies to find the best date and pricing to repair large correctives   • Part of a project team to reduce costs by developing an Access database to centralize all communications, costs and responsibilities for 52 wind farms and 15 internal departments.  • Maintain schedules and keep project resources on track, provide regular project updates and monitor job progress. Quick to analyze discrepancies & resolve conflicts  • Managed planning and procurement for 6 tower sub-contractor manufacture facilities worldwide as well as two blade manufacturing plants and a Texas Wind farm repair center.  • Plan and maintain 10-day inventory levels of all materials using SAP. Assist in the transition of manual planning/procurement (excel) to SAP MRP/MPS and Inventory control system.  • Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Projects with 75 Production workers in improving hours and reducing material costs  • Track and confirm order lead times, delivery dates, and costs. Ensure purchase orders are paid.  • Lead and manage production planning processes to interpret forecast and unit orders into MRP production schedules. Then establish priority and criticality of items on order.  • Work with our Logistic teams to ensure oversea materials arrive on-time and then final product meets our wind farm project deadlines. Customer Service-Temp Educational Testing Service - Ewing, NJ August 2004 to December 2005 • Built positive customer relations by resolving customer service issues worldwide by telephone   • Interact with outside and internal sources in a professional, positive and competent manner. Network Administrator TOWN AND COUNTRY - Lakewood, NJ March 2000 to January 2003 • Supervised and maintained Microsoft server and Cisco network computer communication of three sites in NY and NJ.  • Troubleshoot all server and router communication for all sites  • Supported 150 users in a help desk environment Network Administrator Alta Services - Township of Hamilton, NJ June 1997 to March 2000 • Responsible for the phone support to nearly 200 users on Windows 2000 and XP platform using Microsoft Office Products.  • Worked on projects to expand and maintain all servers as well as increasing our internal and external computer networks.  • Created and updated a technical manual for the Help Desk. Education Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certificate in Lean Six Sigma Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA April 2011 to June 2011 MCSE NT4 & CCNA in Microsoft and Cisco Networking Computer - Bensalem, PA January 2000 to November 2002 Associate in Computer Networking Bucks County Community College - Newtown, PA September 1995 to June 1997 High school or equivalent in Computers, Accounting, Chemistry Advanced Neshaminy High School - Langhorne, PA September 1992 to June 1995 Skills Purchasing, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Procurement