System Development Specialist System Development Specialist Information Technology Specialist Lansing, MI As a highly skilled System Network Administrator and Computer Programmer, Impacting corporate profitability, productivity and competitive performance through skillful alignment of technical resources with enterprise mission is one of the many ways I served an instrumental role in the success of past employers. With more than 10 plus years of combined experience leading and planning telecommunications/ network infrastructures, projects, and operations, and software development. Work Experience System Development Specialist Reliable Aftermarket Parts - Williamston, MI June 2019 to Present • Designing and building cost-effective virtual network with virtual Microsoft Windows Server domain controller through Microsoft Azure.  • Configured, implemented and managed multicompany/multidepartment IP PBX/VOIP systems  • System administration for ERP platform Netsuite: bundle installation/management, Suitescript coding, API connector Integration  • Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including CISCO switches/routers and Cisco Meraki firewalls.  • Project Management with eCommerce warehouse department for their paperless workflow and inventory dimension scanner integration.  • Microsoft Office 365 and Microsoft Azure Virtualization migration and integration  • Computer programming with HTML, Javascript, JQuery, PHP, Python  • Data Analyst for Netsuite with Python, SQL, Microsoft Excel and Microsoft PowerBI Senior Network & System Administrator Baroda Group - Okemos, MI June 2014 to June 2019 Designing and building cost-effective networks.  Created and maintained a complete redundant and secure data center  solution.  Hosted and internal environment, utilizing hardware's and software's  from CISCO, Juniper, Fortigate, Open Source, Linux, Microsoft and  IOS.  Configured, implemented and managed  multicompany/multidepartment IP PBX/VOIP systems  Maintain 24 hours operations, and ensure 99.9% uptime for the  servers.  Built/Managed/Modified interactive website – using .Net – that  permitted users to enter a specific set of criteria for retrieving data  and send their queries to the underlying database on the web server.  Designed web pages using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, DHTML, XML and  page design and layout and graphics.  Applied fixes and enhancements to SQL scripts. Network & Systems Administrator Insurance Market Advisors - Okemos, MI September 2010 to June 2014 Configured, implemented and managed various routers and switches.  Recommended network security standards to management.  Implemented and managed network drives.  Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring.  Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and  integration solutions.  Documented all server and network problems and other unusual  events in detail.  Utilized ASP.NET, VB.NET, AJAX, and Microsoft Visual Studio for  development.  Developed a sophisticated custom CRM system for the brokers that  was tightly tide to the industry. Computer Technician Healthcare Solutions Agency - Okemos, MI March 2008 to September 2010 Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through  preventative maintenance and upgrades.  Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level  troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff.  Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards  for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  Recommended network security standards to management.  Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure  across the enterprise including switches, routers and firewalls. Education Bachelor's in Business Finance through the 3 plus 1 program Lansing Community College - Lansing, MI June 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Science ITT Technical Institute - Grand Rapids, MI August 2004 to May 2008 Networking & Programing in Computer Science Kent Career Technology Center - Grand Rapids, MI August 2002 to May 2004 Skills Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, Linux Administrator, Oracle Database, DBA, Mongo Db, Sql Server, MYSQL, Nosql, Mongodb Links http://linkedin.com/in/deonhollis Certifications/Licenses CCNA Present Pending CCNP Present Pending PMP Pending CISSP Pending Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Network Systems and Computers  Configuring, Managing and Maintaining Networking Equipment  Installing, configuring and administering network technologies  Maintenance of MS Exchange Environment  Working knowledge of IIS Server, Apache, DHCP Server, DNS Server , Proxy  Server on Linux and windows  Active Directory users and groups policy management  Provide intranet VPN solution  Troubleshooting hardware and software problems.  Computer assembling and maintenance.  CCNA (pending) / CCNP (pending)  CISSP (pending) / PMP (pending)    Computer Programming  Programming Language: C++, C#, Java, .NET, Python, JavaScript, PHP, Perl  Programming/Functional with web technology HTML CSS XML JSON AJAX  JQUERY  Programming/Functional knowledge of Data base management SQL Server on  windows and MySQL on Linux  Working knowledge of IIS Server, Apache, DHCP Server, DNS Server , Proxy  Server on Linux and windows    Database Experience  Microsoft Access  Microsoft SQL  Oracle SQL  MySQL  NOSQL: MongoDB  ODBC Connectors  Microsoft Excel    ERP Experience  Netsuite    CRM Experience  ACT  Salesforce  SugarCRM    Data Analyst  Microsoft Excel  Microsoft SQL  Microsoft Power BI  Oracle SQL  Netsuite  Python    VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE    • President / Co-founder / Coach  Lansing Cowboys, Inc  07/2009 – Present  Youth Tackle Football Program (501.3c Nonprofit)    • Board Member / Committee Chairman  Lansing Football League  01/2010 – Present  Youth Tackle Football League (501.3c Nonprofit)