Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Freelance IT administrator since 2005, with background in construction principals, and civil engineering principals. Lowellville, OH Freelance IT administrator since 2005. Installation of network cabling, routers, switches, wifi, coax, and IP cameras, DVR, NVR, VPN. Management of client, server, Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, Group Policy, network troubleshooting, hardware troubleshooting, system upgrades. Previous background in construction and civil engineering Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Clear Choice Computer LLC - Lowellville, OH January 2005 to Present Successfully self employed in IT field since 2005. Started as a break fix tech until January 2009 when I became more involved as a network administrator, overseeing roughly 20 businesses with between 5 and 50 computers. Took a full time job with one of my clients in June of 2018 that promomised better benefits, retirement, and shorter work weeks. Network Administrator RCJR Boardman Subaru - Boardman, OH June 2018 to July 2019 I worked as a subcontractor for this company form early 2012 until taking a full time position in June 2018 as a Network Administrator. The company of 50+ Windows computers, multiple printers, wifi networks, iPads,and Chromebooks, and other IOT were my responsibility before taking the position as an employee. Location has several different WANs and VLANs from multiple vendors that need to interact with each other in some capacity, all installed, routed, and segregated, by myself prior to becoming a employee. Operating Engineer AAA Excavating - New Springfield, OH March 2002 to October 2011 Lead Operator and foreman for company completing work from small drainage, to full site work. Tasked with taking projects from blueprint to completion. Operated all types of equipment including excavator, bulldozer, loader, roller, off road dump truck.Leading other in efficient manor to complete tasks.    My time working here overlapped with my own personal ventures, but never interfered with each other. Operating Engineer AED - Youngstown, OH May 1998 to November 2001 Operating foreman for a demolition company based in Youngstown Ohio. At my time here I operated excavators with either grapples, or shear attachments, and loaders with grapple buckets. Duties when in town included working at the scrap processing facility separating metals with a grapple, or shearing metal to sizes able to be shipped. I also overseen a group of laborers on a daily basis. When out of town I was tasked with overseeing a crew of operators, and laborers with separating metals with a grapple, or shearing metal to sizes able to be shipped by rail car to our local facility. Landscape Foreman Tree and Lawn Care of Youngstown - New Springfield, OH June 1993 to November 1997 Operating of crew up to 10 people Installing lawns, and landscaping to meet design blueprint. Estimating materials needed to complete job. During my time here I learned to manage people, operate various equipment, and accept liability for deligation of work as well as the successful completion of the task as designed. Education High school or equivalent Poland Seminary High School - Poland, OH June 1989 to June 1993 None Skills Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Active Directory, Vmware, Customer Service, Security, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Troubleshooting (10+ years) Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/m5bhwppfil7dzxax Project Management Skills: Time Management — Familiar July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/boxmy1p39u-0tcgv Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zpq8vrtac2bwva9d Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4n3868ex16oyhx4u Problem Solving — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/p1rdmmeg2ibb8xru Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fielutcooddsu-pk Vehicle Maintenance — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of general vehicle maintenance inspections to complete minor repairs. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yn8wcoijn9mjfhjl Basic Maintenance and Repair — Highly Proficient July 2019 Performing basic repairs and maintenance for apartment complexes, office buildings, and other facilities. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/db7so73d76jvwpas Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.