Service Center Analyst Service Center Analyst Service Center Analyst - Mylan Pharmaceuticals Weston, WV Work Experience Service Center Analyst Mylan Pharmaceuticals - Morgantown, WV 2015 to Present Position Overview:  Deliver support to end users in the organization by providing guidance, direction, and assurance to the IT Service Center team members. Resolve technical problems and answer queries by telephone and chat in support of computer hardware, software, network, and telecommunications systems. Provide managerial support to the IT Service Center through guidance and direction from management.  Responsibilities:  • Diagnose, identify, and analyze problems reported to the IT Service Center.  • Participate in Client application deployments and upgrades.  • Coordinate single issue/multiple caller events.  • Build rapport and elicit problem details from IT Service Center customers.  • Be the subject matter expert for specific knowledge areas for the IT Service Center  • Coaching of team members through complex support calls related to the assigned SME subject areas.  • Provide assistance and back up to the IT Service Center management as instructed and to the IT Service Center teams as an escalation point for guidance.  • Compilation and analysis of ticket data to identify trends, process deviation and improvement Network Administrator Mylan Pharmaceuticals - Morgantown, WV 2007 to 2015 Position Overview:  Work in a fast-paced environment, handling a broad range of customer service inquiries to both business users and consultants. Maintain a positive attitude while working together with the team to achieve goals that have been set forth. Always put the user first.  Responsibilities:  • Design, implement, and administer Mylan's global IP phone system.  • Triage, manage, and assign voice incidents and requests  • Supervision and monitoring of offshore run partner, Zensar  • Create and manage configuration documentation  • Create spreadsheet template to track global dial plan  • Management, coordination, and data compilation and analysis for projects  ? Compiled application compatibility and daily migration reports for Office 365 migration  ? Data analysis for Office 365 issues  ? Gathered efax requirements, researched, and scheduled meetings with vendors  ? Develop plan and implement Lync Enterprise Voice/Sim Ring for 300 pilot users  ? Planned, deployed and supported Microsoft Surface deployment to the top 300 leaders in Mylan  • Created flowcharts, intake templates, and configuration guides for the IT Service Center  • Planned, designed and implemented IP telephony solution for 100 user remote office independently Intern Mylan Pharmaceuticals - Morgantown, WV 2006 to 2007 Main Responsibilities:  • Gather requirements/information, plan, and implement transition from analog phone system to IP Phone system  • Create configuration and end user documentation  • Data entry, analysis and reporting Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Management in Information Systems in Business Administration Management West Virginia University - Morgantown, WV 2007 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ April 2007 to Present Additional Information • Create and manage configuration and end user documentation  • Outstanding knowledge of multiple hardware and software applications  • Skilled communicator, with ability to successfully and efficiently work with a wide range of end-users to diagnose and resolve complex technical issues.  • Excellent technical skills, with strong knowledge of Windows, MS Office, Internet connections and peripherals.  • Management, coordination, and data compilation and analysis for projects  • Supervision and monitoring of offshore run partner  • CompTIA Network+ Certified    Highlight of Skills  Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP/7/8/10, Mac OS X, Cisco IOS  Software Applications: Microsoft Suite 2003/2010/2013/O365/2016, Active Directory Account Management, Remote Desktop Support (GoToAssist, PCAnywhere, SCCM, ScreenConnect), Ticketing Systems (BMC Remedy, ServiceNow), Cisco Unified Communications Manager, Cisco Unity Connection, AirWatch, Okta, Jive, Teams