Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Mark Brian Enterprises Tullahoma, TN Resourceful System Administrator able to respond to a wide range of challenges with a focused and creative approach. Highly effective at problem solving and decision making. Over 10 years experience in progressive IT system design, implementation, and administration. Work Experience Network Administrator Mark Brian Enterprises - Tullahoma, TN July 2017 to Present • Design and develop complete communication and surveillance solutions for local and remote applications.  • Create diagrams, layouts, and other visual aids for proposed solutions.  • Conduct bench testing and vetting of communication and surveillance hardware and software.  • Develop custom solutions for automated processes using cloud based tools.  • Monitor health of hardware and networks to ensure minimal downtime for customers.  • Maintain continuity of company cloud services and infrastructure, VoIP communications, and business applications. Project Engineer / Tier II Support Mobotix Corp - New York, NY March 2012 to February 2017 New York / Langmeil, Germany    • Led US team in delivery of custom solutions requiring close cooperation among members to share information and develop solutions to meet broad array of deliverables.  • Delivered system design and solution engineering for security systems and system infrastructure including network and storage configuration.  • Prepared technical presentations and proof of concept demonstrations.  • Conducted technical training to integration and installation teams, system administrators, sales teams, and end users.  • Oversaw various security projects from conceptualization to completion. Network Operations Helpdesk Sembach AFB - Sembach, DE February 2003 to December 2006 - Sembach, Germany    • Delivered remote and on-site support for all weather-related communication equipment.  • Enhanced availability of infrastructure through unit planning, thorough testing, efficient. implementation and comprehensive support.  • Coordinated and conducted daily communications briefings to meteorologists, air controllers, and command staff.  • Responsible for resolving 40% of all trouble tickets and outages.  • Conducted technical training to all new team members. Education Associate of Applied Science in Information Systems Motlow State - Tullahoma, TN May 2010 Skills Nas, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Site surveys, Macos, Proposal writing, Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Vmware, Customer Service, Sales Certifications/Licenses Genetec Security Center 5.7 Additional Information Skills  TCP/IP MS Azure  Windows/MacOS Site Surveys  Windows Server System Design  NAS/SAN Proposal Writing