Desktop Administrator II Desktop <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Desktop Support Specialist - SR Elk Grove, CA Work Experience Desktop Administrator II CALSTAR - McClellan, CA June 2007 to Present Document all issues and generate reports detailing common problems and error trends  ? Assisted customers having hardware, software and networking issues  ? Researched client issues to resolve complaints promptly  ? Escalate service issues to appropriate individuals utilizing ticket tracking system  ? New Hire training  ? Installed operating system, software, antiviruses and patches  ? Configure Cisco Phones and Voicemail accounts  ? Add move change users and computers in Active Directory  ? Support 300+ users and technology in multiple locations throughout California  ? Key Achievements  ? Company cost savings of $4,000 per month by consolidating company cellphones to single carrier  ? Company cost savings of $300,000 in training materials  ? Developed company new hire technology training & orientation Network Administrator LIONAKIS - Sacramento, CA December 2004 to March 2007 Administer LAN/WAN security  ? Administer users exchange accounts and configure the company spam filter.  ? Monitor and optimize company bandwidth utilization  ? Maintain backups data of company servers.  ? Provide 2nd and 3rd level desktop support for company user issues with hardware or software issues.  ? Administrator Shoretel Phone System.  ? MS Enterprise Solutions for Software Distribution.  ? Inventory Management.  ? Manage Remote Desktop and Secure Meeting Access. Systems Analyst II BANK OF AMERICA - Rancho Cordova, CA April 1995 to December 2004 Administer LAN/WAN security, including the monitoring and implementation of user access to corporate computing resources and data.  ? Diagnose network administration problems and make recommendations for problem resolution.  ? Monitoring of server event logs and other resources: I analyze changes to the LAN/WAN environments. Report non-compliance policies and standards and implement corrections.  ? MS Enterprise Solutions for Software Distribution.  ? Inventory Management.  ? LAN/WAN Administration - active directory.  ? Remote Desktop Management.  ? Compaq Insight Manager Utility, NT Server, NT Workstation 4.0, Win 95, Win 98, Win 2000, Windows XP, Server 2003.  ? Toshiba, IBM and Dell Laptop - PCMCIA modem dial up configurations as well as VPN, wireless and Ethernet connectivity.  ? GHOST Imaging.  ? Enterprise edition of Arc server Backup.  ? MSSQL Server Administration.  ? Planned, tested and implemented the migration of Bank of America's Government Lending Department's applications from Windows NT 4.0 to Windows NT 2000 (desktops and servers) as well as created active directory GPOs for users and devices. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX - Sacramento, CA Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/cooper1209 Additional Information KEY SKILLS  ? Software Installs ? Problem Diagnosis ? Customer Service ? Conflict Resolution  ? Multisite support ? Windows Remote Desktop ? Phone and Online Support ? Printer Troubleshooting  ? End User Training & Support ? Scheduled and Ad Hoc Maintenance ? Rapid Ticket Response Times ? LAN / WAN / Wireless Connectivity  ? Preventive Maintenance ? Mobile Device Management ? Inventory Tracking ? Detailed Documentation