Network Communications Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Communications <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Communications Administrator - Park City School District Salt Lake City, UT Seeking a full time Information Technology position that would enable me to use my technical expertise,  communication skills and experience to help provide top-level service to my employer and clients. Work Experience Network Communications Administrator Park City School District - Park City, UT September 2003 to Present Responsible for 550 phones connected to CUCM, Unity, CER and ESNA servers. Setup of new users and equipment, updating and backup of servers, troubleshooting phone and voicemail issues, changing call trees,  S  and any other phone and voicemail related problems. etup and monitors ERL system for 10 buildings.  * Help maintain and configure the Cisco switches and WAPs used at 10 PCSD buildings to provide the network  infrastructure used by 5,000 students and 800 teachers and staff.  * Manages a VMware system with 20 hosts and 100+ virtual servers running Windows Server 2008R2, 2012R2, Desktop support HP 2016 to 2016 2016 and Linux. Responsible for installing, configuring and updating Windows servers.  * Responsible for ensuring that the 500 security cameras, 70 access control doors, 70 cell phones, fax machines, bell systems and paging systems that the school district uses on a daily basis are functioning to ensure a safe  learning environment for the students.  * Desktop support for users using both Apple and Windows computers and a wide variety of OS versions. HP  printer setup and support. Experience with helpdesk software used for tracking problems and inventory. IT Support Jack Johnson Company - Park City, UT July 2000 to September 2003 Supported 70 architects, engineers, draftsmen, surveyors, project managers and support staff. Ensured that  all the computers, printers, plotters and scanners were always up and running.  * Trained users in computer skills - everything from how to log on to the computer to how to use Word, PowerPoint, Excel, AutoCAD, PhotoShop, Illustrator and more. Education MCSE University of Utah 2004 Skills Autocad, Retail Additional Information Skills  Have hired, trained, supervised and scheduled staffs of up to 12 people in retail and service business. Experience  in dealing with the public, vendors, and co-workers in a variety of professional situations. Expertise in Microsoft  Office, Google Docs, AutoCAD, and both Windows and Apple desktop and server operating systems.