Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Jeanne D'Arc Credit Union Nashua, NH Passionate network professional with a track record of leveraging technology to increase bottom line organizational performance. Comprehensive understanding of C and Python programming languages along with experience building websites. Currently completing a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Computer Science. Exceptional learner with outstanding team leadership, presentation, and communication skills. Work Experience Network Administrator Jeanne D'Arc Credit Union - Lowell, MA March 2019 to Present Supports all activities related to the administration of all hardware, firmware, and operating systems that support network operations.  ? Supports day to day physical and virtual environment including deployment of new servers, upgrades, problem resolution, and management of resource allocation; works with third party service providers in the application of patch management upgrades and troubleshooting.  ? Supports the Windows Server Operating System, Active Directory, and Group Policies. Monitors activity, troubleshoot issues, and works with manager and third party service providers in the application of upgrades and system performance issues.  ? Monitors network uptime and performance. Oversees the network application and performance monitoring software; troubleshoots issues of a routine nature and escalates those more complex in nature to management; reviews and distributes periodic performance and capacity monitoring reports.  ? Supports the administration of the storage area network (SAN) and system backup solutions. Monitors automated backups and replication; oversees capacity and resource allocation.  ? Responds to assigned network related help desk tickets in a timely, professional manner; adheres to established service level standards Network Administrator NERVE CENTER - Lowell, MA 2016 to 2019 NERVE Center is a Robotics Research Lab that works in Partnership with University of Massachusetts Lowell  ? Configure and automate system backups  ? Manage Linux servers that are responsible for automating various network interfaces as well as development environments  ? Responsible for maintaining the closed-circuit camera system and updating network protocols  ? Design web apps and develop software for internal infrastructure automation and robots  ? Record and analyze data for various research programs onsite and for remote locations  ? Create bash scripts for hostname management, memory management and alert systems  ? Provide network infrastructure support on DNS, TCP, IP, LAN, WAN, DHCP, and Open WRT  ? Increased efficiency approximately 20% by creating a web app vital to project workflow  ? Designed several dashboards to illustrate other key data such as network protocols STAPLES - Nashua, NH 2015 to 2016 Mobile Technical Supervisor STAPLES 2015 to 2016 Managed a team of five associates responsible for phone, warranty, and electronic sales  ? Conducted training encompassing sales goals, company merchandise, and sales strategies  ? Enhanced customer relations and increased efficiency by developing a new phone and tablet repair service Easy Tech Sales Associate STAPLES 2015 to 2015 Created departmental product presentations and provided recommendations to customers  ? Awarded "Employee of the Month" for May/June 2015 Education Bachelor of Science in (B.S.) Computer Science SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY - Manchester, NH 2019 Skills Active Directory, Vmware, Networking, Windows, Technical Support Links http://linkedin.com/in/josephmeli