IT Operations Specialist IT Operations Specialist IT Operations Specialist - Kirchhoff Automotive Belleville, MI Work Experience IT Operations Specialist Kirchhoff Automotive May 2015 to Present Provide technical support and administration for all users within organization including computer maintenance and troubleshooting user problems in an effective and efficient manner. Participate in on-call rotation for this 24/7 operation.    Key Achievements:  • Active Directory migration from the Van Rob AD domain to the Kirchhoff AD domain.  • Support and maintenance for all users and peripherals, Dell hardware, Sharp multi-function printers, Zebra thermal label printers, Zebra bar code scanners.  • Maintain complete inventory of all computers and peripherals, using bar code readers.  • Configuration and upgrades for both software and hardware Windows 10/7/XP, Microsoft Server 2000/2003/2007/2010/2012, SQL Server, Microsoft Office 2007/2010/2016.  • Active Directory management of user accounts, groups, computers, printers, group policies.  • Assist Network Administrator with remote site network management.  • Manage support tickets, addressing all issues, escalating when needed.  • Manage software licensing and procurement of IT equipment.  • Assist with maintaining internal and external network: supporting network and data transfer issues, maintain Cisco switches and other routing devices, support and maintain access points/ports, WLAN switches and devices, support issues at production IDF locations.  • Assist with administration and management of all servers, file/print, Exchange 2010, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, NetBackup, monitor, upgrade and cleaning.  • Assist with IT yearly budget.  • Setup new Avaya VOIP phones and new user phone extensions. Support and procure end point licenses when needed.  • Administer Infor Trans4M ERP system.  • Administer Infor EAM system.  • Networker backup and restore.  • Adhere to corporate policies and procedures, enforce SLA's  • Documentation of all procedures, lessons learned, root causes in knowledge base.  • Contribute to a safe, clean and comfortable work environment that complements the Occupational Health and Safety Act by ensuring the principles of the 5S discipline (simplify, separate, sanitize, standardize and support) are supported and adhered to.  • Comply with all applicable OSHA and MIOSHA regulations. IT Specialist Load One, LLC, Transportation and Logistics November 2013 to May 2015 Senior Desktop Technician ASSURANT CORPORATE TECHNOLOGY/SSDC Services - Novi, MI November 2007 to December 2012 Network Administrator SSDC Services - Novi, MI January 2002 to November 2007 office. Responsibilities include Tier 2 Desktop Support for all corporate and remote locations, Technology Liaison between Corporate and Novi office, Primary On-Call Technician, Help Desk Queue Manager, Tier 2 Quality Auditor, Lotus Notes Administrator, Inventory Officer, Identity/Security Management, Backup Officer, Patch Management Coordinator.    Key Achievements:  • Setup and delivery of laptops, desktops, servers, and peripherals including imaging and installation of software and replacement hardware while meeting defined service level objectives. Responsible for user training.  • Resolved issues with various corporate technology groups and business partners. Responsible for timely and effective communication and escalation of infrastructure issues or concerns.  • Tasked with migrating SSDC Services' IT environment from an independent structure to the Assurant Corporate Technology system.  • Managed all Tier 2 service incidents when received in the Tier 2 queue. Prepare daily and weekly reports for Tier 2 Managers to ensure timely resolution of all service requests.  • Audited closed service call records, reviewing for accuracy, timeliness and adherence to procedures.  • Implemented WASP Mobile Asset software to track all hardware and software inventory assets.  • Administered LAN user accounts within Microsoft Active Directory.  • Prepared and confirmed off-site backup storage. Coordinated with Backup Manager to resolve site backup failures.  • Communicated with all groups during server and client patching events. Ensured that all systems were tested and validated.  • Configured, installed, and maintained the Novi site network infrastructure, Active Directory, Windows Servers, Cisco Equipment, DNS, DHCP, Group Policy  • Responsible for video conference call system.  • Developed and maintained procedure for all server backups.  • Planned and coordinated the distribution of client/server software and service packs. Administrative Assistant/ Office Administrator/ Network Assistant SSDC/Disability Services, Inc June 1988 to January 2002 Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management of Information Technology Cleary University - Ann Arbor, MI Microsoft Certified System Administrator Schoolcraft Community College - Livonia, MI