Infrastructure and Security Administrator Infrastructure and Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Engineer Bettendorf, IA Engaging and process-oriented professional with the ability to develop a team toward ambitious performance through creation of an inclusive and innovative team culture. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Infrastructure and Security Administrator Rock Island, Milan School District 41 - Rock Island, IL May 2017 to Present Establish a strong foundation for success through design, implementation, and maintenance of a disaster recovery program; known to ensure alignment with organizational requirements. Deliver key contributions toward success by maintaining data integrity and availability for district's information systems; perform security audits to identify risks and their level of severity; develop and implement policies and controls to mitigate risks to the organization. Develop corporate cohesion by mentoring help desk personnel and systems technicians with focus on elevating customer satisfaction and efficiency. Shape a vibrant culture through active engagement with peers and leadership districtwide.  Selected Contributions:  ? Employ refined relationship-building skills and collaborative mindset to create and nurture a productive team environment; assist other team members to resolve related concerns.  ? Maintained stability in response to budget reductions by independently adapting infrastructure to use Linux, Ansible, and other open source products.  ? Migrated documentation to support Infrastructure as code principles using Ansible and internal PowerShell module for common system and network tasks.  ? Provide insightful vision and guidance to ensure all systems and network hardware are patched and updated using automated processes.  ? Leverage performance and utilization monitoring to identify trends in system and network usage.  ? Conserve revenue by locating, consolidating, and eliminating unnecessary or underutilized hardware. Network Administrator Rock Island/Milan School District #41 - Rock Island, IL 2005 to 2017 Demonstrated insightful leadership and enhanced clarity of mission by engaging with leadership and staff on IT related needs with focus on implementing and maintaining effective solutions. Defined direction that catalyzed coordination across departments by maintaining a high level of reliability and performance.  Selected Contributions:  ? Captured substantial gains in efficiency and productivity by developing and maintaining processes and policies focused on advancing infrastructure security and reliability.  ? Designed, implemented, and maintained a sophisticated 15-site enterprise wireless network using technologies from Aruba and JumpCloud Directory as a Service.  ? Implemented, monitored, and managed Palo Alto's next-generation firewall appliance.  ? Designed and implemented new solutions designed to meet the educational and operational needs in alignment with district's core principles.  ? Ensured solutions met all budgetary constraints; advised leadership on ways to enhance fiscal efficiency. Technology Support Specialist Rock Island/Milan School District #41 - Rock Island, IL 2002 to 2005 Demonstrated innovation and capacity to excel by using remote administration software to resolve issues quickly and professionally. Created environment for sustained success by maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction. Education Bachelor's in Economics University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA Skills System Administration (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), Network Security (10+ years), Cloud Computing (2 years), System Administrator (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), Active Directory (10+ years), Linux (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mpmackenna Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate LPIC-1 Additional Information ? Visionary professional with extensive Information Technology experience in system and network administration with a passion for cloud and AWS technologies.  ? Collaborative team-player with high emotional intelligence, able to oversee day-to-day operational support for Linux, Windows and their services.  ? Outstanding leader, manager, coach, and mentor with a remarkable ability to uncover root causes and encourage teams to discover previously unrealized solutions with a focus on values and culture.  ? A daring thinker and creator, able to identify and define technical requirements for a Cloud-based application; known to excel individually or as part of a dynamic team.  ? Inventive and motivated professional with impressive leadership and management skills, adept at excelling in a fast-paced, collaborative environment by identifying opportunities for innovation.  ? Creative problem solver with the ability to work with diverse technologies to build tools and automation focused on eliminating manual operations; able to maintain a highly available server infrastructure for deploying instances, applying operating system updates, managing configuration changes, and system tuning.