Technical Support Coordinator Technical Support Coordinator Technical Support Coordinator Ankeny, IA Seasoned IT professional with strong communication, organizational, and time management abilities. Motivated and collaborative with exceptional analytical thinking and problem-solving abilities looking for a position in Operations or Logistics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support Coordinator PigCHAMP Knowledge Software - Ames, IA 2017 to 2018 • Software (Reproductive and Grow-Finish) support for clients, both International and Domestic.  • Provided Reproductive and Grow-Finish software training for clients, both International and Domestic.  • Maintained technical and training documentation.  • Conducted PigCHAMP report speed analysis for various versions of company software.  • Technical support on all client handhelds using PigCHAMP mobile software. Web Specialist II Rain and Hail Insurance Services - Johnston, IA 2008 to 2017 • Planned and executed Rain Hail University, which is an online training platform for Crop Insurance Agents, using Learning Management System.  • Reviewed and provided comments on the adequacy of documents and took necessary steps to cure any deficiencies.  • Troubleshooted and resolved web application issues escalated from customer support and other departments  • Assisted in the monitoring and reporting on website traffic and performance.  • Installed and supported over 200 Microsoft Windows and Linux Servers over 5 environments.  • Automated daily tasks with Python and PowerShell  • Linux Ubuntu Apache, Tomcat, PHP, MySQL installation, setup, and maintenance. Network Administrator Employee and Family Resources - Des Moines, IA 2001 to 2008 • Troubleshot and resolved internet connectivity and general software and hardware issues.  • Identified, reported and resolved network security violations. Responded to all client requests for technical support by phone, email and the inter-office chat service.  • Managed application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration.  • Replaced boards, changed servers and loaded and tested software applications. IT Supervisor/ Network Administrator Prime Alliance - Des Moines, IA 1999 to 2001 • Maintained company servers, computers, printers, cables and other equipment.  • Acted as primary contact for computer hardware and software problems, as well as network emergencies.  • Configured and installed routers, switches and wireless controllers.  • Diagnosed network problems involving a combination of hardware, software, power and communications issues.  • Managed application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration. Radioman/Tech Controller/Supervisor United States Navy April 1982 to October 1988 • Led team of 15 Radiomen.  • Mentored junior team members.  • Oversaw training and daily performance.  • Prepared standard operating procedures.  • Routinely met with Radiomen regarding Personal Qualification Standards.  • Performed evaluation and performance reviews  • Conducted activities based on differentiated learning needs.  • Ensured that team member responsibilities were defined and understood.  • Tech Control/Message Center Supervisor  • Proficiency in HF/UHF/Satellite communications Education Radioman "A" School - San Diego, CA July 1982 to September 1982 Skills Apache (9 years), customer support (9 years), Linux (9 years), MySQL (9 years), training (10+ years), PHP (5 years), websphere (4 years), Git (3 years), Splunk (4 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), vsphere (3 years), vmware horizon client (5 years), Python (4 years), Customer Service, Tech Support, Help Desk, Logistics Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 (Radioman \ Tech Controler) Awards Letter of Commendation Commanding Officer USS New Jersey BB62 Letter of commendation commanding officer USS New Jersey BB-62 for Excellence in radio signal and message processing for battle efficiency Navy "E" ribbon with bronze "E" Letter of Commendation Communications Officer USS New Jersey BB62 Letter of commendation communications Officer USS New Jersey BB-62 for outstanding fleet broadcast operations Sailor of the Quarter USS Orion AS-18 Meritorious Unit Commendation USS New Jersey BB62 Additional Information SKILLS  Computer proficiency.  Professional demeanor.  Training and development.  Layout and design.  Strong cross-cultural communication skills.  Web application design.  System administration.  Git and GitHub flow.  Strong analytical skills.  Project management.  Document management.  Project tracking.  Hardware and software upgrade planning.  Disaster recovery environments.  Productivity improvement.  Troubleshooting proficiency.  Splunk proficiency.  Software support.  Troubleshooting Hardware issues.  Strong International and domestic customer support skill.  Ubuntu Linux Apache, Tomcat, MySQL, PHP