Director of IT Operations Director of IT Operations IT STRATEGIST / BUILDS STRONG TEAMS / SERVICE ORIENTED Woodinville, WA An experienced and outcomes-focused Information Technology professional and leader. Demonstrated expertise managing and developing IT systems and services, delivering high-impact projects and solutions, and an integrated customer experience.  A servant-leader who works collaboratively across all technology sectors including higher education, industry, government, entrepreneurship, and health care. An acknowledged expert building reliable and accessible technology solutions and optimizing value for services in settings requiring both rapid change and sustainable practice. Work Experience Director of IT Operations University of Washington, Bothell - Bothell, WA 2009 to Present The Director of IT Operations at UW Bothell fulfills an essential leadership role overseeing the 24x7x365 operation of campus IT services to for over 700 faculty and staff and 6,000 students enrolled in 55 undergraduate and graduate degree programs, with responsibility for a team of 40 permanent and student staff members. Planning and management for annual operations budgets of $6MM including cost centers and chargeback.    This role maintains accountability for the implementation of infrastructure and endpoint operations for campus technology solutions across 10 buildings and locations, including over 2000 workstations and laptops and a robust virtual and cloud infrastructure. It leads the strategic plan for these technologies creating roadmaps, business cases, funding proposals, and innovations. Develops policies and procedures for infrastructure and operations. It manages projects and oversees a diverse project portfolio.     • Using LEAN process improvement, completed IT Helpdesk, Event, and Storage/inventory management processes to deliver high impact and efficiency practices to existing service areas addressing capacity and funding limitations while maintaining high quality service delivery.   • Launched workflow, process and polices for Help Desk Operations, enabling single point of contact service for the reporting, escalation, and resolution of all calls.  • Positioned the division for recognition as a trusted IT service organization by establishing a service management solution solutions and practices based on ITIL principles and methodologies. Deployed an IT Service Management platform. (ServiceNow) aimed at developing and ensuring consistency across all IT operations.   • Launched “Cloud First” initiative for locally hosted infrastructure and implemented first fully cloud production environment at the University. Program included developing staff skills and expertise in Azure environment including DevOps and deployment automation. Solutions included SaaS, IaaS, PaaS and hybrid-cloud leveraging on-Prem with S3 Storage.    • Led change project to move from local productivity and mail services to Office 365 for Bothell campus. This project was the first successful migration at the University of Washington and was acknowledged by participants as the most successful enterprise transition completed in the system including over 1000 individual mailboxes with zero data loss and minimal service impact.   • Led local IT resources in support HR and Payroll units during the integration of university-wide ERP system (Workday) for HR and Payroll at the institution.   • Developed and implemented patch management and vulnerability scanning management tools to safeguard systems, servers, workstations, and other assets against known vulnerabilities. Focused on security controls to provide End Point Protection, Patch and Asset Management, Privilege Access Management, Application White Listing, File Monitoring, Endpoint Firewalls and Forensics.  • In partnership with the UW CISO, introduced a cybersecurity program leading the search for a new Director of Risk and Security, strengthening the security of local devices from known vulnerabilities to remote protocols. The program produced significant increases in systems and tools to prevent malicious activity by mitigating intrusion and developing a formal cybersecurity strategy best practices while adhering to compliance standards (e.g., PCI, ISO, NIST, APS’s, FERPA, HIPAA, SOX, etc.).  • Developed and led change in hiring practices for IT to increase inclusiveness and diversity in hiring. Increased number of successful candidates from diverse or underrepresented backgrounds by over 100% during start of change to present.   • Delivered substantial reductions in cost as well as increases in assessable technologies through the establishment of Classroom Accessible Computing initiative. These delivered key computing resources and laptops into classrooms creating spaces where faculty leveraged BYOD without the threat of leaving disadvantaged students behind.  IT Network Manager University Of Washington - Bothell, WA 2002 to 2009 The Network Manager is responsible for the availability and performance of networked  technologies including; servers, web site, applications, databases, storage, security, physical and wireless networks, as well as desktop management systems. Led a team of seven  technology specialists supporting campus IT operations and in partnership with University  of Washington IT (Central), Campus Library and Cascadia College IT. As a member of the IT Senior Leadership Team completed strategic planning, project management and  implementation, resource planning and budget requests.  • Lead improvements in infrastructure design leading to standardization, automation, and consolidation delivering network resiliency to 99.99% using mix of on-premise, and cloud-based solutions.  • Developed and maintained relationships with senior academic leadership, faculty, staff, and students to complete the mission goals of the institution and ensure consistent and reliable delivery of services.  • Developed and implemented five-year sustainable technology plan for infrastructure to respond to growth needs for campus equivalent to a doubled student enrollment.   • Maintained high quality technology solutions and innovation. Principles contributing to this plan were modernization, consolidation, professional development and customer engagement.  • Led the Information Technology team to complete system development for disaster preparedness  • Established and completed standardization of desktop and network connected solutions including high touch vendor relationship management and support.  • Managed campus network operations including 10 buildings in 3 locations. Senior Network Administrator University Of Washington - Bothell, WA 2000 to 2002 Led the technical administration and ongoing support of existing technology infrastructure  including Microsoft Exchange, Active Directory, file servers, backup and disaster  preparedness/ recovery solutions.  • Architect infrastructure systems and network for new campus move in partnership with UW Information Technology and Cascadia College. Led and completed move process to new buildings and data center with minimal service impact to customers. Education Associate in Business Management Shoreline Community College - Shoreline, WA 1990 to 1993 Skills Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Vmware, Customer Service, IT Management, VoIP, Disaster Recovery, Active Directory, ITIL, Vendor Management, Excel, exchange Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/tim-rhoades-12916760 Certifications/Licenses Leadership Development Program – MOR IT Leaders Program Present The MOR Leaders Program is our most in-demand program. It features the full spectrum of our leadership curriculum. Though the great majority of participants are managers and directors, organizations occasionally enroll senior leaders or high potential individual contributors. ITIL v3: Foundation Certificate in IT Services Management Present The Foundation level is the entry level certification which offers you a general awareness of the key elements, concepts and terminology used in the ITIL service lifecycle, including the links between lifecycle stages, the processes used and their contribution to service management practices. ITIL v3: Certification in Continual Process Improvement Present This comprehensive official ITIL lifecycle certification course is based on ITIL’s Continual Service Improvement publication and focuses on the continual service improvement process and its key principles, methods and techniques. Certified Information System Security Professional (Course completed) Present The Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certifies security professionals in ten different areas, of access control systems and methodology, business continuity planning and disaster recovery planning, physical security, operations, security, management practices, telecommunications and networking security. Other areas important to the CISSP certification are cryptography, security architecture application and systems development, law, investigation, and ethics. Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MSCE) Present The MCSE Certification is a certification to become a system engineer. They are a series of exams that test a person's knowledge with various Microsoft technologies like Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, Sharepoint and Office365 Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) Present A Certified ScrumMaster helps Scrum Team perform at their highest level. CSMs also protect the team from both internal and external distractions. Certification process teaches the Scrum framework and an understanding of team roles, events, and artifacts. Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Expert July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/grw7bwjznus-1czq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Building and Leading Strong Teams  • Service Life Cycle Strategy  • Strategic Planning and Implementation  • Professional Development  • Continuous Process Improvement  • Collaboration and Engagement  • IT Program Management  • Infrastructure Support for Server, Storage and Network  • Information Security and Risk Strategy  • Cloud and Hybrid-cloud Solutions    KEY TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES  • Infrastructure and Operating Systems: Azure, AWS and S3, Windows, Linux, VMWare, Dell and Nimble SAN's, Routing and Switching, Barracuda Firewalls, MPLS, and F5 LTM/VPN, Aruba Wireless, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, IIS, SharePoint  • Project and Process Methodologies: Agile, Lean, Scrum, Kanban, Waterfall  • Security and Compliance: WA State APS's, FERPA, HIPAA, SOX, PCI, ISO, NIST  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, Ethernet, Kerberos  • Hardware: Microsoft, Dell, IBM, Apple, Cisco, Juniper and HP networking  • Tools: MS Office/O365, G-Suite, Adobe CC, MS Project, MS Visio, Jira, Symantec Ghost,  • Kentico CMS, ServiceNow, Workday, WSUS, Nessus, Splunk, Nagios, Trello  • Other Technologies and Practices: Data center management, Avaya VOIP, Vendor and contractor oversight