Consultant Consultant Redmond, OR Innovative and engaged IT and Operational professional with a proven track record of  successfully increasing productivity, proactively identifying improvement opportunities,  motivating team members to new levels of productivity and delivering enhancement and  deployment projects on time and under budget. Player-Coach leader with a well-earned  reputation for identifying opportunities to control costs and streamline operating practices.  Excellent problem solver, strong leader and a confident individual with mission to create "best in  class" IT practices.  • Network Design/Deployment • Systems Administration • Network Security  • Backup/Recovery Plans • Project Management • Policy Development  • Staff Management • Hardware Builds • Strategic Vision Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant Trouble shoot Networks 2016 to Present Manage workstations and servers on a daily basis for set metrics for optimal performance.  Trouble shoot Networks, Servers, Load Balancers, Firewalls and work stations. Project manage  Build out of network and servers for About Golf the leading golf simulator. Director of Field Tech Operations ENTERPRISE CONSULTING SOLUTIONS/CIOX HEALTH 2014 to 2016 Motivated and managed field technician team averaging over seven hundred site visits per day with a staff of 65 site coordinators. Reduced cost by $1.8 Million dollars on labor by detail  metrics and management. Developed on-site employees for management positions and future  success in the organization. Presented operational solutions to executive management on weekly basis. Managed team to detailed metrics, reported to executive team on status of  metrics and exceeded annual goals. Network Administrator/IT Manager ENTERPRISE CONSULTING SOLUTIONS/CIOX HEALTH 2009 to 2014 • Developed systems and the network in the start of the company with 20 end users to 350 in house, 700 remote field techs and many client sites. Collaborated with functional business areas and strategic leaders to plan and implement upgrades, enhancements, migrations, and deployments. Supported existing systems ensuring peak performance and uptime. Developed and implemented new use, administration, and support policies and procedures. Served as webmaster for corporate intranet. Hired, trained, mentored, and evaluated staff.    • Ensured the optimal performance of business-critical networks, workstation equipment, internet  sites, user applications, and databases. Assessed the capabilities of existing systems and processes with the goals of identifying improvement opportunities. Evaluated emerging  technologies for suitability with long-term business goals. Procured hardware, software, and equipment. Negotiated and administered vendor contracts. Owner Nside Solutions 2004 to 2009 Managed all aspects of business from scheduling, account management, customer relations and new business development. Built extensive customer base from positive customer referrals.  Handled wide array of technical issues for customers mostly comprised of small businesses. End to end management of transition to paperless environments for multiple organizations.  Responsive and available to customers in highly unpredictable environment. Network Administrator The Mastro Companies 2001 to 2003 Held multifaceted responsibilities to configure, install and administer network infrastructure and  POS systems that supported staff for sixteen upscale restaurants. Successfully converted POS  systems. Fulfilled administrative responsibilities including the addition and changes to user  desktop, e-mail and POS accounts. Installed and configured servers including RAIDI and 5 arrays in addition to facilitating backup & restoration using NT utility. Actively provided desktop,  configuration and phone support for software and hardware. Education Associate Skills MICROSOFT WINDOWS (10+ years), WINDOWS 2000 (10+ years), ACROBAT (5 years), DESKTOP HARDWARE (10+ years), DHCP (10+ years) Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 October 1986 to October 1988 Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows NT Workstation & Server 4.0, Windows 2000, Windows 7,  Windows 8; Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows  Server 2012  Hardware: Server Hardware Platforms, Desktop Hardware Platforms, Laptop  Hardware Platforms  Software: Exchange 2010, MS Office Suite, McAfee EPO, PC Anywhere,  GoToMeeting, WebEX, Visio, Acrobat, WSUS Server, Terminal Services  Server  Networks/Protocols: LAN/WAN/VPN/Wireless, TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, NETBEUI, WINS, DNS,  DHCP, POP3, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, TELNET, ICMP, NAT, Ethernet    Honorable Discharge U.S. Army 1986-1988