Team lead Team lead Team lead - SOLUTIONS ENGINEER BJC HEALTHCARE St. Louis, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Team lead SOLUTIONS ENGINEER BJC HEALTHCARE April 2019 to Present on Meraki SD WAN solution for remote offices and mobile clinics    • Configuration of Cisco ISR Routers    • Configuration of Cisco C6807-XL switches    • Configuration of Cisco Catalyst 9300 switches    • Team lead on Campus Switch replacement    • Team lead on Campus Router upgrades    • Multi area OSPF configuration and maintenance    • Patch/update Catalyst and Nexus gear NETWORK ENGINEER HEALTH AXIS August 2017 to Present • Manage, maintain, and perform upgrades on Cisco Nexus 9k's  • Provide support for MPLS network between internal and client sites  • Manage Cisco ASA's with Firepower - including creating VPN tunnels and maintaining ACLs  • Manage Dell Sonicwall 3600, 4600, and 5650 series firewalls  • Manage PRTG for network monitoring/ticketing  • Created L1, L2, and L3 network maps for office and data center locations  • Manage Dell VX Rack with 15 hosts and 400 VM's built on Hyper-V  • Write group policies as needed  • Create users, groups, and service accounts as needed  • Migrated company's patching solution from WSUS to Qwest K1000  • Work with security staff on SOC1 and SOC2 audits  • Assisted security team with ISE implementation  • Own and continually enhance strategic and functional goals, service levels and demonstrate service ownership for areas of responsibility.  • Provide leadership and guidance on the selection, engineering and appropriate consumption of technologies and services that align to the enterprise roadmap.  • Recruit, mentor, and build an effective network organization.  • Sets strategic and tactical priorities that align with Health Axis business objectives.  • Function as a Sr. leader in a matrixed technology organization.  • Function as a liaison for all Infrastructure teams to enable enterprise outcomes.  • Participate in the Incident and Problem Management processes including on call responsibilities.  • Project management as pertaining to Network and Systems  • Accountable for recommendations, deployment and documentation of final design strategies and solutions for software/hardware/ network engineering problems, based upon comprehensive and thoughtful analysis of business goals, objectives, requirements and existing technologies  • Accountable for the technical correctness and completeness of engineering designs, implementations, transitions to Operations for support and related artifacts  • Ensure that build activities are completed per engineering diagrams and in alignment with architecture and security standards  • Accountable for planning, designing, reviewing and approving robust, stable, scalable and manageable designs  • Support all network infrastructure including; network devices, and remote office connections. Devices include switches, routers, firewalls, servers, and Hyper-V VM's  • Accountable for creation and maintenance of detailed design documents, diagrams, engineering specifications, configurations, technical implementation plans, models, troubleshooting and support guides, systems metrics, and overall project information  • Lead moderate to high difficulty assignments in the design, detailed configuration, integration and support of existing and future technologies within assigned technical area of expertise NETWORK ENGINEER CARLE FOUNDATION HOSPITAL October 2016 to August 2017 • Maintain and configure access layer switches at Main Campus and remote locations.  • Upgrade campus and remote infrastructure from 3750/3750X to 3850's.  • Configure/Maintain remote office routers.  • Circuit upgrades at branch offices.  • Configure Voice & Analog Gateways.  • Infoblox IPAM Admin.  • Configured access layer for ISE rollout campus-wide.  • Monitor Hospital Network Infrastructure via Logic Monitor.  • Provide T3 support for escalated trouble tickets.  • Manage/mentor Network Help Desk.  • Provide config templates for access layer switches.  • Manage Palo Alto firewalls  • Palo Alto Panorama  • DNS/AD/Group Policy Administration.  • Manage Netscaler GW for remote access NETWORK/SYSTEMS ENGINEER PRAIRIE STATE GENERATING COMPANY January 2015 to October 2016 • Identify potential barriers which may cause future pain points in IT Infrastructure, Applications, Security, Servers, Policies, or Processes.  • Perform routine audits to ensure PSGC systems are current, patched, secure, and compliant for all applicable laws.  • Identify, troubleshoot, research, support and resolve customer IT issues.  • Provides timely response to all issues, updates internal customers on status, solicits additional information, if needed, and troubleshoots issue if appropriate.  • Walk customer through problem-solving process.  • Provide regular updates to customers on open support issues.  • Follow up with customers to ensure issue has been resolved to the end user's satisfaction.  • Deliver infrastructure support for our customers from a centralized facility using remote capabilities.  • Assist with onboarding of new users.  • Develop and maintain written instructional materials.  • Administer varying server environments.  • Accountable for adhering to the change management process.  • Responsible for managing Customer Service Desk application and responding to escalation requests from other IT Analysts/Team members.  • Active Directory  • Engineer structure including Organizational Units and Security Groups.  • Engineer Group Policies for Windows Administration.  • Administer DNS on 6 Domain Controllers.  • Administer DHCP.  • Maintain topology and replication of 2 Domains.  • Engineer structure of enterprise class Storage Area Network including defining volumes.  • Configuration of Cisco Fiber Channel Fabric including defining zones.  • Configuration of HP P2000 MSA.  • Configuration/Administration of Nimble All Flash Array (AF5000).  • Data Migration from legacy technology to Nimble All Flash Array.  • Administer approximately 150 virtual servers built on Microsoft Hyper-V technology.  • Administer clustering for physical servers hosting the virtual environment.  • Monitor and troubleshoot alarms coming from the server environment.  • Provision physical and virtual servers as required.  • Engineer IIS (Internet Information Services) on web servers.  • Administer Web Services.  • Administer all SSL Certificates for PSGC.  • Administer enterprise Anti-Virus.  • Basic SQL Administration.  • Data Backup and Recovery.  • Barracuda Backups.  • Monitor and adjust enterprise backup design to ensure timely, reliable data backup.  • Restore data from cloud or local device as required.  • Web Filter Administration.  • Administer Barracuda Web Filter.  • Adjust web filtering as required.  • Data Center Design and Maintenance.  • Configure and migrate to Cisco UCS from HP 580 Cluster.  • Administer Cisco UCS environment including Cisco Fiber Interconnects and MDS NETWORK ENGINEER ANSIRA MARKETING - Dallas, TX May 2014 to January 2015 • Support and maintain corporate MPLS network with 7 satellite offices.  • Support and maintain 2 datacenters - one in STL and one in Dallas.  • Support and maintain DR site in Houston.  • Plan, design, and implement corporate network infrastructure upgrade.  • Maintain site to site VPN tunnels between Checkpoint clusters and ASA's.  • Maintain, configure, and update Cisco Nexus 5k switches.  • Maintain, configure, and update Cisco 3825, 2248, 3650, 4600 switches.  • Maintain F5 HA pairs at corporate data center and satellite offices.  • Build websites in IIS per Development specifications.  • Provide technical support and consultancy over the phone or directly.  • Manage corporate help desk staff.  • Manage WhatsUPGold assets to ensure optimal uptime.  • Manage Cisco Call Manager.  • Manage Clustered VMware environment consisting of over 20 esxi hosts NETWORK ENGINEER CTS TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS October 2011 to May 2014 • Project coordination for new installs, routine maintenance, and network upgrades.  • Manage T1 and T2 Help Desk Staff. Provide T3 support for all aspects of client Infrastructure  • Perform domain migrations.  • Install, configure, and support Zultys and NEC VOIP phone systems.  • Migrate client Infrastructure to Amazon Web Servie  • Install, configure, and support Adtran Blue Socket access points.  • Train techs to perform maintenance on Zultys VOIP phone systems.  • Monitor backup solutions at client locations and in the cloud.  • Write service processes for client locations.  • Ran network assessments of Healthcare clients, reviewed HIPAA policies to ensure compliance.  • Ran network assessments for financial clients to ensure compliance LAN/SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR EASTERN IL UNIVERSITY September 2009 to October 2011 • Responsible for all server and client purchase/rotation.  • Configured and installed Cisco ASA to separate Health Service network from campus network.  • Configured and installed Cisco 3750 switches to replace unmanaged Linksys switches.  • Implemented SAN to replace external storage drives on production servers.  • Installed and configured Symantec Backup Exec '12 to replace Windows Backup.  • Migrated from GE EMR 2005 to GE CPS 10 EMR database.  • Create reports using Crystal Reports as requested by Health Director.  • Constructed SQL queries to pull information requested by Health Director.  • Implemented FOG server for client imaging/recovery.  • Removed virus' from client machines.  • Administration of Patchlink/Lumension server - created groups and policies to allow for optimal updating for over  • 4,000 CLIENT MACHINES IN CLASSROOMS AND LABS THROUGHOUT CAMPUS.  • Maintained Technology Enhanced classrooms throughout campus - virus removal, software installs, general repair of  • MACHINES.  • Maintained computer labs across campus - virus removal, installation and support of specialized software, general  • REPAIR OF MACHINES.  • Managed print servers for technology enhanced classrooms and labs across campus.  • Responsible for imaging any new machines that arrived on campus for dual boot capability for Windows and OSX.  • Assisted students and faculty with media projects throughout the year using the iLife suite and various computer  • ISSUES.  • Managed equipment checkout system for faculty and students NETWORK/SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR September 2003 to September 2009 RURAL KING SUPPLY    • Team lead on corporate and remote domain migration from 40+ standalone domains to a single forest structure.  • Team lead on Exchange migration from 2003 to 2007 with 2000+ users, several public folders, and distribution groups.  • Team lead on Cisco infrastructure implementation - replacing unmanaged switches in the corporate office, 40+ retail locations, and 3 distribution centers.  • Team lead on MPLS network implementation for 50 remote sites spanning 6 states which consisted of coordinating  • with last mile providers and our ISP for site to be ready for service when we arrived onsite.  • Configuration of Cisco 2811 routers to be used with new MPLS network.  • Team lead for new retail locations - including server install, Cisco 2811 router configuration and install, Cisco 2960  • SWITCH(S) CONFIGURATION AND INSTALL, RAN AND TERMINATED NETWORK CABLE TO PATCH PANEL(S), INSTALLATION OF CREDIT CARD  • processing server, configuration and installation of point of sale terminals and office WYSE terminals, configuration  • of VoIP phones and CME, configuration of Cisco 1140 Autonomous Access Points, configuration and install of  • HANDHELD SCAN GUNS FOR USE ON SALES FLOOR.  • Team lead on migration from Server 2003 to Server 2008 at corporate level - including 3 domain controllers, ERP systems, 2 HR servers, and 3 files servers.  • Team lead on PCI compliance audit(s) - made necessary changes to servers and network to meet PCI requirements  • Managed server and client rotation for corporate and remote retail and distribution centers.  • Managed Verizon corporate account - responsible for ordering new/replacement Blackberry devices.  • Configured ASA to block unwanted Internet traffic to non-work related sites.  • Performed daily backup jobs using AS400 and Arc Vault 24 tape backup system.  • Planned, configured, and upgraded corporate storage network from 1 server to an 8TB SAN.  • Configured backups using SAN environment while also using Symantec Backup Exec 10.5 to offload to backup tapes.  • Migrated Symantec Backup Exec from 10.5 to 11d.  • Migrated 50+ SQL servers from 2000 to 2005.  • Maintained 50+ SQL databases, created maintenance plans for backups and performance.  • Maintained and updated Intranet site as requested by CFO, Controller, and buying staff.  • Moved from Symantec Ghost to a more cost-effective Linux based imaging solution in FOG.  • Provided tier 1, 2 and 3 phone/remote connection support to all 50 retail locations, 3 Distribution Centers, and the corporate office. Education CCNP EASTERN IL UNIVERSITY May 2003 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Clustering, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Iis, Pci, Dhcp, Storage area network, Vpn, Data migration, Erp, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Sql, Backups, Cisco asa, Wireshark, Websense Additional Information SKILLS  • Group Policy  • Active Directory  • Anti-Virus  • BlackBerry Enterprise Manager  • Backup Exec 10.5, 11d  • Cisco ASA/ Firepower, ACI, Routers, Switches, Nexus, Prime, ISE, IronPort, Call Manager  • Barracuda Backups  • clustering  • compliance auditing  • Barracuda Web Filter  • WebSense  • Nimble AF 5000  • Customer Service  • Data Migration  • Comvault  • Dell Servers and workstations  • DHCP  • Powershell  • DNS  • SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012  • ERP  • Firewalls - ASA, Checkpoint, Palo Alto  • Exchange '03, '07, '10, '16  • Help Desk Management  • HP storage and servers  • IIS  • imaging  • Wireshark  • Windows 10, Win 7, Win 8, 2000, XP  • Dell K1000, K2000  • NEC phone systems  • network implementation/design  • PCI  • Cisco UCS  • Cisco Fiber Interconnects  • Project coordination  • retail/POS  • Cisco ISE  • Storage Area Network  • Symantec,  • technical support  • troubleshooting  • Cisco Meraki  • VPN  • VOIP  • web servers  • Netscaler  • Big-IP F5  • Palo Alto Firewalls (HA pairs)  • SonicWall NSA 2600, 3600, 5650 series  • Panorama  • SERVER '03'08 '12,'16, Linux flavors, and OSX  • DHCP, Active Directory, DNS on single and multi-  • domain networks