Network Manager / Senior Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Manager / Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Manager / Senior Network Engineer - WARNOCK, TANNER & ASSOCIATES Curtice, OH Work Experience Network Manager / Senior Network Engineer WARNOCK, TANNER & ASSOCIATES - Toledo, OH 2011 to Present Toledo, OH  Maximizing client's business continuity with reliable and secure network solutions.  Network Manager / Senior Network Engineer, 2011 to present    • Provide cloud and system consulting services for many clients including small to enterprise businesses and schools.    • Create and oversee project plans to implement customer solutions using Azure or on-premise services.    • Design and implement many different Azure services to host customer identity, storage, applications, databases, virtual networks and virtual servers.    • Administrate Identity Access Management using RBAC for outside vendors and developers.    • Monitor and maintain several customer Azure subscriptions including security, logs analytics, and resources to provide increased uptime with minimal costs.    • Deploy, maintain and automate Azure and other services using PowerShell and Azure CLI.    • Migrate businesses from on premises applications and services to cloud solutions such as Office 365 and Azure.    • Perform O365 administrative tasks and leverage many collaboration tools such as Flow, SharePoint, and Teams.    • Maintain O365 governance and compliance per tenant creating DLP and GDPR policies.    • Increase and maintain security by implementing secure score best practices and performing weekly monitoring.    • Implement and maintain ITIL standards including Change Management, CMDB, Service Catalog, Problem Management, and Incident Management.    • Create DR strategies to decrease recovery time and increase business continuity. This includes backup testing to ensure guaranteed restoration in time of failure and creating documented DR plans to recover from catastrophic events.    • Perform Managed Services by implementing proactive strategies and monitoring tools. Conduct full network assessments to reveal security and service pain points and provide remedial actions.    • Program, deploy, and troubleshoot communication devices such as Cisco, Sonic Wall, and Ubiquity.    • Design, implement and maintain virtualization using VMware ESXi, workstation and Microsoft Hyper-V. IT Manager / Network Administrator / Sales Consultant TOLEDO POINT OF SALE & NETWORKING - Toledo, OH 2005 to 2011 Toledo, OH  Provide point-of-sale and networking solutions to retail companies and restaurants.  IT Manager / Network Administrator / Sales Consultant, 2005 to 2011    • Demo and sell Point Of Sale (POS) systems to new and existing customers. Complete an interview with each client to design a software, hardware, and network solution to meet current and future business needs.    • Create a project plan to implement the network and application solution. Assign employee's their role to complete the plan above and beyond the expectations of our clients.    • Train staff on all software applications, hardware setup and maintenance.    • Perform administrative tasks to maintain network and application stability.    • Provide 24/7 phone, on-site and remote tech support for over 500 different clients. This service includes support for software applications, printers, servers, client pc's, POS terminals, scanners, scales, network routers and switches. IT Manager / Inventory Manager BANNER MATTRESS - Toledo, OH 2003 to 2005 • Act as an IT Manager and Inventory Manager by overseeing the daily operations of the Stores and Warehouses. These tasks include maintaining network stability, daily administrative duties, inventory accuracy, inventory movement, and proper protocol execution.    • Serve as IT Manager and Network Administrator for over 50 computers at 2 warehouses and 5 stores. This service includes support for various software applications, printers, multiple file servers, daily backups, client pc's, fielding help desk call, database management, network routers and switches.    • Serve as Inventory Manager over Warehouse and Store Managers. This service includes overseeing daily inventory movement and procedures, for example store transfers, displays, staging and deliveries, to ensure 100% accuracy. Education Computer Mathematics and Education UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO - Toledo, OH 2000 Network Systems Administration (Microsoft and Novell) STAUTZENBERGER COLLEGE - Toledo, OH Certifications/Licenses Azure Administrator Associate July 2019 to July 2021 AZ-103 Administering Office 365 for Small Business Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present Server 2000 Certified Novell Administrator Present Novel 5.1 CompTIA A+ Present