Network Administrator Contractor <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Contractor Apply network administration and engineering experience to support networks that will help improve operational proficiency. Covington, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Contractor Resource IT - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to Present •Troubleshoot routers and routing protocols  •Review project tasks and turn around dates  •performs detailed analysis of system requirements to determine network needs  •Provide daily updates, weekly status reports per Remedy ticketing system  •Recommends short term alternatives when appropriate  •Tracks current and future inventory levels  •Provide documents to tier support for escalations for complex problem resolution/Fault isolation Network Engineer/ Administrator True Blue Inc. - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to Present •Design, Survey and Implement OSPF/BGP/IERGP fully meshed switched environments using multi brand switches, routers, and VPN concentrators  •Pull, Install, Terminate CAT5,6, Coaxial cable, Test T1 T3 OC level circuits  •Configure, test new routers, switches, Video Encoders/Decoders VPN devices and or Firewalls, modify existing equipment configurations through necessary augmentation  •Troubleshoor VLAN environments with multiple routing protocols, verify connectivity, performance monitoring and service trending analysis. Install hardware, perform Oracle and Solaris network administration  •Outside military plant satellite installation. Aerial and building cabling termination, test and turn up. Network Engineer Future Staffing - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to July 2016 Future Staffing ATL 07/14-07/16(Contract)  • Performance monitoring and service trending analysis. Implement new hardware, Services, and initiatives. Oracle, Solaris Administration  • Provide tier support for office operations for complex problem resolution, fault isolation  • Assist wireless data sales with customer issues; analyze requirements for network connectivity, alarms and performance statistics.  • Assist in testing and debugging of new trial equipment.  • Pull, terminate and test data and fiber optic cabling equipment mounting and integration  • Build router and switch configurations using sniffers and networking analysis. TCP/UDP communication, SNMP, Radius, Authentication, IP Addressing schemes, AC and DC power and grounding, Provide network security via ACLS, backbone core network SS 7 tracing of various packet technologies and routing protocols. IT support services Dekalb Medical Center ATL January 2013 to July 2014 1/13-07/14  • Defines project scope and objectives, develops work plans, schedules and estimates.  • Develop and maintain project portfolios.  • Effectively communicate project expectations, project goals for team objectives.  • Manage project quality by ensuring project control and department standards are followed including asset management processes and compliance.  • Intra-department coordination including network team, applications teams, integration teams, and other IT support services.  • Insure project deliverables on time; budget while meeting customer satisfaction expectations with service level agreements  • Mentor and train staff as required. Advance the department's service and staff growth.  • Works with CIO and IT directors/managers to develop future-state project opportunities. Technician Dekalb Medical Center - Decatur, GA March 2011 to December 2013 Configure and deploy Cisco 3845, 2800, 2600 series routers along with Catalyst 6509, 3750 and 3560 switches.  • Troubleshoot WAN connections (DS3s, T1s, ISDN, and Frame Relay)  • Network monitoring management using SMARTS, Concord Ehealth, and Cisco Works.  • Modify access list to allow certain services through our routers per protocols.  • Datacenter maintenance (racking, upgrading, configuring routers and switches).  • Troubleshooting wireless connections at various autonomous sites.  • Involved in the project of creating a new database for documenting crucial IT elements.  • Occasional travel to sites to perform augmentation- upgrades Cisco equipment in MDFs /IDFs.  • Configure and support DMVPN for DSL backup.  • Research and development test new network technologies. Network Contractor Dekalb Medical Center - Decatur, GA April 2009 to March 2011 • Troubleshoot and maintain EIGRP network.  • Build Site to Site VPN's with 1841 Cisco Routers.  • Create and modify standard as well as extended access lists  • Use checkpoint firewall to control traffic to and from networks  • Network scope design and implement IP addressing scheme  • Manage and maintain 2960, 4500, and 6500 Cisco switches\  • Develop redundant paths of routing to corporate from remote locations  • Configure multicast enabled network for Endura cameras  • Manage numerous VRRP routers on Checkpoint's X-beam platform  • Configure, manage and maintain Proxy SG appliances (Bluecoat)  • Manage and maintain VRF's within Checkpoint firewall and 6500 switches  • Successfully implement Cisco IPICS for corporate office security  • Build management servers for Checkpoint firewall suite Installation Technician GCB Services November 2008 to April 2009 • Manage data center involving wiring installation, message server gateway installatoin, reseat cards and test signal link connectivity.  • Monitor, test, analyze and troubleshoot statewide Enterprise Wide Area Network (WAN) to accomplish proactive trouble avoidance and maintain integrity of router data network on an ongoing basis. Track trouble calls which have been escalated from other areas on routers, switches, bridges, multimedia communications equipment, and the data and WAN communications networks. Troubleshoot problems to the component level.  • Test router connectivity, web application services: firewalls, NAT, perform port forwarding and load balancing per project. Resolved complex issues involving deployment of new services for Backbone Core Packet Switching for various central offices. Network Engineer Tier 3 Advaced Data Support AT&T Atlanta - Atlanta, GA August 2004 to May 2008 3 Advanced Data Support/ MNOC  • Perform SS7/OSI Model messaging, troubleshooting; network management of GSM, GPRS, UMTS, RAN and WAP based applications. Platforms: Alcatel, Lucent, Ericsson, and Nortel switches. MMSC, SMSC, MSC (Nortel provisioning platforms) MGW (Sony E. Media Gateway Platform)  • Test Packet Data Protocol Context using SS7 Tracing tool supporting SGSN, GGSN core backbone platforms, Cell migrations for ALU 7750 with respect to other Node B GSM switched environments. (Nortel, Alcatel and Lucent technologies). Execute Remedy ticketing for work orders scripts in BSC, Node B, RAN traffic, RNC, MSN, and SIAD's for service pack, converged network infrastructure upgrades.  • Layer 3 IP network management, access MSC's using the MIND application for GSM subscribers call flow process and consolidation of BLS ATT networks for migrated Cingular Wireless user network merging.  • Escalate cell site outages in timely manner with respect to MTTR requirements.  • Design the AT&T wireless network to provide customers with the ability to securely access their private Enterprise Network (and optionally other IP networks) via wireless devices that are connected to the AT&T wireless GPRS, EDGE, and UMTS network technologies.  • CCS Network-to- Network Connections are established via public Internet VPN, public Frame Relay PVC's and via the AT&T Global MPLS Network.  • Manage the configuration and the solution turn up process until completion. Work with AT&T engineering and CCS Customer throughout the test, turn up, and troubleshooting processes to resolve and connectivity issues.  • Complex routing technologies such as BGP are used to achieve automated re-routing in redundant Network-to- Network connection configurations. Some customers use static routing for single data center builds.  • Performed planning, design and configuration of network elements in the EDGE backbone network. Responsibilities include introducing new points of presence, expanding existing sites, planning and design of IP routing infrastructure. Implemented platforms include Cisco, Juniper and Ericsson. Transports incorporated included STP, ATM, Frame Relay, Private Line, and Metro Ethernet. Routing protocols used BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, and RIPv2. Enhancements include QOS and MPLS for NETVPN. Switch Engineer, Maintenance NOC MCI WorldCom Roswell September 2000 to August 2004 • Support, test quality of service and maintenance of dialed access dedicated circuits, public and private networks via TCP/IP and SMTP protocols.  • Test and turn up T1/T3 and OC level circuit channels via DAC's. Run loops to CSU/DSU/NIU, Run Nomi test for Frame Relay services. Equipment required FireBerd MC6000 Communications Analyzer, T-Berd 224, Fire-Bred 6000A, and HP-4934A Analog Circuit testing.  • Served as Routing Specialist for the Regional Packet Switching Network, (X.121 addressing) and ISDN (E. 164) routing for Transit Traffic.  • Deployed trunks for ICs, X.75 prime gateways, and parameters for X.25 and EITI services. Received and processed/resolved escalations from outside organizations and customers. Education Certification in Telecommunications DeKalb Technical College - Decatur, GA Certification in Technology Bob Wood Reality School Skills see resume (10+ years), Forklift, Microsoft Excel, Word, Hand Tools, retail sales Certifications/Licenses CCNA Certification Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  DS0, DS1, DS3-OC switch operations, SS7 monitoring operations, tracing tools and testing, Accessing DACS systems 1/0, 3/0, 3/1, 24x7 NOC, UNIX administration, LAN/WAN Protocols: TCP IP, VOIP, ADSL, UDP, RIPv2, MPLS, BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, WAP, GSM, GPRS, LTE, UTRAN, HLR, MSC, Active Directory    EDUCATION/TRAINING:  DeKalb Technical College, Telecommunications, Decatur, GA  AEROTEK, Cable/Wiring Management and Distribution Certification  Success Technology Group, Cisco CCNA Course Certification 640-802, ATL, GA   Bob Wood Reality School, Georgia Institute of Real Estate Dynamics Law and Ethics