IT MANAGER / SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR IT MANAGER / SYSTEMS <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> IT MANAGER / SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Lansdowne, VA I am an experienced and knowledgeable IT manager/Systems administrator with over 20 years of experience identifying and implementing technologies of enterprise systems facilitating business processes and strategic objectives. I have in-depth experience in hands-on physical and virtual servers, storage systems, enterprise network and applications, such as directory services and monitoring systems. Among many notable achievements at Aronson LLC is working directly and collaboratively with Chief Financial Officer for budget management in identifying opportunities to control and streamline operating practices. I have a solid track record of demonstrating to create innovative solutions to organizational development, creating IT strategy and supervision of technical teams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT MANAGER / SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR ARONSON LLC - Rockville, MD March 2014 to May 2019 Managed information technology and computer systems serving 280+ users in the various industry of Accounting and Tax practice firm. Led a team of five IT members from a systems administrator, helpdesk, SQL administrator by recruiting, training and coaching employees, communicating job expectations, and appraising their performance. Planned, organized, controlled, and evaluated IT on Disaster Recovery operations, on-premises infrastructure, and all users equipment ensuring the high reliability of the systems. Handled the annual budget and remained cost-effectiveness by negotiating the ongoing cost with 20+ vendors.  DELIVERED RESULTS:  • Increased Helpdesk effectiveness by meeting SLA and providing excellent customer service.  • Created and implemented the distinctive email template communications of Outage, Notification, Technology update, and General message for effective and clear communication to the end-users.  • Successfully coordinated the consolidation of IT infrastructure refresh project, which includes Microsoft Windows Servers, VMWare vCenter, VMWare SRM, NetApp storage migration, Cisco network, and firewall as well as IT team training to keep up to date technology and support.  • Coordinated and implemented Office 365 suite, including Skype for Business to have great user experience when working at the office or working remotely.  • Established Azure Cloud DR (ASR) with Veeam to cut the cost from very expensive MPLS infrastructure by $5000+ per month, while ensuring the continuation and enhancements of services.  • Co-created IT policy with Technology Risk Services officer, CFO, and fractional CIO to deliver clearly defined structured documentation for the firm. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR ARONSON LLC - Rockville, MD March 2000 to March 2014 Responsible for the specification, selection, installation, configuration, system management, and operation of all server hardware and software for the various industry under the general supervision of the Chief Administration Officer. Managed development and maintenance of infrastructure with the IT team for system monitoring, software distribution, and system patch management to utilize the technology for effective automation. Spearheading the Disaster Recovery project for high availability, redundancy, and protection for business continuity.  DELIVERED RESULTS:  • Open communication with the end-users and the team to meet SLA and providing excellent customer service.  • Utilized Microsoft server technologies like SCOM, SCCM, and WSUS to maintain system infrastructure effectively to increase IT teams productivity.  • Streamlined the procedures to upgrade Microsoft Windows servers and applications to keep up to date technology and support.  • Initiated the Disaster Recovery project with up to date technology using MPLS and VMWare SRM to protect from the long term power/ISP outages, security incidents, and disaster to the building. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR QUANTUM RESEARCH CORPORATION - Bethesda, MD January 1997 to February 2000 Installed and managed a network, server equipment, and working with OpenBSD firewall for various rule changes supporting 250 users.  DELIVERED RESULTS:  • Serving on-premises and remote users totaling 250 for user accounts, global access to server service to ensure their productivity.  TECHNICAL Skills  Other Technical Skills: Audio/Visual equipment, Ubiquiti Wireless, Consumer Technology Education High school or equivalent in Electrical Engineering Catonsville Community College - Baltimore, MD 1988 to 1992 Skills System Administration (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ron-chung Additional Information • Strategy Planning • Security Planning • Emergency Planning • Project Management • Contract • Budget • Training • Staffing and Mentoring • VMWare vCenter/SRM • NetApp/Nimble Storage • Azure Cloud • Microsoft O365 • Active Directory • Exchange • SharePoint • Windows Server 2003-2019 • McAfee ePO • Cisco CUCM, Unity, Jabber • Cisco UCS/ Network/Firewall