Network Administrator II <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Support Engineer Spartanburg, SC I am a Network/Server Systems Support Engineer with 20+ years of hands-on experience in a mixed Windows/Linux environment. Working with physical and virtual (VMware) environments for most of my career and have recently spent the last 2 years as Lead Engineer designing, configuring, upgrading, and implementing the infrastructure of my recent company site and creating an Azure cloud environment along with the managing, budgeting, and maintaining of the day to day operations in a multi-platform Enterprise Infrastructure. Working alongside the Department Mangers lead, I describe myself as the “working foreman to the contractor” and have experience in multi-platform servers, software’s, desktops, as well as end user support.     I am a local to the Greenville SC area with home in both Spartanburg, SC.   I am available to schedule a face-to-face interview within a 24 hour notice. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator II EDTS - Greenville, SC March 2019 to Present Onsite Managed services engineer, break fix all. Meaning anything from the firewall/phones to a mouse issue. Face to face customer support and site assignment. Network Engineer Southern Management Corporation - Greenville, SC February 2017 to October 2018 • Designed and built/rebuilt the enterprise infrastructure adding a new SAN and upgraded Hosts solution as well as a SQL and VMWare platform/environment with duplication to the Azure Cloud Platform. (The enterprise was made up of 6 ESXI 5.1 Hosts upgraded to 6.5, Vcenter 5.5 upgraded to 6.5 along with 275 remote sites each with 2012r2 servers and between 6-10 users at each site).  • Maintained the company' Infrastructure which included all aspects of the IT needs of the company:  ? Network setup, and integrity along with day to day operations. 90+ Windows servers, 5-10 Linux Servers running private software, VMware 4.0-6.5, Backups, Security, Network tunnels and communications, mail, and L3 actual site support.  ? Upgraded the Access 97 database to SQL and upgraded the Windows Server 2003 environment to a Windows Server 2016 environment.  • Lead on all escalated issues such as network drops for SQL over VMware, VMware network switch configs, and Windows Server nic/registry tasks, and Storage I/O tasks.  • Responsible for performance tuning on Windows Operating Systems 10/8/7/XP, Windows Servers 2016/2003, VMware 6.5 - 4.0.  • Responsible for Microsoft Active Directory user and Windows Group Policy Object administration. Wrote clean Powershell scripts to automate AD and GPO processes. Add users and manage tree structure and accounts. Redirected folders and file structure.    L3 Global Server and Storage Team Sealed Air Corporation - Greenville, SC February 2016 to February 2017 • Responsible for Multiple Network Infrastructures and Multi-National site maintenance for 320+ sites in an Azure Cloud platform/environment.  • Responsible for 3000+ server OS (300 Linux servers, 2900 Windows Servers)  • Created the current infrastructure diagram  • Responsible for Microsoft Active Directory user and Windows Group Policy Object administration. Wrote clean Powershell scripts to automate AD and GPO processes. Add users and manage tree structure and accounts. Redirected folders and file structure.  • Responsible for performance tuning and kept current solutions to 98% efficiency.  • Responsible for Build Backup jobs. Restore backups. Fixed backup solutions when failed or in warning  • Created reports on findings. Report findings to management  • Responsible for Remote across networks via RDP, Java Script, VM Console  • Responsible for the AVAMAR solution and created Linux script-based processes using Powershell L3 Managed Services Engineer Pharr Technologies - Shelby, NC August 2012 to December 2015 • Manage 106 Windows Servers and less than 10 Linux Servers, and 450+ workstations via N-Able, Level Platforms. All sites were small businesses between 1-10 servers and 1-100 workstations running various versions of a Microsoft Operating System. The responsibilities were to maintain them as if in house via remote applications, before sending someone onsite  • Build, configure, and maintain all aspects of the Windows Servers and workstations. Wrote clean Powershell scripts to run and build servers and for the management of performance tuning for all servers (including virtual/VMware).  • Project Setup and presentation. Oversee rollouts and site setup.  • DHCP scope, reservations.  • Configure DNS; add A records, and host files, reverse lookup.  • Responsible for Microsoft Active Directory user and Windows Group Policy Object administration. Wrote clean Powershell scripts to automate AD and GPO processes. Add users and manage tree structure and accounts. Redirected folders and file structure.  • Exchange Server, Organization, Mailboxes, Hub configuration, troubleshooting mail flow, queue back pressure  • MS Outlook and MS Office configuration for all users.  • ESXI build, configure, and maintain host and clients.  • VPN Configuration, setup  • Firewall Inbound and Outbound Rules, Security management.  • Terminal Services setup.  • Ticket Management and User Administration for Pharr.  • Backup administration, managing centrally the server components and the clients.  • Virus Management, using central management and created scripts for nightly malware sweeps.  • Help users with phone support, setting up VPN connections, email, and general helpdesk support.  • Cell Phone and Telephony support, management.  • Vendor management, speaking with outside sources for parts and software. Self Employed Small Network Self Employed - Charlotte, NC July 2008 to August 2012 • Maintained small businesses and local retail clients.  • The same as above with clients obtained during the time period. L2 Network Administrator Community Alternatives - Charlotte, NC March 2007 to July 2008 • Maintain Server and User management  • Help the director with planning and implementation of systems.  • Worked with all users for trouble calls, resolve network issues. L2 Network Administrator, Team Lead Wells Fargo, Extended Stay Hotels, Cognis Corp., Bowater Inc October 2003 to February 2008 Network Administration  • User management as well as Active Directory and Group Policy Object administration  • Windows Server Maintenance  • Windows-based desktop user migration (various Microsoft operating systems)  • Working with users for trouble calls/helpdesk Network Administrator, Team Lead Pomeroy Inc - Greenville, SC January 2002 to August 2003 Contract Assignments with Wachovia, First Carolina Bank, Department of Transportation of South Carolina)  • Network printer association and setup  • Network user management  • Data Migration  • Desktop rollouts  • Hardware repair  • Software installation and troubleshooting L3 Senior Network Support Specialist Bali Co - Statesville, NC January 2000 to November 2001 • Network management of servers and workstations  • User administration and security  • Network printer adds and repair  • User trouble calls  • Time clock management  • Site Administrator  • Department budget and management Network Specialist School District Kansas City - Kansas City, MO - Kansas City, MO January 1999 to August 1999 Contract)  • Desktop Support  • User Trouble calls  • Printer and hardware repair  • 43 site buildings and 80,000+ users Network Specialist Americomp Inc - Topeka, KS June 1998 to January 1999 • Desktop Support  • User Trouble calls  • Printer and hardware repair Network Specialist Biocore Medical Technologies Inc - Topeka, KS January 1998 to June 1998 • Desktop Support  • User Trouble calls  • Printer and hardware repair Education GED North Carolina State - Brevard, NC 2016 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DHCP, INFRASTRUCTURE DESIGN, TERMINAL SERVER Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • MS Exchange 2003-16/ Office365 Hybrid and full cloud design. Azure Network Infrastructure design and implementation. MS Microsoft Server 2003-16 • SonicWall, Cisco, most firewall configuration, some Cisco ASA  • DNS Configuration, A record, host files, MX records • DHCP Configuration, reservation, scope • ESXI 4.1-6.5 current, 5.0-6.5 Vcenter VMWare, Create, Build and maintain all aspects of Vcenter and Vmware onsite and remote, VI and CLi SSH and other communications • Active Directory, File Structure and Security, Permissions, Shares • Terminal Server, Services • Raid 1-10 Configuration and Arrays • SQL, ODBC Some DBA • MS Office 97, 2003-16 And 365 Cloud including licensing, best practice protection and flow • Most Mail Clients and Configurations• Windows Desktops and base SCCM Deployments via multiple software's and configurations. • Symantec Endpoint Server, and client • Veeam, EMC and other Enterprise backup solutions • Remote Desktop, SSH, TeamViewer, Log Me In, most remote software • StorageCraft 4.0, 5 other Backup solutions •Autotask •Remedy •N-able, Level Platforms • Adobe products, PDF configuration and assorted products • Paragon •Sage, File Cabinet, other software's (10+ years)