Network Engineer III <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer III Network Engineer III - Alaska USA Federal Credit Union Anchorage, AK To obtain a job that will allow me to further enhance my skills as a Cisco Certified Network Associate. My goal is to join a company that will help me grow into a well-seasoned networking professional by working in a team-oriented environment, giving me the opportunity to enhance my certifications, and to foster a good working atmosphere. Work Experience Network Engineer III Alaska USA Federal Credit Union - Anchorage, AK March 2015 to Present • Install, configure, and support the organization's local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), and Internet systems.  • Monitor network via the use of Solarwinds to ensure network availability to all system users and perform necessary maintenance to support network availability.  • Monitor and test website performance to ensure websites operate correctly and without interruption.  • Assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data communications hardware and software.  • Administer network security measures.  • Work with the following vendors: Aruba/HP, F5, vSphere, Dell, Palo Alto, Riverbed, Talari Networks, Extra Hop, and Cisco Networks.  • Work with the following routing protocols: BGP, OSPF, and RIP.  • Ensure that the company's Information Security policy is followed and work directly with the Information Security department to ensure that company network is properly secured with firewall policies. IT Administrator Microcom - Anchorage, AK August 2006 to March 2015 • Managed two MAC OS X servers that supported 50-100 users.  • Supported remote clients via remote management software, LogMeIn.  • Supported clients and administrated companies FileMaker and Big Business Servers.  • Utilized Shorewall to administer Linux firewall, combined with DNS software, BIND, and load balancing software Nginx.  • Collaborated with third-party vendors to resolve problems related to Microcom software programs. Education Bachelor of Science in Technology University of Alaska Anchorage - Anchorage, AK Skills Nexus, BGP, Cisco, Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Server Administration (3 years), MPLS, Active Directory, DNS, Exchange, Security, VPN, Vmware, firewalls, LAN, Networking Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching April 2016 to April 2019 CCNA Security April 2016 to April 2019 ITIL November 2017 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) July 2015 to Present Microsoft Server 2012 R2 70-410 CompTIA A+, Network+, and Security+ December 2010 to Present PCNSA June 2019 to June 2021 Palo Alto Certified Security Administrator Groups Freemasons March 2005 to Present Additional Information Moving back to St Petersburg, Florida from Anchorage, Alaska in the near future.