Lead Security Architect Lead Security Architect Lead Security Architect - MUNICIPAL SECURITIES RULEMAKING BOARD Reston, VA Highly driven Information Security professional with expertise in research, design, implementation, and ongoing administrative support. Aligns Information Technology projects to business needs, recommending and launching solutions to improve business security, productivity, and cost performance. Work Experience Lead Security Architect MUNICIPAL SECURITIES RULEMAKING BOARD January 2018 to Present ·        Selected to lead newly created Information Security department.  ·        Responsible for the implementation of Splunk throughout the entire organization and worked to help integrate its capabilities across other departments such as IT Infrastructure, IT Operations and Development.  ·        Installed and configured Tripwire configuration management on critical systems.  ·        Researched and launched the CIS-CAT Professional Dashboard in all environments in order to provide change management and auditing capabilities for hardened operating systems.  ·        Provided the ability to centrally patch and manage all Linux systems, thus providing a single pane of glass for patching and reducing the time it took to patch systems.  ·        Developed an organizational wide Cybersecurity Strategy that spans across three fiscal years and outlines the current state of the organization and a detailed plan of how to get to future state.   ·        Led team members in attack surface reduction by continuously monitoring for vulnerabilities and pushing for the remediation of existing vulnerabilities.  ·        Significantly contributed in the planning process for migrating all data centers to a major cloud provider. Senior Network Engineer MUNICIPAL SECURITIES RULEMAKING BOARD - Washington, DC April 2015 to January 2018 ·        Led research, design, purchasing and implementation for the IT infrastructure on a multi-million dollar building project that consisted of migrating staff to a new location in Washington, DC.  ·        Responsible for planning and execution of multiple data center redesign projects.  ·        Launched Multi-Factor Authentication throughout the organization.  ·        Created an organizational security awareness training program for staff consisting of video training, phishing tests, vishing tests, USB tests, intranet site with blog and overall awareness through signage.  ·     Orchestrated the implementation of Center for Internet Security (CIS) hardened operating system templates on both physical and virtual machines.  ·     Redesigned the existing logging solution which in turn increased both fault tolerance and performance.  ·     Employed security event tracking through Jira to track level of effort and resources allocations towards the administration of security events and projects.  ·        Outfitted the organization with a break glass solution to address the threat of rogue administrators and single points of failure.  ·        Monitored network for security events, managed firewalls, proxies, centralized logging and IDS/IPS outsourced solution. Ensured IT policies are followed, kept up to date and procedures documented.  ·        Led periodic penetration tests, account reviews and recommended improvements in the security practice.  ·        Monitored and configured LAN/WAN equipment and associated systems for the organization’s offices and for multiple datacenters and development environments.  ·        Monitored system security at the network and operating system level, reported breaches of security and anomalies to management. Continuously kept the organization in line with industry security standards.  ·        Researched, tested, suggested, and provided IT solutions to business and management problems.  ·        Ensured that all IT infrastructures comply with industry standards and best practices where applicable.  ·        Conducted a monthly security presentation for the CIO and Director of Data and Infrastructure Services to keep the leadership current on security posture of the organization.  ·        Served as a technology mentor to associate members of the team. Network Engineer MUNICIPAL SECURITIES RULEMAKING BOARD November 2013 to April 2015 ·        Responsible for the design and implementation of a multi-million-dollar data center build out along with assisting in migrating all systems from the phased-out HQ to the new data center.  ·        Increased security by implementing internal and external automated security scanning.  ·        Delivered resource monitoring by implementing Cacti monitoring for specific hosts.  ·        Pioneered secure web browsing initiates for the organization by implementing web content filtering on staff segments.  ·        Launched the Puppet configuration management tool and provided knowledge transfers to members of the team to eliminate single points of failure.  ·        Reduced annual backup costs by spearheading research, design, implementation and training on a virtualized multi-site backup solution that replaced an antiquated, failing, tape driven single site backup solution.  ·        Identified flaws in the out of band management process and remediated those flaws by implementing console switches with cellular modems that allow administrators to access network device consoles remotely.  ·        Maintains high availability for designated IT infrastructure related systems and assists with managing the development, configuration, maintenance, monitoring, security, and support of the IT infrastructure for the organization.  ·        Leads periodic penetration tests, account reviews and recommends improvements in the security practice.  ·        Continuously keeps the organization in line with industry security standards. Systems Administrator MUNICIPAL SECURITIES RULEMAKING BOARD September 2013 to November 2013 ·        Responsible for maintaining IT systems to ensure business requirements related to system availability, performance, functionality, security and standards are met.  ·        Conducted the first organizational internal security assessment and as a result implemented an organizational security framework.  ·        Responsible for the relocation of the secondary data center.  ·        Paved the way and participated in the implementation of increased security in the Development environment, which included the deployment of group policy objects and anti-virus software. Data Center Analyst CONCURRENT TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION - Johnstown, PA 2011 to 2013 ·        Held a TS/SCI clearance with CI polygraph.  ·        Provided significant contributions for the Unclassified Remote Hosted Desktop (URHD) cloud computing system which was developed by CTC for the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA). This system later became the first Software as a Service (SaaS) Provider to earn authorization by the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP).  ·        Presented to the Senior Executive Leadership Team (SELT) to secure additional funding towards existing projects that were in preliminary stages.  ·        Researched, recommended, built, configured, and troubleshot software/hardware enhancements and solutions, application deployments and infrastructure upgrades.  ·        Performed mobile forensic analysis including logical and physical extractions of iOS and Android devices, and generated reports on findings.    Network & Systems Administrator GREATER ALBUQUERQUE ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS 2006 to 2011 • Managed the entire network infrastructure, including all aspects of budgeting, design, purchasing, and administration of core hardware, software, and other Information Technology functions of the business.  • Collaborated with leadership in planning, executing and monitoring of a 1.9 million dollar building project, including LAN/WAN design, contracts, building security, power requirements and education center design.  • Translated business needs into efficient technical platforms, bridging the gap between operational requirements and functional Information Technology projects to make effective short and long-term decisions.  • Responsible for reducing data service costs by $14,000.00 annually, and reduction of copier costs by $24,000.00 annually. Network & Systems Assistant GREATER ALBUQUERQUE ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS 2005 to 2006 • Provided technical support to over 3,000 users, providing network and systems administration, internal Help Desk support, backup procedures, and server and network monitoring services.  • Developed and implemented security policies, web content filtering, WSUS, group policies, security software, interoffice messaging applications and conducted employee educational sessions to maximize network security.  • Planned, budgeted, and implemented an environmental monitoring system to prevent the loss of equipment and business continuity, and a paperless faxing platform that reduced operational costs by $6,100 annually. Technical Administrator GREATER ALBUQUERQUE ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS 2004 to 2005 Handled in-bound calls for over 4,000 realtor customer members of the Multiple Listing Service; resolved an average of 60 support issues per day, and provided after-hours on-call support. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology/Information Systems Security ITT TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Albuquerque, NM 2010 Associate in Information Technology/Computer Network Systems ITT TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Albuquerque, NM 2006 Skills Cissp, Cyber Security, Information Security, It Security, Cybersecurity, Nist, Comptia, Siem, Network Security, Linux, Vmware, Windows, Networking Certifications/Licenses Computer Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) Certified Cloud Security Professional (CCSP) Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) CompTIA Security Analytics Expert (CSAE) CompTIA Secure Infrastructure Specialist (CSIS) CompTIA IT Operations Specialist (CIOS) CompTIA Security Analytics Professional (CSAP) CompTIA Advanced Security Practitioner (CASP) CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst (CySA+) CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA A+ CompTIA Mobility+ Tripwire Enterprise Foundation – Administration VMware Certified Associate – Data Center Virtualization (VCA-DCV) Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) 2013 to 2019