Senior IT Security Professional Senior IT Security Professional Active Directory and Windows Server Security Shrewsbury, MA Offering a great mix of technical, communication, business skills and maturity with strengths in Active Directory administration and Windows security. Possess the skills to work with technical and business colleagues at every level. Common sense problem solver. Work Experience Senior IT Security Professional Citizens Financial Group - Johnston, RI August 2015 to July 2019 • Member of the IAM Distributed Security Operations team  • Active Directory and Windows Server security  • Group Policy consultation, evaluation, and approval  • LDAP support  • Account Provisioning support  • File system security Senior Infrastructure Engineer - Active Directory Citizens Financial Group - Cranston, RI February 2013 to August 2015 • Member of the Directory Services Team in a 20,000+ user environment.  • Active Directory management/support for internal and external domains  • Group Policy consultation, creation, and troubleshooting  • DFS management  • LDAP support  • WebSense Triton administration Systems Engineer Eaton Vance Management - Boston, MA March 2006 to May 2012 Served as key contributor toward the department's advancements in both the execution and promotion of best practice IT administration. Lead Active Directory Administrator and on a Systems Team of 10 engineers for a support audience of approximately 1000 worldwide users. Introduced the concept of good practice object naming conventions and use standards, successfully implementing dozens of individual process improvements. Served as primary Systems Administrator for the constant and steady flow of change requests and problem cases escalated from the help desk. Partnered in the integration of the burgeoning Linux environment into AD, as well as migrations from physical to virtual environments such as VMware and EMC Celerra NAS (Lead NAS admin), migration of internal DNS from Microsoft to InfoBlox, primary or partnered support role for MS Exchange, EMC Celerra, VMWare, Symantec NetBackup and Enterprise Vault FSA, Varonis Suite, TripWire, Oracle Identity Manager, XMedius Fax. Network Administrator Lockheed Martin Information Technologies - Chicopee, MA January 2003 to December 2005 Administrator of all Windows 2000/2003 file and print services at Westover Air Reserve Base in support of airlift operations for Operation Desert Storm. Lead local administrator for implementation of new Active Directory structure per USAF standards. Primary local admin for DNS, DHCP, NTFS, Bluecoat proxy, and network printer configuration. Performed server builds, diagnostics and troubleshooting. Provided top tier support to the help desk. All work was completed in compliance with U.S. Department of Defense Information Assurance regulations. Mentored junior technical military and civilian personnel. Environment had 30+ servers, 2500+ clients, 200+ printers. Network Administrator McKesson Information Solutions for Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates - Boston, MA December 2001 to May 2002 • Created and administered a new Windows 2000 Active Directory Domain. Developed and implemented domain security standards and account creation processes and conventions. Enforced NTFS rights and share permissions.  • Provided engineering and administration services for several server related projects.  • This consulting role was in support of two major events: the split of the customer's physical network from its former parent company, and the transition of IT operations between outsource companies. Network Administrator Harvard Pilgrim Health Care - Wellesley, MA April 1999 to December 2001 • Pivotal role in the physical and virtual migration of thousands of users, dozens of servers, and hundreds of printers to a new Novell 5.1 NDS tree, as well as the integration of 65 Windows 2000 servers into the existing NT domain.  • Post-migration day to day responsibilities included Novell NDS and Microsoft Windows NT Domain administration, file system security administration, FTP server administration, Application/Database migration and upgrade support, HP printer configuration and troubleshooting, Veritas Backup Exec administration.  • Continuous involvement on a lead or secondary level in the never-ending flow of team based project work. Network Administrator J.W. Childs Associates LP - Boston, MA February 1998 to March 1999 02110    • Served as the firm's only IT employee. Solely responsible for all data and voice processing and communications, from the desktop level up, in a time critical and demanding environment, including: 24/7 maintenance of a Novell 4.11 Network including three file servers, 35-40 workstations, and 12 printers; GroupWise 5.2; MS Office95/97, Cheyenne FaxServe inbound/outbound desktop faxing; management of remote ISDN data and voice access connecting 5 remote offices to the network; performed all software and hardware testing; made all final hardware, software, and consulting purchasing decisions. Network Administrator The Boston Consulting Group, Inc., One Exchange Place - Boston, MA July 1997 to February 1998 02110    • Retained for project and post-project support for conversion of all desktops in the company's 600 user East Coast Division from Macintosh to PC's running Windows95 on a Novell 4.11 network. Served as secondary Novell 4.11 administrator for the division, traveling between Boston, New York, and Washington. Provided lead on-site desktop support for company's corporate division. Responsibilities included all levels of support: hardware, software, printing, email, applications, and Novell NDS security. Network Administrator EDS Corporation for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts - Boston, MA March 1997 to July 1997 Contract member of a project team involved in the realignment of the 6000 node physical network and the entire Novell NDS structure of Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Massachusetts. Duties included: NDS design; granting of NetWare security rights; creating and configuring objects and groups; configuring and troubleshooting desktop hardware, applications and printing; creating and editing login scripts; physical wiring of the LAN segments at the punchdown/hub level; project planning and workflow implementation. Education Boston University August 1996 to February 1997 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Roger Williams University - Bristol, RI 1973 to 1978