Senior Server Engineer Senior Server Engineer Senior Server Engineer - Mercedes-Benz Summerville, SC System Administrator with cross-functional skill who takes pride in developing practical, technical solutions to complex problems. I take initiative in supporting development teams regarding deployment, monitoring, maintaining and troubleshooting environments. Work Experience Senior Server Engineer Mercedes-Benz - Ladson, SC March 2017 to Present • Planned and execute the move of half the infrastructure environment (Server, Storage, and Network equipment) to a second offsite data center with zero impact to the business.  • Implemented NetApp 8040 Metro Cluster to replace older NetApp 2048 FAS storage and increase storage capacity.  • Implemented EMC Data Domain with offsite replication to replace Dell tape backup solution.  • Managed and maintained VMware vSphere HA/DRS cluster environment using best practice. Implemented VMware host upgrades and patches and as well as firmware upgrades and hardware maintenance on HP blade enclosure  • Documented system configurations for multiple VMS in a test, integration, and production environment for new Manufacturing Execution System running on SUSE Linux Enterprise System 12.  • Implemented Ansible Tower as a configuration management tool, which provides an easy-to-use dashboard, and role-bases access control, so that it is easier to allow teams access to use Ansible for their deployments.  • Streamlined backup and restore process, creation of LVMs on SAN using Linux utilities, monitored overall system performance, preformed user management, system update and disk & storage management.  • Configured and manage SUSE Linux Enterprise System (SLES) using SUSE manager for all packaging and patch management.  • Implemented Nagios XI as an infrastructure and application monitoring and reporting solution.  • Created custom Bash and Python scripts to automate day-to-day task, hardening and upgrades.  • Installed Database servers and user management such as Oracle, MYSQL, SQL Server  • Installed, configured and maintained apache, samba, Web Sphere & Web Logic application servers.  • Collaborated with managers, business analysts, developers and testers to determine the best requirement specifications. Senior System/ Network Administrator JW Aluminum - Goose Creek, SC February 2012 to March 2017 • Managed a centralized IT infrastructure for five aluminum-manufacturing sites across an MPLS network.  • Evaluated network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput and latency, planning and executing the selection, installation, configuration, and testing of equipment; defining network policies and procedures; establishing connections and firewalls.  • Managed Cisco ASA firewalls ACL and NAT rules, virtual private network tunnel, Dell Secure Works managed IPS/IDS systems.  • Installed and upgraded packages and patches on RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 5.x, 6.2 and 6.5 servers using RPM, YUM and third party software applications.  • Configured, and maintaining Windows servers 2008 and 2012 servers  • Created and manage multiple VMware vSphere systems in a HA/DRS configurations using VMware vSphere 6.0 and EMC VNX 5200.  • Provided LAN/WAN architecture design, integration, and documentation.  • Implemented and managed Veem Backup and Replication solution for all business-critical and business-enabling applications.  • Planned, implemented, and managed transition from an on premise Exchange 2003 server to a hybrid Exchange 2010 server with Office 365. Migrating over 10,000 end users.  • Implemented multi-site Windows Server 2008 Active Directory domain, designing OU structure and creating GPOs  • Participated in weekly on-call support for production systems during schedule maintenance and outages. Network Technician Atlas Technologies Inc - North Charleston, SC October 2011 to January 2012 • Contract position as a Subject Matter Expert for a US Navy Network Management system.  • Analyzed vulnerability scans utilizing network scanning tools and software to notify system administrators of applicable Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVA).  • Collaborated in a multivendor environment with government counterparts to setup, manage, and maintain test bed configurations; troubleshoot system and software issues with lab and Navy fleet personnel.  • Interfaced with and train system testers; provide Configuration Management and CM process support using Navy CM Tools; support documentation efforts (load plans, test plans, system operations manuals, test reports, etc.) update Navy-required tracking system databases. Network Support Engineer Core Media Technology - New York, NY May 2007 to October 2011 • Advanced troubleshooting for server operating system, network connectivity, standard applications, and proprietary applications.  • Managed Remote administration of servers, workstations and routers/switches.  • Managed trouble ticket using Remedy to ensure all tickets are accurately tracked and effectively and prioritized.  • Created logon and email accounts, computer, and printer objects using Active Directory and Exchange Server, managing network services.  • Ensure data availability, integrity, and security over Windows 2000 Server, Server 2003, Server 2008, Windows XP, and Windows 7 operating systems, Exchange Server 2003, Active Directory, SQL Server 2005 and 2008 databases. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Southern Connecticut State University - New Haven, CT August 2003 to May 2007 Skills MYSQL, ORACLE, POSTGRESQL, SQL, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, Virtualization, Linux, Provisioning, Vmware, Scripting Additional Information Technical Skills  Networking  Access Control List (ACL), Network Address Translation (NAT), EIGRP, OSPF, VPN, DHCP, LDAP, FTP, SNMP, SSH, 802.11a/b/g/n wireless  Operating Systems  CentOS, RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), SUSE Enterprise Linux (SLES), Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008R2/2012/2016, VMware ESXi 5.x/6.x  Tools  CollectD, Grafana, Graphite, Apache, Anisible, Icinga, Kibana, LAMP Stack, Logstash, Microsoft Active Directory, Nagios, PHP, Syslog/Rsyslog, SystemD, Vagrant  Languages  Bash, Python, Shell  Web Server  Websphere, ApacheTomcat, JBOSS  RDBMS  Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, MS SQL