Job Seeker Work Experience Independent Consulting - Memphis, TN May 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Provide consulting support for installation of business office server and phone..  • Setup business CRM software and RVM  • PC and printer support for business office Network Engineer International Paper - Memphis, TN April 2013 to May 2018 Responsibilities  • Extensive work supporting service provider MPLS for data, VoIP and Telepresence WAN environment.  • Design and deploy functional networks (LAN, WLAN, WAN)  • Configure and maintain routers, switches and other network devices for WAN and datacenter environment.  • Monitor network performance and integrity utilizing LiveAction to resolve QOS, Traffic Queuing and Policing issues.  • Perform firmware/software upgrades on network devices  • Manage and support a redundant data center infrastructure  • Solid understanding of network operating systems (Cisco IOS, IOS-XE, Nexus)  • Implement and maintain layer 2 and layer 3 network circuit redundancy.  • Strong working knowledge troubleshooting, problem identification and resolution of SIP, MGCP, RTP.  • Organizational and mentoring skills  • Install and configure networking hardware and software, manage the daily administrative activities associated with the Internet, Intranet, local area network, wide area network and connection to all remote location.  • Manage project for company wide router replacement of field routers.  • Datacenter forklift of old Catalyst switches and Cisco devices to Cisco Nexus platform. Network Engineer Service Master - Memphis, TN November 2010 to April 2013 Provide project leadership for new projects, implementation of existing and new design, troubleshooting, tracking and resolution of Sev 1 & 2 issues, reporting and monitoring of all enterprise networking devices and build and ship for local and B2B sites, Change Request Management, meet and maintain contractual SLA's standards, client and vendor interface, Queue management and resolution.    Responsibilities:  • Manage and configuration of enterprise routers, switches, firewalls, DNS(Blue Cat),load balancers (F5), Wireless LAN Controllers, Wis Ms and Cisco Wireless Control Systems.  • Design and implantation of LAN-to-LAN tunnels between enterprise branches and core data network.  • Regularly perform and guide complex core enterprise network changes that impact customers.  • Coordinate with field vendors with test and turn up new data T1, MPLS DS-3 and voice PRI circuits for new enterprise B2B sites as well as enterprise datacenters and call centers.  • Implementation of enterprise DNS/DHCP platform.  • Design and implementation of DS3 MPLS network for enterprise call centers and datacenter.  • Maintain and create past and current diagrams of network topology.  • Monitor bandwidth utilization and traffic priority for capacity planning.  • Provide 3rd level support, consultation and guidance to team members, support centers and help desk team.  • Design and implement enterprise wide guest anchor wireless network and maintain enterprise user wireless.  • Provide technical support, installation, design of various enterprise devices.  • Provide technical guidance and support to layer 2 & 3 support technicians.  • Provide problem resolution on complex SEV 1 & 2 issues. This includes break fixes and possible Ship and builds. This also includes on-call support.  • Resolve complex network problems that impact. Network Engineer Tek Systems - Memphis, TN July 2010 to September 2010 Assist customer in major 10gig fiber ring upgrade of city wide WAN. Project involved assisting with all hands on upgrade and switch replacements of core, distribution and access layer network devices and assist in VoIP upgrade for remote sites. Initiated the test lab used to resolve issue customer had with replacing Checkpoint firewall with ASA 5540. Created scheduling format for upgrade team to roll out upgrades and replacements and coordinated team availability with project management team.  Responsibilities:  • Perform site surveys to verify type of fiber jumpers needed, number users connected to devices and to determine most efficient switch upgrade or replacement process with the least amount of down time  • Successfully reconfigured switches and replaced 1gig modules with 10gig modules.  • Performed configuration scrubs and verifications on all devices being replaced and upgraded.  • Troubleshoot OSPF neighbor adjacency issues and resolved fiber connection incompatibility issues in timely fashion within required time frame given by upper management.  • Setup test lab used to perform firewall reach-ability and internal user accessibility to outside resources and outside access was denied.  • Scrub firewall configurations and successful rule translation from Checkpoint to ASA.  • Performed necessary configuration maintenance and configuration clean up for port descriptions, QoS, VLAN port assignments, SNMP and Radius configurations. Network Engineer Genesis Network - Memphis, TN September 2007 to May 2010 Perform Lead Engineer duties for all client equipment being configured by facility. Daily task involve IOS scrub and verification, designing of configurations and verifying equipment is configured to customer specifications. Role includes consulting with customer contact and field engineers in designing and testing configurations also responsible for communicating any changes made to design and any other specific information to Project Managers, coworkers and management.  Responsibilities:  • Project Lead for numerous Fortune 500 companies, City Municipals, Banking Institutions, Hospitals with complex WAN designs.  • Help technician team design configure, upgrade ISOs, and make changes for clients equipment involving BGP, OSPF, EIGRP and redistribution between protocols and other router configurations including everything from configuring ACLs and QoS and other router policy settings.  • Assist fellow engineers and technician team with IPsec VPN configurations, Site-to-Site, Remote access and PIX to ASA replacements for clients.  • Met with client groups to determine user requirements and goals for projects and transactional orders.  • Maintain client and management goal of efficiently meeting customer install deadlines by coordinating effectively with technician team and logistics.  • Produce time analyst for projects for Project management and Management.  • Perform equipment testing and develop documentation of test results for approving/proof of concept of network designs for MPLS, OSPF core network designs, provide reports to customer, client, and management. Associate WAN Engineer Hilton Corp - Memphis, TN September 2006 to September 2007 Major Project: Provide WAN support for global Frame Relay WAN within 24/7 NOC. Daily task involved monitoring network and promptly resolving issue or dispatching technicians to resolve. Also served as 3rd level support for 1st and 2nd level support groups.  Responsibilities:  • Utilize Spectrum and EMC Smarts to monitor WAN and LAN networks. Routinely troubleshoot WAN connection from CSU to 2600 Cisco router. Work with regional and local carriers to resolve any WAN issues such as lost connection or latency issues with circuits ranging from 128k - T3. Disconnect sites from WAN on as needed basis.  • Troubleshoot LAN connections from IDF switches and WAPS to core MDF switch and router. Added and removed access list as needed. Use Peakflow to monitor network and pinpoint causes of latency and issues connecting to server and accessing WAN and internet.  • Perform bandwidth analysis for bandwidth increase request. Troubleshoot IP duplication issues and allocation IP ranges for LAN Network Administrator New Direction Christian Church - Memphis, TN January 2004 to November 2006 Played major role in the planning and implementation church computer network and phone system, assisted with selecting all network equipment - Dell PCs, laptops, Poweredge servers and Cisco switches, PIX and routers. Also responsible for configuring 1721 router and setting up Cisco 3550 switches. Currently working on VPN connections and setting up several remote locations. EUC Support Specialist III Methodist LeBonheur Healthcare - Memphis, TN January 2004 to May 2006 As a New Services technician I am responsible for the deployment and relocation of all new PCs and peripherals. Daily task requires the use of an array of previously acquired skills to successfully complete task. Task regularly involved backend Console-One and Active Directory administration. Spearheaded the creation of new role within New Services department-Project Tech. Project Tech position involved coordinating all large department PC moves for all hospital facilities. Facilitated training classes on back-end administration task such as renames, and account moves. Contract to Permanent, Methodist Robert Half International - Memphis, TN September 2003 to December 2003 Security Analyst  Responsibilities involved back-end administration for network access. Granted users access to all Citrix based servers and mainframe access. Assisted with numerous network account auditing projects and account moves.  • Setup new Novell, Active Directory and Citrix user accounts.  • Coordinated with field technicians in renaming and joining new workstations to domain. Collaborated with other departments to assist in meeting their project deadlines. Network Technician Tek Systems - Memphis, TN August 2002 to May 2003 • Resolved all Windows 2000 and Novell Client 4.8 compatibility issues as the occurred.  • Troubleshoot any PC software issues related to Reflections, Outlook, Palm Desktop, Office Suites (2000 & XP).  • Conducted department moves involving activating IDF connections, scheduling equipment moves and reassigning IP addresses. I.T. Consultant Independent Contracting - Memphis, TN June 2001 to August 2002 • Configure and install 7 site frame with Cisco PIX.  • Demarc extension for WAN DSL solution.  • Setup and maintain workstations and servers numerous computer labs in learning/training environments.  • Established routine backup routine for companies to utilize. System Engineer Broadslate Networks, Inc - Memphis, TN December 2000 to June 2001 • As technology evolved, expanded knowledge and service ability into internetworking and managed connectivity projects linking hybrid WAN, ATM and frame networks.  • Provide direction for installation and maintenance of ingress T-1 and DSL circuits. Specifically within cell switched p2p network.  • Designed customer networks for reach ability to ATM SONET. Configured route tables between customers' network and Broadslates. Made updates to DNS MX and A records as needed. 24x7 backup for ATM WAN designs. Central office work when DSLAM would need rebooting or new IOS upgrade.  • Severed as sales consultant and design engineer. Education B.S. in Information System Management Christian Brothers University - Memphis, TN May 1996