Information Technology Specialist 4 - Network Engineer Information Technology Specialist 4 - <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Information Technology Specialist 4 - Network Engineer - Oregon Judicial Department ETSD Silverton, OR Work Experience Information Technology Specialist 4 - Network Engineer Oregon Judicial Department ETSD - Salem, OR July 2010 to Present Operate, maintain, and build network infrastructure required for 68 courts and other facilities statewide. Manages Cisco ASA and Palo Alto firewalls in a high availability, active/active configuration using OSPF and BGP. Creates and removes firewall rules as requested and needed. Troubleshoots and resolves connectivity issues caused by incorrect URL and application filtering. Responds to security incidents through investigation of events through Qradar. Builds reports and refines rules/event triggers in Qradar. Manages F5 BigIP Virtual Edition appliances that provide load balancing for applications as well as application firewall services and VPN. Configure, install, and manage Cisco Unified Communications. Vendor management to ensure delivery of contracted services. Daily troubleshooting applications and other issues to prove it's not the network.  Some of the projects worked on and accomplishments are:  • Implemented PAN-2020 firewalls operating in virtual wire mode to replace a Websense URL filtering solution. Firewall provided URL filtering, AV scanning and application filtering based on user ID. No downtime outside of maintenance window was caused by the implementation.  • Built F5 LTM and APM environment for statewide case management system and remote VPN access without prior experience or training.  • Deployed IBM Qradar in the OJD environment. Set up the collection of logs from critical systems. Completed initial tuning of rules to eliminate "noise" of false positive alerts and normal activity.  • Configured F5 ASM to provide application security to public facing components of case management system. Defined parameters of "normal" traffic after which ASM blocked any "illegal" traffic.  • Deployed PAN-5050 firewalls operating in active/active Layer 3 configuration to provide high availability at two data centers.  • Engineered and implemented a redesign of core data centers using Cisco Nexus switches and fabric extenders to provide high availability and fault tolerance to OJDs VMware environment. Network was segmented to allow PAN-5050s to manage and control traffic through application filtering and virtual routers.  • Implemented Minemeld to use with Palo Alto to provide dynamic lists for access to cloud application such as Office 365.  • Currently working to implement BGP on Palo Alto and Cisco ASA firewalls to provide automatic failover of IP address space between providers at each data center. Network Administrator Central Willamette Community Credit Union - Albany, OR July 2007 to July 2010 Ensure the stable operation of the in-house computer and telecommunications network including planning, development, installation, configuration, maintenance, support, optimization and security of all computer, network and telecommunications hardware, software, and communication links.    Accomplishments include:  • Fortinet UTM firewall design and installation.  • Implementation of segmentation of the network through layer 3 switching and VLANs to isolate and control access.  • Developed a firewall log analysis policy and procedure. Education Associate of applied science in Network Technology in Networking Technology Chemeketa Community College - Salem, OR 2007 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, VMWARE, CISCO ASA, CISCO ASA FIREWALLS, FIREWALLS, SECURITY, POLYCOM, WIRELESS, VIDEO CONFERENCING, NEXUS, PROBLEM SOLVING, Networking, Windows, Technical Support Additional Information Skills Summary  • Palo Alto Firewalls  • Cisco ASA Firewalls  • IBM Qradar  • F5 BigIP Local Traffic Manager (LTM), Access Policy Manager (APM), Application Security Module (ASM)  • Cisco routers and switches  • Cisco Nexus switches  • Cisco Unified Communications  • Polycom Video Conferencing  • Aruba wireless controllers  • VMware  • Active directory administration  • Creative problem solving  • Communicate technical issues to non-technical users in a clear manner  • Ability to solve problems quickly and independently