Desktop Support Specialist Desktop Support Specialist Muskegon, MI Energetic, and solutions-oriented professional with strong communication skills and many years of experience in the technical environment. Experienced in building and maintaining networks and resolving network issues. Positive team leader and team player. Experienced problem solver, very detailed, strong work ethic and passionate about IT work. Work Experience Desktop Support Specialist Freelance Work August 2013 to Present Perform Break/Fix work on PCs and Laptops for private individuals  ? Build and fix Networks for residential spaces  ? Actively performing Windows 7 and 10 O/S migrations for private individuals  ? Work with different flavors of Linux  ? Experienced with Mac O/S X Arconic (Stefanini) August 2018 to August 2019 In charge of all asset management for Arconic HRC site. Helped other sites with their asset management  ? Open asset change and DRN tickets in Remedy for all machines (laptop, pc, monitor, printer)  ? Processed and returned all EOL machines to vendor  ? Opened SRM tickets to order new software licenses for users and then installed the software on users machines  ? Ordered new computers and printers for Arconic HRC site. Reconciling assets with dept codes for accounting.  ? Running and performing specific projects (remove specific software, windows 1803 update, fixing sccm on users machines, plant 4 printer rename project, specific software rollouts, windows 10 rollout, rename print queues),  ? Staging Lenovo laptops and M-7xx Tinys, with windows 10 for Business network and shop floor Lindsay Precast October 2013 to June 2018 Concrete testing for slump, weight and percent of air in the mix.  ? Cut rebar, styrofoam, and wire mesh for the forms for concrete production.  ? QC all finished concrete products before they are delivered to the customer.  ? Perform 7 day and 28 day pressure break tests on cylinders of hardened concrete.  ? Keep all records related to all concrete products made.  ? Tested probes for testing electronics  ? Operated injection molding machine  ? Set up computers and printers for the Dacono office Windows Systems Administrator Sterling Construction - Lafayette, CO May 2013 to August 2013 Helped build, setup and test MS Lync infrastructure for Sterling corporate environment.  Architected Exchange 2012 server environment.  ? Architected VMWare 5.0 to build and manage virtual servers in a cloud based environment.  ? Remotely managed windows 2000, 2003, 2008 and 2012 servers across 10 business locations.  ? Performed server backups utilizing Symantec Backup Exec and conducted maintenance of all backup systems.  ? Implemented Kaspersky Anti-Virus to protect servers and workstations across 5 domains and 10 business locations.  ? Performed daily system wide health checks to verify system integrity, communication and business readiness.  ? Moved VMs between old and new domain environments and verified system integrity of both when complete.  ? Assisted in transition to bring users and servers in old domains under new domain.  ? Used Solarwinds software for network monitoring.  ? Used and administrated MS Office 365 Computer Operator Sports Authority - Englewood, CO April 2013 to May 2013 AS400 Computer Operations. Operator, Help Desk and Telecommunications Administration.  ? Executed production job schedules and monitored process activities to ensure contractual service level agreements and internal deadlines are met.  ? Provided e-mail notification to managers listing completion results or any problem issues.  ? Reported results of processing activities in daily and turnover reports.  ? Investigated problems associated with production processes to determine the scope of the impact, and created incident records providing detailed information of the events surrounding the problem.  ? Escalated high priority issues to application support and management.  ? Maintained accurate technical documentation on job processes. Network Administrator Navajo Express Inc - Denver, CO August 2012 to February 2013 Utilized vCenter Server 5.0 to manage virtual servers and 150 users Windows 7 view sessions  ? Administered MS Exchange 2010 for in-house email and web mail  ? Fixed users OS, printer, and misc IT issues at users desks on daily basis  ? Performed phone customer service for all VMWare, printer and OS issues via webex for over 200 users.  ? Administered Active Directory 2003 and 2010  ? Built Windows 2008 R2 virtual servers for anti-virus, helpdesk and web servers  ? Consolidated multiple DHCP, DNS, WINS and A.D. Servers to make network run more efficiently  ? Built Windows 7 VMWare view sessions for all new employees  ? Replaced PC's with 10Zig thin clients throughout company for desktop virtualization  ? Installed dual monitors with stands for all users  ? Implemented and customized helpdesk software for corporate user environment  ? Redesigned company website and integrated youtube channel  ? Documented all processes  ? Administered Cisco VOIP phone system TSM Administrator IBM CORPORATION - Boulder, CO January 1998 to April 2012 - MSS-BUR Team 3  ? Performed daily backup and recovery administration utilizing TSM 5.4 through 6.2 on Windows, Unix and Linux client servers of various accts including AIG, Cigna, Manpower, Sysco, Tyco, Fusion, Maximo, Shared Health, FEMA, Macy  ? Executed and monitored daily offsite process for many accounts.  ? Redesigned the Offsite process by editing the TSM scripts to be more efficient  ? Changed the timing of the Offsite processes so reports would come on time  ? Made daily reports showing what client backups were done each day to meet SLA requirements.  ? Handled help desk tickets for TSM data recovery to file servers.  ? Worked with teammates to solve difficult TSM issues  ? Trained teammates in TSM and Offsite processes  ? Used multiple ticketing systems such as managenow and maximo for metrics purposes  ? Worked in 12-hour shifts to handle TSM issues 24/7 for customers worldwide  ? Performed disaster recovery (DR) tests for all customers yearly  ? Worked with Oracle, Exchange and SQL DBAs to ensure Databases work properly  ? Looked over TAM 6.1, TIM 5.1 and TDS 6.2 to be familiar with the technology    Systems Administrator  ? Performed backup and recovery administration utilizing Arcserve for Exchange servers  ? Executed backup and recovery administration utilizing TSM for data servers  ? Performed daily tape rotation using 2-300 tape towers sending out and receiving tapes from off site.  ? Installed and configured TSM server  ? Handled help desk tickets for TSM data recovery to file servers.  ? Used TEC to monitor and handle events in TSM  ? Worked with IBM Boulder Tech support to fix TSM internal communication issues.  ? Built and administrated Windows NT4, Windows 2000, 2003 servers  ? Installed Citrix Metaframe on users' systems and assisted them in connecting  ? Implemented Remedy on helpdesk PCs and assisted in working trouble tickets  ? Utilized VMWare to consolidate servers  ? Worked on various issues of LAN/WAN connectivity.  ? Knowledge of IBM Tivoli software.    Helpdesk / PC Support  ? Built and maintained Deskside support help desk for Consolidated Freightways  ? Constructed and wired PC imaging lab with server and ability to image 50 PCs at once  ? Created automated PC imaging process to quickly and efficiently image PCs  ? Used Wise Installer software to create custom software packages used in the imaging process.  ? New build process also recognized by IBM internal group    Software Distribution  ? Created software packages and custom MS updates using C code compiler  ? Created VMWare images of Win2k and Win Xp to test the software packages  ? Utilized the VMWare tools to add or subtract software (SPs, MS updates, etc.) as necessary  ? Tested the new software packages on multiple OS platforms from the client website portal via VPN  ? Deployed to client systems through website utilizing IBM's software delivery ISSI tool  ? Performed IBM change management for each software package to keep track of charges to the customer  ? Conducted process management to keep our package creation and deployment process streamlined and efficient  ? Remotely trained and monitored the work of the Argentina software team  ? Backed up team lead in handling daily team operations    DCA Administration (Delivery Compliance Administrator)  ? Clients included AMEX, CIGNA, Welch-Allyn, VF Corp, Xcel, Disney, Kaiser Permanente and GAP accts. in accordance with GSD331 security standards  ? Monitor the security of commercial servers using tools such as VSA (managing event logs, systematic attack detection, health check status, etc.).  ? Work with commercial delivery teams as well as the system administrators to provide best practice service for all VSA/DCA administered commercial accounts.  ? Performed GSD331 server acceptance process accepting more than 1000 servers for IBM DCA  ? Executed DCA patching process distributing Microsoft OS security patches using VSA process  ? Worked with L2 teams to create and administer GPOs to control health checking on servers  ? Accomplished quarterly health check remediation on servers from all accts. using the WRS (Web Reporting Server)  ? Achieved acct transitions as acct focal for CIGNA, Welch-Allyn, and Xcel accounts  ? Assisted with health check remediation on other accts using spreadsheets  ? Trained other team members on the DCA server acceptance and health check remediation processes  ? Responsible for server decomm process for all accts and SA&D process.  ? Responsible for maintaining the VSA tool on 3200 servers in the Disney network. Systems Administrator / PC Support Vinelife Church - Boulder, CO April 2003 to April 2008 Support Windows 2000/XP/Vista Intel infrastructure  ? Migrated desktops from Windows 2000 to Windows XP.  ? Administer Windows 2000/2003 servers.  ? Maintain user accounts in Windows and Novell.  ? Resolve 95% of end user problems and questions by use of remote tools.  ? Configure and maintain Windows XP with SP, patches, Antivirus, and Spy ware removal tools.  ? Conducted migration from Windows networking environment to Novell 6.5 with Virtual Office (VO)  ? Installed Linux firewall, VOIP phone system, Cisco gigabit switches, and wireless network.  ? Designed and built the complete network LAN/WAN infrastructure with Cisco switches and routers  ? Replaced satellite internet with T1 shared with VOIP phone system  ? Installed and support 25 IP camera security system  ? Installed and maintain a project management db web server  ? Installed CheckPoint security gateway to protect whole network Education AS in Computer Science Western Business College - Broomfield, CO short time Pioneer Pacific College - Wilsonville, OR Skills Aix, Linux, Unix, Unix/aix, Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Tcp/ip, Citrix, Dhcp, Mpls, Tcp, Vmware, Ms office, Windows 7, Ms exchange, Ms office 2010, Office 2010, System Administrator, System Admin Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/craig-lorenz/5/b4a/1b9 Additional Information SKILLS    ? Active Directory  ? MS Lync  ? MS Office 2010-365  ? Citrix  ? VMWare 4, 4.1, 5.0  ? TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS  ? Windows 7, 10, 2003, 2008, 2012  ? Networking Protocols  ? Cloud Computing  ? MS Exchange  ? MPLS  ? PC / Server Hardware  ? Network Management  ? Unix/AIX/Linux  ? Firewalls