Network technician/ JR. System Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> technician/ JR. System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network technician/ JR. System Administrator - STRATIX COOPERATION INCORPORATED Lilburn, GA Work Experience Network technician/ JR. System Administrator STRATIX COOPERATION INCORPORATED - Norcross, GA February 2017 to Present NORCROSS GA  Configure, build, manage, deploy and support for hardware, software and virtual servers across Stratix environment. Coordinate deployment and implementation and facilitate activity to ensure projects are implemented successfully to meet deadline.  Network technician/ JR. System Administrator 02/2017 - Present ? Manage and deploy medium and large projects involving multiple platforms and groups ? Coordinate and manage activity to develop, deploy and implement new hardware and software ? Perform troubleshooting and resolve hardware, software and project issues and make applicable recommendation to prevent future reoccurrence ? Install, configure, and use ServiceNow, Freshdesk, and Zendesk ticketing system to respond to Incident Management /end-users requisitions ? Perform upgrades to existing systems and application as require from security and application standpoint ? Configure and provide support for virtual servers via VMware Vsphere 5.5, HyperV ? Configure and support HP Bade chassis and Blades servers ? Perform and coordinate install and implementation of software to comply with user's requirement.  ? Perform network setup including network cards teaming, fiber configuration teaming and storage configuration via EMC SAN and DSAD ? Install and configure client specific application such as Legato Networker, Qlogic and EMC storage ? Performed multi-node and cross platform clustering in Window environment ? Perform troubleshooting such as leading problem-solving efforts involving outside vendors and other support personnel and/or organizations.  ? Installed and configured Active Directory, SCCM, DNS, DHCP environment and managed and managed user and group accounts on the Network ? Provided third level support to Stratix's preferred customers Worldwide and employees with desktops, laptops, projectors and other products ? Provided hardware and software support on Win 2007/2010 and internal applications along with office 365 ? Applied drilled down diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigated causes, and recommended solutions. Configured VPN to provide remote access to network resources for all remote users via Authenex /RSA tokens - implemented security with IP/Sec, firewall and proxy servers System Administrator T. H PROPERTIES - Haysville, PA June 2013 to January 2017 HAYSVILLE, PA  Setup, deployed and maintain client networks, backups, security, servers, firewalls, Hardware (laptop, desktop and servers), Software, printers, and email on all platforms.  System Administrator 06/2013 - 01/2017 ? Setup, configured, deployed and monitored windows server 2003/2008 Exchange 2007/2010 and windows base systems. Performed backup maintenance and data restoration. Configure roles and group policies ? Provided on-site and remote technical support using tools for standard configurations of workstations, laptops, operating systems, software, hardware, printers, and peripherals ? Perform hardware and software upgrade on existing machines including removal of memory, hard drives, video cards, power supplies, software installation ? Monitored and performed daily, weekly and monthly scheduled (maintenance) tasks and perform necessary interventions and identified problems to be investigated if necessary ? Adhered to IT Service Management processes and procedures to ensure a stable computing environment (i.e. Change Control, Incident Management, Problem Management, etc.) ? Provided third level technical support, which includes centralized incident and request handling for customers and application of analytical skills to identify root cause and quickly determine the resolution.  ? Provided email support for users using Lotus Notes, Microsoft Outlook and HTTP accounts ? Installed and configured network security software with client including encryption. Monitored and supported internal network security, including adding/deleting users and shard permission and TCP/IP ? Setup, configured and deployed network hardware such as routers, switches and firewall including adding rules, NAT and ports ? Desktop/Laptop hardware/software installation and configuration, including transferring of user profiles ? Provided testing for new equipment and products for compatibility with current hardware / network ? Provided phone support for urgent issues and onsite hardware/software support such as installing system board (motherboard), hard drives, power supply, memory, processors and peripherals. Network technician PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INCORPORATED - Newark, NJ January 2002 to June 2013 NEWARK, NJ  Provide technical and database support to Prudential's internal and external user throughout North America  Network technician 01/2002 - 06/2013 ? Created and managed user accounts via Active Directory environment ? Provided third level support to Riordan preferred customers Worldwide and employees with desktops, laptops, projectors and other products ? Provided hardware and software support on Win95/98/2000/ME/XP/Vista and internal applications ? Applied drilled down diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigated causes, and recommended solutions ? Configured VPN to provide remote access to network resources for all remote users via Authenex /RSA tokens - implemented security with IP/Sec, firewall and proxy servers.  ? Troubleshoot and resolve issues for remote access, telecom, hardware, and software including industry specific applications, MS Windows, UNIX/mainframe based and DOS based applications, user network access, Compaq, HP and Dell laptops, desktops, PDA's, cell phones, and other handheld products.  ? Remotely access and manipulate Linux server via SSH and telnet ? Handled clients' systems failure over the telephone and remotely log into systems via Windows Live Meeting ? Tracks status of inquiry resolution by checking with referred resource and facilitating resolution Education Master of Business Administrator in Project Management Walden University - Minneapolis, MN December 2018 Master of Science in Information System Management in Information System Management University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ June 2014 Bachelor of Science in Computer Technology in Computer Technology Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA June 2007 Associate Degree in Computer / Network Engineering in Computer / Network Engineering C. H.I Institute - Broomall, PA July 2002 Skills Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Windows