Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network and Systems Engineer Farmington Hills, MI Full-time employee, with 8 years of experience in Network and Systems Administration, seeking other opportunities in my field. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer The Henry Ford Museum - Dearborn, MI October 2017 to Present • Hired on as a contractor at The Henry Ford Museum of American Innovation (THF), in Dearborn, MI.  • I work in the Network Engineering department of Information Technology Services.  • My duties include management of IT server, network, storage, phone and backup infrastructures.  • Now hired full-time, I am also be involved in the engineering and design of server and network infrastructure.  • Duties and administration: vCenter 6.5, Exchange 365, HPE 3PAR SAN, Cisco and HPE/Aruba network infrastructure, Wireless AP, Avaya VoIP, Veeam 9.5 and Veritas 2016 tape backup. Network Administrator The Macomb Group, Inc. - Sterling Heights, MI August 2011 to September 2017 • Cisco network administration comprised of managed Layer 2 & 3 switches, VLANs, WAP clusters, 18 MPLS connected branch sites, and ASA internet gateway with VPN  • Network operations center (NOC) software management (SevOne 5.4 appliance)  • Manage and monitor a VMware vCenter 5.5, three-host server cluster  • Manage a Windows 2008 to 2012 R2 Enterprise server environment consisting of domain controllers, terminal servers, file servers, print servers, document management, IIS, FTP, Exchange, MSSQL, NetApp Filers, and tape backup  • Active Directory, Powershell, GPO and Exchange 2010 management for 350+ users  • Microsoft Windows 7 to 10 and Office 2007 to 2016 desktop support  • Manage Microsoft and other vendor software licensing and renewal  • Manage backup procedures for BackupExec, Doubletake, Veeam and Acronis Cloud BaaS  • Vipre Business and BitDefender GravityZone antivirus server and client administration  • Websense, Barracuda and Proofpoint spam firewall administration  • Verizon Wireless account administrator for 350+ devices  • Assist vendor with management and deployment of NEC VoIP phone systems  • Experience using Polycom, LifeSize and Cisco video conferencing equipment  • Diagnose, repair and deploy new HP server and end user hardware  • Travel required to branch locations several times per year  • Liaison contact for technology vendors  • Assist help desk technicians with common end-user issues Technology Services Office Depot - Southfield, MI September 2010 to August 2011 • Diagnose and repair common computer issues (hardware or software)  • On-site backup and migration of old data to new PCs  • Assist customers in the sale of technology products and protection plans  • Manage the weekly price changes and displays in my department  • Backup cashier, auditing of registers, and general stocking Security Guard W.M. Davis Security - Livonia, MI February 2008 to September 2010 • Patrolled front desk during day and employee entrance at night  • Answered and directed phone calls during business hours.  • Performed surveillance around the perimeter of the facility via camera system and active patrol.  • Contacted emergency services when necessary.  • Assisted contract workers on-site when applicable. Midnight Clerk 7-Eleven Food Stores - Livonia, MI July 2007 to February 2008 • Performed various stocking and cleaning duties within the store.  • Operated a cash register.  • Greeted and assisted customers entering the store.  • Sold tobacco and alcohol products after checking photo ID.  • Handled food orders as they arrived from suppliers. Education Associate in CIS Network Administration Henry Ford Community College - Dearborn, MI 2013 Certificate in Cisco Networking Academy Henry Ford Community College - Dearborn, MI 2013 Pre-Engineering Schoolcraft College - Livonia, MI 2003 to 2006 High School Diploma Redford Union High School - Redford, MI 1999 Skills A+ Hardware and Software, Network+, Cisco CCNA, Network Administration, Systems Administration, PC and Server Technician, Linux and SAN Administration, VBS and Powershell scripting (7 years), Active Directory, VMware vCenter 4.0-6.5 (7 years), Exchange 2010 and 365 (7 years), Cisco Systems (7 years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA September 2013 to September 2016 Cisco Certified Network Associate Additional Information • Awarded Phi Theta Kappa membership while attending Schoolcraft College for maintaining good academic standing (3.93 GPA with 4.00 in Math and Science)  • Graduated with honors from HFCC with a 3.98 final GPA  • Brand Ambassador for Extraordinary Sales Performance, Office Depot, November 2010