Network Administrator Assistant - Mac Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Assistant - Mac <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Assistant - Mac Administrator - Convent of the Sacred Heart Ansonia, CT • 11 years of IT experience including Lead IT Support role in an educational environment  • Desktop installation, Configuration, Management, Support and Refresh  • Server installation, Configuration, Maintenance and updates  • Excellent troubleshooting skills with both hardware and software  • Ability to analyze a problem and come up with a solution  • Professional customer relation skills and a team oriented focus  • In-depth knowledge of Windows OS, macOS and iOS Work Experience Network Administrator Assistant - Mac Administrator Convent of the Sacred Heart - Greenwich, CT April 2008 to Present • Fully responsible for IT support and maintenance of our 1-1 Laptop Program for students, faculty and staff laptops.  • Responsible for supporting and configuring classrooms with AV, Apple TV and Smart board units and portable devices including iPads and smart phones within the established SLA's  • Building new Desktops, Laptops, Printers and maintaining equipment.  • Getting quotes from Vendors and processing Purchase Orders for IT devices.  • Maintaining up to date inventory.  • Proficient working with Apple Products.  • Manage jamf for Device Enrollment and Self Service  • Involved in the migration install migrate break/fix troubleshoot to win 7/10, with rollout of new Laptops and PC's.  • Responsible for school events that require AV assistance year round.  • Installing new software in users' PC's and supporting/troubleshooting their software. As well as, upgrading devices to their latest versions.  • Prep and Install Hardware, Software and Proctor AP Language Exams  • New Employee Onboarding full cycle.  • Active Directory, jamf, Google Suite, Apple School Manager and Adobe CC Console administration. Computer Field Service Engineer Lead Unisys - Shelton, CT December 2005 to March 2008 • Respond to customer support issues in a clear and organized manner, documenting all communications accurately, and scheduling service calls  • Troubleshooting hardware and software issues.  • Repairing and/or replacing damaged hardware.  • Extensive travel throughout Connecticut and some client locations in New York. Education Naugatuck Valley Community-Technical College Porter and Chester Institute - Stratford, CT Skills Mac, Mac os, Windows 7, Windows server 2003, Exchange, Microsoft office, Active directory, Citrix, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Wins, Dns, Network administration, Android, Ios, Technical support, Admin support, Printers Additional Information Areas of Expertise  • Desktop Support & Administration  • Level 1, 2 and 3 technical support for end users  • Network Administration. Knowledge of TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, WINS  • Backup Administration  • Active Directory Administration, Group Policy, Create & maintain user accounts and permissions in Active Directory, Exchange Server Maintenance and email administration, G Suite console Administrator  • Jamf Pro Admin Support    Technical Proficiencies  • OS Platforms: Windows 7/Win 8/Win 10. Thorough knowledge in troubleshooting  • Mac OS X 10.10/10.11/10.12/10.13/10.14  • Windows Server 2003/2008/2016  • SMART Board Software & Hardware Support  • AV Equipment Expert Support  • Microsoft Office 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016 Avast Business Antivirus, VMware, Adobe CS Suite Admin, Google Apps, Citrix, " Zebra" ticketing system, uniFLOW Management System  • Hardware: DELL, APPLE, HP, LENOVO, HP, Canon- Servers, Desktops and Laptops, copier and printers  • Mobile Device setup/configuration: Thorough knowledge and experience in configuring iOS and Android devices which includes setting up email accounts, Calendars, apps etc.