Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Redmond, OR Work Experience Systems Administrator Bend Surgery Center - Bend, OR September 2015 to August 2019 All system administration duties: managing computer and user accounts, building domain servers, managing workstations, etc.  2-man IT Department with my boss and myself splitting duties. He did mainly the network management with the firewalls and routers, and I maintained the servers and workstations. I answered calls and provide support on help desk duties also. Field Engineer/Help Desk GreenLoop IT Solutions - Bend, OR July 2014 to April 2015 Mainly working helpdesk performing general helpdesk duties - answer phones, work trouble tickets.  Some field work with opportunity for more to come. Visit customer site for maintenance of workstations and servers. Systems Administrator Advantage Dental - Redmond, OR January 2009 to July 2013 Lead System Admin for rapidly expanding infrastructure. There are currently 26 clinics all over Oregon that are tied back to the headquarters in Redmond. In charge of getting all computer equipment ready for deployment using images created with Acronis.  Data Protection Manager 2012 is used for backups. Almost all servers have been upgraded to Windows Server 2008 R2, and all workstation computers currently run Windows 7. 150 touchscreen computers are used in the dental offices for the dentists to look up patient charts and plan treatment. I keep all the servers up and running, handle all Active Directory functions, and I also function as one of the two Helpdesk people.    Duties and accomplishments include:  Designed, implemented, and maintained a 5-Node Hyper-V farm with an iSCSI NAS for storage.  Designed, implemented, and maintained backup system first using Symantec Backup Exec, and then performed migration to System Center Data Protection Manager.  Designed, implemented, and maintained System Center Configuration Manager 2007 deployment, then was in-charge of upgrading to 2012 2 years later.  Designed, implemented, and maintained helpdesk ticket tracking system using Web HelpDesk software.  Responsible for migration to Forefront Endpoint Protection for our antivirus standard, moving away from TrendMicro.  Issue and track security badges. Program doors to allow or deny individual access. Program alarm system to allow individuals to arm or disarm building alarm system.    Responsible for full range of helpdesk duties.    Supervised interns from COCC.    Many more duties that I am willing to discuss. Network Engineer/Systems Administrator Daystar Television - Bedford, TX June 2007 to May 2008 Network Engineer and Systems Administrator for 30 + servers. Involved in critical project that saved our Exchange Email infrastructure from collapsing due to lack of space issues. Used virtual machines and had an NFS share back to the Isilon SAN where the virtual machine disk files (vmdk) were housed while we wiped the old Dell EMC cluster and added more storage space. Learned how to configure and manage the EMC SAN and the VMWare ESX software. Migrated the network away from the old MDaemon spam filter to the Google owned Postini spam filtering service for incoming emails. Later configured the outgoing emails to go through Postini as well to monitor for internally compromised machines being used as spam relays. Instrumental in implementing Symantec Ghost Solution Suite 2.5 as our computer imaging solution which saved about 4 man hours per computer. Also was responsible for upgrading and re-activating the Trendmicro Virus Scan software that expired thus insuring the company against viruses that could compromise the network security. Helpdesk / Systems Administrator Federal Aviation Administration - Fort Worth, TX May 2004 to June 2007 Responsible as system admin for creating user and computer accounts in Active Directory, organizing the OU structure, creating network shares, and assigning correct log-in scripts. Used Backup Exec to restore files from tape, and monitored the virus scan server along with various other duties.  Worked as helpdesk and desktop support to answer phones, create tickets, work at user's desks, and generally do everything needed to insure that the personnel had working equipment on which to do their work.  Also worked as network support to help troubleshoot connectivity issues to the servers through the network lines and routers. Education B.S. in Network and Communications Management DeVry University - Irving, TX February 2000 Associates Degree in Electronic Engineering in Electronic Engineering ITT Technical Institute - Arlington, TX March 1991 Skills Exchange, Tcp/ip, Backup exec, It infrastructure, Lan/wan, Tcp, Vmware, Symantec, Security, Technical support, Optimization, Microsoft windows, Windows xp, Microsoft windows xp, Microsoft exchange, Lan, Microsoft office, Hardware repair, Organizational development, Mentoring, Active Directory, SCCM, System Administrator, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ymuytswour6rldw8 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/urjtgg8s9toiysrr Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/u7uaedxpvvmfg4-e Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ptcpdcwrmcmuxi0h Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills Summary  Accomplished Systems Administrator with 10 years of experience managing server infrastructures and data-center operations.  Effectively plan, install, configure, and optimize the IT Infrastructure to consistently achieve high availability and performance.  Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development and systems/ network optimization.  Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter comfortable managing systems, projects, and teams in a range of IT environments.    LAN/WAN Administration  Project Management  Workflow Planning  Productivity Improvement  Technical Support  Systems Installation, Configuration, and Upgrading  Security Solutions  NOS Patches and updates  Training and Mentoring    Experience with the following: Microsoft Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, Microsoft Office 2007/2010/2013, Microsoft Server 2008, 2008R2, 2012, Microsoft Exchange 2010, Office 365, PC Hardware repair and configuration, TCP/IP and LAN/WAN configuration, VMWARE ESX 3.5, Symantec Backup Exec, Trendmicro Antivirus SMB, many other Microsoft Products.