Sr. Systems Engineer Sr. Systems Engineer Sr. Systems Engineer - CACI Fuquay-Varina, NC Work Experience Sr. Systems Engineer CACI April 2017 to Present ?NetApp OnCommand System Manager 8.3-9.1, NetApp OnCommand Insight 7.3  ? Cisco UCS 3.1 C-Series, Cisco Nexus (LAN/SAN)  ? Microsoft Windows Server 2008-2016  ? VMware vSphere 6.0/ESX(i)  Administer and maintain VMware VCenter and corresponding NetApp storage resources. Daily tasks include reviewing syslog and SNMP messages for clustered and non-clustered NetApp filers, VMware vSphere 6.0, and CISCO fiber channel switches. Troubleshoot performance issues and service outages for virtual/storage/fiber channel/Ethernet infrastructure including VMware High Availability, NetApp storage aggregate/volume/qtree/LUN capacity. Tasks also include provisioning storage, virtual hardware, and modifying fiber channel network connectivity for new systems, reviewing vulnerability reports, maintaining patch compliance, collaboration with tenant groups for successful deployment and implementation of systems, and troubleshooting outages. Network Administrator IMG October 2015 to April 2017 Network availability monitoring  ? Troubleshoot and resolve network outages  ? Bring up remote sites  ? LAN/WAN encryption via taclanes  Monitor LAN/WAN connectivity, troubleshoot and resolve outages, coordinate with remote sites for network extensions and manage COMSEC crypto for encrypted LAN/WAN connections. Systems Administrator Joint Special Operations Command June 2009 to 2015 Communications Focal Point    ? Serve as the initial point of contact for resolution of desktop domain/workgroup-related problems in a 3500 user environment.  ? Troubleshoot, research, diagnose, document, and resolve technical issues surrounding desktop network and endpoints.  ? Processed telephony correspondence, walk-ins inquires and web generated Remedy requests for support, to eliminate any interruptions of the mission.  ? Provided testing and analysis of computer software and hardware malfunctions, in order to resolve physical and logical processing problems.  ? Examined and resolved a variety of issues, which include LAN and WAN networking problems.  Extensive knowledge and skills in the following: Window OS Systems; Cisco Meeting Place Collaborative Tools Suite, Dame Ware Remote Application, Windows 2000/2003 Active Directory, Windows 2003 Terminal Server Virtual Networking Computing (VNC) and Windows Remote Services, File Transfer Protocol Services (FTP), Windows Office Applications assistance and troubleshooting, Virtual Private Network troubleshooting (VPN), Microsoft Disk Operating System (DOS), and TCP/IP LAN and WAN troubleshooting skills. Systems/ Network Administrator United States Navy - Norfolk, VA March 2005 to June 2009 Responsible for updating software patches and all Information Assurance related configurations (Retina)  ? Configure and maintain network monitoring systems (Ipswitch, What's up Gold, Kiwi Syslog Server)  ? Consult with executive personnel regarding equipment application statuses.  Responsible for the administration of the HP-UX (10.20) system in a Windows environment.  ? Administrate Microsoft Windows 2003 Servers (Active Directory) Exchange 2003, ISA 2004, and Microsoft XP Workstations for 325 users.  ? Responsible for the test and deployment of all applicable software patches for the Windows systems and applications.  ? Responsible for information protection through Symantec Backup Exec (12.5)  ? Help Desk engineer responsible for the prompt isolation of user outages that included over the phone troubleshooting of Microsoft Office 2003 Suite, roaming profile issues, network connectivity, Network cable deployment, and hardware failures.  ? Deployment of workstations and laptops for new employees, configuring customized systems, ensured network connectivity and the installation and tested associated hardware and software peripherals. Assistant EKMS Manager United States Navy - Norfolk, VA March 2005 to June 2009 Inventory and secure COMSEC key tape and electronic transfer devices: KG-175, KG-84, CYZ-10.  ? Update, load, and destroy key material. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology and Security Campbell University 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (9 years), LAN (8 years), COMSEC (5 years), VPN (5 years), EXCHANGE (4 years), Vmware, System Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Certifications/Licenses SY0-401 CompTIA Security+ April 2017 to April 2020 NS0-159 NetApp Certified Data Administrator, ONTAP October 2018 to January 2021 VCP6.5-DCV July 2019 to Present VMware Certified Professional 6.5 Data Center Virtualization Additional Information Systems Engineer and Network Administrator with an active Top Secret / SCI Polygraph security clearance who is experienced in the deployment and ongoing operation of quality system, data and networking solutions. I have an in-depth understanding of the administration of sophisticated IT solutions. An effective team member who is confident, resourceful and respected by peers, customers and executive management. I am able to see the broad picture of both technical and business environments.    Technical Skills:  System Management  Log Review and Maintenance  ? Windows 2012 Server/Active Directory  SharePoint, Exchange  Troubleshoot/Resolve Systems' Outages via OSI Model    Information Security  Patch and configuration management  ? IAVM, CVEs. USN IAVA Manager  Information Assurance/Policy Enforcement  ? DISA STIGs, DoD IA Directives    Network Administration  Infrastructure Support  ? VPN, LAN, WAN    Electronic Key Management System (EKMS)  EKMS Manager  ? COMSEC Key tape, CIK inventory, use, rotation, and destruction