Network / Server Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> / Server <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network / Server Administrator - Allied Moulded Products Hillsdale, MI Solutions-oriented Manager and Network Infrastructure Professional with a proven track record of effective systems engineering and administration demonstrated through 26 years of experience designing and implementing a diverse array of network devices.  ? Broad knowledge and success in a network system development environment, working with servers, nas, sans, switches, routers, workstations, and wireless devices to provide secure and efficient Wide and Local Area infrastructures.  ? Extensive knowledge and education with Windows Operating systems, attaining 3 MCSE, and 2 Comptia A+, and Network + Certifications. Expertise with Compaq, Dell, IBM, and HP servers.  ? Strong background collaborating between customers and engineering functions to resolve problems and determine solutions that improve productivity.  ? Skilled manager and project leader; able to direct multiple tasks effectively and master innovative software and tools. Work Experience Network / Server Administrator Allied Moulded Products - Bryan, OH January 2019 to Present • HPe Procurve and Aruba Switches  • Microsoft Hyper-V virtual servers  • Sonicwall Security  • Symantec Endpoint Protection  • Riverbed / Xirrus Wireless  • Manufacturing ERP System(s)  • Administration of Domain Controllers including Active Directory, Group Policies, DNS, DHCP, NTFS Security  • Office 365 Exchange Administration  • File and Print Servers  • 2nd level Helpdesk Support  • Implemented and Managed new ServiceDesk Solution  • Implemented and Managed new Network and Data Center monitoring Network Administrator Promedica Regional Coldwater Hospital October 2016 to January 2019 • Cisco Catalyst, Nexus, NX-OS Switches  • Cisco Routers  • Cisco Ironport Web Security and Email Security  • Cisco ASA Firewalls  • Cisco Prime Infrastructure Enterprise Management and Monitoring  • Cisco Wireless Controllers with 140+ Access Points  • VMware Virtual Server and Hosts support  • Thin Client Enterprise support  • Administration of Domain Controllers including Active Directory, Group Policies, DNS, DHCP  • Administration of all Cisco Network Infrastructure  • Helpdesk support including all hardware Systems Analyst Paulding County Hospital August 2015 to October 2016 • Single point of contact for all Information Technology support  • VMware Virtual Server and Hosts support  • Epic EMR Support  • Hipaa Security Officer  • Administration of the VMware virtual and physical server environment  • Administration of Exchange 2013  • Administration of Active Directory and Group Policies  • Administration of all Cisco Network Infrastructure  • Implementation and Administration of Network and Data Center monitoring  • Administration of Fortinet Firewall with multiple connections to other Healthcare organizations  • Helpdesk Management and workstation support Network and Data Center Consultant Metalink Technologies May 2015 to August 2015 specializing in Microsoft Hyper-V and VMware virtual environments Sr. Windows Engineer LOGOS COMMUNICATIONS August 2014 to May 2015 • Managing and Troubleshooting customers Microsoft 2000, 2003, 2008 Small Business Servers  • Managing and Troubleshooting Microsoft 2000, 2003, and 2008 Standard and Enterprise Servers  • Managing and Troubleshooting Windows 2000 Professional, Windows XP Professional, and Windows Vista Client Operating Systems  • Implemented Zenith Managed Services along with Adventnet MSP Center Helpdesk and Monitoring solutions with automated administration alerts and company reports of server and desktop status  • Managing all Information Technology licensing and all maintenance contracts associated with customer Technologies.  • Managing and troubleshooting Server backup solutions such as Symantec Backup Exec (multiple versions)  • Managing routers, switches, network printers, and all other network aspects for 200 clients I.T. Systems Manager Martinrea International September 2010 to August 2014 • Experience with IBM AS400 servers  • Experience with MRP Systems Ex. CMS by Epicor  • Experience with Label Printers and Hand Scanners  • Manage, Install and Upgrade servers, including e-mail, print, application and backup servers and their associated operating systems and software.  • Plans, designs, and implements Martinrea's LAN's, WAN, and network topology through development of test, troubleshooting and operational procedures.  • Manage security solutions, including firewall, anti-virus, and intrusion detection systems.  • Manage all network hardware and equipment, including routers, switches, hubs, and UPS's.  • Oversee installation, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of end user workstation hardware, software, and peripheral devices.  • Ensure network connectivity of all workstations.  • Administer all equipment, hardware and software upgrades.  • Perform network design and capacity planning.  • Conduct research on network products, services, protocols, and standards in support of network procurement and development efforts.  • Interact and negotiate with vendors, outsourcers, and contractors to secure network products and services.  • Develop, implement and maintain policies, procedures and associated training plans for network resource administration, appropriate use, and disaster recovery.  • Practice network asset management, including maintenance of network component inventory and related documentation and technical specifications information.  • Establish service level agreements with end users.  • Establish policy and procedure for creation of Administer and maintain end user accounts, permissions, and access rights.  • Perform server and security audits.  • Monitor and test network performance and provide network performance statistics and reports.  • Recommend, schedule, and perform network improvements, upgrades, and repairs.  • Managed and provided guidance to junior members of the team. Sr. Network / Windows Engineer COMPUCOM April 2010 to September 2010 • Installed, configured, maintained, monitored, and troubleshot servers and related equipment  • Ensured required user applications and connectivity were functional and met business requirements  • Setup of domain controllers - migration from Windows 2000 to Windows 2008 R2  • Managed and administered Active Directory, Group Policy Objects and other domain admin functionality  • Monitored server performance including storage systems, memory, and processor usage  • Managed and administered backup processes and systems to ensure data and system integrity for servers and related equipment  • Performed maintenance on servers to include patching, firmware upgrades, hardware replacement and OS installs  • Accurately documented all repairs, installs, moves, adds, and changes according to NG processes and procedures  • Collaborated with LAN technicians/ network administrators as necessary  • Maintained an inventory of all servers and related equipment  • Liaison with third-party support and equipment vendors  • Project planning and implementation Network Administrator / Network Engineer PROGRESSIVE DYNAMICS March 2008 to November 2009 • Microsoft 2003 Small Business Server  • Microsoft 2000 Server  • Microsoft SQL 2000 Server  • Windows 2000 Professional, Windows XP Professional, and Windows Vista Business Client Operating Systems  • Implemented Network Monitoring solutions with automated administration alerts and company reports of network status  • Managing all Information Technology licensing and all maintenance contracts associated with Technology.  • Managing Retrospect Server backup system for Servers and Client Computers  • Implemented 20 nComputing L230 terminals including Acronis True Image Echo Workstation Disaster Recovery for critical production computers  • Implemented Eset Malware protection network Environment with consolidated management and reporting  • Implemented Fortinet 100a Network Security Solution (Linux hardened OS) - includes Firewall, Intrusion Prevention System, Antivirus, Anti-Spam, Web Filtering, Peer to Peer and Messaging management, Virtual Private Network, and packet level filtering security  • Managing routers, switches, network printers, and 100 Local Area Network Nodes Manager Data Network Services MCR TECHNOLOGIES - Grand Rapids, MI January 2007 to March 2008 • Managing multiple Network Technicians, helpdesk, and coordinating network equipment implementations for Windows and Linux networks  • Designed, Implemented, and Managed Wide Area and Local Area Networks for 85 company networks  • Implemented Network Monitoring solutions with automated administration alerts and company reports of network status  • Developing Windows and Linux Network Security Solutions to enhance the security and stability of the computer systems  • Documenting and managing network maintenance procedures to prevent system downtime and  • Microsoft Exchange 2000 and 2003 servers  • Microsoft Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, and Windows 2003 Server Operating Systems  • Microsoft SQL 2000 and 2005 Database Servers  • Windows 98, NT 4.0, Windows 2000 Professional, Windows XP Professional, and Windows Vista Business Client Operating Systems  • Implemented and Managed backup solutions such as Symantec Backup Exec, Symantec NetBackup, EMC Retrospect, and Computer Associates Arc Serve.  • Malware Solutions such as Computer Associates, McAfee, and Symantec for the Enterprise  • Implementing Network Security Solutions such as Cymphonix, Sonicwall, Watchguard, and Fortinet  • Designing, Coordinating, and Implementing new Servers and Network Infrastructures  • Configuring and Managing Cisco and HP routers, switches, and many other network equipment Information Technology Coordinator ASAMA COLDWATER MANUFACTURING - Coldwater, MI January 2005 to October 2006 • Managed I.T. Network Technicians, assigned responsibilities, trained, and tracked projects  • Recommended, coordinated and performed network improvements on the Asamacm domain and hardware infrastructure.  • Maintained 12 Dell Poweredge 6400, 2550, and 2650 servers, 2 Dell NAS, 150 client workstations, HP Procurve 4000 switches, Cisco 2600 and Watchguard 700 routers and firewalls, and Cisco 340, 350, and Intermec MobileLan Wireless Access Points.  • Administered Windows 2000 Advance Server, Windows 2003 and MS Exchange 2000 servers.  • Supported Active Directory/Group Policy servers managed by Group Policies  • Maintained company inter/intranet running on Microsoft IIS 6.0.  • Set up Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) consisting of 150 nodes.  • Symantec Enterprise Anti-virus and Exchange Security for Email (Spam Filtering)  • Implemented and Maintained Cymphonix Enterprise Spyware/Web Content Filtering gateway.  • Support of Macola Progression / ES MRP/ERP system. Network Consultant SAWYER CONSULTING February 2004 to January 2005 • Designing, implementing, and maintaining Wireless and Ethernet LANs.  • Managed remote software deployment tools including SMS, MOM, Tivoli, Active Directory, and instituted group policies to secure the WAN.  • Enterprise Antivirus, spam, IPS, and Web Content Filtering technologies Technical Analyst / Systems Analyst HAYES-LEMMERZ INTERNATIONAL - Homer, MI June 1999 to February 2004 Interact with internal departments to analyze technical operations and implement new processes and applications for improved productivity. Administer complex network infrastructure independently, including 5 Compaq and Dell servers, 70 Compaq workstations, and a wireless and Ethernet network. Senior Support Specialist SPECTRUM HEALTH HOSPITALS - Grand Rapids, MI January 1999 to June 1999 Provided technical support for IBM and Hewlett-Packard server, workstations, and medical applications. Oversaw the efficiency of the large-area- network infrastructure. Network Engineer CPR/ MICROAGE - Grand Rapids, MI 1997 to 1999 Acted as senior member of network service group, communicating directly with customers at Steelcase International to ensure operability of servers, and workstations.  Acted as technical lead and supervised junior level Network Administrators and support staff. Network Administrator ACTION WHOLESALE - Grand Rapids, MI 1994 to 1997 Resolved daily operational problems for two Novell servers, 50 Windows workstations, and 27 HP Laserjets. Education Associate of Arts degree in Electronic Engineering ITT Technical Institute - Fort Wayne, IN 1991 Skills Security, Network security, System Administrator, Veeam, Vmware, SCCM Additional Information Core Competencies:  I.T. Management ? Network Engineering ? Network Security ? Troubleshooting Skills  VMware and Hyper-V virtual server environments