NOC Analyst, Team Lead NOC Analyst, Team Lead Server Administrator Louisville, KY Plans, implements and optimizes enterprise-level servers and network infrastructure to achieve high- performance of business applications. Utilizes virtualization technology to maximize computing resources. Protects and ensures availability of company data by using security measures, managing backups and monitoring server usage. Maintain positive attitude, offering attention to detail and problem-solving abilities adding value to any organization. Active DOD Security Clearance (2019) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NOC Analyst, Team Lead TCI - TECHNOLOGY CONSULTING INC - Louisville, KY 2018 to Present Team Lead for the Service Monitoring Center (SMC) group that monitors critical networking equipment, servers and applications around the clock in a large enterprise environment. All alarms conditions are logged. When critical thresholds are reached, alerts are created, ticketed and escalated to the proper personnel. Supervises team to ensure established procedures are followed. Implements new methods to increase effectiveness of the team. IT Manager/ Network Administrator MOUNTJOY CHILTON MEDLEY - Louisville, KY 1994 to 2017 Network Administrator  Built and managed 70+ Windows servers in virtualized environment for a multi-location accounting firm. Servers included file, print, e-mail, Citrix XenApp, SQL, backup, document management, and domain controllers as well as numerous special-purpose servers required for multiple accounting software packages. Performed all minor and major software updates with minimal disruptions. Backed up all critical servers nightly. Utilized Microsoft Active Directory Group Policy to help secure and manage firm's computers and servers. Served as member of help desk team, which included on-call rotation for after-hours and weekend tech support. Major accomplishments:    • Completed move from separate physical servers to virtualized server environment, reducing hardware costs and increasing manageability.  • Managed data migration of 6 company mergers, enabling staff to access data next business day after each merger.  • Increased usage of Citrix by optimizing XenApp server farm and moving selected applications exclusively to Citrix. This standardized user experience and eliminated need to update software on local computer.  • Accommodated more than tripling number of servers and amount of storage in past 7-years due to growth and mergers.  • Implemented email message retention policies, reducing risk of litigation.  • Served as sole internal IT personnel, supporting 100+ staff, 4-location organization, managing and handling all IT needs.  • Consolidated data from multiple office servers to centralized server, providing easier access to all client data from any office.  • Performed emergency file server restore, minimizing data loss and downtime. Network Administrator TANON MANUFACTURING, INC - Fremont, CA 1988 to 1994 Accounting Supervisor  Hired as an accounts payable clerk for a Silicon Valley manufacturing company that produced circuit boards. Took on new responsibilities such as Payroll, General Ledger and supervising the other employees in the group.    Within three years was promoted to the newly-created role as the company's Network Administrator. Responsible for all computer systems: servers, workstations, printers, networking gear, backups and all software support. Created customized SQL reports and scripted month-end reporting to run unattended. Ran weekly MRP reports for the production staff. Developed archival methodology for financial and operational data. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science NATIONAL UNIVERSITY - San Jose, CA Associate of Arts in Accounting OHLONE COLLEGE - Fremont, CA Skills SQL (10+ years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years), Citrix XenApp (7 years), Network Management (10+ years), VMWARE VSPHERE (9 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Tax / Accounting Software support (10+ years), Server Administration (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/oleswanson Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ July 2018 to July 2021 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2  Virtualization: VMware vSphere 5.x, 6.x  Remote Access: Citrix XenApp 6.x, 7.x  Backup: Veaam Backup & Replication  Email: Microsoft Exchange  Infrastructure Monitoring: Spectrum, New Relic   Database: Microsoft SQL  Web: Microsoft IIS  Intranet: Microsoft SharePoint  Directory Services: Microsoft Active Directory  Security: Anti-virus, web filtering, white listing and Group Policy  Patch Management: SCCM, WSUS  Networking: DHCP, DNS, Firewall  Accounting Software: CCH, Caseware, Creative Solutions, BNA, Sage (Peachtree), and Intuit (Quickbooks)