Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - ComTec Solutions Le Roy, NY Work Experience Network Administrator ComTec Solutions - Rochester, NY July 2018 to Present Provide onsite and remote support for customers on deployed technologies.  Responsible for providing proactive and reactive services to new and existing customers in support of their IT  infrastructure.  Setup and maintain backup and recovery procedures and documentation on a regular basis  Build, configure, enhance and troubleshoot IT Systems, application deployments and infrastructure up- grades.  Provide hands-on system administration support, system maintenance and operations support.  Fielding calls and supporting IT needs on a wide range of topics that involve extensive customer  interaction  Communicate promptly and effectively with clients and team members  Setup, support, and maintenance of servers, firewalls, switches, and access points including firmware  upgrades  Maintain Virtual Environments  Setup and support of workstations, laptops, network printers, mobile devices and necessary peripheral  devices  Configuration and Maintenance of systems such as Active Directory, Group Policy, DHCP, Subnets, DNS with direction from Systems Engineers  Installing and configuring appropriate software and functions according to specifications  Setup new and maintain current users in required systems  Schedule routine maintenance with customers  Plan client upgrades and refresh recommendations on a regular basis  Provide orientation and guidance to users on how to operate new software and computer equipment  Maintain up to date knowledge and understanding of security risks and best practices for IT Systems  Maintain an up to date calendar and be flexible when needed  Be on time for work, appointments, and meetings  Maintain documentation, inventory, and diagrams as needed Systems Administrator Hurricane Technologies - Avon, NY October 2011 to July 2018 Responsible for day to day systems administration, troubleshooting, ticket resolution, solution  planning, solution implementation, software installation as well as hardware maintenance, performing  system backups and recovery.    Essential Duties & Responsibilities include the following:  Meet or exceed company goals for billable hours and professional development  Provide timely and accurate feedback of support and hardware/software provided  Setup and maintain backup and recovery procedures and documentation on a regular basis  Get support from Systems Engineers when handling advanced backup and recovery needs  Develop and maintain procedures and standards for IT Systems  Build, configure, enhance and troubleshoot IT Systems, application deployments and infrastructure up- grades.  Provide hands-on system administration support, system maintenance and operations support.  Fielding calls and supporting IT needs on a wide range of topics that involve extensive customer  interaction  Communicate promptly and effectively with clients and team members  Setup, support, and maintenance of servers, firewalls, switches, and access points including firmware  upgrades  Setup and support of workstations, laptops, network printers, mobile devices and necessary peripheral  devices  Configuration and Maintenance of systems such as Active Directory, Group Policy, DHCP, Subnets, DNS with direction from Systems Engineers  Installing and configuring appropriate software and functions according to specifications  Setup new and maintain current users in required systems  Schedule routine maintenance with customers  Plan client upgrades and refresh recommendations on a regular basis  Provide orientation and guidance to users on how to operate new software and computer equipment  Maintain up to date knowledge and understanding of security risks and best practices for IT Systems  Maintain an up to date calendar and be flexible when needed  Be on time for work, appointments, and meetings  Maintain Virtual Environments  Maintain documentation, inventory, and diagrams as needed  Maintain Dell TechDirect Certifications (desktop/laptop/server)  Maintain Datto Technician Specialist I  In depth use and understanding of Remote Support Tools, Media Wiki, Autotask, GFI, Webroot, Datto, Allworx and other services offered  Review tech dashboards and react as needed  Work with, teach, learn from, and take direction from team members Client Support Technician Gannett Corporation - Rochester, NY May 2010 to October 2011 Support 100 MAC systems currently in the company  Participated in the move of the companies current Intranet to SharePoint 2007. This included creating  pages and moving information  Use Active Directory to Create and Delete users  Use the IT Support Desk to manage work and track customer issues as per policy.  Claim any unassigned ticket in my area of expertise such as installing software and MAC support n  Deploy and setup new and existing desktop and laptops  Install new and existing hardware to users  Used ticketing system to continually monitor My Dashboard email and voicemail for reported issues n  Ensure PC workstations and MAC's were in working condition Network Engineer Harris Corporation May 2006 to June 2009 n Sole support of all MAC systems currently in the company.  n Supported Senior Executives with multicasting broadcasts and Polycom conferences.  n Ensured servers using windows 2000-2003 were up to date using windows updates  n Participated in the revamp of the companies Intranet. This included transitioning the platform from .net to SharePoint 2007.  n Created accounts and managed user accounts for about 1000 engineers using Active Directory.  n Server administrator for about 20 servers in Data Center  n Led a project for a major upgrade of software used by a key group in the company.  n Responsible for the installation, repair, configuration and preventative maintenance of personal  computers and network equipment for 1000 engineers  n Answered internal inquires, troubleshoots software and hardware failures in person or on the phone.  n Ensured systems and related equipment are in working condition.  n Maintained records on repairs, down time, changes and updates using Remedy.  n Ensured server and PC system tape backups were completed correctly using IBM Tivoli. Help Desk Support LMT Computer Systems November 2005 to May 2006 n Supported clients and field engineers with technical support.  n Researched problems and respond to field engineers and clients requests.  n Assembled workstations and server.  n Worked with clients to remove virus and spyware.  n Worked on developing intranet pages for clients in SharePoint 2003 with HTML and CSS.  n Ensured server and PC system tape backups completed correctly with Symantec Backup Exec Education BS in Information Technology Rochester Institute of Technology May 2007 AS in Computer Information Systems Genesee Community College May 2003 Skills Active Directory, Customer Service, Windows 7, Technical Support, Windows, Microsoft Office, Office365 (3 years), MAC, Vmware, Windows 10, Server 2012, Networking