Senior Service Desk Administrator Senior Service Desk <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Waldorf, MD Highly motivated, solutions-oriented IT professional with 18 years of progressive experience in the Information Technology field with a long list of accomplishments. Capable of working independently and in a team environment to better help the organizational goals. A great communicator with the skills to break down and explain technical terms to non-technical staff. Able to multi-task and keep calm in stressful situations. Constantly looking to make things more efficient and differently not worried by the next big challenge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Service Desk Administrator The Carlyle Group - Washington, DC May 2015 to Present Point of escalation for Service Desk Team providing 2nd and 3rd level support in order to maintain SOX compliance with no deficiencies for all 1,700 staff members in 33 offices.  ? Technical point of contact for Founders of The Carlyle Group.  ? Senior Service Desk Team Lead.  ? Manage and mentor three contractors and one intern on various projects. Lead effort in testing and deploying Windows 10 from Windows 7 throughout the company. Lead effort in upgrading systems from Lenovo Laptops to Microsoft Surface Pro, Surface Book and Surface Laptop.  ? Assisted Engineers in migrating all staff to Office 365 from Office 2016  ? Create and Manage distribution groups and email accounts in Office 365 and Exchange Server 2008 R2. Manage Windows hardware and software through Lansweeper.  ? Manage OS X hardware and software using JAMF Pro.  ? Manage Workstations and Laptops Admin passwords using CyberArk. Manage Microsoft Bitlocker password portal. Manage FileVault passwords using JAMF Pro.  ? Travel to various out of state offices to provide quarterly technical support; operating system upgrades and system upgrades to staff. Work with 3rd party hardware and software vendors to resolve support issues.  ? Configure and install network printer using Printer Logic.  ? Utilize Service Now and Heat ticketing system to manage and monitor incidents and issues reported by users.  ? Train staff on using new hardware devices and software applications.  ? Configure and Troubleshoot WAP using Meraki appliances.  ? Configure Avaya (VOIP) desk phones and Avaya One X softphone communicator for laptops.  ? Assist with Conference Room Setup if needed  ? Create documentation for Standard Operation of Procedures for Service Desk.  ? Purchase, Configure and Support iPhones, iPads and Blackberry devices to synchronize with work and personal email accounts.  ? Rotational on-call weekend support lead. Service Delivery Specialist American Institutes for Research - Washington, DC December 2008 to May 2015 Active Directory Administrator creates folders and set permissions for staff using AD Manager. Microsoft Exchange Account Administrator creates network/email accounts for staff.  ? Provide Tier I, II and III desk-side and remote support for 1600 employees. Site lead for Silver Spring and Frederick Maryland offices providing technical support for more than 100 employees.  ? Diagnose network problems involving a combination of hardware, software, power and communication issues. Respond to all clients requests for technical support by phone, email and interoffice chat service (Microsoft Lync).  ? Create images using Symantec Ghost and Microsoft Deployment Toolkit for systems being deployed to staff onsite and remotely. Perform diagnostic tests and repaired malfunctioning hardware and software.  ? Assisted in rollout of Windows 7 and company-wide projects in Chapel Hill (NC), Silver Spring and Frederick Maryland offices.  ? Lead Mac Support Technician for Service Desk.Team Lead for Service Desk.Technical Support person for Executive Staff. Train and mentored junior staff members..  ? Purchase, Configure and Support iPhones, iPads and Blackberry devices to synchronize with work and personal email accounts.  ? Configure and troubleshoot Cisco VOIP phones for staff members using Cisco Unified CM Administration web portal. Support and troubleshoot Cisco WebEx/Video Conferencing Services.  ? Provide 24/7 on call support on a rotating basis. Jr. Network Administrator Gensler - Washington, DC October 2006 to November 2008 Maintained regional computer asset management system. Created new user accounts in Active Directory  ? Supported 450+ users in local and remote offices to keep downtime to a minimum.  ? Created IT staff FAQ for users and IT staff based on most common request for support. Helped test Firmwide rollout of Microsoft application Softgrid with Office 2007.  ? Performed nightly tape back-ups (Quantum Scalar i500 using LTO3 and LTO4 tapes) as directed by SR. Network Administrator for the entire region. Used Brightstor Arcserve as backup software.  ? Pushed out software using Landesk application. Used Salesforce software to receive and track user request.  ? Traveled to remote offices when hands on support are needed. Created a checklist for the remote offices to verify everything was in proper working order before leaving the office.  ? Participated in relocation project for the office. Assigned to verify that all computers were moved to the correct location and able to get onto the network without issue.  ? Assisted Sr. Network Administrator in setting up wireless network for clients. Helped install upgrade network from HP Pro Curve switches to Cisco 2900G series.  ? Setup VPN on local systems and create batch file for server access. Created quality assurance document to ensure users get all software needed and everything is working correctly.  ? Set up teleconference, web conferencing (Conference America) and videoconference (LifeSize) meetings across the region.  ? Helped create and document regions first backup and disaster recovery plan with Sr. Network Administrator  ? Build and configured Dell Power Edge Windows 2003 file and VM server. Setup multiple virtual systems to reduce the number of physical server in the office.  ? Assisted in the region wide rollout of VOIP (Shoretel) phone system.Assisted in the region wide rollout of Microsoft Outlook 2003.  ? Assisted in the setup and relocation of Tampa Office. Help Desk Technician/ Network Analyst WDG Architecture PLLC - Washington, DC December 2000 to October 2006 Resolved network systems issues and recommended upgrades and/or improvements.Provided system support for various operating systems including WinNT, Win 2000, and WinXP.  ? Administered security policies to users; change staff accounts remotely and internally. Administered system-wide support in a Microsoft exchange server environment.  ? Performed routine system administration in Active Directory. Installed, maintain and troubleshoot computer network hardware.  ? Provided tier I, II & III level of phone support technical support. Created new user accounts, add computers to a domain  ? Retrieved and store contacts, PST files and calendars within Microsoft office.. Trained new employees on all network procedures.Provided disaster recovery of hard drives.  ? Configured bare bone workstations to complete systems that meet office standards. Administered the latest updates and security patches on all workstations and laptops  ? Purchased computer hardware and software; maintained an inventory database of all desktops and software within the company Education MS in Information Assurance University Of Maryland 2013 BS in Computer Science BOWIE STATE UNIVERSITY 2003 Certifications/Licenses Apple Certified Mac Technician Present