Contractor Contractor Contractor Cicero, NY Highly motivated network engineer looking to work in a dynamic environment utilizing my 20+ years of professional experience and strong technical knowledge to enhance and maintain an organization's data communications systems. Driven by architecting solutions for all complex connectivity requirements while keeping a strong sense of meeting the business' needs in every decision made. Work Experience Contractor Avenu Insights & Analytics May 2019 to August 2019 Joined datacenter migration and consolidation project as advanced networking support. Worked directly with numerous customers to validate and ensure their access to systems. Responsible for implementing infrastructure at satellite offices for Internet and datacenter access.  Relevant Contributions:  Configuration and implementation of the following:  • L2/L3 requirements on Aruba 8320 and Nexus 5000 core and Aruba 2930, HP Procurve and Cisco Catalyst 2960-X access switches.  • Cisco 4300 series routers for Internet and MPLS access, legacy Cisco 2800 and 3800 series routers for migration requirements.  • BGP for inter-site and OSPF for intra-site routing. EIGRP phased out during migration.  • HA pair of Cisco Firepower 2130 firewalls including security policies, access to Internet facing servers, site-to-site VPN tunnels and AnyConnect secure remote access.  • Cisco ASA 5525-X & 5506-X firewalls reimaged as Firepower for security and VPN requirements.  • Central management for all firewalls via Firepower Management Center.  • Network Monitoring, Syslog and SNMP Servers.  • VMWare networking including requirements for Veeam used for the migration.  Additional Tasks:  • Migrated 350 site-to-site VPN tunnels to the new datacenter. This included configuring Avenu owned equipment on customer premises and customer-maintained devices.  • Worked directly with customer's networking teams or their IT vendors to ensure all connectivity requirements were met from migration.  • Migrated MPLS circuits owned by an acquired company to a new Avenu owned MPLS circuits and rebuilt the BGP routing to accommodate.  • Worked with ISP vendors to implement new circuits and diagnose connectivity issues on existing circuits.  • Built configuration files for customer premises networking hardware that junior engineers would implement.  • Hardened security via reviewing firewall and router configurations and tweaking as necessary via access-lists and more robust authentication/encryption protocols.  • Documented all tasks and configurations made during the migration including additions to existing Sharepoint site with subnet and IP address assignments.  • Coordinated with project manager on timing and task priority.  • Planned and executed finer details of many project tasks.  • Assisted server team with VMWare and Red Hat Enterprise Linux expertise. Information Technology Manager & Network Engineer Gypsum Express, LTD January 2011 to May 2019 Network Engineer & Systems Administrator Gypsum Express, LTD November 2004 to December 2010 Initially hired to implement new systems and update existing ones. Position quickly expanded to supporting all technology and business processes within the organization. With a proven track record for success, I became the IT Manager supervising a team delivering progressive solutions which moved the company forward. In addition to managing the IT department, I continue to be the Network Engineer responsible for all of the organization's infrastructure.  The current environment consists of 17 locations across the east coast and mid-west encompassing 800+ users all accessing a datacenter with 60+ physical and virtual nodes.  Relevant Contributions:  • Migrated firewall and VPN hardware to more robust Fortigate devices meeting new bandwidth and security demands.  • Enhanced LAN infrastructure with Cisco Catalyst switches and inter- network fiber connections.  • Implemented an Ubiquiti multi-node controller-based wireless network.  • Configured network monitoring to ensure optimal performance and uptime.  • Kept all network hardware up to date with patch and firmware upgrades.  • Authored extensive system and network documentation along with guides and training material for both users and administrators.  • Installed new patch panels and data/voice cabling as needed.  • Migrated from digital PBX to an Avaya VoIP phone system to a hosted voice provider.  • Built a multi-host VMWare ESXi Hypervisor environment.  • Upgraded from a Citrix Metaframe XP farm to XenApps (currently at version 7.9).  • Replaced server hardware when systems met end of life or capacity demanded change.  • Patched or upgraded the operating system on all servers in the datacenter as needed.  • Implemented several security applications including gateway and client-side antivirus, e-mail and web filtering.  • Managed all IT merchant relationships; evaluated pricing from hardware and software vendors; reviewed, signed and completed purchase agreements. Negotiated service contracts including hardware/application support, voice and Internet services.  • Acted as Project Manager for several software implementations including migrating the company's Transportation Management System, vehicle maintenance application, vehicle mobile communications, navigation, and EDI.  • Supervised the development of custom PHP applications to complement existing systems.  • Established a document management solution streamlining the billing process and reducing physical paperwork storage requirements.  • Migrated the corporate mail system from Lotus Notes to Sendmail to MS Exchange 2003 to MS Exchange 2010.  • Transitioned server backups from IBM Tivoli to EMC Data Domain/Networker to a Unitrends appliance.  • Implemented EqualLogic and EMC SANs and the storage network infrastructure to support it. Network Engineer Computer Gallery August 1998 to November 2004 Originally hired to provide technical sales consulting. Eventually moved into a Customer Service Manager role responsible for 5 technicians and then became a Network Engineer when the company transitioned from providing in-house services to outsource IT solutions.  Relevant Contributions:  • Provided Cisco support to organizations running advanced networking equipment but lacked a full IT staff to support it themselves.  • Outlined server and networking hardware purchases for the sales staff to present to clients, implemented customer-approved projects.  • Migrated expanding small businesses to Citrix Metaframe to better serve their applications, simplify management, and accommodate their growing workforce.  • Introduced networking and computers to many local businesses who were previously not utilizing technology in their operations.  • Connected many organizations to the Internet with broadband services and protected their data with firewalls.  • Performed network mapping and audits for several local small businesses.  • Upgraded various systems such as file, mail, and authentication servers along with industry-specific application updates the customer may have required.  • Designed and implemented newer networking equipment in organizations to meet their growing business needs.  • Used emerging VPN technology to interconnect different sites for companies with multiple locations migrating them from legacy dedicated circuits. Skills BGP, CATALYST, CISCO, CITRIX, DHCP, OSPF, DNS, Lamp, MPLS, Aruba, EIGRP, VTP, STP, HSRP, IPsec, PBR Additional Information CCNA - Routing and Switching  CCNA - Security  CCA - Citrix Certified Associate - Virtualization  MCSE - Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer - Security