System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Stafford, TX Excellent customer service and product support abilities. I am someone who applies hardware  and software design, installation, administration and configuration  knowledge to support growing businesses and increase productivity. Hard  working and stays current with new technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Environmental Solutions April 2017 to June 2019 Group - Katy  SharePoint Administrator for all of ESG companies.  Maintained a flexible schedule and responded to after-hours and weekend emergencies in a timely manner.  Standardized job tasks and trained junior team members on best  practices and standards.  Analyzed complex project server issues and worked on large  enterprise and business-critical applications.  Monitored network performance and provided network  performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical  measurements.  Recommended network security standards to management.  Helped setup/ build the 3rd Eye Dev cisco workbenches.  Advocated for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for server, desktop and IT infrastructure work. Network Administrator Access Health - Richmond May 2015 to February 2017 TX  Lead Network Admin for getting new sites up and running.  Reviewed logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems.  Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including switches, routers and firewalls.  Kept up-to-date on new developments in computer and network  vulnerabilities, data hiding and encryption.  Conducted several Risk assessments to better the security of the company.  Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved  technical issues.  Provided base IT level support to non-technical personal within the business.  Identified and solved technical issues with a variety of diagnostic  tools.  Recommended network security standards to management. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory (4 years), Linux (5 years), Vmware (2 years), Cyber security (2 years), Microsoft/Linux server (4 years), Cisco (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/zachary-jimenez-274ab9139