Support Engineer Support Engineer Support Engineer Leominster, MA Summary  Bilingual (English, Spanish) technical support professional with experience providing internal/external customer support. Goal-oriented professional, committed to pursuing a long-term career in the networking field. Ability to communicate at all levels of the organization. Works well within a team environment in support of the company's objectives. Strong ability to work well under pressure and simultaneously maintain multiple projects, highly self-motivated and goal-oriented professional.    Career Accomplishments  Core Competencies  • Create a new Domain Controller environment supervise by a system Engineer with exchange.  • Transfer a Whole Site with more than 800 users From Novell networks to Windows server 2003.  • Restore users Data to more than 300 users in one week Period from data Recovery.  • Help Design the network info structure of a group users (windows servers, Cisco switchers)  • Restore and prevention of Database lost on MySQL Work Experience Support Engineer CA Technologies 2013 to 2013 Hired as a Support Engineer providing Network Management support for our software to companies that buy and use our products.    • Support Engineer: CA Spectrum CA eHealth and Eco Meter Network Management and Energy Management Support tool and CA Performance Management that uses SNMP v1, SNMP v2c, and SNMP v3 to send request to gather results from the reports that are generate by the software.  • eHealth uses Oracle as Database to store the reports and all the user and password for each users.  • Remote Support used: Cisco Webex, Live Meeting.  • Build Script's and software updates  • Design, develop, deploy and maintain several of CA's Products.  • Work with cross-functional development teams to roll out new software releases using continuous integration.  • Provides maintenance on existing code for products in the CA suite of applications. This includes minor product changes and defect repairs.  • Contributes in design and code reviews for products throughout the CA suite of applications.  • Partakes in creating and maintaining department standards for software development best practices.  • Write and maintain documentation to describe program development, logic, coding, testing, changes, and corrections.  • OS Administrating (Linux, Windows Server, Unix "Solaris")  • SSL, HTTPS, HGTTP/1.1 TLS  • Security: Encryption SHA256  • Database: MySQL  • Linux Docker Support Analyst Karl Storz Endoscope 2011 to 2013 Hire as a Support Analyst to Provide Technical support for customer that sells our products and use  Our computers to work and build are product to resolve their issues relate to Desktop, Network and Security    • Remote Support: (Using Remote tools to Remote in to be able to Troubleshoot: Cisco VPN, Microsoft Office, SAP, IPHONE, PDA Blackberry's, HTC, and Java.)    • Desk side Support: (Build and Upgrade Desktop and Laptops with a Custom Build Image also (Reimage) upgrade Hardware and Software, Data backup, pst file backup, Cleaning Spyware, Adware, Viruses and configuring clients Computers to Work better and faster, Also Provide Loaners Laptops or Cell phones.    • Network Support: (Work every day with AD, SCCM Pushing Applications through the network, Creating Computers, and Adding them to groups, Adding user's to groups. Go to Closets to check internet connectivity and switch cables to make sure users are receiving data when a switch shut down the port or their connections is having issues. Desktop Support Team Pfizer Inc February 2011 to April 2011 Hired as Desktop Support to provide solutions on PC, Laptops, Servers and printers.    • Desktop Support: (Reimage Laptops and desktop with Ghost and a Custom build Image, Data backup, Email backup, Virus and configuring clients systems to perform better and faster provide to the user with loaners computers while we work on the systems)  • Network Support:(Go to Closets to check internet connectivity and switch cables to make sure users are receiving data when a switch shut down the port or their connections is having issues) Junior System Administrator Claro Codetel November 2010 to January 2011 Largest telecommunications company in the Dominican Republic providing local, long-distance, and wireless voice services, together with advanced data services and their new Microsoft Mediaroom service called Claro TV[1], to approximately four million customers.    • System Administration: (Active Directory, Exchange, MS Windows 2003 Servers) Help the System Engineer to build a Microsoft Network environment, installing exchange servers Active directory and DNS Servers Web servers and WIN. Add users Remove them give them Permission in Shares build group policies give them the user a limited iterance.  • Network Support: (Router, Servers, Troubleshooting) Connect and configure are Routers and Switches and servers behind a ISA Firewall most of the switches and routers were Cisco 2900 Series Routers and 3750 Switches routing them using protocols Eigrp and NAT to be able to access the Ethernet. 3 Microsoft Servers (Build Servers, Manage, Repair)  • Microsoft Servers (Build Servers, Manage, Repair) Assembled a new Exchange Server with the Senior System Engineer, installing and configuring the exchange Service open ports on the Cisco 2900 to be able to NAT the email service. Desktop Support/ Network Support Lantheus Medical Imaging (CompuCom) October 2008 to February 2010 • Desktop Support: (install images, Replace and repairs Desktops and Laptops, troubleshoot computers, clean virus, Trojans, spyware, memory updates, Disk replace, install applications, add users/remove to the Domain, Administrator Privilege, fix Java Problems update Java etc.  • Network Support: (Routers, Switches, Server Racks) Troubleshooting customer connections, switches, cables ports, remove cables plugs turn on the ports on the switches remove network cards.  • Remote Assistance: (Customer Support)  • Install and configure SAP and AS400 (oracle)  • System Administrator (Work with the user interface, Active Directory, Exchange) Find, Modify users in the AD groups, allow access/remove from groups, add them to the exchange servers configuring outlook, adding domains link profiles when they get duplicated fix Kerberos. 6 Remedy Ticketing system, Lantheus web-base Service-now Ticketing system. Technical Support/Desktop Engineering Inforonics Corporations September 2008 to February 2009 IT service company renowned for its exceptional level of customer support, technical expertise and ability to deliver customized solutions to its clients. The company offers IT Service Management and Outsourced Technical Support services through a portfolio of IT solutions which are a culmination of over four decades of experience    • Technical Support: (Creating tickets, Troubleshooting connectivity providing support for VoIP customers through the phone and web interface via Web)  • Customer Support: Answers calls be Polite and friendly to all Customer listen to their technical problems and try to fix them  • PC Tech MS Technicians  • RNK Communications, VOIP, VLingo.  • Virtual Iron (Virtual Windows Servers) Internship Clark University 2007 to 2008 System Administrator: administrating Active directory, exchange Isa server and routers  (Add users remove, create computers on the AD interface, Apply Group policy's, create exchange email recipients for new users, open ports on ISA server block Sites on the firewall)  • System Engineer: Installing Active directory, exchange, Isa server, Certification for web.  • Desktop Support: Repairing and troubleshooting hardware and software.  (Repair Labs Computers where the students take classes troubleshoot Virus and Spyware with MacAfee Virus Scan and Adware Spybot Search and destroy clean Registry for roots virus made Bootable disk with Bartpre)  • Network Support: Installing and configuring Switches and Routers  (Basic installations and configuring the switches and Routers on closets connecting and testing network cables) PC Desktop Technician All System To Go February 2007 to September 2007 • Pc Repairs (Dells, HP, Gateway and Also Clones)  • Laptops Repairs (Replace Keyboards, Screens motherboard, HD and Disk Rooms)  • Build Customs (Games PCs)  • Network Troubleshoot (basic Network troubleshoot with home Routers and Cable/DSL modems) Education databases Onlc Training Center - Worcester, MA 2016 Certified Systems Engineer Quinsigamond Community College - Worcester, MA 2003 Master Certificate in PC Networking and Support The Career Institute of American International College - Framingham, MA Skills Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Tcp/ip, Tech Support, Linux, Active Directory, Desktop Support, MSP, MySQL (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Networking: Routers, Switches, Firewalls, EIGRP, NAT, Ethernet, DNS, WINS, TCP/IP, HOSTS, DHCP, VPN, SMTP, FTP, SNMP.  Hardware: Printers, And Micro Computers  Software: Norton Ghost, Acronis true Image, Microsoft Office, MySQL Administration and Development, CA Spectrum, CA Performance Management, CA eHealth and CAVI  Operating Systems: Linux, Microsoft 2000, XP, Vista, Mac OS, Windows Server 2003, ISA Server 2004, MS Exchange 2003, and Microsoft NT  Technical Competencies  Core Competencies  AD/ MS Exchange 2003 Norton Ghost, Acronis true Image Team Leadership  Routers, Scanners, Printers, And Micro Computers Operations Management Strategic Planning  Windows Server 2003/2008 Personnel Management/Training Microsoft Office