Associate Manager II\Senior Network Lead Associate Manager II\Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Lead Associate Manager II\ Network Lead Los Angeles, CA Network Professional with a detailed history of support for LAN, WAN, and Security Technologies. Extensive experience in designing, configuring, testing, troubleshooting and maintaining high-availability services within major corporate data networks. Adaptable, reliable, and customer-focused. Committed to meet and exceed the needs of your organization. Certified Cisco Network Associate. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Manager II\Senior Network Lead Cognizant Technology Solutions - La Verne, CA February 2019 to Present Lead for all local network activities   Oversees Cisco FW, Routers and Switch maintenance and configurations   Responsible for site inventory and CI database  Manages remote network resources  Liaison for telecom vendors Senior Network Engineer Xerox - Santa Ana, CA May 2015 to Present Responsibility for approximately 300 sites throughout Orange County, California. Each site has a unique design and can vary from a handful of people to over 1500. Sites use Cisco,  Brocade (Foundry), Nortel, and SMC technologies.  • 24/7 Global Network Operations Center On-call on weekly rotation • Cisco IOS/CATOS, Nortel, and Brocade model switch and router support • Critical Care/Post Mortem support for complex network cutovers • Design and configuration of complex network cutover projects (over 1500 users at some sites) • Cisco Voice Gateway and SRST design/configuration/support • Racking/Stacking of heavy equipment • Project Management/coordination between many county agencies • Complete install of Liebert UPS systems, from racking to configuration • BMC Remedy/Service Now incident and work order support • Emergency restoration/design of UPS systems at high priority law enforcement offices • Documentation of Configuration Item Databases, Complex Visio design diagrams for each assigned location Senior Network Engineering Analyst Dell - Santa Ana, CA March 2007 to May 2015 • Provides 24/7 NOC on-call support on weekly rotation • Directly handles NOC emergency hotline phone calls - from inception to resolution • Management and training of local and remote NOC resources • Responsible for multiple Data Center physical/logical moves • Designed and implemented organization-wide server virtualization project. Configuration and maintenance of HP/Cisco blade switches, and HP Virtual Connects.  • Setup, design, configuration, troubleshooting and maintenance of Cisco IOS based Routers, Switches, and Firewalls within 2 major national data centers (Santa Ana, CA and Dallas, TX), and 3 major international data centers (Hyderabad, Mangalore, and Bagmane, India).  • Day-to-day configuration and maintenance of Juniper NetScreen Firewalls.  • Responsible for extensive MPLS remote-site wide area network with over 100 international sites.  • Extensive experience with F5 Big-IP Load Balancers.  • Provide detailed metrics for business units using Solar Winds, and NETQOS traffic monitoring tools.  • Support and guarantee of full network access provided with on-call support.  • Documentation of complex network diagrams with Visio. Network Administrator DSL Extreme - Winnetka, CA January 2007 to March 2007 • Configuration and maintenance of Cisco IOS and CATOS based Routers and Switches at the main data center in Winnetka, CA, and at One Wilshire in downtown Los Angeles, CA.  • Configuration and maintenance of Redback SMS-1800 series ATM switches and Smart Edge Routers.  • Documentation of full network with AutoCAD drafting software.  • Monitoring with Vitalnet, Nerve Center, and Cisco Works.  • Responsible for Nortel Voice over IP telephone system Technology Support Specialist (Internship) Alhambra Unified School District - Alhambra, CA June 2006 to October 2006 • Configuration and maintenance of Cisco IOS based routers and switches.  • Monitoring and reporting with Fluke Optiview and Cisco Works.  • Installation of Cisco Content Engine to improve site performance • Design of packet prioritization scheme for overall network Education Bachelor of Science in Network and Communications Management in Network and Communications Management DeVry University - Pomona, CA November 2003 to March 2007 Skills Cisco, BGP, Nexus