Pump Crew Leader Pump Crew Leader Liberty Lake, WA Hard worker and a quick learner. Attention to detail and customer service is my priority. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Pump Crew Leader A & I Distributors January 2019 to Present 1. Schedule tankers to deliver bulk oil.   2. Determine what size vessel the oil is going to be unloaded.  3. Take 3 samples from each compartment to insure integrity and chain of custody.  4. Handle all paperwork, track all deliveries, and give to receivings.  additional duties  • Drove forklift picking up empty 55 gallon drums and put away full drums. Also handled 330 gallon totes.   • Pulled orders helping out general warehouse personnel. Loaded trucks and stocked shelves. Network Administrator McKinley Capital Management - Anchorage, AK May 2005 to October 2016 1. First line of defense for all PC related issues.  2. Built and installed PC's for over 80 employees  3. Main technician for all VTC communications  4. Phone support for employees in 5 different states.  5. Installed all software both on servers and PCs. Education Associate in Photography Spokane Falls Community College - Spokane, WA January 2017 to Present Associate in Information Systems Management Commnity College of the Air Force - Montgomery, AL January 1992 to April 1995 Military Service Branch: U.S. Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: TSgt February 1984 to April 2004 Network Control Center Non-Commisioned Officer in Charge. Supervised over 15 airman, handled all major servers for a base of over 5000 personel.   During my 20 yrs in the AF I handled all means of communications, from secure telephone switches, to message handling, to server and PC support. Additional Information 2013 - 2014 ; President of the Anchorage Hockey Association. Oldest and largest hockey organization in Alaska. Major accomplishment was hiring a Coaching Director who was responsible to see that all levels were being taught the same skills to the same age groups. All coaches at each level were being held to the same standard. Also ran two of the largest tournments in the state each year.