Windows Systems Administrator Windows Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows Systems Administrator - PCM - Smart Source Inc Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Windows Systems Administrator PCM - Smart Source Inc May 2018 to Present Responsibilities include the migration of Microsoft Exchange to Office 365, Active Directory Migration to new AD Domain, and implementation of Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager for Windows Software updates and Imaging of Desktop systems. Desktop support/ Network Administrator General Electric January 2018 to March 2018 Apex Systems January 2018 - March 2018  Responsibilities include installing and configuring software and hardware. Manage network servers and technology tools. Set up accounts and workstations. Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements. Troubleshoot issues and outages. Ensure security through access controls, backups and firewalls. Upgrade systems with new releases and models. Develop expertise to train staff on new technologies. Build and maintain an internal wiki with technical documentation, manuals and IT policies.  Kentucky Geek  Desktop support/ Network Administrator November 2013 - December 2018  Responsible for maintenance and functionality of production Server running Windows and Linux Operating systems. Further responsibilities for ESXi 4.1 environment, Windows Active directory and basic SQL support. Microsoft Exchange on Premise Servers and Office 365 administration and migrations. Additional responsibilities includes daily desktop support, VM support, and software administration. Citrix Engineer and Systems Administrator Randstad January 2013 to May 2013 On assignment at OfficeMax Corp: Architecture and Implementation of Citrix XenApp 6.5 farm. Responsible for migration of applications from old Presentation Server 4.5 environment. Citrix Project technical lead on migrating 50 applications from Presentation Server 4.5 to XenApp 6.5 farm. In addition; I was lead on Citrix XenDesktop 5.6 rollout using Citrix Provisioning Server to distribute and maintain Gold Images. Citrix best practice verification and optimization for Windows 2008 R2 implementation. Five of these applications are critical and used by Legal team to access contracts. No in house expertise: In addition to leading the migration, I am responsible for documentation, knowledge transfer, and training. Duties also include the installation and configuration of Citrix Access Gateway, EdgeSight Server, and Citrix Licensing Server. Citrix Engineer and Systems Administrator University of Louisville Physicians Group March 2012 to November 2012 Daily duties include the management of a 4.5 Citrix Presentation farm and the creation, and migration, to a new Citrix Xenapp 6.5 farm with 2000 users. This includes the administration of Citrix Provisioning Server, Citrix NetScaler, Web Interface, and Smart Auditor Server, and Citrix XenDesktop 5.6 Administration .I am also responsible for managing the Citrix Web interface v.5.4 and the Citrix Secure Gate which resides in the DMZ. Additional duties include the daily administration of the Windows Active Directory domain, Exchange administration via office 365, and the administration of Appsense v 8.3 for users profile management. Citrix Engineer/ Windows Server Services Midwest Consulting Group February 2011 to March 2012 Daily duties include, but are not limited to, the administration and redesign of the Enterprise Citrix XenApp Farm for Yellow Roadway Corporation and Exchange administration of Exchange 2007 and in Charge of upgrade to Exchange 2010. The current includes over 400 Citrix servers. I currently support all Citrix servers in the Enterprise which includes two Citrix Presentation Server farms running PS 4 & 4.5 respectively. Redesigning the XenApp environment to merge the current farms in a new XenApp 6 environment, which reside in its own AD Resource domain, with an emphasis on vitalizing all Citrix servers in a VMWare Hypervisor and leveraging Citrix Provisioning Services 5.6. I am also responsible for managing the Citrix Web interface v.5.4 and the Citrix Secure Gateway which resides in the DMZ. Network and Citrix Engineer Lockton Companies - Kansas City, MO February 2005 to February 2011 Daily duties include, but are not limited to, the administration of the Enterprise Citrix XenApp Farm. The Farm includes over 200 Citrix servers. I currently support all Citrix servers in the Enterprise which includes the United Kingdom, multiple sites in Asia, Brazil, and I am currently Lead on the project to implement XenApp in our Mexico office. I was also the Lead of the upgrade of XenApp 5 from Presentation Server 4.5. In addition, I was responsible to rolling out Microsoft Forefront Client Security to all computers in the Lockton.com domain and all associated Child domains. Other duties include all aspects of managing our active directory environment. Network Administrator, Sr. IT specialist Transamerica Insurance - Louisville, KY September 2003 to February 2005 Job responsibilities included the daily administration of a 1250 user Microsoft Windows Network. Responsibilities included the deployment of new servers into the domain, and decommissioning of old servers. Troubleshooting AD and User issues and assisting the Regional Helpdesk with level 3 support. Novell Network Administrator, Senior I/T Specialist Vermont American - Louisville, KY June 1999 to September 2003 Administered a 500 user Novel Network. Job duties included the administration of a Novel 4.1 network in all aspects of User account administration along with file and print sharing architecture.    Bullet Points:  ? Randstad: Worked as Project Lead and Technical lead for Presentation Server 4.5 to XenApp 6.5 Enterprise Upgrade implementation of Citrix Access Gateway for external user access  ? University of Louisville Physicians: Worked as Project Lead and Technical lead for Presentation Server 4.5 to XenApp 6.5 Platinum upgrade implementation and Active Directory migration. Utilizing Appsense 8.3 for profile management, Provisioning Server 6.1 for Server and XenDesktop deployment, Edgesight, and Smart Auditor.  ? Midwest Consulting/ Yellow Roadway Worldwide: Assisted in data center migration from Dayton, Ohio to YRC headquarters in Olathe, Kansas. Part of three man team to merge two Presentation Server 4.5 Farms with 250 servers each to one Xenapp 6.5 farm with 500 servers. In addition, help design, and install, new Xenapp 6.5 farm from physical to virtual servers using HP c5000 enclosures and HP bl 620 servers and Vmware 5.0 hypervisor.  ? Lockton Companies: Responsible for migrating antivirus from Trend to Microsoft Forefront antivirus across the enterprise. Responsible for upgrade from Microsoft Operations Manager to Microsoft System Center Operations Manager 2007. Responsible for Upgrade from Citrix Presentation Server 4.0 To Xenapp 5.    Skills:  Windows Server Administration Education Associate Degree in Networking Louisville Technical Institute - Louisville, KY August 1990 to June 1992 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Linux, Active Directory, SCCM, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Red Hat Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopher-tyrrell-5a98365b/