IT MANAGER IT MANAGER IT MANAGER - Prime Advisors, Inc Wethersfield, CT Work Experience IT MANAGER Prime Advisors, Inc 2010 to Present • Oversee all facets of technological and physical infrastructure.  • Collaborate with senior leadership to align strategic direction with achievement of business goals.  • Direct infrastructure projects and serve as technical resource for Systems Administrator and IT Specialists.  • Cultivate and maintain relationships with IT, infrastructure, and audit vendors.    • Plan, test, and execute operating system migrations and infrastructure components for Windows (7,10)  and Windows Server (2012, 2012R2,2016)    Notable Achievements  o Implemented rolling 18-month strategic technology roadmap and yearly budgets.  o Design and maintain corporate policy regarding technology, including computing devices, disaster recovery,  business continuity and data retention.  o Migrated from on-premises to cloud-based solutions (Amazon S3/Glacier, Azure, Office 365, RingCentral)  o Maintained a close working relationship with all other business unit heads, as well as front line personnel to ensure end user satisfaction and continuing systems and processes improvement.  o Migrated to a fully mobile end user computing environment for maximum employee flexibility.  o Designed and implemented a full business continuity process leveraging existing sites. IT Manager Prime Advisors, Inc - Windsor, CT 2004 to Present SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER Prime Advisors, Inc 2008 to 2010 • Senior technical resource for new frontline IT specialists.  • Managed help desk operation while implementing technology for Senior VP of Technology.  • Technology lead on office buildouts and moves.  • Owner of all new technology projects.    Notable Achievements  o Managed contractors on requirements for user space and data centers.  o Executed strategic migration from Blackberry devices to BYOD environment for mobile users.  o Implemented Microsoft SharePoint and enhanced it to solve mission critical business problems with maximum cost-benefit. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Prime Advisors, Inc 2004 to 2008 • Served as front-line IT support and assisted in managing the network and systems of two offices.  • Performed root cause analysis of all user issues.  • Engaged and managed-to-budget vendors as needed to ensure expeditious resolutions.  • Facilitated end-user training.  • Created and maintained documentation related to systems, networking, and user-facing applications. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Ideal Products LLC - Beacon Falls, CT 2002 to 2003 • Migrated from Windows 2000 to Windows 98.  • Secured networking infrastructure and increased availability.  • Single point of contact for all user and system level issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT - Storrs, CT 1996 to 2001 Skills Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Vmware, Network Administration, exchange, Disaster Recovery, Active Directory, IT Management, Vendor Management, VoIP, VoIP Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) May 2019 to May 2022 Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) April 2004 to Present Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) June 2013 to Present Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) March 2008 to Present