System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Newport Systems Inc Atlantic Highlands, NJ Work Experience System Administrator Newport Systems Inc - Wall, NJ April 2018 to Present * Hardware and software support including server upgrades and conversions. Created and deployed GPO and imaging servers using MDT, and created a backup domain controller for additional redundancy  * Desktop troubleshooting and support. Managed timely upgrades for applications and virus security using Solarwinds RMM. Migrated all users to Office365 from Exchange 2010 in a Hybrid Configuration.  * Managed all company servers, switches, and routers. Managed companies VM environment using Solarwinds Virtualization Manager to monitor and notify me if there was a problem. Constructed implementation plan for software updates to eliminate user downtime  * Created disaster recovery plan with Datto. Created timely backups to local server and to Datto cloud services.  * Worked closely with development team to manage test environments. Provided support for validation of deployments including production.  * Managed all internal and external environment including Active Directory, Azure AD Connect, SonicWall firewall, IIS servers, SQL servers, SSL certifications and domain management.  * Assisted with onboarding of new customers and troubleshooting of access issues.  * Configured Microsoft Teams with audio conferencing and configured OneDrive. PC Specialist and Team Lead (Tier 3) Realogy - Madison, NJ March 2006 to April 2018 * Leading support to 15 offices throughout New Jersey area by reporting on issues, providing timely resolution, and maintaining system functionality to help staff members perform their duties with little or no downtime.  * Creating new Active directory, email, and RightFax account for new Employees and Agents for 5 domains,  * Build new servers physical and virtual for Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, and GPO for multiple locations on the eastern seaboard.  * Recommending information technology strategies and procedures by evaluating organization outcomes, as well as by identifying problems, evaluating trends, and anticipating requirements.  * Providing field and corporate user support by configuring/connecting individual's equipment to wireless system and exchanging server through Active Sync/BES to enable connectivity to business systems.  * Connecting hardware in corporate offices for new users and supported existing users while troubleshooting issues ranging from configuration to hardware failure.  * Designing and implementing systems, including Hyper V and MDT to improve processes used by team members involving technicians from New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.  * Training agents for systems and applications.  * Managing coverage, assisting with escalation, and acting as the primary point of contact for team members and upper management in the absence of immediate supervisor.  * Developing images of system environment to expedite restoration of services and improving team productivity.  * Resolving numerous issues, including matters concerning work tickets within a reasonable period, as well as supporting team members to determine their issues for training and troubleshooting.  * Lead of the Landesk project. Installed and configured Landesk for eastern seaboard for remote administration. Created to scripts to deploy software and updates. Network Administrator Brant Publications - New York, NY December 2003 to March 2006 * Successfully reconfigured all workstations to connect with a new domain and oversaw post migration issues.  * Installed and configured Windows Server 2003 and Norton Anti-virus server, as well as created user accounts and organized all workstations to receive server updates.  * Built Vertias Backup Exec, developed ACT website and FTP site, and maintained Watchguard firewall. Desktop Support Engineer Deloitte and Touche - New York, NY October 2001 to December 2003 * Successfully resolved laptop and desktop issues for more than 4000 remote and in-house end users within SLA's.  * Developed and organized a training room for new members, as well as configured wireless connectivity and installed required hardware such as network hubs and other network devices.  * Installed and configured Blackberry and Palm OS and participated in the rollout of new applications, and re-imaged user systems by utilizing Ghost and Power Quest software. Network Engineer Amtech Business Product Inc - New Brunswick, NJ November 1999 to October 2001 * Supported onsite network deployment for New York and New Jersey clients.  * Maintained public web and e-mail servers and implemented classroom training and VUE testing center networks.  * Designed, executed, and supported a corporate WAN for two training centers, as well as administered an NT domain and directory structure involving Windows 2000, IIS, and SQL 2000. Education Microsoft Certified Professional Brick Computer Science Institute - Township of Brick, NJ November 1992 Skills Active sync (10+ years), Architecture (Less than 1 year), Blackberry (2 years), Citrix (Less than 1 year), Client/server (Less than 1 year), Ethernet (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Excellent communication skills (Less than 1 year), Exchange (1 year), Exchange server 5.5 (Less than 1 year), Ghost (2 years), Ipad (Less than 1 year), Iphone (Less than 1 year), Ipx (Less than 1 year), Lan (Less than 1 year), Lan/wan (Less than 1 year), Landesk (10+ years), Ms exchange (Less than 1 year), Rightfax (10+ years), Sql (3 years), Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Technical Support, Windows, Customer Service, Windows 7, Networking, Microsoft Office