IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Louis A. Williams & Associates, Inc Harleton Work Experience IT Manager Louis A. Williams & Associates, Inc May 2016 to Present Marshall Systems Technology, Inc. Senior Programmer/ Network Administrator Louis A. Williams & Associates, Inc June 2004 to May 2016 Marshall Systems Technology, Inc. Computer Programmer Louis A. Williams & Associates, Inc February 1998 to June 2004 Marshall Systems Technology, Inc. Network Administrator Longview Independent School District August 1997 to February 1998 Computer Programmer Louis A. Williams & Associates, Inc - Harleton, TX August 1994 to August 1997 Education Master of Science in Systems Technology in Systems Technology Louisiana State December 1996 University Shreveport Skills Html, Javascript, Php, Netware, Vmware, IT Management, Customer Service, Network Administration, Vendor Management, Linux, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tymqi0zajqdfgmfr Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uja8b7gtrki361z8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information EXPERTISE  Programming in Micro Focus COBOL, PHP, some Javascript, some Java, Visual Basic, HTML  Administering Novell Netware 6.x, OpenSUSE 12.x/42.x, Windows Server 2008 R2 & 2016, exp. With VmWare ESXi, Microsoft Office, MySQL, Windows Desktop OSes (7,10)    JP    SKILLS  Management of programming staff and support personnel to maintain all aspects of IT environment for medium sized agency (from 70-110 users)  Setup, management, and maintenance of multiple off-site clients who utilized our software systems  Work closely with customer support to streamline service report procedures and ensure in-house and out-of-house client requests are completed in a timely manner  Technical phone support and troubleshooting of hardware, network applications and software systems  Direct, supervise, and assist non-programming personnel in maintenance of physical hardware or software within the organization  Administration and support of Avaya Definity phone system and Audix voicemail system  Knowledgeable in repair and troubleshooting computer hardware problems  Maintain workstations for 70+ employees as well as 50+ networked/workstation printers  Work closely with management to ensure projects move along to meet projected expectations and budgetary restrictions, as well as purchase hardware for the organization