IT OPERATIONS MANAGER IT OPERATIONS MANAGER IT OPERATIONS MANAGER - SEVEN FEATHERS CASINO & RV RESORT & HOSPITALITY Canyonville, OR Work Experience IT OPERATIONS MANAGER SEVEN FEATHERS CASINO & RV RESORT & HOSPITALITY - Canyonville, OR February 2019 to Present • Manage and provide guidance to a group of 15 IT professionals on a day to day basis.  • Direct and ensure the IT staff adheres to policies, procedures, and regulatory compliance.  • Provide various levels of technical support to Tribal Gaming Office, Umpqua Indian Development Corporation (UIDC), Seven Feathers Casino & RV Resort and Hospitality, Cow Creek Health and Wellness Center as well as oversee the daily maintenance of IGT Gaming System Security Framework and other Gaming Systems Security and Audit Systems to ensure that the system is in compliance with all Commission Regulations, Tribal-State Compact, Umpqua Indian Development Corporation (UIDC) Gaming Ordinance, UIDC Internal Control Standards and any other application regulations.  • Prepare and manage the IT Departments yearly operating budget in a manner that maximizes the IT Department's operating efficiency by effectively allocating applicable resources.  • Works closely with executives to create strategic plans for enterprises' future growth and establishes the IT departments operative goals and objectives.  • Analyzes the enterprises current technology infrastructure and aligns it with business' strategic plans.  • Supervise, motivate, train and provide leadership to all IT personnel as the department evolves.  • Ensure that all technical equipment is in good functional standing, through regular cleaning and servicing, and that the system is updated or altered whenever necessary and within the budget constraints of entities; and that adequate back-up supplies and equipment are immediately accessible.  • Maintain an accurate, updated and thorough log of any equipment alterations or malfunctions.  • Oversee system administrator functions of the Gaming Commission, Tribal Office and UIDC's operating computer network and all general office administrative networks, including all maintenance activities.  • Ensure that maximum security is provided to all Gaming Commission, Tribal Office and UIDC's computerized data and information.  • Keep apprised of technology advances in order to make recommendations.  • Prepare and present reports to the UIDC IT senior staff as directed.  • Maintain and promote strict standards of confidentiality and professionalism.  • Interacted with casino guest on a daily basis with the attitude of serving the guest as #1.  • Promote and provide excellent guest service and unforgettable experiences to both internal and external guests.  SURVEILLANCE OPERATOR I  • Clandestine observation of gaming and non-gaming related activities via the CCTV System.  • Ensures compliance of all Tribal, State and Federal rules and regulations related to gaming.  • Maintains basic knowledge of all games, casino scams and advantage play techniques.  • Ability to follow situations utilizing surveillance cameras and equipment.  • Maintains required logs, accurately.  • Monitors resort personnel for compliance with Internal Controls.  • Attends training as required.  • Maintains confidentiality with verbal, written and electronic information. Limit access to information on a job-related, need-to-know basis.  • Monitors resort personnel for policy and procedure compliance as assigned by the Operations Manager and/or Executive Director.  • Monitors special assignments as assigned by the Operations Manager and/or Executive Director.  • To document any and all events as required and report all unusual or suspicious events or activities to the Operations Manager, Executive Director and/or Gaming Inspectors as required by the Internal Controls. IT NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR AND SURVEILLANCE TECHNICIAN PAUMA GAMING COMMISSION - Pauma Valley, CA June 2016 to March 2018 Ensure casino IT processes and procedures are compliant with Tribal Internal Controls (TIC's).  Maintain network infrastructure, Network Security, Antivirus and Firewall management, VoIP telecommunications, workstations, office equipment, Manage IP addresses, network attached storage, RAID systems, backups, and configure Dallmeier CCTV surveillance systems. Install video cameras in casino floor gaming areas in compliance to Tribal Gaming requirements.  Maintain and manage Cisco switches, CCTV monitors, surveillance equipment and tools, NSU's and DMX's and all peripherals. Maintain compliance to surveillance process and procedures.  Document and/or revise existing procedures to ensure compliance.  Coordinate with management and external technical support groups to solve ongoing issues.  Gaming systems to include: Bally, IGT and Konami. Other gaming systems include Williams, Aristocrat, Table Games. Knowledge in count team protocols, slot tech support. IT DIRECTOR DCC ARCHITECTS - Las Vegas, NV May 2010 to October 2015 Directed and managed the activities of assigned staff; coordinated, prioritized and assigned tasks and projects; track and review work progress and activities; directed the recruitment and selection of staff; undertook disciplinary action as required; conducted performance evaluations.  Developed and implemented goals, objectives, policies, procedures and work standards for the department.  Strategically planned and implemented changes in IT infrastructure to meet the needs of company; identified and implemented new technologies; collaborated with management and departments to identify and provide solutions for their environments. Worked in a multi-site/multi-office environment.  Managed and coordinated IT projects through design, procurement and implementation phases; researched and select appropriate hardware and software for Company's operational needs. Provided project management to ensure that projects are completed by the scheduled due date in accordance with project specifications and requirements within the project budget. Managed network infrastructure; designed and construct connectivity to new locations; maintained and upgraded systems and equipment; troubleshoot and resolved issues.  Managed data and server backup infrastructure and software for disaster recovery purposes. Prepared and administered the IT budget by reviewing the past expenditure patterns, current funding levels, projected personnel and equipment needs, and demands for additional services by clients/users. Worked with vendors to analyze the current status of network systems and make recommendations for consolidation and systems outsourcing/purchase as a result of the analysis. Monitored, assessed and ensured effective use of department resources. Developed and maintained computerized record management system processes.  Planned and directed the department information management service areas, ensuring compliance with professional, state and federal regulatory requirements. Oversaw the Information Systems function for the organization and ensure that all systems have the appropriate security levels to prevent unauthorized use and dissemination of data. Upgraded system functionality, within the limitation of budget constraints, to improve customer service. Supervised and mentored the IT support staff in continued education, current and upcoming technologies, staff motivation and improvement.  Led systems integration (start to finish), design/development of IT systems in new building construction. Managed project managers, system engineers, system integrators, vendors and technical advisors in multi-site IT project deployments. Worked and collaborated with county officials and all stakeholders in reporting integration process. IT MANAGER DRAKE AUTOMOTIVE GROUP - Henderson, NV May 2007 to March 2010 Established structure and policies to streamline the efficiency of IT department. Led the implementation and maintenance of the servers and networks. Hands on day-to-day management of the organizations machines, applications, and phone/data systems. Delivered support to employees on all technology needs. Communicated and informed on new technologies, practices, or capabilities. Performed software/hardware installs & upgrades.  Executed general employee technology issue management. Anti-Virus and Firewall Management.  Analyzed and improved business systems, as well as implemented system improvements and installations. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR MIKOHN GAMING CORP - Las Vegas, NV April 2000 to April 2007 Specified builds and maintained infrastructure (servers, storage, networks, operating systems, applications).  Troubleshot and resolved any IT service issues related to operating systems and servers. Leveraged optimization techniques to maximize the efficiency of all computer systems. Monitored the performance of infrastructure environment. Provided tier III level support to the Helpdesk. Managed and documented change.  Software/Hardware installs & upgrades and anti-virus and firewall management.  General Employee Technology Issue Management. Analyzed and improved business systems, as well as implemented system improvements and installations. Implement patches, implement and manage automation for the build of desktops. Participated in after-hours support activities when required. Education Practice Management Application Suite Sage FAS 2016 NIST