Senior Network Engineer / Network Architect Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer / <span class="hl">Network</span> Architect Senior Network Engineer - EverOps Converse, TX • 12+ years in IT project management, staff management, vendor relationship  management  • 9+ years in solutions architecting and implementation  • 7+ years in network engineering and optimization  • 10+ years in infrastructure deployment and management  • 7+ years with budget analysis and technology road-mapping  • 15+ years desktop and server engineering and support Work Experience Senior Network Engineer / Network Architect EverOps May 2018 to Present Managed client relationships with multiple large customers, scoping work and projects to suit  their needs while maintaining financial awareness. This entailed working in mainly Agile  development environments.  • Provided training, guidance and remediation to new engineers. Responsible for new  engineers hitting the ground running and bringing them up to speed in a quick and efficient  manner.  • Scoped, designed and managed several office network upgrades and replacements leveraging  the Cisco PPDIOO lifecycle management model. This included all logistical planning and execution.  • Provided all needed documentation for customer projects. This included ticketing, change  management, project planning and ITIL process adherence.  • Worked with fellow infrastructure engineers to address optimization efforts across all customer  environments.  • Provided technical expertise and clarification for customer discovery and documentation as well  as Proof of Concept lab designs and results.  • Provided in depth training and mentoring to EverOps junior engineers as well as customer  engineers. This training was centered around network design, implementation and optimization as well as server content (dedicated server, hypervisors, VM's, containers, etc).  • Performed several large-scale Aruba / AirWave / Mobility Master deployments as well as all  necessary project management, documentation and execution. Senior Network Engineer USA Staffing January 2018 to May 2018 Designed and executed 802.1x deployment project for all major sites. This impacted over 5,000  users.  • Handled numerous Layer 2 and Layer 3 ticket/issues as needed.  • Provided expert-level documentation and Visio drawings as required for project management.  • Performed discovery and documentation of all Access-Layer connectivity for all major sites.  • Worked with the Network Architecture Team to redesign existing routing methodology to incorporate DMVPN and route tagging, resulting in a more scalable and cleaner redistribution  and route control methodology.  • Spearheaded the effort to replace existing 3850 switches with 2K FEX's to resolve SAN data  overflow issues.  • Performed code upgrades and re-architecture of multiple switch stacks resulting in the removal  of several over-engineering difficulties. Network Engineer Accenture Federal Services August 2016 to January 2018 • Primary Engineer assigned to the BYOD redesign project.  • Participated in network design and implementation of ITAR-ecured networks  • Participated in the design and deployment of several new large office spaces (500+ users).  • Worked with Juniper, Cisco, F5 and Aruba solutions on a daily basis.  • Built numerous VPN solutions for AFS customers  • Designed and implemented a multi-client routing DMZ solution.  • Assisted the Ops Team in troubleshooting various issues such as:  o Layer 2 and Layer 3 switch troubleshooting  o VPN and routing troubleshooting  o Firewall log analysis  o Wireless troubleshooting  o 802.1x troubleshooting  o Telepresence troubleshooting    RSI Systems Administrator Tenura Holdings November 2015 to February 2016 Discovered and documented the topologies of over 25 locations on a massive MPLS circuit  and DMVPN solution.  • Extensive documentation of virtual, storage and dedicated environments.  • Deployed Scrutinizer and Cisco Meraki deivces for in depth network monitoring.  • Managed numerous application migrations and deployments specific to real estate.  • Designed, purchased hardware for, and deployed numerous offices connected via both MPLS and site to site VPN's.  • Performed routine network adjustments as needed such as vlan assignments, wifi troubleshooting and bandwidth consumption on a per user basis. Network Security Administrator Rackspace December 2012 to October 2015 Worked on the International Enterprise team supporting enterprise Windows  configurations. Performed numerous break-fix operations on all parts of the OS and hardware.  • Everything from debugging drivers to helping clients figure out complex SQL / clustering  issues unique to the customer's code / environment.  • Worked large projects (domain renames, forest migrations, SQL migrations / expansions, total environment design / redesign, network expansions; things of this nature).  • Transitioned to the Network Security Team and provided network security administration for numerous types of firewalls (ASA, Juniper, Vyatta) and load balancers (F5, Brocade) on a  daily basis.  • Other daily tasks included ACL changes to new VPN's to implementing MPLS.  • Managed customer security incidents via AlertLogic and Arbor as part of our DDOS  mitigation and ensured proper response times were met to any external attacks.  • Managed an average of 20-30 customer calls and requests utilizing an internalized  ticketing system as a nightly basis.  • Identified customer needs and provided consultation to facilitate correct  purchases to suit their environments Senior Network Engineer Scarab Consulting July 2011 to December 2012 Rebuilt the company's entire infrastructure from the ground up, increasing site-to-site  bandwidth utilization by over 200%.  • Re-designed two server rooms and our datacenter location to account for redundancy and load balancing over the course of a year.  • Added routers to handling site-to-site traffic and re-designed the company's entire  routing schema.  • Leveraged tools such as Solar Winds Orion and the Cisco Network Assistant to monitor and maintain the network's performance.  • Managed and maintained numerous domain controllers, file servers/clusters, web servers  and MSSQL systems.  • Dealt with GPO's on a daily basis, managed all aspects of AD; including addition, creation and modification of user accounts, groups, ACL's, general security layout of our file systems and  AD- integrated resources.  • Established and maintained a WSUS implementation to ease the pain of patching.  • Built numerous vmhosts using VMWare and Hyper-V.  • Routinely backed up both direct storage and near-line (SAN via ISCSI) data storage systems  with ESXpress and DeDupe.  • Moved, modified and maintained vm's, templates, etc as needed.  • Maintained a virtual testing environment for potential application acquisitions Systems Administrator RSI September 2010 to July 2011 • Maintained multiple large clients VMWare infrastructures. Leveraged tools such as vMotion, StorageMotion, DRS and the Virtual Infrastructure Center.  • Maintained multiple large client forests. Renamed various domain via the Active Directory  Migration Tool. Managed 2003 domains and 2008 domains via a suite of tools OpManager in this case). Ensured the health of client domains and resolved all AD issues as needed.  Planned upgraded and modification to existing installs. Rolled over several new deployments to offices, which migrated to Windows.  • Worked with Cisco devices (switches, firewalls (specifically ASA's)) routinely. Backed up  device configs on a routine basis. Managed and maintained a large collection of network via  a central location / network.  • Built and maintained linux servers routinely for our clients. Deployed numerous Suse and Ubuntu  installations. Used esXpress, DeDupe, Bacula and rsync to provide clean automated backups for our clients. Built and maintained numerous web / database servers for clients. Network Administrator II Velocity Credit Union March 2010 to September 2010 Worked with various vendors to ensure the integrity, security and reliability of layer 2 and  3 infrastructure devices and services. Performed routine scans and audits of network  devices, servers and other items. Worked with tools such a Track-IT and Trigeo  closely monitored network security via custom filters fed by my syslog server.  • Worked in depth with MS virtual machines running in a VMWare clustered environment.  Ensured timely and accurate backups for multiple independent production systems. Managed  team members accordingly with multiple projects and upgrades.  • Worked with Network technicians with their more complex / challenging windows issues.  Managed items such as RRAS, FSMO roles, Exchange 2003, WebSense, ScanMail, OnBase, Legato NetWorker, and several other higher profile services. Managed WSUS operations,  worked with team members to repair stubborn GPO settings.  • Managed all DRC (disaster recovery center) documentation. Developed the scope of the project and executed it in its entirely. Designed the layout of the DRC and built it (built the  racks, did the cabling, everything). Rebuilt the server room's power configuration to allow for  3x the previous fault tolerance. Systems Administrator Mission IT Services June 2009 to March 2010 Managed, designed and maintained client infrastructures. Provided outside the box solutions to complex issues on a daily basis. Strong familiarity with virus removal tools and best practices.  Developed and perfected scripts for Microsoft environments and began developing them for Linux machines.  • Solid experience with medium to large scale Windows Server 2003, Windows 2008 Server, Windows SBS 2003 / 2008, Microsoft Exchange 2003 / 2007, and several other Microsoft  technologies. Managed various and widely disparate issues on these systems daily, performed numerous migrations from 2003 to 2008 systems and set up Windows 7 labs in  our VMWare environment.  • Designed VMWare data center layout, incorporated vSphere4, vMotion, A10 GSLB solutions  for fault tolerance and load balancing across multiple sites. Redesigned existing company  VMWare lab and performed testing / training on these systems. Migrated and redeployed  downed client servers from Acronis Backups to Managed virtual environments via VMWare.  • Used broad spectrum MSP tools such as Kaseya and PacketTrap to monitored and maintain client infrastructures. Extensive use and configuration of Cisco devices (Cisco  ASA's, Cisco Access Points, Cisco routers, etc).  • Supervised the deployment of both Cisco ISE and Aruba ClearPass for multiple large  customers.  • Performed discovery and documentation for multiple new customers. This included top  notch Visio topology drawings (WAN/LAN/etc), application flow drawings, netsheets  (cutsheets) detailing connectivity, addressing inventories, etc.  • Performed multiple network re-addressing projects where previous engineers had  underestimated the number of addresses that would be needed as the network footprint  grew over time.    1 EDI Source Network Administrator HP October 2008 to February 2009 Maintained and expanded the network infrastructure. Utilized Dell, HP, Cisco and GTA  products. Additionally, several VMWare ESX 3.5 servers were built, configured and deployed for use with carefully selected shared storage system (SANs). Developed scripts to automate  configurations.  • Cleaned up and aggregated the existing 2003 Active Directory configuration. Applied  several layers of automation via scripting and the installation / use of SMS, MOM and WSUS. Installed and configured Dell OpenManage for better (and free) monitoring of the  servers. Dell OMCI (OpenManage Client Instrumentation) was also scripted and automatically deployed to all Windows clients for auditing / monitoring as well. Built and  deployed several Microsoft 2003 clusters as well as MSSQL 2005 installations into the aforementioned cluster environments.  • Performed the maintenance and day to day tasks (replication, disaster recover, monitoring, etc)  associated with MSSQL. Installed, configured and maintained Sonasafe for MSSQL to handle the replication and disaster recovery aspects.  • Researched and selected hardware for use with VMWare ESX 3.5. Once acquired said  machines, performed the installation, configuration and management of multiple VMWare  servers running Windows 2003. Wrote scripts to automate a great amount of the needed  configuration for the networking aspects of these servers (especially for connecting to the SAN  network).  • Introduced the first batch of Vista machines into the company. Supported Windows XP, MAC  OSX and Ubuntu desktop environments. Utilized WAIK (Windows Automated Installation Kit) and Microsoft ImageX (part of WAIK) in conjunction with SMS to create a PXE-bootable  automated imaging solution. This process reduced the machine deployment time by 70%.  • Upgraded all existing firewalls. Created and maintained VPN tunnels (L2TP / PPTP) between our Austin, Houston and NYC locations. This included the VPN's used to connect to client  locations for intake collection. Field Technician Google September 2006 to October 2008 Worked with a team to determine criteria by which applications are introduced into the company, which require Windows Server 2003/2007 Operating Systems, are screened and  filtered. Provided virtual spaces to host multiple servers(Web server, DB server, etc) on the same physical box thereby maximizing hardware potential and minimizing cost. Assisted with the maintaining and growth of internal Citrix servers for bulky Windows-centric applications.  Worked with the Google WSUS team to help update the WSUS implementation to 3.0.  Coordinated the rewriting, testing and implementation of applicable policies and methods.  • Responsible for corporate wide Server and Workstation updates. Audited all past updates, deployed what had been missed or had been mistakenly deemed  unnecessary.  • Participated and assisted with the testing, screening and selection of a wide variety of anti- virus products to globally replace the existing AV application. Upon the selection of the new  AV product, worked with the vendors to customize the software to the company's complex  needs. Helped the WinOps team build the SMS packages for deployment to the company.  • Worked with other teams to identify software which needed to have SCOM packages created  for the distribution of their software to large groups of users simultaneously and designed the corresponding packages.  • Provided solid Windows, Linux and Mac support for techs in the data centers and sales office  in Atlanta. Assisted as needed / possible with team HWOPs and shadowed their techs  whenever possible. Junior Windows Systems Engineer Website Pros March 2005 to September 2006 • Designed and implemented the migration from a Windows NT 4.0 Environment to Windows 2003 and Active Directory.  • Coordinated and facilitated the migration from Exchange 5.5 to Exchange 2003.  • Designed a replication system based around DFS to protect the company's data from having a single point of failure and to drastically increase performance.  • Assisted with the due diligence of other companies infrastructures prior to their acquisition.  Developed XP Pro images with Norton Ghost and then WAIK (Microsoft ImageX as it was  coming out) and deployed them to desktops by the hundreds.  • Implemented WSUS and designed a QA lab for testing updates from MS.  • Maintained and troubleshot the existing Citrix environment. Upgraded the network to Cisco  6509's and moved the company to a gigabit network. Set up DFS for load balancing and speed enhancement on the company's files servers. Electronics Technician / Information Technology Technician United States Navy June 2000 to January 2004 • Served aboard the U.S.S. Halyburton - FFG-40.  • Worked extensively with the ship's on board electronic and computerized systems, ranging  from the AN/SRQ-4 torpedo guidance system to the ship's Exchange 5.5 servers.  • Coordinated the onboard migration from Windows NT 4.0 to Windows 2000 Professional. All  130 of the ship's desktop and laptops were migrated / replaced in two weeks during this  process, over a month ahead of schedule. Managed and maintained the ship's NT 4.0 / Exchange 5.5 infrastructure.  • Worked with ground-side crews to upgrade existing Xylan gear and switches to Cisco, configured the Cisco devices for use in our infrastructure and deployed them into "production"  • Attended over a dozen IT schools with topics ranging from C++ to Cisco and HP-UX  • Monitored and maintained all ship-board communications systems, this included pier-side  T1 connections, Inmarsat-B maritime satellite communications and UHF systems.  • Spent over a year over seas off the coast of Europe and Syria, during which time the ship  was required to be entirely self-sufficient and the ship's computerized systems being  maintained and repair with only existing parts.  • Earned two NAM's (Navy Achievement Medal) for outstanding performance and dedication. Skills Aironet, Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Citrix Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    NETWORKING: Heavy experience engineering complex and large scale networks, TCP/IP, UDP, MPLS, VLANs, Cisco  IOS, JunOS, SonicOS, FTOS, PCTOS, and other enterprise level network systems. Administration of LAN/WAN  topologies. IPSEC and SSL VPN design and administration. Proficiencies with MPLS, OSPF, NAT, ACL, ACE, VLAN  design, BGP and numerous other networking protocols. Extensive knowledge of enterprise class infrastructure such  as Cisco (ISR, Catalyst, Nexus, ASA, Aironet, Meraki), Dell Force 10, Sonicwall NSA, Juniper SRX and ERX, Aruba,  Ubiquiti.    CLOUD ARCHITECTURE: SaaS (Office 365), IaaS (CloudStack, AWS, VMWare, Hyper-V), IDaaS (Azure AD), PaaS  (AWS, Azure), CaaS (Avaya, Shoretel, Skype for Business, JIRA, Confluence, HipChat), etc. Proficient at deploying via  cloud, hybrid, and on-premise compute models.    WINDOWS: Windows Server platforms (Windows NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012R2, 2016), including server core  installations. Strong proficiencies with RRAS, DHCP, DNS, IIS, DFS, ADFS, WDS, WSUS, MDT, etc. Microsoft Exchange  Server platforms (2003, 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016.) MSSQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012R2, 2014, 2016. Office 365  Administration, Licensing, and Migration.    *NIX: CentOS, RHEL, SUSE, FreeBSD, Debian, Ubuntu, Solaris, Mac OSX, HP-UX    STORAGE: Dell EqualLogic, EMC VNX/VNXe, Dell Compellent, NetApp, Pure Storage    VIRTUALIZATION: Extensive knowledge of VMWare products from VMware Server 2.0 to vSphere 6, Horizon, SRM,  vMotion, PowerCLI. Strong knowledge of NUTANIX and associated Acropolis Hypervisor Solutions. Strong  knowledge of Citrix XEN Hypervisor and Xen Desktop platform. Strong familiarity with Microsoft Hyper-V and Azure  Cloud.    SCRIPTING: PowerShell, VBScript, PowerCLI, HTML, CSS, SQL    NON-TECHNICAL: Team Management & Leadership, Project Management, Excellent Soft Skills, Strategic Planning &  Analysis, Business Development, Risk Assessment, Critical Thinking & Problem Solving, Time Management &  Multitasking, Process Improvements & Innovations, Interpersonal Communication, Customer Service &  Satisfaction, Budgeting & Cost Reduction