Field Technical Support Field Technical Support Field Technical support Lancaster, CA Work Experience Field Technical Support CBRE - Los Angeles, CA December 2013 to June 2019 Oversee the daily operations for 250 users in downtown Los Angeles office, including software, hardware, tape backups, phone administration, and the local area network. Provides level I & II end-user support for software and hardware issues.    Installed and upgraded Microsoft Windows operating systems including standard business applications and associated peripherals. Troubleshot desktop virus and malware issues Maintained a daily backup of all network files. Performed service administration tasks for software and hardware products to ensure manufacturer warranty. Troubleshot any software and hardware problems through debugging, testing, and vendor assistance. Provides recommendations of program changes to correct software problems. Provided informal assistance such as technical guidance and/or training to coworkers. Performed software and hardware inventory. Basic Administration of Phone and Voicemail systems for site using Cisco Call Manager. L4 Technician Lead DIGITAL INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS, INC - Dallas, TX July 2012 to March 2013 Lead technician on a 12 month project to refresh workstations for the TSA at almost all airports in the United States. The assignment was to run Powershell scripts written by CSC for Dell Computers onto both legacy and new computers, join new computer to the TSA domain, then run Powershell scripts to back up and copy data from legacy computer to the new computer. Then set up network printers, install any special software not migrated by the migration script, and have user sign off that migration was successful. From the last week of October to the first week of December I was alone, working two airports in Colorado, three in Wyoming, and eleven in Montana. I was informed by my employer DISYS that my program manager at Dell was extremely pleased with my performance while alone on this project. UNEMPLOYED February 2011 to July 2012 Desktop Support Technician APEX SYSTEMS, INC - Los Angeles, CA February 2010 to February 2011 One year contract Helpdesk hardware and software support for Dell Computers at Boeing in Palmdale on a special project. Initially deployed laptop workstations including docking stations, keyboards and monitors for 350 employees. Was responsible for the receiving, imaging, inventorying and deployment of all new and refresh systems, in addition to the proper removal of the outdated systems for these 350 users. Proactively walked work areas to diagnose network failure issues, computing problems and configuration questions quickly. Also responded to assigned trouble tickets for re-imaging, refreshing or repairing workstations. Repairs included replacing motherboards, disk drives, network interface cards, CD-ROMs, video cards, memory and other internal boards. Job Seeker UNEMPLOYED October 2009 to February 2010 Network Administrator JT3/UNISYS CORPORATION - Edwards AFB, CA February 2006 to October 2009 SERVER MAINTENANCE. Performed server and network maintenance management running Windows Server 2000, 2003, and 2008 at the Edwards Air Force Base Flight Test Center, and for the servers used for Air Space Management and scheduling at the Central Coordinating Facility (CCF). This resulted in achieving no less than 99% server uptime in my twelve months at CCF.    Ensured that servers were secure by applying Time Compliant Network Orders (TCNO) and reporting compliance to government customer. Performed these during non-duty hours to ensure that servers  were available to customers during duty hours. Maintained my own spreadsheet of required TCNOs to verify compliance.    Created checklists for daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly requirements for monitoring of servers. Documented and provided input on current server backup, recovery procedures and standards for response to network outages. Performed and verified system backup and data restoration operations  based on these procedures. Maintained tape library, storing media off site. Performed required quarterly test restores to ensure integrity of backup media.    NETWORK ADMINISTRATION. Granted permissions to shared resources using Active Directory. Provided an invaluable contribution to the EW (Electronic Warfare) Directorate by completing a major restructuring project of all the EW shared data stored on the SAN. Working with the local Integrator, Cyndi Johnson, and the JT3/Unisys Core Services (LAN Administration) group, I ensured that all file and folder permissions were applied correctly according to the security requirements of each office within the EW Directorate. I managed the re-creation and re-structuring of all the Access Control Lists (ACLs) for each area, and the creation of new user groups. Finally, I assisted the customers of the EW Directorate with migration of their data to their new structure. The result was a seamless transition to the new data structure along with an increase in security of the data. In the surveillance report for this time period, Cyndi Johnson (AFFTC/ITSR Integrator) states, "His expertise was instrumental in working out the structure and permissions given to user. He created the new folders, groups, and permissions right on schedule with minimal problems."  MANAGEMENT REPORTING. Provided monthly activity summary to government customer. Prepared monthly metrics for management using data from Remedy system.    Reduced management workload by proactively creating macros to perform queries and reports in Remedy for monthly metrics and ad hoc reporting. Anticipated the kinds of query/report requests management would make and had them ready to present when needed, supplying them in less than an 8 hour turnaround, translating into a direct cost savings in man hours for the Air Force and JT3/Unisys. Also provided queries/reports to co-workers to assist them in creating monthly metrics. Network Administrator/Helpdesk Technician JT3/UNISYS CORPORATION - Edwards AFB, CA January 2002 to February 2006 Helpdesk Administrator COMPUTER SCIENCES CORPORATION - Edwards AFB, CA February 1997 to January 2002 Edwards AFB, CA February, 1997 - January, 2002  (Same work, new employer when CSC contract not renewed)  Helpdesk Administrator  • Performed user account creation, deletion, and configuration using Active Directory and Novell Directory Services.  • Provided guidance on technical aspects of desktop computers, network, and software use to organizational users.  • Promoted network security by ensuring compliance with established security plans, policies and standards (TCNO).  • Analyzed trends and identify potential problems among users in my organization.    • Installed and maintained workstations, HP printers, and other peripheral equipment. Resolved service interruptions such as printer routings, power outages, and wiring problems, both at customer site and remotely using Dameware or Remote Desktop.  • Software Support. Provided support for Microsoft Office 2003/2007 software (Outlook, Word, Excel, Access) and Air Force applications, including ABSS, CRIS, and JOCAS.    • Utilized Remedy Action Request System software to record changes, service requests, and problem activities for tracking purposes and record keeping. Provided monthly activity summary to government customer. Prepared monthly metrics for management using data from Remedy system, using multiple office automation software with varied functions to produce a wide range of documents. Reduced management workload by proactively creating macros to perform queries and reports in Remedy for monthly metrics and ad hoc reporting. Anticipated the kinds of query/report requests management would make and had them ready to present when needed, supplying them in less than an 8 hour turnaround, translating into a direct cost savings in man hours for the Air Force and JT3/Unisys.    • Taught Client Support Administrator (CSA) course at Edwards AFB. Topics included PC fundamentals, Introduction to Networking.    • Nominated for Employee of the Quarter in the fourth quarter, 2004. Education Computer Science Los Angeles Valley College - Plano, TX Bachelor of Arts in St. John St John's Seminary College - Camarillo, CA Skills Word, Microsoft Excel Assessments Verbal Communication — Expert August 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/z30vufqmfsowoctx Email — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cu1n68-5ge-9wugl Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/h1mndqxyuo4wnkwx Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information IT Professional with 15+ years experience in both Network Administration and Desktop support. Proven strengths include strong communication skills, effectively troubleshoot and resolve hardware and software problems, keep abreast of emerging operational support technologies and industry trends. Success enhancing existing systems with new features and performance improvements. Areas of expertise include:    Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008 Systems administration  Windows XP/Vista/Windows 7 Analysis, troubleshooting and problem resolution  Remedy Action Request software Desktop support technician