Contract Systems Engineer Contract Systems Engineer Remote Unix /Linux Administrator Las Vegas, NV Data Center Engineer, Cloud Server and Network Systems Administrator.  Over 20 years of UNIX, LINUX, and Windows, Systems Administration experience with at top Corporations, Schools, and Government, allow me to create robust, efficient data centers for manufacturing, web sites and creative media. Work Experience Contract Systems Engineer MyComputerCareer - Las Vegas, NV Present A multi-disciplinary degree that combines practical workshop and fabrication experience, with business management, and computer classes, I specialized in UNIX, TCP/IP networks, SQL databases, and SCADA process control.     Over 30 years of UNIX, LINUX, and Windows, Systems Administration experience with at top Corporations, Schools, and Government, allow me to create robust, efficient data centers for manufacturing, web sites and creative media. i have been an Effective Network System Engineer, based in the data center, for Walt Disney, Technicolor, and IBM / Unisys. Remote Unix /Linux Administrator IBM Software Delivery Center - Chicago, IL 2011 to 2013 Remote UNIX, LINUX, Windows, administration, backup, and disaster recovery for Pfizer, Chicago, Walt Disney.  Other Notable Contracting.  ElNuevoDia.com, 2011. Cloud Banner Advertising migration from ClickMedia to Real Media Cloud.  Move.com, 2010. Real Estate website, 60 servers, Java and Websphere MW migration from TomCat to JBoss.  Rockwell Collins. 2008. DOD radar / radio systems FlowTracer Compute clustering, Big Data clusters.  ACT, American College Testing, 2009. Oracle SOA configuration and installation. HazMat Training Website. RTI Virtualization Engineer UNISYS Contract Systems 2008 to 2011 Work at Home, Remote Unix Admin.  Datacenter design, and migration, from private data centers to UNISYS cloud systems data center. UAdapt VM. Unix Backup administrator / NDMP network installation. Contract admin Wynn Casino IT 2006 to 2006 Engineering Systems Administrator UNLV 2005 to 2005 Administration of Engineering Labs, SCADA, robots, drones, sensors, actuators, lab devices, and control systems. Senior Unix Systems Engineer Technicolor Media Systems 2001 to 2004 SUN Solaris OS server support, Manufacturing and Logistics (Manugistics), MRP planning for CD Manufacturer, Open Source monitoring,    Contracting / Consulting: Network and Systems Administrator Walt Disney Imagineering 1994 to 1999 Media and Business applications support. Setup streaming media servers, Maya and AVID media editing suites, Vignette content manager. Network Administrator, PC Services Supervisor PSI 1991 to 1994 PC office support, and distribution reporting for gasoline stations using ExcelleNet outbound networking, and Excel spreadsheets. Network Programmer / Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 1988 to 1991 FAA airport applications.  Created the first logistics model, and display standards for airport runway signage, right-of-way, and queuing. Education Bachelor's Skills Clarion, Ndmp, Netapp, Nas, Raid, Solaris, Unix, Apache, Linux, Sun, Cisco, Data center, Exchange, Firewalls, Itil, Nagios, Networking, Openview, Remedy, Vlan, Red Hat, Linux Administrator, SAN, System Administrator, Veritas, Shell, Redhat, AWS, Vmware, DNS Assessments Technical Support — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6ueabjfkby49nvi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLSET:  SUN Solaris, HP HPUX, RedHat LINUX, Ubuntu Linux, and Linux variants.  Daily systems administration, 25+ years of large UNIX systems, RAID arrays, SAN and NAS Storage, Data centers, ISP data centers, Manufacturing SCADA and Industrial Control systems, like Allen-Bradley, and Wonderware.  Windows Server, from Windows NT to Windows 2010,  Daily administration of 300+ servers in mixed servers environment. Backup, archiving, and offsite storage.  DFS shares in complex security layouts. Common applications support, (Exchange, Excel, MySQL, Anti-Virus).  Oracle 10 Grid, rel.1 / Progress OpenEdge 11 / Apache Cassandra 3.0, Data base systems.  Installation and Configuration of Oracle Database, SOA, and eBiz suites. Dataguard, RAC for clusters and Grid.  Operations included NetBackup backup systems and agents, NDMP backup networks, Cassandra shard design.  Data Center Skills, Cable systems, Server installations  Daily rack installation of servers from IBM, Dell, Sun, HP, and others. Design of power and networking support.  VLAN segregation, Remedy ticketing, OpenView, BigBrother, and Nagios availability and application monitoring.  ITIL Configuration on 19 inch racks, with Fiber trays and home runs to core routers. UPS and shutdown systems.  Network Router, Firewall, DMZ, VLAN, and Fiber SAN Network design  CISCO, and Extreme enterprise routers running EIGRP and OSPF, in large VLAN, mixed copper / fiber networks.  CISCO ASA and Checkpoint Firewalls. EMC/Clarion SANs, NetApp 32xx NAS storage. DMZ bastion configuration.  AWS Cloud Servers, Cloud Services, Deployments, Integration and Management.  JumpCoud LDAP, RealMedia Advertising, Open BIM App Server, AWS Elastic, EBS, EFS, and Glacier DR archives.    Anthony Castaneda  525 East Bonanza Road, apt. 316. Las Vegas, NV. 89101  Unix-oracle@hotmail.com, Office=800-850-4584, Cell=702-301-8596