Senior Network Engineer/ IT- Network Administrator Lead Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/ IT-<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Senior Network Engineer/ IT- Network Administrator Lead - Regal Beloit Corporation Grafton, WI Goal-oriented and collaborative IT professional with more than 13 years of experience applying hardware design, upgradation installation, migration. Monitoring, administration, and configuration to support growing businesses. Currently seeking a position that will effectively utilize acquired technical skills and abilities while demonstrating a track record of increasing responsibility in leading projects and coordinating with user departments in system design, product definition, release documentation, and data transmissions.    Areas of Professional Strength    • WAN Technology  • LAN Technology  • Firewalls ( Palo and ASA)  • Routing Protocols and Topology  • Network Designing  • SDWAN ( CloudGenix)  • PRTG  • Cisco Prime  • AAA ( Tacacs & ISE)  • Aryaka  • Cisco Wireless    • QOS  • Troubleshooting  • PBR  • Nexus  • NAC ( ISE and ClearPass)  • Client VPN, IPSec, DMVPN  • IOS upgradation  • Monitoring and Alerting  • Training and Mentoring  • Network Refreshment Work Experience Senior Network Engineer/ IT- Network Administrator Lead Regal Beloit Corporation June 2016 to Present • Supporting over 150+ locations worldwide.  • Successfully completed various projects like Network refreshment ( around 50 locations), Standard design, IOS upgradation, Companies merging and divestures, Disaster recovery and SDWAN implementation.  • Successfully implemented the NAC for around 10+ locations.  • Designing and SDWAN implementation for over 60+ locations.  • Migration of ASA to Palo for around 40 + locations.  • Successfully implemented the Palo for over 60 locations.  • Transport network implementation/Standard design for around 80+ locations.  • ISE ( AAA, Guest wireless self-registration and NAC implementation).  • Cisco Prime Monitoring, Back-up and Inventory management.  • Good Knowledge of Configuring default, Static and dynamic routing protocols-RIP, EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Basic knowledge of CUCM ( Phone configuration, Call forwarding, Route Translation).  • Overall Network Management and Support of Overseas Network from Offshore-Onshore model.  • Strong understanding of Palo Alto Firewalls configuration, management, support, debugging.  • Over 10 years of experience in Network Architecture, and deploying, managing, and maintaining LAN&WAN, MPLS with 10 years designing, implementing and supporting LANs, WANs, VLANs, VPNs, routing and switching experience utilizing Cisco, PALO, ASA, ISE and Cisco Prime devices.  • Working on Project to reduce the cost of MPLS via moving the traffic over Internet. Successfully completed 45+ locations.  • Successfully implemented the Nexus 9k for around 20+ locations  • Create, monitor, update, and correct documentation regarding current environment and configuration elements.  • Support the proper functioning of the network through strong knowledge of L2, L3, TCP/UDP, IPSEC, e iBGP, MPLS, OSPF, HSRP, GRE, MSTP.  • Set up, maintain and administer network routers, switches, firewalls, load balancers, terminal servers, and other network elements, including devices installed in remote lights out data centers.  • Troubleshoot, maintain, upgrade and provide solutions to complex hardware/software problems.  • Responsibility for all circuit types including Internet access, point-to-point data circuits, MPLS/VPLS and others.  • Designed, implemented and supported all routing, switching and security aspects of a multi-tiered, multi-data center IT enterprise.  • Data Backup and Retrieval, Data Disaster Recovery.  • Coordinating and Completing major & minor regular/emergency change-requests required at multiple network-sites through use of Change Management process  • Working with ISPs, Vendors and Client/Business Partner IT teams for configuration of new WAN link/devices and VPN tunnels..  • Monitoring Network/Bandwidth Utilization of the Data Network Circuits and Generating reports of Network Utilization on Weekly/Monthly basis, along with issues encountered with ISP circuits.  • Good Knowledge of VLAN'S, VTP, HSRP, VRRP & Ether-channel Kind Of Switches Technology.  • Works on Daily problem tickets (Priority Tier1, 2 & 3 etc..) and services request (SR) and Responsible for Network Day to Day Operations inc Checklist.  • Maintaining/Configuring and Managing Routers and Nexus Switches (9k, 7K, 5k, 3k and 2k).  EXPERIENCE Senior Network Engineer/ Assistant Consultant Tata Consultancy Services August 2011 to June 2016 • Overall Network Management and Support of Overseas Network from Offshore-Onshore model.  • Maintaining/Configuring and Managing Routers and Nexus Switches (9k, 7K, 5k, 3k and 2k).  • Maintaining/Configuring and managing the security devices such as internal firewall (ASA), Palo Alto.  • Configuration of VPN tunnel and migration.  • Coordinating and Completing major & minor regular/emergency change-requests required at multiple network-sites through use of Change Management process  • Conducting periodic audits of configuration on Network and maintaining updated backups of the same.  • Preparing/Updating High and Low-level Site network diagrams and Datasheets/Factsheets.  • Working with ISPs, Vendors and Client/Business Partner IT teams for configuration of new WAN link/devices and VPN tunnels.  • Good Knowledge of Configuring default, Static and dynamic routing protocols-RIP, EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Good Knowledge of VLAN'S, VTP, HSRP, VRRP & Ether-channel Kind Of Switches Technology.  • Planning, Preparing & Regular Monitoring of Network through MRTG, Solar wind & Ping Plotter.  • Troubleshooting all networking problems to ensure minimum downtime and maximum availability of network.    EXPERIENCE Network Engineer/ Engineer- Network Management Wipro Infotech February 2008 to August 2011 • Troubleshooting all networking problems to ensure minimum downtime and maximum availability of network.  • IOS Up gradation in switches and routers and Hardening of Switch ports under Service Improvement Plan (SIP) Activity for smooth operation.  • Planning and implementing changes in network as per the change management process. Raising CMR (Change Management Request) Present the CMR in Outage call and taking approval from SME and Customer under ITIL process.  • Coordination with Various VENDORS and ISP'S Timely, Maintaining 99 % Uptime. (Like VSNL Reliance, Bharti and TATA).  • Good Knowledge of VLAN'S, inter VLAN routing VTP, STP, HSRP and VRRP and ether channel Kind Of Switches Technology.  • Good Knowledge of Configuring default, Static and dynamic routing protocols-RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, and OSPF.  • Provides network connectivity to devices which need to install in the datacenter or hub room Like: - server, network or security devices.  • Troubleshooting all networking problems to ensure minimum downtime and maximum availability of network.  • Responsible for managing Data enter and Network Day to Day Operations. Education B-Tech. in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Board of Technical Education