Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Systems Engineer - Citrix Deltona, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Citrix July 2007 to Present Akerman Senterfitt Attorneys at Law  National Administrative Offices  495 North Keller Road  Maitland, Florida  Responsible for installing, configuring and maintaining Microsoft 2008 R2 Servers / Citrix XenApp Server 6.5 in support of legal business processing requirements via an MPLS connected WAN. Support to Citrix Program Neighborhood Agent, Citrix Web Interface, and related published applications: Worldox, Westcheck, Kronos, Deltaview, Crystal Reports, MS Office Suite, LexisNexis, Time Matters, etc.  Migration of current Presentation Server Farm to Citrix XenApp 6.5 Citrix 2010 to 2010 2010/Windows 7 implementation.  Diagnostic support of Citrix Farm via Citrix EdgeSight Monitoring Server.  Perform software installations and upgrades to operating systems and layered software packages. Schedule installations and upgrades and maintains them in accordance with established IT policies and procedures.  Perform weekly downtime in support of application pushes via Enteo.  Monitor and tune the system to achieve optimum performance levels. Ensure workstation/server data integrity by evaluating, implementing, and managing appropriate software and hardware solutions.  Responsible for activities related to system administration and working with large, complex local and wide-area networks. Perform as technical lead to other system administrators and provide direction to peers concerning work responsibilities and issues  Responsible for writing proposals or papers, acting as a vendor liaison, making presentations to customer or client audiences or professional peers, and worked closely with upper management Systems Administrator Citrix April 2005 to July 2007 Adventist Health Systems Information Services  1035 Greenwood Blvd  Lake Mary, Florida 32724  407 942 1441  Responsible for installing, configuring and maintaining operating systems 2000 - 2003 servers, including web servers, Citrix Metaframe XPe / Presentation Server 4.0 in support of medical business processing requirements.  Support, installation and maintenance to four Citrix Farms consisting of 250 Metaframe XPe servers and 100 Presentation 4.0 servers with a client base of 3000 thin client workstations.  Migration of existing Windows 2000 Citrix Metaframe XPe Farm to Windows 2003 Server Presentation Server 4.0 Farm  Perform software installations and upgrades to operating systems and layered software packages. Schedule installations and upgrades and maintains them in accordance with established IT policies and procedures.  Monitor and tune the system to achieve optimum performance levels. Ensure workstation/server data integrity by evaluating, implementing, and managing appropriate software and hardware solutions.  Develop and promote standard operating procedures. Conduct routine hardware and software audits of workstations and servers to ensure compliance with established standards, policies, and configuration guidelines.  Responsible for activities related to system administration and working with large, complex local and wide-area networks. Perform as technical lead to other system administrators and provide direction to peers concerning work responsibilities and issues.  Ensure long-term requirements of systems operations and administration included in the overall information systems planning of the organization. Responsible for the installation, maintenance, configuration, and integrity of computer software and hardware.  Maintain availability of preparatory medical applications (Cerner) to end user medical staff via Citrix MetaFrame XP Presentation Server / Presentation Server 4.0, and related Microsoft Terminal Servers. Sr. Systems Engineer Daytona Beach, FL February 2003 to March 2004 32119  Active Directory AdministratorEnterprise Backup Administrator Helpdesk Queue Manager  Responsibilities:  Work directly with Enterprise Security Office in bringing AD into compliance with Price-Waterhouse Security Audit. Responsible for daily DSR reporting.Tasked with determining ownership of AD Shares.  Creation of OU, GPO's and determination of required security rights. Server Administration to 300 DELL 2650/2660 Servers in a Windows 2000/2003 Enterprise.  Responsible for Daily Systems Report (DSR) Monitor conditions of Enterprise Data Centers (UPS Status, ambient temperature, relative humidity, and general condition of Data Center.)  Perform daily monitoring of enterprise wide systems for virus issues and determine required updates via Symantec Systems Console. Act as liaison to vendor in scheduling repairs to print devices.  Monitor Security Logs throughout Enterprise. Enterprise Backup Administrator- Responsible for bringing Enterprise Backup into compliance with Price-Waterhouse Audit.  Responsible for daily Backup of Enterprise AD Domain. Worked directly with PeopleSoft and Database Administrators to assure proper backup of data via CA Brightstor ver 11. on LTO and Super DLT Tape Devices. Generated Backup procedure documentation for Backup/Restore and Disaster Recovery.  Direct liaison to Iron Mountain vendor. Responsible for the creation of Enterprise backup strategy and implementation of Backup jobs.  Create hardcopy and virtual copies of daily backup logs. Enter Tape data into access database. Recall tapes and perform restorations as required.  Monitor remote sites to assure backups are preformed correctly and on a daily basis. Responsible for research and implementaion of Enterprise Tape Library, Spectra Logic T950 as well as SAN. Acheived the above task while coming under Capital Expense Bubget by $35,000.00  Helpdesk Queue Manager- Responsible for monitoring open / overdue tickets via the Trackit database.  Email reminder notifications and offer technical assistance to helpdesk technicians as may be required. Monitor helpdesk queue and assign tickets to appropriate support personnel. Independent Computer Consultant Seattle, WA November 2000 to February 2003 Make recommendations to MIS managers regarding hardware and software purchases.Meet with project managers to prioritize and plan upcoming technical projects.Render level 3 technical support to employees.  Install and configure hardware, operating systems, network connectivity devices and applications.Detect and remove viruses from workstations and servers.  Set up and administer user accounts.Set up, schedule, and perform network backup and restorations.  Perform new desktop system rollouts.Perform network and desktop O/S migrations. Perform post office and user mail migrations. Install, maintain and troubleshoot printer services and peripheral devices.Installation and configuration of switches and hubs.  Installation and configuration of routers.Perform load balancing to multi-homed server farms.Design and installation of terminal, application, database, DHCP, metaframe, antiviral, mail, and proxy servers. MIS/WEB SPECIALIST Photoworks - Seattle, WA June 1997 to November 2000 Installation, troubleshooting and administration of Windows NT Server 4.0 and Windows 2000 Professional servers. Enhanced performance and reliability of network by migrating NT 4.0 to Windows 2000 Professional servers. Drove employee productivity by providing direct support to customer service group and creating customer service Intranet. Provided direct customer support to Web development, Art department, Retail, and Data Processing groups. Novell 2000 to 2000 2000 Professional servers, Novell 4.X, 5.X, 6X Servers. Including NDS structure, domains, trust relationships and active directory.  Perform remote client support via SMS, Daneware and Netmeeting, VNC. Design and implement life cycle management systems. Senior Network Administrator U.S. Filter Corporation - DeLand, FL November 1992 to June 1997 Daily support to NT 4.0 Servers, Lotus Notes Domino Server and Notes mail system. Support to AutoCAD and Pro-E software applications and peripheral devices. Responsible for Life Cycle Management of departmental desktop systems. Acted as liaison to various vendors as related to Information systems support. Researched and implemented applications to improve overall plant productivity. Foreign Services Network Administrator Raytheon August 1987 to October 1992 Computer Science / Raytheon, Ascension Island, UK  United States Air Force Auxiliary Air field, Eastern Test Range.    Full charge Systems Administrator for U.S. Air Force Space Command Remote Tracking Station. Maintained networking and data collection system during critical NASA and DOD events.    Maintained inventory of mission critical components for systems repairs.Daily support Military and Civilian personnel desktop computer systems.Maintained backup of network application as well as classified mission data.Administrative support to IBM 3600, IBM RS/6000 Mainframes, including daily back up of data. Education Bachelor's in Computer Sciences California State University-Irvine - Irvine, CA March 1978 to June 1983 Bachelor of Science California State University at Irvine - Irvine, CA