He network administrator He <span class="hl">network</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Munith, MI Work Experience He network administrator CareerQuest - Lansing, MI December 2018 to Present Fix students devices, but school also allows the public to bring devices  in to be fixed for student experience at a very discounted price  ? Image school computers upgrading Windows 7 to 10 (3 campuses worth)  ? Learned how to deal with customers, along with how to follow best  practices troubleshooting theory for proper diagnosis of the device's  problem Caretaker Self employed - Munith, MI January 2016 to Present 2019    ? General duties are making, and taking to doctor appointments  ? Meal plans,  ? Make sure patient has what they need  ? Allows the flexibility needed to get educated owner/operator Mastershine Auto Detailing - Ann Arbor, MI 1997 to November 2015 Opened/closed business every day  ? Scheduled work, managed crew, quality control, janitor, receptionist, secretary, accountant, on a daily basis  ? This was a small business where all aspects of a business, along with all  the good and the bad that comes with it was my responsibility Education Associate Skills Customer service, Windows server 2012, Excel, Powerpoint, Word, Optics, Fiber optics, Generators, Active directory, Virtual machine, Vmware, Iphone, Oracle, Coax, Utp, Crimpers, Multimeters, Training Additional Information SKILLS  ? Although, I have many labor oriented task skills, I want to highlight  these for you today.  ? Comp TIA A+ training  ? Oracle VirtualBox, VMWare (able to whip up a virtual machine)  ? Desktop, laptop, tablet, and iphone hardware, and software repair  experience  ? Windows server 2012 (active directory, group policy, local security  policy experience)  ? Customer service  ? Cable management experience  ? Ability to set up and secure networks (SOHO setup experience)  ? Have and use tone generators, crimpers, punch-down tools, cable testers,  multimeters, for testing or locating cables  ? Printer setup experience  ? Able to, and do use Word, Excel, Powerpoint (Office 365)  ? Ability to troubleshoot software, hardware problems  ? Ability to run correct cables throughout worksites for networks (UTP, STP,  coax, fiber optics)