IT & Network Administrator IT &amp; <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer Colleyville, TX Work Experience IT & Network Administrator Atv Scooter store, Inc - Farmers Branch, TX January 2014 to Present Responsible for the installation, configuration and maintenance of all network infrastructure  equipment such as Cisco routers and firewalls and Extreme switches, as well as physical/virtual  windows 2008 servers.  • Oversee network and equipment upgrades and configuration changes.  • Document network problems and changes working in diverse management environments.  • Support and maintain LAN/WAN and related equipments.  • Update and rebuild POS systems to meet retail business operation.  • Participated in researching and evaluation of new products and services. Prepared  recommendations for implementation of new systems, procedures, and organizational changes.  • Perform network maintenance and system upgrades including service packs, patches, hot fixes, and security configurations Technical Manager Peace Power Sports, Inc - Dallas, TX June 2009 to December 2013 Performed system maintenance related to inventory tracking, purchasing and daily sales  management.  • Used Filemaker to customize and build a new point of sales (POS) systems to reduce time for performing weekly re-stock ordering.  • Managed computer systems development and implementation to enhance business operations.  • Provided hands-on training classes for employees.  3301 Park View Ct. Colleyville, TX 76034 630-885-9581 liuus@hotmail.com    • Performed general management duties, include hiring/scheduling of personnel with oversight  on accounting transactions.  • Developed plan to track orders from OEM manufacturers in order to expedite products in hand.  • Computerized all catalogue including implementation of system that automatically updated  catalogues with respective vendors when new information became available.  • Administered multiple PIX firewalls throughout WAN to ensure LAN integrity from external  threats.  • Configured and supported multiple remote site installations.  • Designed, integrated and maintained consolidated network services e.g. switches, routers, firewalls, and network security servers;  • Performer capacity and resource planning to evaluate existing network systems to recommend  resources and maintain or expand as necessary. Environmental Engineer Hydrodymanics Consultants, Inc - Lisle, IL June 2004 to March 2009 • Conducted subsurface sampling activities;  • Maintain the communication with team members;  • Conduct analytical research on the project;  • Conducted pre-acquisition Phase I and Phase II Environmental Site Assessments on several  hundreds Projects, Including Drycleaner, Gas Station, Warehouse and so on;  • Conduct remediation investigation, prepare risk-based TACO report and deliver to project  manager;  • Involved with site remediation and clean-up design;  • Organize all projects reports. Education Master of Science in Civil Engineering in Civil Engineering University Of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL May 2004 Bachelor of Science in Architecture in Architecture Nanchang University - Nanchang, CN June 1999 Computer networking Knowledge Systems Institute - Skokie, IL Skills Load balancing (1 year), Network security (1 year), Networking, Tcp/ip (1 year), Vlan (1 year), Bgp (1 year), Eigrp (1 year), Ipv6 (1 year), Lan/wan (1 year), Mpls (1 year), Ospf (1 year), Switching (1 year), Tcp (1 year), Vpn (1 year), Hsrp (1 year), Vrrp (1 year), Routing protocols, Firewall (1 year), Lan (1 year), Vmware (1 year) Certifications/Licenses CCIE Routing and Switching July 2019 to Present CCIE Routing and Switching Additional Information • Talented Network Engineer with over 5 years' experience.  • Outstanding certification: CCIE Routing and Switching (CCIE#62435)  • Completed Cisco CCNA and CCNP courses successfully at Lanecert.com.  • Exceptional experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments.  • Adept at building strong business relationships with both clients and coworkers.  • Possess excellent interpersonal, organizational, and communication skills.  • Strong team player with a constructive perspective and commitment to the success of the  business    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Expertise in networking concepts, TCP/IP protocol, and network security, knowledge of firewall setup  and administration, VPN, bandwidth mangement and quality of service, including:    • Excellent knowledge and experience in L2 and L3 switching, VLAN, HSRP, VRRP etc.  • Good understanding of MPLS, MPLS VPN, DMVPN and multicast.  • Good knowledge & experience on iBGP & eBGP routing protocols with IPV4 and IPV6.  • Good understanding of TCP/IP, IPV6, Routing protocols, Load balancing concepts.  • Hands-on Experience in network deployments  • Troubleshooting of complete LAN/WAN infrastructure including routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF  & BGP.