Volunteer Salesforce Administrator Volunteer Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Volunteer Salesforce Administrator - The Becoming Project (Non-Profit) Lawrenceville, GA Work Experience Volunteer Salesforce Administrator The Becoming Project (Non-Profit) - Conyers, GA 2019 to Present • Designed, setup and maintained Salesforce standard objects, while also structuring user roles, security profiles and workflow rules.  • Developed reports, dashboards, and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity.  • Manage ongoing support request and administration needs of business and users.  • Work with staff across the organization who use Salesforce, providing training and continued support through training materials and running training sessions.  • Stay current with Salesforce releases and corresponding documentation and provide new functionalities and solutions as needed. SR. Network Provisioning Specialist AT&T Corporation - Conyers, GA 2013 to Present • Perform network testing in preparation for deployment of services using PUTTY or Secure CRT.  • Provide solutions and project management of reviewed documentation and vendor specs for inclusion into database templates.  • Developed Power BI reports and dashboards from multiple data sources for Data Powered Operations team.  • Manage all aspects for pre-testing new facilities for grooming of AT&T Core Network for changes to optimize network capacity and create cost savings.  • Conducted knowledge transfer sessions and training of equipment to less experienced team members.  • Performed network provisioning of all technologies for the Mobility Wireless Network including: Transport, RAN, Core, VoLTE, Signaling and IP elements. Network Control Analyst ALCATEL LUCENT - Atlanta, GA 2011 to 2013 • Provide technical support and repair of Sprint's network to include Domestic and International services ranging from DS0/DS1/E1, DS3, OC3, and STM1 to OC192/STM16 at the physical layer.  • Submit trouble reports to assist with restoral of customer services through escalation process with internal/external partners.  • Participate on calls with multiple organizations (internal/external) to resolve network issues. Contractor AT&T Corporation - Conyers, GA 2011 to 2011 2011  Network Transport Provisioner  • Join conference calls with customers to resolve roadblocks for scheduled activities to be completed.  • Coordinate customer and GNOC attendance during maintenance window to facilitate the completion of grooms by establishing meeting and conference bridges for all parties. Network Engineering Specialist Ericsson - Atlanta, GA 2009 to 2010 • Provide technical support for a team of 13 technicians responsible for installation of Domestic and International services.  • As Support Engineer, documented all technical procedures and processes on configuring equipment, migrating existing customer services via Methods of Procedures.  • Validated and reviewed Domestic and International Special Customer Arrangements services submitted by the Account Teams.  • Performed project level implementation of Domestic Services by documenting and communicating project status/issues during meetings, and ensuring all deliverables are received and accepted by the customer. Network Engineering Specialist Sprint Nextel - Atlanta, GA 2000 to 2009 • Worked as Subject Matter Expert on project with IT Department to help develop system enhancements that would be beneficial to the business unit.  • Trained new technicians to configure and test equipment.  • Involved in developing center-wide Business Process Improvement facility in Atlanta that led to more accurate data analysis, 50% productivity improvement, reduction of defects to below 15%, and lowered backlog orders.  • Created training document and facilitated training of IP product transition from center in Reston, VA to center in Atlanta, GA. Education Certified Administrator University of Oklahoma - Norman, OK March 2019 Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Gwinnett Technical College - Lawrenceville, GA Skills DATA ANALYTICS, METRICS, PROBLEM SOLVING, PROCESS IMPROVEMENT, EXCEL Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS  • Detail-focused, accountable and willing to take on the challenge of supporting great tools  used in fast-paced environments.  • Solid ability to gather, document and execute detailed specifications from high level.  • Proficient in Microsoft Windows Office: Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Outlook, Skype for  business.  • Superb written and verbal communication skills as well as listening skills to build client  engagement.  • Solid problem-solving skills as well as demonstrated analytical and qualitative abilities.  • Strong organizational skills and a strict attention to detail and proven ability to complete.  • Demonstrated expertise in project management and process improvement. Problem solving and strong analytical ability with orientation for detail and accuracy.  • Detail orientation and strong attention to detail.  • Ability to plan, prioritize and meet deadlines.  • Proven analytical skills, data analytics expertise and ability to build reports and queries to  support such metrics.  • Confidence, highly communicative, and excellent business insight and a willingness to  challenge others or propose changes.    Trailheads: Salesforce Trailhead | Decia Brown