Network Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Help Desk Tier II Support - Administration Midland, TX Innovative individual seeking a challenging position in the computer/networking industry where excellent planning and analytical skills will greatly contribute to the team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Technician Warren Cat - Midland, TX August 2012 to Present CISCO Any Connect \ Air cards \ Lotus Notes  HP/Dell desktop and laptop hardware and software support  Microsoft XP, Windows 7 OS support  HP/Dell Server hardware and software support  Microsoft Server 2008/2012 Administration, Policy and Active Directory  VMware Horizon View  VMware ESX65  Smartphone, Black Berry and IPad support. Ameritox LTD Network Administrator/Helpdesk HP ILO - Midland, TX July 2008 to August 2012 Track it helpdesk Software  HP printer and Zebra label printer repair and support  HP ILO setup and support  Administrator AVAYA phone system  Smartphone, Black Berry and IPad support. IT Specialist United Fuel - Midland, TX July 2006 to July 2008 Microsoft Exchange and Outlook support  Administer local Nortel PBX for 80 users  Crystal Report Writer  Document Retention and Imaging Software Network Administrator State National Bank - Lubbock, TX August 2002 to July 2006 Designed, Managed, Administrated and upgraded Network Operating Systems  NetWare 5.1 to NetWare 6.5 with thirty seven remote offices.  Microsoft SQL server build and configuring.  Microsoft Terminal Services  CISCO Switches and AiroNet Wireless  McAfee E Policy  Evault SAN System - For Backup Technical Sales Specialist SBC - Abilene, TX March 2000 to August 2002 Responsible for designing, implementing and selling company strategic  data products (routers, switches and data circuits). Identifies data  opportunities in accounts and works with Account Manger to close data  sales. Responsible for pre and post sales support Senior Computing System Professional Unocal - Midland, TX February 1995 to March 2000 Managed four Network / Desktop Support people  Designed, upgraded and Managed Network Operating Systems  Microsoft NT 3.5 to Microsoft NT 4 networks with seven remote offices.  NetWare 3.12 and 4.11 with seven remote offices  Microsoft NT 3.1 and NT4.0 with seven remote offices  WAN support for dialup user and Frame Relay networks.  Implemented 7X24 Network Monitoring System (Insight Manager and Manage Wise)  Developed backup/recovery and disaster recovery procedures  Provided 1st, 2nd, and 3rd level helpdesk/technical support for users.  Migrated from Cabletron Hubs to CISCO Catalyst 5000 Switches.  Administered Meridian PBX for 200 users. Education Associates in Computer Maintenance Technology Texas State Technical College Attended Midland College - Midland, TX Robert E. Lee High School - Midland, TX Skills Data Center, Networking, Telecommunication Additional Information Over twenty years of experience in the computer industry, with a proven record of team working skills. Excellent communication skills combined with the ability to plan and organize. Qualifications include installation, configuration and set up of networks, and analyzing and maintaining computer systems. Extensive experience in buildup, integration, and administration of Windows NT/2016, VMWare 6.5 Citrix servers and Netware 3.11 - 6.5,