Network Engineer/Project Manager/Cloud Solution Architect <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/Project Manager/Cloud Solution Architect Network Engineer/Project Manager/Software Developer La Crosse, WI I am only looking for remote opportunity's Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer/Project Manager/Cloud Solution Architect Network Connected LLC December 2002 to Present Responsibilities: Windows 2003/2008/2012/2016 WAN and LAN administration for a modest customer base; Support various SMB networks and applications; Web hosting; Email hosting; Company billing, accounting and financials; Advertising campaigns, Google Apps Reseller.    Experience: Windows 2003/2008/2012/2016 Server network design and implementation; Installing and managing windows 2008 in a VMware virtual environment. WAN design and installation including remote access; Terminal Server installation and configuration; Microsoft/Linux SQL installation and database management; Application installation, configuration and support including MS Office, MS Outlook, Sage Business Works, and assorted accounting packages; Web and Email hosting. Provide companies with Google Apps for their business.  I have also worked with many of the popular cloud providers. Amazon Aws, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud.    Android Kotlin Developer  A performance and security-oriented developer offering more than two years' experience designing, implementing, integrating, testing and supporting impactful applications developed in diverse, collaborative environments for mobile and tablet devices on the Android platform.    I have a solid background in creating complex mobile applications for Android. I can work independently and respect a deadline.    Developer Highlights  • Known for writing efficient, maintainable and reusable code that preserves privacy and security.  • Expert in the interaction between various devices and different versions of Android.  • Regarded as a self-motivated and well organized team player.  • Ensure applications are properly integrated with Android API's  • Create SQL database structures that integrate with Android applications and web service interfaces  • Created many user-friendly, aesthetically pleasing and fully functional applications for Android. Network Engineer/ Project Manager HABINC October 1999 to October 2002 Responsibilities: Windows NT/2000-Novell System administration; WAN and LAN administration; maintain Microsoft Training Center; outside customer support; R&D for LAN and WAN infrastructure; RAS administration and support.  Experience: Windows 2000 Terminal Server Network design and implementation; WAN design and installation; Terminal Server installation and configuration; Windows 2000 Active Directory network installation and configuration; SQL Server installation and database management; Microsoft Training Center design and implementation including Windows 2000 Professional rollout, Microsoft Exchange configuration and installation, and classroom application installation with IE, Office 2000, Outlook 2000 configuration, Microsoft Project 2000, and assorted accounting applications. Support user network on Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows NT 4.0, and Windows 2000. Support network printers, maintain network modem pools and support connectivity for both Intranet and the Internet. Network Consultant Associated computer systems February 1999 to September 1999 Responsibilities: Windows NT network design and implementation; LAN and WAN design and installation; ongoing customer support for NT servers, LANs, and WANs.  Experience: Switches, hubs, Cisco routers, Point-to-Point and Frame Relay implementation, firewalls, proxy servers, e-mail servers, all TCP/IP communications, voice over IP, VPN (Virtual Private Networking), NAT ( Network Address Translation), DSL (Digital Subscriber Lines Network Specialist/ Administrator IBM Business Partner Solutions October 1995 to January 1999 Responsibilities: Maintain, upgrade and troubleshoot 800+ employee computers; configure new workstations; troubleshoot Ethernet and token ring networks utilizing several monitoring tools; maintain network printers; company backups; maintain 15 NT Server computer room; 40+ user support.  Experience: Windows NT Servers, AS400, LANs and WANs, Cisco and IBM router installation and configuration, network redesign utilizing wireless bridge technology, hub expansion, CSU/DSU installation and configuration, UNIX installation and Internet connectivity, SQL server setup and operation. Help Desk Technician/System Administrator World Net Internet Provider March 1992 to October 1995 Responsibilities: Scheduling; new customer setup; dial-up troubleshooting; customer relations; light system administration; server maintenance. Education Certification of completion in Several programming languages - Java, c#, Kotlin, Python, JavaScript, Android app development Udemy - San Francisco, CA October 2015 to January 2018 Skills Windows Server (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Kotlin (2 years), Python (1 year), Windows System Administration (10+ years), Email Systems (10+ years), AWS (3 years), Google Cloud G Suite (10+ years), Java (3 years), Android (3 years), Android Sdk (3 years), GIT (5 years), System Admin (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), System Administrator (10+ years), SCCM (2 years)