Junior System Administrator Junior System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Junior System Administrator Royal Palm Beach, FL Work Experience Junior System Administrator Advanced Communications Group - Boynton Beach, FL June 2016 to May 2019 • Provide support for: PC equipment servers & Avaya, CTI, PBX, Polycom phone system, Indosoft, CTI, PBX, Active Directory, Cisco switches, Network copier/printers, Rackspace cloud mail support, Goto meeting, Microsoft Office Suite.  • Successfully analyzed existing 200 extensions list in systems and remove unused extra licenses to accommodate current available extension licenses.  • Perform telephone moves, add user accounts as needed address service request tickets closing them within a timely manner, setting up user accounts, roles, access, and privileges, issuing security access as well as locking out user accounts.  • Monitor server event logs, performance logs, growth of data on the network, and checking the status of nightly server backups  • Centralized management of Anti-Virus software. Maintenance and support of Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, Symantec Backup Exec 2012 and Microsoft security products.  • Performs day-to-day maintenance and installation of servers, network equipment, virtual machines, messaging, backups and storage. Network Administrator Anthem Education January 2011 to October 2015 • Responsible 200+ school and facility member and over 50 administrative staff on two campuses.  • Assists with implementation of new MITEL phone system and support.  • Provided support for: Active Directory, VPN access, SonicWall Firewall, copiers/ network printers, Microsoft Exchange, Cisco products, WatchGuard Firebox Configure and maintain all wireless access point.  • Ensured that all server hardware, operating systems, software, and procedures aligned with organizational standards and strategic business plan.  • Trained employees across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, network management software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software.  • Consulted with client companies to provide Web-based and network solutions along with strategic planning and project leadership over systems migration, configuration, administration, upgrades and troubleshooting initiatives.  • Investigating, resolving and closing user reported PC problems and application issues through our ticketing system.  • Developed rapport & trust with clients to learn about their company's needs & recommended relevant solutions to enrich their business' information systems.  • Installing, configuring and deploying new PCs & Servers.  • Providing a high level of customer service at all times. Help desk support Roig Lawyers - Deerfield Beach, FL 2015 to June 2015 • Provided support for: Hardware and Software, Active Directory, VPN access, network printers, Microsoft Exchange, Goto meeting, Video Conference calls, VOIP, Microsoft Office Suite, Traveled to all off site locations within Florida to deploy new hardware.  • Acted as escalation point for troubleshooting advanced network/systems issues.  • Providing a high level of customer service to Attorney and Clients.  • Performing administrative activities setting user accounts, roles, access, and privileges Subcontractor/ Desktop Support SabeRex Group, LTD - Austin, TX March 2011 to March 2011 - March 2011    • Supported PC equipment, laptops, copier, fax, printers, monitors, VOIP. Lead Junior Network Admin Florida Career College - West Palm Beach, FL June 2008 to January 2011 • Assisted Network Administrator in testing and deployment of Windows 7 image on 24,000 desktop and laptops.  • Performs administration activities such as setting user accounts, roles, access, and privileges  • Developed methodologies to configure applications and images to maximize production.  • Configured & managed servers with multiple Operating System Education AS in Network & System Administrator Course Florida Career College - West Palm Beach, FL December 2008 Skills Help Desk, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Tech Support, Active Directory, Comptia, Helpdesk Support, VPN