Senior Computer Technologist Senior Computer Technologist Senior Computer Technologist - Raytheon Co Salt Lake City, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Computer Technologist Raytheon Co October 2013 to Present ? Maintain a DOD TS SCI Clearance (TS//SCI).  ? Develop project plans, decide timelines for periods of work, and ensure all involved parties are tracking the same timeline.  ? Developed DevOps role for our Business Development and Marketing Groups.  ? Maintain up to 25 Networks in both Unclassified and Closed Areas simultaneously.  ? Maintain inventory of equipment and order for all disposables.  ? Engage with Project Managers to discuss needs and plan for best solutions.  ? Develop creative and new networks to meet more stringent security requirements while meeting the needs of engineers as they create next-gen technologies.  ? Configuring servers, routers and switches from multiple vendors, most notably HP (Dell (R series), Cisco (2600 to 4600 series), Cisco (4600 and UCS).  ? Work tightly in conjunction with ISSO/ISSM and Security Team to maintain Superior Rating during customer inspections for past 3 years.  ? Develop consistent Virtual Solutions through use of VMware Products such as vCenter, vSphere, and Horizon View in support of network and software engineering needs.  ? Coordinate with Program Managers and Site Leadership to ensure optimal networks and support situations.  ? Research and develop new methods of infrastructure, security, and development to improve the capabilities and effectiveness of the department and its resources. Senior Computer Technologist Raytheon Co. through Productive Data Solutions, Inc - Anaheim, CA August 2012 to Present 92808  (310)436-7010  ? Maintain a DOD TS SCI Clearance (TS//SCI).  ? Maintain 14 Networks in both Unclassified and Closed Areas.  ? Maintain inventory of equipment and order for all disposables.  ? Engage with Project Managers to discuss needs and plan for best solutions.  ? Develop creative and new networks to meet more stringent security requirements.  ? Man Support Hotline for End Users when an issue arises.  ? Configuring servers, routers and switches from multiple vendors, most notably HP (Dell (R series), Cisco (2600 to 4600 series), Cisco (4600 and UCS).  ? Work tightly in conjunction with ISSO/ISSM and Security Team to maintain Superior Rating during customer inspections for past 3 years.  ? Develop consistent Virtual Solutions through use of VMware Products such as vCenter, vSphere, and Horizon View in support of network and software engineering needs.  ? Coordinate with Program Managers and Site Leadership to ensure optimal networks and support situations. Systems/ Network Administrator Expedia, Inc. through Natural Data - Chandler, AZ June 2011 to May 2012 85286 (480) 355-8210  ? Maintained a Data Center of over 8,000 Servers, Switches and other network devices.  ? Devised and implemented system for managing failed hardware warranties and manufacturer replacement.  ? Installed, cabled, and configured all servers and network devices.  ? Responsible for resolving any system or network irregularities and failures.  ? Responsible for Tier II network trouble ticket resolution.  ? Administering Windows 2000/XP/Vista (including Active Directory (AD), UNIX, and Linux operating systems (OS).  ? Configuring servers, routers and switches from multiple vendors, most notably HP (Proliant series), Dell (R series), and Cisco (2600 to 4600 series). Network Administrator CSS through United States Marine Corps - Kunia, HI July 2005 to July 2010 808) 655-3131  ? Maintained a Communications Telecommunications Operations Center (CTOC) of over 6,000 circuits.  ? Responsible for creating and updating signal flow diagrams for network configuration management for the circuit database and ensured reporting and installations were completely in accordance with (IAW) NSA standards.  ? Installed, cabled, and configured dozens of pieces of network equipment.  ? Resolved hundreds of network connectivity faults in 45 wide-area networks (WANs) through industry-standard troubleshooting techniques and assisted two communications center watch sections with several circuit cutovers.  ? Responsible for Tier II network trouble ticket resolution.  ? Maintain a Top Secret SCI Clearance (TS/SCI).  ? Strong, hands-on technical knowledge backed by vendor training.  ? Proven leadership skills which ensured complete mission success by motivating high-performance teams at National Security Agency / Central Security Service (NSA/CSS) at Kunia, Hawaii.  ? Configuring servers, routers and switches from multiple vendors, most notably Dell (R series), Cisco (2600 to 4600 series), Juniper and the Marconi ASX.  ? Utilizing network testing devices (Fireberd 6000 and 8000, T-berd, Digital Lightwave).  ? Operating the Carrier Access Broadmore Network Router, Promina Broadband Access Shelf, and Cisco MGX, BPX, and IGX.  ? Installing Ethernet, serial, and fiber optic cable plants, as well as implementing DNS, SMTP, and FTP in VPN and ATM architectures.  ? Operating various pieces of cryptographic equipment (KIV-7M, KG-75/A, KG-175/A/B, etc.  ? Proficient in using HP Openview, MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, etc ), Cisco WAN Manager and the Remedy Ticket Database system. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science DeVry University - Salt Lake City, UT October 2016 to Present Cryptologic Technician Maintenance class "A" in Computer Science Center for Information Dominance - Pensacola, FL January 2006 to June 2006 Associate in Computer Science DeVry University-Chicago - Long Beach, CA Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Exchange Server (5 years), Cent OS (7 years), Network Administration (10+ years), Systems Integration (8 years), System Administration (10+ years), Collaboration (10+ years), Project Management (7 years), Problem Solving (10+ years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Customer Service (7 years), Computer Skills (10+ years), Communication (10+ years), Change Management (10+ years), Documentation (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Windows 10 (6 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Information Security (10+ years), Information Technology (10+ years), Six Sigma Certified (5 years), CCNA (7 years), Security + (7 years) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Cpl/E-4 July 2005 to July 2010 Special intelligence communicators' duties encompass all aspects of special intelligence communications including the utilization of equipment. Special Intelligence communicators duties include support to: special compartment intelligence computerized network transmissions, network administration, cryptologic security, computer network defense, conducting preventive maintenance of assigned area network equipment and circuit connectivity, the transmission and receiving of special intelligence via the Defense Special Security Communications (DSSCS), and the Defense Messaging System (DMS).    Communicators also maintain files, log special intelligence communications related publications and perform other operational and administrative tasks. Additionally, Marines assigned this MOS will receive training in MOS related requirements including unit unique computer security systems, the operation of power supply, equipment prime mover (truck), and operator vehicle maintenance procedures. This MOS will be assigned and voided only by the authority of the CMC (MM). Awards Six Sigma Specialist 2015-05 This is a project management and process management training that uses a method of reevaluating how any one process might be completed to yield the best result with minimal effort every time.