Network Specialist <span class="hl">Network</span> Specialist IT Bronx, NY Work Experience Network Specialist United Business Technology/Viacom Inc. - New York, NY 2013 to May 2019 Manage, organize, plan, and direct network services to insure that all data, image, and video network systems are maintained at appropriate service levels.   Provides managerial network expertise and guidance in the area of research, evaluation, selection, development, implementation, and support.   Ensures the logical utilization of the LAN and WAN network is uniform and consistent with industry architecture standards.   Responsible for support of the corporate business plan, strategy, and growth through effective and efficient network systems. Responsible for effective support of network clients and others dependent on network services.  Support Datacenter server solutions (VMware, Citrix Zen, Microsoft Hyper-V, Dedicated Servers, Utility Storage)  The troubleshooting issue includes working with employees remotely at sites and working the ticket until issue is resolved. Troubleshooting sometimes-required working with other NOC’s.   Verifying network outages, device failures, circuits, and performance issue  Work adhering to all applicable policy, process, and procedure documentation. Assist in compiling departmental metrics. Participating in daily bridge and conference calls  Migrated databases from SQL Server 2008 to SQL Server 20012 R2.  Upgraded the Service Packs on Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2 and applied Patches on Microsoft Server 2005/2008 R Network Engineer Madison Technology - New York, NY 2010 to 2012 Independently diagnose, repair, and/or recommend resolution to desktop, network, and server hardware and/or software issues. Support MTI's Managed Hosting Platform. Perform software and hardware installations, configurations, repair and upgrades. Maintain IT Infrastructure asset lists and maintenance logs. Performed scheduled maintenance on servers and peripheral equipment. Provided support and assistance to users at multiple locations. Assisted in preparation of user manuals and technical documentations. Assisted in special projects as assigned. Provide system hardware and software support to end-users. Effectively communicated with non-technical persons, both oral and written. Assisted in enforcement of department policies and procedures. Maintained confidentiality at all times. Traveled to various sites as needed and I am a part of a standby schedule and work nights / weekends as required. Network Administrator / Contract Robert Half Technology - New York, NY 2010 to 2010 to 2010) Worked collaboratively with users providing technical expertise and support. Performed operating system upgrades, capacity planning, and performance analysis as it relates to day-to-day operations. Performed problem determination and resolution. Provided support of storage and backup technologies. Maintained configuration compliance to avoid risks of system outages or compromised data. Automated operations tasks in order to reduce labor required to support systems. Documented, developed and implemented test plans to verify installation, upgrades or repairs, including back-out plans. Implemented O/S patches as required. Performed Helpdesk and desktop support for all Systems. Computer Repair Teacher / Seasonal Boys & Girls Club of MMCC - Bronx, NY 2008 to 2009 Provided fundamental programming along with computer applications to students. Researched and implemented a directory of accessible software to supporting teachers. Conducted modification planning and execution of the public domain applications. Conducted immediate modification of the public software for the betterment of course. Conducted various workshops for computer training among the staffs. Implemented suitable method for uplifting the time duration of computer using than the scheduled time Sr. Network Administrator / Seasonal R & G Brenner Income Tax - Valley Stream, NY 2008 to 2009 Planned and designed the organization's LAN network expansion. Upgraded and configured Microsoft Window Server 2003 to 2008 and installed network routers, cabling, and firewall. Responsible for network management including network performance tuning, security monitoring, active directory, BES, file server backup, and email server administration. Worked with the management team to develop security policies and conducted network systems security auditing. Provided technical support for application systems integration with database server and application. Field Service Technician Cardinal Health - New York, NY 2005 to 2007 Provided remote and on-site reactive service, debugging and troubleshooting for the Pyxis automated systems (Dos, Windows 3.1/2000/XP, Windows Server 2000/2003) located within hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare facilities. Provided service primarily for hardware and software system components. Participated in the installation and upgrades of Pyxis systems. Executed a preventative maintenance program. Participated in pre-installation testing, reconfiguring, and documentation of uncovered technical issues of all applicable Pyxis systems. Manager of Information System (MIS) / Contract Miller, Ellin & Company - New York, NY 2004 to 2005 Coordinated the acquisition, installation and testing of hardware and software as required or contracted. Administered network databases and files to ensure adequate security and data integrity are maintained. Ensured compliance with all software licenses and all applicable software copyright laws. Implements and controls a secure backup procedure. Coordinated and provides computer software and hardware training, documentation, and reference materials for City staff to ensure knowledgeable and productive users. Troubleshoot and maintained all data processing and information systems, software, hardware, and networks. Performed systems analyst duties including identifying data processing needs, developing solutions, and designing customized programs to meet these needs. Planned and implemented the computer budget. Equities Help Desk / Internship Goldman Sachs/CRC - New York, NY 2002 to 2002 to 2002) Handled incoming customer requests via phone, email, voicemail and in person conversations. Used Helpdesk tracking software to track, escalate and problem solve (Remedy). Troubleshoot hardware and software issues courteously and expeditiously. Provided first and second level support for personal computer upgrades and installations. Staged, configured and deployed new and existing desktops/laptops/peripherals. Installed basic PC software applications (MS Office Suite, project, Visio, Acrobat, etc.) and assisted in the hardware warranty process.    Available for Relocation & Travel  Reference's Upon Request Education A.A.S. in Computer Science TCI College of Technology - New York, NY September 2001 to December 2002 Skills CompTIA A+ (10+ years), MS Office Suite (10+ years), MS Sharepoint (9 years), Citrix (5 years), VMware (5 years), Active Directory (10+ years), MS Exchange (10+ years), SQL (5 years), Powershell (10+ years), BES (5 years), VPN Services (5 years), SCCM (5 years), Nagios (5 years), Nagios XI (5 years), Desktop Support (10+ years)