Application Engineer Application Engineer Application Engineer - Blue Stingray Bethalto, IL Work Experience Application Engineer Blue Stingray - St. Louis, MO 2016 to Present • Customize and extend enterprise resource planning system called Odoo for manufacturing clients using Python and XML.  • Creating web based inventory system for client that connects to RESTful API backend. System uses Aurelia javascript framework for frontend, Python and Django for backend. I.T. Consultant Self employed 2008 to 2016 • Provide I.T. services for small businesses.  • Perform installation and upgrading of new network and desktop application software.  • Troubleshoot and fix systems such as X-Ray equipment.  • Provide advice regarding the purchase of new equipment and services.  • Document networks and servers. Network Administrator Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO 2003 to 2004 • Deploy Cisco routers and switches, and administer Network Monitoring services.  • Responsible for network evaluations, troubleshooting a variety of network problems including T-1 and frame relay  • Created web application for tracking network resources such as routers and ip addresses. IP Engineer Inflow Datacenters - St. Louis, MO 2001 to 2003 • Lead technical person for St. Louis datacenter.  • Educated technicians in various aspects of networking.  • Troubleshot new client installations and maintained core datacenter infrastructure including HVAC and generator. Network Engineer Williams Communications Group - Bridgeton, MO 2000 to 2001 Went onsite to telecom offices and installed customer equipment. Network Associate AT&T - Bridgeton, MO 1997 to 2000 • Network provisioning for business internet services.  • Troubleshot layer 2 and 3 network issues. Education Bachelors of Science in Physics Southern Illinois University - Edwardsville, IL 1995 Skills JAVASCRIPT (2 years), PYTHON (2 years), CISCO (2 years), APACHE (Less than 1 year), BASH (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Computer Skills    • Programming: Python, Javascript, HTML and CSS, C#, Go, Perl, Bash, SQL  • Linux system administration: Nginx and Apache web servers, Postfix email server, MySQL and PostgreSQL databases  • Network administration: Cisco switches and routers, firewalls, VPN's, BGP, EIGRP