IT Manager/Systems Administrator IT Manager/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager Wappingers Falls, NY Work Experience IT Manager/Systems Administrator Bottini Fuel - Wappingers Falls, NY December 2012 to Present 1. Deployed and upgraded 80 desktops.  2. Deployed 168 tablets and Intermec devices for use with service and delivery departments.  3. Implemented VMWare, Vsphere and Upgraded Host machines and data stores.  4. Setup Veeam to provide backups (local & Cloud).  5. Upgraded switches and firewalls.  6. Installed virus protection server to push virus protection software to desktops and laptops.  7. Replaced phone system with Cisco VoIP system.  8. Setup ticketing system for IT staff.  9. Setup camera system for 7 sites for remote view. Network Administrator Rose Associates, Inc April 1989 to February 2012 Installed and administered Microsoft IIS 7 web server.  ? Administered Domain Name Servers (Windows 2008 Enterprise)  ? Configured and managed AD, Exchange, DHCP, WSUS, WDS, Antivirus and backup servers in the corporate network.  ? Manager of desktop support consisting of a staff of four, which supported up to 200 users. Setup Trackit ticketing system to track work orders and computer equipment.  ? Designed and implemented VoIP Shortel phone system throughout the company.  ? Managed VMware vSphere servers.  ? Installed and maintained SQL servers to work with in house accounting system.  ? Managed Ericom's Webconnect servers (including failover server).  ? Purchased computer equipment for Main office and satellite offices.  ? Manager of Mac server (integrated Mac's to work with Active Directory).  ? Managed video and audio conferencing systems in conference rooms including cable tv setup.  ? Setup and managed construction site cameras. Owners were given access to view construction of high rise buildings.  ? Traveled out of state to support satellite offices on the east coast.  ? Supported Managing Director's home network with router and wifi setup.  ? On call 24/7.  ? Volunteered time for non profit organization (Heaf.org) Education Certificate LaGuardia Community College Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Linux, Vmware, Active Directory