Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - 1 Calvert County Government, MD Bowie, MD Competencies  • Advanced training in Data Recovery and IT Administration Protocols  • CompTIA A+ Certification Course 445; Learning Tree  • Completed training for CEH v7 (Certified Ethical Hacking) Global Knowledge  • Microsoft 365 Administration, One Drive Administration and Skype Administration  • Microsoft Certified Professional (Implementing and Admin. Windows 7 in the Ent.) Learning Tree  • Microsoft Certified Professional (Server)  • Microsoft Certified Professional (Professional)  • Network Specialist Certified Course 450 & 451; Learning Tree  • Public Trust and CJIS Review Clearance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator 1 Calvert County Government, MD February 2016 to Present • System-wide Network Administration and Safety: I am responsible for managing local, state-wide and mobile networks using multiple applications for all of Calvert County Government IT systems including the development and implementation of security protocols for the protection of internal and external network hardware and software as well as the initiation of immediate and appropriate actions to block security attacks; and for reporting breaches and making updates to corrective action protocols. Furthermore, I work closely with management and supervisors to set Group Policy in configuring system access by mapping network user accounts based on log-in scripts and operations.  • IT Network Architecture Planning and Installation: I am responsible for planning, development, management, administration and troubleshooting IT applications for over 1,200 user accounts within all public safety and administrative departments and offices including two data centers and 24 server rooms throughout the County. This requires my hands-on participation in the planning, configuring, managing and installation of Avaya VOIP phone system network wiring for Vlan routing and IP scheme referencing as well as for network architecture mapping, installs of network hardware assemblies; configuration of routers, switches, virtual private networks, and system protocols that provide for optimal throughput, compatibility of components, and appropriate security level implementation. This includes implementing Microsoft Office 365, One Drive and Skype to allow all county employees to access data from anywhere. I have worked heavily on the Virtual Desktop Infrastructure using VMware products. I am responsible for ensuring the uptime for VDI connectivity 365/24/7 for the Fire departments (10) in Calvert County.  • Network Maintenance and Security: I develop, implement and monitor software systems and applications that provide system security and access to the servers; resolve modification issues utilizing sniffers, intrusion detection, network, telecommunications, and other internet monitoring software systems. In addition, I create data stores and configure disk provisioning for virtual servers using Dell Compellent software. We have implemented HPE Simplivity Hyperconverged for network storage in addition to the Compellent. I currently manage over 160TB of data daily for user data and backups. I oversee work performed by IT contractors and ensure that secure network and systems design protocols are implemented. I am the resident expert for Carbon Black Defense (NGAV) for all of Calvert County Government. I manage the policies, rules and upgrade planning for over 1300 end point devices. I am responsible for investigating security breaches, suspicious activities and I work closely with department supervisor and the county attorney to ensure legal measures are followed accordingly.  • Supervision and Employee Development: I facilitate county-wide hands on employee training in software and hardware use as well as create and service user accounts using Microsoft Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange programs in addition to creating virtual servers for both production and training using VMware Horizon View to host virtual training sessions. I have two years of experience supervising direct reports and three years' experience supervising contract staff. Computer Service Technician II Calvert County Government, MD 2007 to 2016 • Help Desk Facilitator and Troubleshooting: As the primary contact for troubleshooting IT issues for employees throughout the county, I would remote access and correct PC issues using Altriris Express Deployment 6.8 and Novell Zen works 11.3.1 Remote Management System and Adobe software and (Reader XI, Cs 6.5, etc.) and repair a variety of software and hardware compatibility issues. In addition, I performed data recovery and PC maintenance including updates and upgrades, corrected issues with port security for Cisco network switches and routers as well as resolved configuration issues using VMware to ensure technical integration; and I used a Numara Track-It 10.5 Ticket Management System to organize work requests and to compile reports.  • IT Equipment Inventory, Maintenance and Distribution: I was responsible for the inventory, imaging, upgrading and distribution of new PCs and peripherals Countywide as well as for the distribution, setup and maintenance of loaner IT equipment, peripherals and accessories along with recommending and installing memory upgrades for laptops and desktops.  • Network Configuration and Assembly: I installed client-side applications for network fileservers, conducted network cable tracing and network patching to insure system integrity as well as managed Websense Internet monitoring and filter for restricting Internet access for users. In addition, I recommended and installed software and hardware upgrades as well as replacements for Dell and Panasonic PCs including the installation of Verizon EVDO cards and activation protocols for Panasonic Tough Books along with connecting users to network drives and file sharing through hard mapping drives.  • Employee Training and Broadcasting: I videotaped County Commissioner meetings using multi-camera setups and Granicus to record, edit and distribute broadcast ready programs to employees and to the general public through the Comcast Network. I installed and maintained the DVR (Digital Video Recording) system for the court house security system. Education Associates Degree in Networking Information Systems TESST College - Beltsville, MD 2001 to 2002 Skills Technical Support, Windows (10+ years), Active Directory (5 years), Vmware (5 years), Networking (5 years), Security (5 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Sales (10+ years), Windows 7 (10+ years), access Certifications/Licenses Carbon Black Defense Certified Present Next generation anti virus application.