Sr Security Engineer Sr Security Engineer Sr. Security Engineer - Vertek Plattsburgh, NY To obtain a position where I can utilize my skills, training, be challenged and grow both individually and in my career. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Security Engineer Vertek - Colchester, VT May 2016 to Present As a Sr. Security Engineer, I am responsible for incident response and analysis of security incidents on client networks. I am also responsible for tier 2 level support for analysts that need assistance or a second set of eyes while analyzing events or alarms. I work closely with clients providing recommendations to strengthen their security posture in accordance with NIST 27001, PCI-DSS, HIPAA and any other regulations that may apply to the client. I also work as part of a labs team responsible for looking into and updating threat intelligence based on new malware  attack vectors in relation to the Miter ATT&CK frame work, and Cyber kill chain. Information Security Administrator Twinstate Technologies - Morrisonville, NY December 2015 to May 2016 As the information security administrator my duties included monitoring and maintaining, the SIEM for information and events in the network. I also lead the incident response team for any security event at the company. I was responsible for the internal user awareness training and policy development and deployment. While doing all of the administrator duties internally I also maintain all of the duties of CyberSecurity Specialist. CyberSecurity Specialist Twinstate Technologies - Morrisonville, NY June 2011 to December 2015 As the Cyber Security Specialist I was responsible for the coordination and preforming of Vulnerability Assessments and Penetration Test's for customers. I also worked closely with the network administrator for our company to maintain our environments security. As well I also preformed client facing tasks such as server and network administration. I also assisted clients with their migrations to AWS, Azure and other hosted platforms while maintaining their security posture. Network Administrator Planned Parenthood of the North Country New York - Plattsburgh, NY June 2008 to June 2011 As the Network Administrator, I was responsible for maintaining the servers and all computer workstations within the organization. I was also responsible for maintaining the infrastructure. The infrastructure included the firewalls and manages switches. I was also responsible for the Telecom systems, and any training that involved with the IT department. Citrix Server and Exchange servers were used. I was also responsible for working with the QA/RM manager to ensure HIPAA and HITECH compliance. Internship Novatec Innovative Technologies - Plattsburgh, NY September 2006 to June 2008 As a Network Technician, I worked with many different size networks. These networks were for many different types of organizations from small not for profits to local government entities. I managed many different types of servers from Active Directory and DFS to SQL and Exchange. I also managed various Layer 2 and 3 switches and routers for customers. Network Technician Office Systems-Plattsburgh June 2006 to September 2006 As a network technician, I fixed computers and networks and learned how to repair the Multi-Function Copiers they sold. I was also involved in the inventory and shipping and receiving of products. Education Clinton Community College - Plattsburgh, NY 2008 Skills Nessus (3 years), Kali (3 years), Vulnerability assesments (3 years), SIEM (5 years), Cyber Security (7 years), Network Security, Information Security, Splunk, Risk Management Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Security+ SANS GSEC Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Certified Penetration Tester eLearnSecurity Junior Penetration Tester eJPT CompTIA Linux+ LPIC-1 AlienVault Certified Security Engineer(ACSE) CompTIA Network+ Additional Information CompTIA Network+