IT System Analyst IT System Analyst IT System Analyst - First Service Residential Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Results-driven and self-directed IT professional, with demonstrated success troubleshooting, and resolving issues in high pressure, deadline-driven environments. Recognizes the role of customer satisfaction and exhibits a dedication in meeting client expectations and requirements. Continually explores ways to improve, and promote quality, and addresses new demands and challenges with a positive attitude and effort. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT System Analyst First Service Residential - Dallas, TX 2019 to Present • Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability and server function.  • Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  • Support VOIP system.  • Configure and define parameters for installation and testing of local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), routers, switches, controllers, multiplexers, and related networking equipment. Network Administrator Oxley Enterprises, Inc - Arlington, TX January 2018 to March 2019 * The Network Architect design for the newly joined remote offices.  * Responding to trouble tickets and tracking Service Level Agreements (SLAs)  * Interact with on-site personnel such as network services, software systems engineering, and/or applications development to restore service and/or identify and correct core problem.  * Provide recommendations for modifications to systems and applications to reduce user problems.  * Network improvement solution/design for the old environment.  * Develop from the ground S VOIP service. Implementation, troubleshooting, and Configuration. Create documentation templates for future installations and procedure guidelines.  * Experience in deploying and troubleshooting LAN/WAN, MPLS,SDWAN- ETHER-CHANNEL, IP Routing Protocols-(RIPV2, OSPF, EIGRP & BGP), Switching, Firewall, Technologies, NAT, VLAN, STP, VTP, 802.1q, HSRP, GLBP and,VPN  * Add virtual desktop client (CAG- Citrix Access Gateway) to existing office platform.  * Load and reload, configure, and update anti-virus and virus scan software on desktop/laptop as required.  * Support all servers (Microsoft (MS) Exchange, Domain Name System (DNS), Windows Internet Name Service (WINS), Local Area Network/Wide Area Network (LAN/WAN) switching and routers.  * management. Participate in weekly project conference calls.  * Meet with Infrastructure team to discuss network requirement  * Provide services within Service Level Agreements (SLAs) requirements  * Provide input and support contractual deliverables including Contractor Project Management Plan (CPMP), Weekly Status Reports, Monthly Status Reports, Quarterly Status Reports as well as Assessment reports completed during the line of work Network Analyst First Service Residential - Dallas, TX April 2015 to January 2018 Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability and server function.  Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  • Configure wide area network (WAN) and local area network (LAN) routers and related equipment.  • Configure and define parameters for installation and testing of local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), routers, switches, controllers, multiplexers, and related networking equipment.  • Evaluate local area network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN) performance data to ensure sufficient availability or speed, to identify network problems, or for disaster recovery purposes.  • Troubleshoot networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  • Install and configure wireless networking equipment.  • Firewall Configuration and Troubleshooting.  • Disaster recover.  • Local area network (LAN) setup, Configuration and troubleshooting.  • Citrix Client Troubleshooting  • Run monthly network reports.  • Back up network data.  • Meet with the Infrastructure team to discuss the network requirement  • Provide tier 1 and 2 support to on-site and remote personnel on-site and remote by responding to trouble tickets and tracking Service Level Agreements (SLAs) Network support specialist New Future & General Dynamics - Baghdad, IQ June 2012 to March 2015 • Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability and server function.  • Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  • Configure wide area network (WAN) and local area network (LAN) routers and related equipment  • Configure and define parameters for installation and testing of local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), hubs, routers, switches, controllers, multiplexers, and related networking equipment.  • Evaluate local area network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN) performance data to ensure sufficient availability or speed, to identify network problems, or for disaster recovery purposes.  • Troubleshoot networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  • Install and configure wireless networking equipment.    • Install network software, including security or firewall software  • Install new hardware or software systems or components, ensuring integration with existing network systems  • Perform routine maintenance or standard repairs to networking components or equipment  • Test computer software or hardware, using standard diagnostic testing equipment and procedures  • Troubleshoot network or connectivity problems for users or user groups  • Analyze and report computer network security breaches or attempted breaches  • Back up network data.  • Create and update technical documentation for network installations or changes to existing installations.  • Document help desk requests and resolutions.  • Maintain logs of network activity.  • Monitor industry websites or publications for information about patches, releases, viruses, or potential problem identification.  • Provide telephone support related to networking or connectivity issues.  • Research hardware or software products to meet technical networking or security needs.  • Run monthly network reports.  • Test repaired items to ensure proper operation.  • Train users in procedures related to network applications software or related systems. IT Support Specialist New Future - Baghdad, IQ October 2011 to June 2012 * Provide tier 1 and 2 support to on-site and remote personnel on-site and remote by responding to trouble tickets and tracking Service Level Agreements (SLAs)  * Responsible for responding to help desk tickets, monitoring and maintaining systems and refreshing laptop/desktop systems  * Provide desktop support  • Perform software updates, patches, installation, and issue resolution (e.g., Windows 7/10 and Microsoft Office 2003 and 2010 to include Visio, Project, Access, Microsoft Exchange, SharePoint)  • Provide hardware support to desktop computers laptops, printers, tablets, cell phones and associated peripherals such as scanners, tape drives, monitors, Compact Disk Read Only Memory (CD-ROM) and video teleconferencing equipment.  • Interact with on-site personnel such as network services, software systems engineering, and/or applications development to restore service and/or identify and correct core problem.  • Track hardware inventory  * Provide recommendations for modifications to systems and applications to reduce user problems.  * Ensure smooth daily operations of the help desk, and as often as possible, assume leadership role in resolving customer desktop, laptop, printer, and related software problems.  * Troubleshoot any problems or issues that arise with Windows desktops/laptops from the network drop to the desktop/laptop prioritizing systems infected with viruses.  * Respond to alert notification or escalation of an issue from members of the OIT ICS team, determine the probable cause of the issue and take the appropriate intervention action(s) to restore the Windows and Macintosh desktop/laptop to operational status.  * Provide operating system updates for Windows and Macintosh desktops/laptops.  * Document status of tickets; opened, pending and closed.  * Add virtual desktop client (CAG- Citrix Access Gateway) to existing office platform.  * Load and reload, configure, and update anti-virus and virus scan software on desktop/laptop as required.  * Create and distribute "clean-up kits" (including instructions and other user documentation) for Windows and Macintosh remote laptops.  * Load, configure, and update Virtual Private Network (VPN) and RESCUE software on desktop/laptop as required.  * Disconnect and/or reconnect desktop and peripherals in support of office moves within the OIT Field Offices.  * Provide LAN/WAN system tape backups.  * Image, configure and deploy and install new devices to OIT Field Offices customers.  * Provide required technical service and training to lower level Contractor personnel to resolve end user problems.  * Support all servers (Microsoft (MS) Exchange, Domain Name System (DNS), Windows Internet Name Service (WINS), Local Area Network/Wide Area Network (LAN/WAN) switching and routers  * Set up hardware and loading software to support meetings and training classes at all locations  * Provide input and support contractual deliverables including Contractor Project Management Plan (CPMP), Weekly Status Reports, Monthly Status Reports, Quarterly Status Reports as well as Assessment reports completed during the line of work  * Work with OI&T Operations Manager to take daily direction and provide previous day status.  * Provide services in the development of local Integrated Campus Support procedures.  * Provide services with the development and training for OI&T staff.  * Research new product availability as directed by the OI&T Project Manager.  * Work as liaison between OI&T and vendor to resolve related warranty problems.  * Travel as approved by OI&T Project Manager to provide services on special projects and provide backup for other sites.  * Provide services in developing required project status reports to be submitted OI&T management. Participate in weekly project conference calls.  * Attend meeting with Government personnel as required  * Provide services within Service Level Agreements (SLAs) requirements Interpreter & cultural Advisor GLS/ US Army - Baghdad, IQ October 2004 to September 2009 * Provided Interpreter & cultural advisor for USA Army.  * Conducted periodic meetings between the heads of municipal councils and U.S. troops  * Provided education and guidance to military officers about the customs and cultures and began with the guidance of cultural awareness  * Maintained the holding of meetings between local citizens and U.S. forces and the heads of municipal councils  * Prepared and maintained Control Interpreters leave schedules and preparations and missions schedules as the interpreters POC I  * Controlled the movement of military convoys and direct traffic.  * Maintained the holding of meetings between local citizens and U.S. forces and the heads of municipal councils  * Patrolled a specified district or beat on foot, motorcycle, patrol vehicle (marked or unmarked).  * Provided information to pedestrians and motorists.  * Checked for any law violations.  * Watched for suspicious cars, curfew violators and make arrests for violations of laws and ordinances.  * Coordinated between Iraqi low enforcement and U.S. military.  * Maintained communications between USA army and Iraqi low enforcement provide the translation to the USA army and conduct joint missions. Education B.Sc. degree in Information Technology Technical College of Management - Irving, TX 2009 Skills CISCO (3 years), DNS (3 years), DHCP (3 years), IPV6 (2 years), MPLS (1 year), Active Directory (6 years), access Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/qusay-sabbar-3195b3aa Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Civilian Contractor Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification CCNP Additional Information Technical Skills:  MPLS Router such as: Alcatel-Lucent:7750 Cisco ASR 9000 Series Cisco Call manager, Cisco unity manager Ticketing sys such as CA-SDM, Service Now and Happy fox  Solarwinds_PRTG- Network Monitoring. Lync -Skype Business HP-Aruba Switches-IAP.  MPLS- DMVPN -IPsec tunnel-SSL Server Wireless ;Aerohive Networks-Aruba-Cisco -AAA-TACAS+ Cisco USCM-Avaya PBX  Cisco Routing &Switching Enterprise Level HA-Failover expertise& Firewall management DNS-DHCP-IPV4-IPV6