System Network Administrator System <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Network Administrator - Parameds PDC Hollywood, FL Work Experience System Network Administrator Parameds PDC - Kew Gardens, NY April 2005 to Present • Established, repaired and optimized networks by installing wiring, cabling and devices.  • Answered and troubleshot requests for assistance in order to provide top-notch support.  • Delivered network technology training to junior team members and end-users, enhancing knowledgebase and team productivity.  • Set up hardware and software in optimal configurations to meet network performance requirements.  • I started working for PDC while I was living in Israel (remotely), my duties included: Network Administration, Application development, Server maintenance, Tech Support as well as Web development.  • I am still employed with PDC in the evenings.  • Supervisor: Lenny Kopelevich: 917-597-1965 System/CRM Administrator MLFactors LLC - Cedarhurst, NY June 2016 to February 2018 • I was the head developer for their web-based CRM as well as their offsite Network Admin.  • I also provided Tech Support for their Employees.  • Implemented, developed and tested installation and update of file servers, print servers and application servers in all departments.  • Implemented corrective plans of action for network performance issues including availability, utilization, and latency.  • Installed and upgraded CRM with internal and third party software. Network Admin/Graphics/Web Developer Jewish Student Information Center - Jerusalem, IL April 2004 to October 2008 IL  • The Jewish Student Center is a Student Lab attached to the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.  • My duties included: Network administration, graphic design, tech support and web development as well as videography and video editing.  • Supervisor: Jeff Seidel: 052-286-7795. Loan Processor Bank of America - Miramar, FL May 1996 to July 1998 • Expatiating the loan approval process, from document and income verification to assisting Underwriters better understand the risks and advantages involved in each case.  • Coordinated closing process with attorneys, title companies and government clerks.  • Prepared documents for underwriting by verifying client income, credit reports and other information. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bar Ilan University May 2002 to June 2006 Hebrew Letters Aish HaTorah College of Jewish Studies - Jerusalem, IL March 2002 to November 2004 Certificate in Web development in Web development/ Graphic Design Florida Career College - Pembroke Pines, FL February 1997 to July 1999 Skills Exchange Server, IIS, Network Administration, Windows, Javascript, Networking, Technical Support, Microsoft Office, MS Access, Mac, Customer Service, Video Production Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC E-4 January 1998 to January 2002 82nd Airborne Infantry