Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Engineer - CLOUD PROVEN NETWORKS / SOLUTIONS HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Arizona Kidney Disease and Hypertension Center - Phoenix, AZ July 2016 to Present •         Manage and maintain corporate technology infrastructure. Spanning 50+ facilities throughout Arizona.  •         Coordinate complete VM overhaul. Completed moving to 100% virtual systems.   •         Coordinate research and deployment of disaster recovery solutions.  •         Oversee technology deployment of new office spaces.  •         Lead email migration project from Squirrel mail to Office 365.  •         Oversee helpdesk technicians and services provided to 700+ staff. Running day to day IT support.  •         Test, maintain, and monitor computer programs and systems, including coordinating the installation of computer programs and systems.  •         Meet with department heads, managers, supervisors, vendors, and others, to solicit cooperation and resolve problems.  •         Expand or modify system to serve new purposes or improve work flow.  •         Determine computer software or hardware needed to set up or alter system.  •         Recommend new equipment or software packages.  •         Review project plans to plan and coordinate project activity.  •         Provide users with technical support for computer problems. Systems Engineer CLOUD PROVEN NETWORKS / SOLUTIONS HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT - Indianapolis, IN June 2010 to June 2016 • Managed large VM environment consisting of multiple domains across dual data centers.  • Manage and maintain VOIP, email and backups systems.  • Develop computer information resources, providing for data security and control, strategic computing, and disaster recovery.  • Test, maintain, and monitor computer programs and systems, including coordinating the installation of computer programs and systems.  • Meet with department heads, managers, supervisors, vendors, and others, to solicit cooperation and resolve problems.  • Expand or modify system to serve new purposes or improve work flow.  • Determine computer software or hardware needed to set up or alter system.  • Recommend new equipment or software packages.  • Review project plans to plan and coordinate project activity.  • Provide users with technical support for computer problems. IT Director LOW COST MOBILITY - Anderson, IN April 2009 to August 2009 • Develop or update project plans for information technology projects including information such as project objectives, technologies, systems, information specifications, schedules, funding, and staffing.  • Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Develop training materials and procedures, or train users in the proper use of hardware or software.  • Confer with staff, users, and management to establish requirements for new systems or modifications.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems. Network Administrator MIDWEST TOXICOLOGY SERVICES, INC - Indianapolis, IN August 2007 to March 2009 • Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, or server function.  • Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  • Perform routine maintenance or standard repairs to networking components or equipment.  • Troubleshoot network or connectivity problems for users or user groups.  • Modify existing databases and database management systems or direct programmers and analysts to make changes.  • Write and code logical and physical database descriptions and specify identifiers of database to management system or direct others in coding descriptions.  • Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media. Computer Technician ROCORE THERMAL SYSTEMS - Indianapolis, IN October 2006 to July 2007 • Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Maintain records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken, or installation activities.  • Develop computer information resources, providing for data security and control, strategic computing, and disaster recovery. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology WESTERN GOVERNORS UNIVERSITY - Indianapolis, IN April 2015 Associates of Applied Science in Computer and Information Science ECPI COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY - Virginia Beach, VA June 2006 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Project+ MCTS: Windows 7, Configuration CCNA CIW Web Design Specialist CIW Web Foundations Associate MCP Additional Information • Networking Essentials  Network Topologies  Connectivity Devices  LAN and WAN Services  Troubleshooting Connectivity Problems  Adapter Installation  • E-mail Systems  Microsoft Exchange 2000 - 2007  Microsoft Outlook 2000 - 2013  Novell GroupWise  Web-based E-mail  Zimbra  • Windows 95 - 10 & Server 2000 - 2012  Installation and administration  Security through group policy  Directory services administration  Configuration of protocol, drivers, printers  Infrastructure administration  • Microsoft Office Programs  Office Pro 2000 - 2013  Installation and administration  Office Suite  Power Point  OneNote  Visio  • Web Design  HTML / CSS  ASP  PHP  Javascript  • Other Systems & Software  VMware vSphere 5.5  Acronis 11.5  Adobe Photoshop  Adobe Dreamweaver  Microsoft Expression  Vembu