Information Technology Coordinator Information Technology Coordinator Abingdon, MD An experienced information technology professional who is looking to change careers for a position in the field of Geology. Ultimate goal is to become a geoscience professional that utilizes my knowledge of information technology, SQL Server and GIS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology Coordinator City of Aberdeen - Aberdeen, MD December 2008 to Present Currently manage all information technology systems and vendors at the City of Aberdeen. Duties include Managing relationships between the technology vendors who provide day to day support the City's technology.    Accomplishments include designing, implementing and managing a campus area network for the City. Providing day to day support for 140 workstations and 20 virtual servers. implementing a Windows Activie Directory Network for the City. Function as a project manager on The City's GIS system and property tax system. Manage all SQL relational database used at the City. Systems Engineer System Source - Hunt Valley, MD September 2004 to December 2008 Employed as a system engineer/consultant for an information technology firm. Managed multiple client networks and provided technology recommendations to clients. Clients included not for profits, law firms, industrial firms, finance and governments. Achieved a 98% billing rate for my time spent in the field. Network Administrator Vulcan Hart Inc. - Baltimore, MD August 2003 to August 2004 Designed and implemented a WIndows 2003 Active Directory Network for a commercial cooking equipment company. Implemented an Exchange 2003 Email system. Business Analyst/ Network Administrator Allfirst Bank - Baltimore, MD June 1989 to May 2003 Lead business analyst for a commercial lending system that managed five billion in assets. Served as a liaison between the business community and the technology department. Developed specifications for programs. Other duties include serving as a network administrator, Microsoft SQL Database Administrator and Crystal Report developer for the Loan Operations and Foreign Exchange departments. Mortgage Collector Maryland National Bank - Baltimore, MD February 1985 to May 1989 Employed as a collector servicing 90 day delinquent accounts Bank Teller Commercial and Farmers Bank - Ellicott City, MD August 1983 to February 1985 Employed as a bank teller for a small community bank Education Bachelor's in Geology Towson University - Baltimore, MD August 2016 to Present Associate in Technical Professional Studies Harford Community College - Churchville, MD January 2016 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Economics UMBC - Baltimore, MD August 1979 to May 1983 Skills Vmware, Network Administration, IT Management, Excel, Customer Service, Exchange, Strategic Planning, GIS Technician, Networking, Technical Support, Active Directory, Windows, Windows 7, Security, Microsoft Office, access Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) April 1999 to Present A Microsoft Certified System Engineer with Windows 2000.  Microsoft Certified Professional with Microsoft Exchange 2003 and Microsoft SQL Server Additional Information Currently a Geology student at Towson University. Interests include mineralogy, astronomy and other natural sciences. Also enjoy swimming.