IT System And Network Administrator IT System And <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator | Network Administrator Chicago, IL Accomplished IT professional with 15+ years of experience in the information technology field and delivering results. Expert with a wide variety of networking, engineering, development, security, virtualization, cloud, web, mobile, and operating system software. Superior ability to diagnose and identify individual issues. Proactively anticipate business needs. Self-motivated and possess a strong sense of urgency. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT System And Network Administrator Home Bound Healthcare October 2011 to June 2019 7 years 9 months  • Oversees and controls the IT services and IT infrastructure.  • Provides escalated helpdesk support. (Improved the service level and achieved an 85% reduction in the ticket volume)  • Monitors network to ensure network availability to all system users and perform necessary maintenance to support network availability. (Drove a 35% decrease in server downtime)  • Creates and implements maintenance schedules.  • Maintains network hardware & software and accurate records regarding licensing, software, hardware, warranties, access control lists, and employee records.  • Trains a team of 2 junior network administrators.  • Plans, implements and manages the system redundancy through server clustering, virtualization, backup, and disaster recovery plan.  • Manages Active Directory / Windows Domain.  • Administers all Windows OS / Windows Servers (2003/2008) / Linux Servers.  • Develops and modifies procedures to solve complex problems in relation to network architecture, network  capacities, and limitations.  • Manages Data center and remote networks.  • Install, maintain, and support servers and workstations including but not limited to local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) and Internet system or a segment of a network system.  • Installs hardware and software and configures all operating systems.  • Troubleshoots and resolves common hardware and software issues on infrastructure and client software.  (Reduced complaints by 50% from internal and external users.)  • Diagnoses TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, and routing issues.  • Inspects security systems for weaknesses and deviations from security policies and accepted norms, researches and proposes recommendations for the improvement of the overall security standpoint of the  company.  • Monitors project including operating time and desired results.  • Automates systems by creating Windows batch scripting.  • Prepares detailed specifications and provides analysis from which programs will be developed.  • Designs, codes, tests, debugs, documents and maintains existing programs.  • Checks any relevant news items that impact currently deployed or planned technologies and solutions.  • Provides database-level reporting for business decisions. Senior System Administrator ABV Rock Group November 2000 to September 2011 10 years 11 months  • Manages and administers Windows and Linux based computer networks and servers.  • Applies patches and upgrades.  • Monitor resource activities.  • Creates and recovers user accounts.  • Implements user access control according to company security policy and procedures.  • Deploys standard software applications to users.  • Fixes problems for remote users.  • Helps remote users resolved computer issues using remote desktop software such as Remote Desktop  Connection (RDP) to share screens and files.  • Trains and assists other users on the use of company applications.  • Control network bandwidth usage using available load balance features and quality of service.  • Check logs for activities and takes corrective actions.  • Setup VPN connections to establish secure communications to the company headquarter and client  facilities.  • Tests and simulates disaster recovery plans (DRP), which also includes the utilization of interconnected/  related expertise in business continuity planning(BCP).  • Installs and configures RAID drives for servers to set maximum performance.  • Installs and configures NAS drives for small workgroups as added backup and exclusive access to documents.  • Installs and configures iSCSI external drives for failover and virtualization.  • Manages network security using Firewalls to control outside threats or attacks.  • Installs and manages antivirus and spam software to prevent data loss and theft during the exchange of information.  • Secures devices by installing encryption software to prevent unauthorized access to computer systems.  • Builds Web applications based on the following technology platforms and standards: SDLC, SCM, PHP, SQL, VBA, JAVA, .NET, EDI.  • Writes server scripts to automate redundant processes special for backups and login environment.  • Develops relational databases. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Adamson University - Manila 1985 to 1990 Bachelor's in Business Administration Ateneo de Davao University - Davao City 1984 to 1985 Skills Active directory, Network administration, System administration, Virtualization, Technical support, Lan, Microsoft office, Problem solving, Customer Service, Networking, Security, Windows, Javascript, Vmware, Cloud Computing, Collaboration, Dhcp, DNS, HTML, Linux, Networking, Firewalls, Routers, Switches, Powershell, Security, TCP/IP, Troubleshooting, Virtualization, Wan, LAN, MySQL, SQL, Windows 7, access, access, MAC, Project Management Links http://linkedin.com/in/nolanbalagat Certifications/Licenses Comptia A+ February 2003 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) February 2004 to Present Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) August 2004 to Present Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) March 2005 to Present Windows Server 2016: Manage, Monitor, and Maintain Servers • LinkedIn July 2019 to Present Microsoft Office 365: Deployment • LinkedIn July 2019 to Present Learning System Center Configuration Manager • LinkedIn July 2019 to Present Learning VMware vSphere 6.5 • LinkedIn August 2019 to Present