Network Specialist <span class="hl">Network</span> Specialist Network Specialist - Goldman Sachs & Co South Jordan, UT Work Experience Network Specialist Goldman Sachs & Co September 2014 to Present Monitor Global network and troubleshoot issues as they arise  ? Work with Vendors to troubleshoot equipment and request replacements as needed  ? Work with Carriers to troubleshoot issues along WAN links  ? Utilize Palo Alto, Juniper and Nokia firewalls to monitor network traffic  ? Utilize Blue Coat proxies to monitor internet traffic and help diagnose web connectivity issues  ? Utilize Python to create scripts to pull data from different API's and display on web pages  ? Maintain in-house built network programs and upgrade as needed Unisys Corporation May 2013 to September 2014 Monitor multiple sites networks  ? Call in network outages for testing by ISP  ? Assist with changes submitted through Change Control Policies  ? Assist with updating process documents. Network Administrator Miller Retail and Sports Properties August 2012 to March 2013 Manage 50 Cisco ASA 5505 and PIX 501 for remote sites linking back to 2 Cisco ASA 5500 firewall series  ? Maintain Solarwinds Server to include Network Monitor Tools and Netflow to manage network devices  ? Manage networks for Energy Solutions Arena, Spring Mobile Ballpark, Miller Motor Sports Park, and Megaplex theaters  ? Manage 30 remote MPLS sites with connections through Century Link and XO Communications to include configuration, setup, and turn up of remote sites Data System Administrator, Military Occupational Specialty 0651 United States Marine Corps May 2007 to May 2012 Sergeant (E-5) (Manager)  * Manage 7 - 15 junior personnel  * Supervise the installation, operation, and maintenance of Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router (NIPR), Secret Internet Protocol Router (SIPR), and Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange (CENTRIX) data networks for Regimental Combat Team 8 (RCT-8) and subordinate units  * Supervise Authorized Service Interruption (ASI) and Network Change Requests (NCR) to ensure the functionality and to facilitate continued network for RCT-8 and subordinate units  * Manage hardware, software, and computer applications utilized by the Regiment  * Assist in the establishing and maintaining a Systems Control (SYSCON) to monitor tactical networks for the Regiment and subordinate units and reports outages to higher headquarters  * Provided direct network and data system support to the Georgian Liaison Team, 31st Georgian Army, and 33rd Georgian Army on Combat Outpost Shukvani encompassing approximately 60 users, 50 computers, 3 Wireless Point to Point links, 2 Support Wide Area Network devices over 3 different network NIPR, SIPR, and Centrix  * Assisted Information Assurance Manager with Maintaining the Blue Coat Proxy, Deployed Security Intradiction Device and information security of NIPR, SIPR, and Centrix networks  ? Corporal (E-4) (Assistant Manager)  * Manage 3 - 7 junior personnel  * Write monthly reviews on personnel  * Perform and delegate tasks from senior personnel  ? Data System Specialist  * Established and maintain LAN and WAN connections on tactical networks  * Used VMware VSphere 4.0 to establish and manage virtual servers and storage filers  * Provide assistance to user as needed depending on whether be installed programs or cleaned up computer using administrative privileges  * Create accounts and mailboxes for users Education Master's in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University March 2017 to August 2019 BS in Information Security/Cybersecurity Western Govenors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2015 AS in Network Systems Admin ITT Technical Institute - Murray, UT 2014 Skills Bgp, Cisco, Dhcp, Juniper, Network monitoring, Network storage, Ospf, Vmware, Cisco asa, Firewalls, Nas, Solarwinds, Coding, Python, Voip, Netapp, Server migration, Nokia, Checkpoint, Training, Comptia Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) May 2018 Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator (CHFI) October 2018 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Monitoring Cisco routers and switches for DHCP, VOIP, Multicast routing troubleshooting issues as they arise  ? Cisco ASA and WAAS  ? BGP and OSPF protocols  ? VMware VMI 3.5 and VSphere 4.0 certified training for complex system running from base role division, server migration, SAN linking with redundant links, and virtual to physical load control  ? NetAPP NAS and NAS as a SAN use as back bone to VMWare Infrastructure and network storage device  ? Cisco Call Manager basic training  ? Fortigate, Juniper and Nokia Checkpoint firewalls  ? Configuring and refining Solarwinds Network Monitoring Tools to properly monitor and troubleshoot various network devices  ? Blue Coat Proxy  ? Python basic level coding