IT Support Specialists IT Support Specialists IT Support Specialists - Pepsico Armonk, NY Work Experience IT Support Specialists Pepsi Co Inc - Purchase, NY June 2019 to Present Support Campus Wide Network Network Administrator Stellaris Health Network - Armonk, NY April 2016 to January 2019 Responsible for installation and maintenance of hardware /software systems and supporting large user groups. ? Assist in selection and evaluation of hardware and software.  ? Supports, maintain, and installs local area network server systems.  ? Responsible for multiple applications. IT Support Specialist Smartsource - White Plains, NY 2016 to January 2016 SUPPORT SPECIALISTS  • Network Deployment for 3rd. party network provider. Support Specialist All Covered - New York, NY January 2015 to November 2015 Providing customer service to the clients of All Covered remote and on-site support to our clients. Interact daily with clients and works with other Client account stakeholders in understanding client support requests and requirements. Primarily focused on end user support and entry level system administration functions.  My duties are providing on-site and remote end user support with focus on performing end user support primarily relating to the desktop and Mobile communications. Assisting with proactive maintenance, documentation, and testing of client network environments as directed through a combination of scheduled onsite and remote work using prescribed checklists.  Assist other team member in maintaining accurate and up to date documentation of client's network environment and supporting material that ensures consistent quality remote support by any member of the Service Delivery Team.  Project deployment working with assigned project leads and Project managers, working assigned tasks and within defined project scope and milestones to ensure the successful deployment of I.T. projects. NETWORK ENGINEER Paul Hastings - New York, NY October 2013 to December 2013 Project to convert from a Nortel Voice Switch to VOIP utilizing network Ethernet infrastructure. Cisco CUCM was setup via 3rd. party vendor. All Cisco network switches I supported for conversion. Support Specialist Insight - White Plains, NY February 2013 to September 2013 • Supported customers utilizing Cisco Network Routers and Lan Switches for a 3rd. party network provider.  • Worked with varies enterprises on job locations for network support. NETWORK ENGINEER Slait Consulting - New York, NY June 2012 to December 2012 * Merged Networks on a MPLS Network for 2 HMO Organizations.  * Overall responsibility was to inventory network equipment and data network interfaces for over 25 on site locations. Converted over to one network while setting up Avaya VOIP equipment and Cisco network switches to an MPLS network. Support Specialist White Plains, NY February 2011 to September 2011 • Supported different and various enterprise networks for 3rd party provider.  • On site job locations for network support. NETWORK ENGINEER International Computer Center - New York, NY January 2011 to April 2011 Resolved network issues at NYC location while supporting United Nations data networks and a co-location center in New Jersey for ICC. Network Engineer VERIZON BUSINESS - Rye Brook, NY June 2006 to February 2010 • Project experience with Cisco Unified Call Manager Usage with VOIP Project in NYC - Fiber to Desktop  • Tested and certified data circuits, such as analog, digital, inside wiring (Cat-6, Cat-6A & Fiber) (Sub-rate DS0, DS1, DS3, OC3, BRI, PRI and SONET)  • Resolved issues related to computer ID, DNS, WINS, IP and proxy server settings  • Background in IP networking concepts and their application to Microsoft based networking configuration ability to install, maintain, configure and troubleshoot telecommunications lines, circuit equipment, including but not limited to DSU/CSUs, switches, routers, multiplexers (including SONET) and associated cabling and power elements, in both data center and remote (user) site environments Network Engineer MCI INTERNATIONAL - Rye Brook, NY February 2000 to June 2006 • Ability to work with various Telco & ISP Broadband carriers, NOC, and/or test centers to perform routine testing of data circuits, ISP services and cable modem.  • Implemented additional components to existing networks along with cabling to all application & network servers for network communications  • Provided second/third level desk-side support to New York & New Jersey campus on a daily basis and phone support to other US offices on all network problems Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Aironet, Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Desktop Support, Tech Support, Help Desk Additional Information Core Competencies    ? Network Operations Ctr. Support  ? System Monitoring  ? Desktop Support    ? Incident Recording/ Ticketing  ? Disaster Recovery  ? Project Management    ? Microsoft Server Support  ? Network Hardware  ? Troubleshooting    Technical Expertise  • Network Hardware: Cisco Routers: 75XX & 70XX, 45XX & 40XX - Cisco Switches: 65XX, 55XX - Cisco Aironet Wireless devices - HP (ILO) Win 2008 & 2012 Server s - LAN/WAN Analyzers - Dell (DRAC) Win 2008 & 2012 Servers - Protocol Analyzers - Remote Access  • Network Operating Systems: Cisco IOS CLI & Catalyst OS - Nexus - Motorola AXS Client.  • Network Security: IPSEC - VPN - Check Point Security - Disaster Recovery - ASA Cisco - Sonicwall  • Desktop: Active Directory - Office 365 - Citrix - Microsoft Exchange - WIN 7,8 & 10 Installs  • Programming: SQL - Perl Scripting  • Network Management and Documentation: Sniffer - CiscoWorks 2000 - IBM & HP Openview (Unix) - QOS - Solar Winds - What's Up Gold - Wireshark - Kayseya.  • LAN Technologies: TCP/IP - Fast Ethernet - Gigabit Ethernet - VTP - VLAN - Trunks ISL - 802.1Q STP - EtherChannel -- VMware  • WAN Technologies: Frame Relay - ISDN - T1/T3 - HDLC- PPP - Sonet -MPLS - WAN Optimizer  • Desktop Security: Antivirus, Anti-Malware and Anti-Spam  • Routing protocols: BGP - OSPF - EIGRP - RIPv2 - HSRP  • Network Protocols: DHCP - SMTP - SNMP - HTTP - FTP - TFTP - Telnet - SSH