Senior Network Infrastructure Manager Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Infrastructure Manager Senior Network Infrastructure Manager - Aviation Department Kansas City, MO Work Experience Senior Network Infrastructure Manager Aviation Department - Kansas City, MO October 2018 to Present • Configuring Nexus 9K switches.  • Working with Cisco 3850, and 3650 switches.  • Troubleshooting network related issues.  • Working with cisco analog gateways(VG's)  • Setting up, and working with analog phones as well as VOIP systems. Network Administrator II John Knox Village - Lee's Summit, MO October 2011 to October 2018 title changed to Systems Administrator II  • Creating user accounts, distribution lists security groups for access to printers and file shares. Resetting passwords, all  via Active Directory  • Upgraded the Vmware environment to a newest stable version. In this case 5.5 to 6.5  • Setting site to site vpn connections in the firewall  • Maintaining the Kronos time clocks.  • Creating ACL's on the Meraki , Cisco switches and Firewall  • Working with the Fat pipe appliance  • Nating devices and IP's in the firewall.  • Micros POS configurator setup and operation.  • Troubleshooting LAN connections problems from the server to the switch, and the various clients.  • Using Desktop Authority to map printers, network drives, adding desktop icons for users, and setting up power schemes  for user's computers.  • Making changes and additions a Cisco ASA 5515 Firewall and updating the firmware  • Working with Veeam backup and replication  • Working with Nexus 5548 UP switches, configuration and firmware upgrades.  • Working Cisco Ironport, email and web security appliances.  • Working with Meraki switches and access points.  • Working with Vmware on our Cisco UCS blade server  • Updating the firmware and maintaining the Cisco UCS blade server  • Creating virtual servers, creating clans via vswitch.  • Configuring our Cisco Email Security virtual appliance  • Deploying and configuring ovf files in vmware.  • Troubleshooting switches, both Cisco and small Netgear switches.  • Checking the switch configuration to determine wireless connectivity issues, in addition to network performance.  • Working with Thin Clients and terminal services.  • Giving user access to buildings via premsys id badge software.  • Working with internet cameras for security.  • Troubleshooting printer problems, network and local.  • Giving users rights to calendars and groups in Exchange.  • Resolving DHCP and DNS issues.  • Setting VDI environment using Horizon  • Troubleshooting and maintaining the Exagrid server.    • Built a Windows Deployment server and created a generic image.  • Working HealthMedix Touchscreen devices.  • Performing basic support for HealthMedix.  • Giving users rights to the wireless system.  • Troubleshooting VPN and RDP connections for home users.  • Mimecast administration.  • Working with Airwatch for phone deployment.  • Setup and maintenance of a WSUS server.  • Working with Meraki access points.  • Troubleshooting MS office issues.  • Configuring ports on the Meraki switches via the web interface.  • Working with fax over IP(FoIP).  • Working with fiber connections.  • Setting the Centrify connector provide SSO for our Samanage ticketing system. Network Specialist Community College, Kansas City, KS - Kansas City, KS October 2006 to October 2011 • VMware built there entire infrastructure environment.  • Building and maintaining Windows 2003 domain controllers.  • Part of the planning team that worked on the infrastructure for a new satellite site. Determined the IP address range the placement of the switches and worked the configuration of the switches and setup different vlans to accommodate this  task. Make the POE active on the switches for the VoIP phones.  • Setting up VPN remote servers.  • Maintaining a Kaspersky anti-virus server in an Enterprise environment, supplying client computers with the latest virus  definitions.  • Tracing wan links connection issues from the satellite sites, in Leavenworth and the Technical education center  campuses.  • Maintaining syncsort Backup Express server.  • Building and maintaining a MS-Exchange 2003 server in child domain.  • Active directory: Created user accounts added computers and domain controllers. Created OU's and setup group policy.  • Setting up VMware systems, and building virtual servers.  • Using Microsoft's sysprep utility, to develop generic images for various models of computers.  • Installing and configuring Cisco switches.  • Working with Windows 7 deployment  • Working in an Enterprise server environment, supporting at one time 90 servers. Both virtual (VMware) and physical.  Moving the remaining physical servers to virtual ones.  • Running patches, testing failover for the database cluster, and general maintenance of the Windows servers.  • Configuring individual ports on Cisco switches to handle different Vlans and to deny internet access. Created IP helper  addresses to reach servers on a different IP Class.  • Hands on Experience with the Dell Blade server, replaced nic cards. Connected the Blade to the SAN when it was first  installed.  • Configured the heartbeat on the Blade for the SQL database cluster.  • Linking the different ESX servers through the SAN and connecting under VSphere. North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC August 2003 to August 2006 Graduate Student in Physics.  • Electroless copper/nickel plating on silicon wafers.  • Using AFM, SEM and NSOM techniques to observe the properties copper/nickel on the service of the wafer.  • Creating a chemical catalyst that causes the necessary chemical reaction to produce both copper and nickel on the silicon  wafers.  • Working with PEDA self assembling monolayers and the initial layer prior to the electroless plating deposition.  • Coming with reliable deposition schedules to produce the optimum copper/nickel growth without damaging the monolayer. Help desk/Desk Side Support Rocktenn Company - Dunwoody, GA 2001 to August 2003 • Provided phone support to the Rocktenn sales force across the country  • Providing desk side services to Rocktenn employees at the main campus of the organization.  • Using PC-Anywhere to repair software problems.  • Setting up maintenance schedules and repairs for laptops, printers and servers at Rocktenn's remote locations.  • Providing Windows 2000, XP, NT, in some cases 98 support in house and remotely.  • Installing network cards updating software packages, repairing printers, desktop computers, and laptops.  • Providing support for Lotus Notes, Outlook, MS-Office products and in house software packages created by Rocktenn.  • Installing new images to laptops and desktops on-site at the various locations around the country as well as at the main  campus.  • Installing MS-Outlook and Lotus Notes for new users, helped users assign other users to personal calendars and mailboxes. Setup out office replies and offline access Help desk Support analyst Cingular Wireless - Atlanta, GA February 2001 to July 2001 • Provided 100% phone support on phone activation software.  • This included drawer balancing down to the last cent when the retail locations came up short or over by certain  amounts.  • Walked users through deleted cache and temporary files when unable to open certain web pages.  • Ascertained network connectivity issues by pinging the computer name and also pinging other IP addresses via  javaview. Siemens Energy & Automation - Alpharetta, GA December 1999 to January 2001 • Repaired HP printers, replaced fusers, delivery pickup assemblies, and general printer maintenance.  • Provided MS-Office support from installation to help with Excel formulas. Formatting issues within Word including  bullets, paragraph alignment, numbering, and printing issues when users were unable to print to a local or network  printer.  • Setting up MS-Outlook for new users, helped users assign other users to personal calendars and mailboxes. Setup out office replies and offline access  • Created Windows 95, Windows NT and Windows 2000 images via Drive image pro and Ghost. Tested each image on the Compaq desktops and laptops, and the Dell desktop and laptops the images were created for. Used system prep for  the 2000 images, which generated a generic image that could be used with various computers.  • Replaced hard drives, upgraded memory on laptops and desktops.  • Replaced system boards and laptops and desktops (Compaq and Dell) when needed.  • Added Windows NT machines to the network configured dial-up networking for Pal use and also setting up network  cards and assigning user rights.  • Configured dial-up networking in Windows 95 machines and troubleshot any network connectivity issues on all  windows platforms.  • Created print queues, assigned user rights and also installed new printers to users desktop and laptops. Assigned IP  addresses to Jet direct ports and assigned the queue names using telnet to assigning the IP address.  • Used NTFS pro to access an NT hard drive from the DOS level to replace files.  • Beta tested Windows-XP for corporate environment.  • Submitting and closing tickets via the Remedy trouble ticketing system. Network Administrator The Haygroup, Inc - Atlanta, GA May 1998 to November 1999 • Supporting and maintaining Novell 3.12.  • Creating user accounts via sysinfo and assigning users to certain groups that had access to different files.  • Created print queues and configured Net ports to work with IPX/SPX.  • Performed routine back-ups, replaced hard drives in the server and the workstation computers when needed.  • Performed server upgrades (memory, hard drives and software installation.).  • Configured Lotus Notes for new users, for remote and office access.  • Migrated 30 users to Windows NT server and setting up the PC's to use DHCP and TCIP.  • Creating central login script under Novell for the different groups that users were assigned to.  • Using jet direct ports and the software to assign IP addresses and queue names.  • On-call 24/7. Restricting certain IP addresses for Printers and other devices use only.  • Using enterprise administrator to create user accounts and groups and also to restrict access to certain groups. This  prevented an administrator from having rights to all the servers on a single domain.  • Replaced system boards on laptops, desktops and performed printer repair and maintenance. On-site / Novell LAN Technician / Admin Decision One, On-Site at the Haygroup, Inc - Atlanta, GA May 1997 to May 1998 • Supporting and maintaining Novell 3.12.  • Creating user accounts via sysinfo and assigning users to certain groups that had access to different files.  • Created print queues and configured Net ports to work with IPX/SPX.  • Setup Windows-3.11 machines to access the network by loading the IPX/SPX drivers in DOS.  • Performed routine back-ups, replaced hard drives in the server and the workstation computers when needed.  • Performed server upgrades (memory, hard drives and software installation.).  • Configured Lotus Notes for new users, for remote and office access.  • Migrated 30 users to Windows NT server and setting up the PCs to use DHCP and TCIP.  • Creating central login script under Novell for the different groups that users were assigned to.  • Replaced system boards on laptops, desktops and performed printer repair and maintenance.  • Repaired, IBM, Compaq, Toshiba, and AST laptops and desktops. Education Bachelor of Science in Physics and Mathematics Morehouse College - Atlanta, GA Associates of Applied Science in Electronics Technology DeVry Institute of Technology - Kansas City, MO