Contact Representative Contact Representative Contact Representative - United States Social Security Administration Scranton, PA Work Experience Contact Representative United States Social Security Administration June 2019 to Present Recently hired at the GS5 Step 10 level.  • Apply laws, regulation policies or procedures to provide assistance preparing forms or documents.  • Answering questions from members of the public or their representatives to obtain or provide information.  • Using a computer to reconcile discrepancies or entering data.  • Responding to written inquiries and drafting a variety of other written products. Program Analyst United States Department of Homeland Security December 2007 to February 2019 Expert Instructor Master Instructor Officer  Started as an Officer and was promoted to Master, then Expert Instructor.  • Ran queries and reports to ensure 100% completion of mandated training.  • Successfully allocated Instructors, computer systems, and training simulators for over 900 Officers.  • Responsible for interpreting program guidelines as well as analyzing monthly data reports. Successfully launched a program to improve Officer capabilities.  • Responsible for resolving Tier 1 computer issues.  • Expert Microsoft Windows/Office user.  • Certified Instructor/Test Administrator delivering ILT to 12 Instructors and over 900 Officers. Network Administrator Hope City Empowerment March 2010 to March 2011 Instructor  As a 1099 employee, I created the network for the facility and instructed computer literacy.  • Installed and configured Cisco Catalyst 2940 switch.  • Dropped Cat5e cables and ensured fireproofing was to code.  • Provided remote support to ensure network connectivity and security.  • Managed AD group policies, Operating System security Patches Upgrade Procedure for secure computing and network environment. Education Regents Diploma John Jay High School - Brooklyn, NY September 2001 BA in Interdisciplinary Studies CUNY York College - Jamaica, NY New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Wilkes-Barre, PA Skills Customer service, Help desk, Team lead, Call Center, CSR, Comptia A+ (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/patrickdbalfour Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ July 2019 to July 2022