System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - SUKUP STEEL STRUCTURES Verona, PA MCITP, MCTS and CompTIA Network+ and Security + certified professional with strong desk side support experience -- provide software, hardware, client/server and networking technical support. Work Experience System Administrator SUKUP STEEL STRUCTURES - Ambridge, PA 2017 to Present • Directed the move of 70 user's data and applications from previous company ensuring data integrity and accessibility  • Oversaw the local configuration of a new server/communications room and application servers  • Configured and deployed computer hardware and software into the new network environment  • Windows Server administration and maintenance of Active Directory  • Mobile Device purchasing and administration of handheld devices.  • Purchasing and deployment of new computers as needed  • Designed, managed and maintained group policies  • Local user desktop support and remote support as needed  • Monitored daily backups, antivirus status, shared storage space and network activity  • Maintained and upgraded network firewalls, switches and IDS System Analyst EATON CORPORATION 2012 to March 2017 • Respond to submitted requests for new systems, seek purchase approval, and validate software licenses.  • Imaging of laptops, software installs and configuration for users.  • Data migration and backup either desk-side or remote.  • Provide on and off-site IT support to users in offices or remote throughout the country.  • Work with client technology team to evaluate/test new hardware models for possible deployment.  • Responsible for asset management of all machines in inventory pending deployment.  • Maintain scripts used for batch software installs for various departments.  • Utilized Active Directory/group policy to support and secure clients, including configuring regional settings, registry settings, SCCM client install startup scripts, etc.  • Administered organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies. Client Support Analyst TEKSYSTEMS - Pittsburgh, PA 2008 to 2010 • Responsible for all new and replacement computer requests. Imaging, software configuration and data migration.  • Utilized Lotus database to track all assets, ensuring hardware was in place that minimized audit time for 500k of assets.  • Convert or update images used by the consultants on ESX servers and image/deploy new systems to field personnel.  • Updated and configured images for deployment to field personnel, completed monthly inventory audits of all devices and managed procurement of any needed accessories. Network Administrator/Support MIDRANET INC - Darlington, PA 2001 to 2008 • Long term contract to provide network administration and desktop support to Joy Mining Machinery.  • Support for client network of 350+ users both locally and in the field.  • Image, configure and deploy workstations to remote and local locations.  • Respond and resolve up to 25 active tickets each day many being time critical issues.  • Collaborated with networking team on group policies for various departments using Active Directory.  • Responsible for maintaining tape backup system ensuring data was secure for disaster recovery purposes. Education Bachelor's in Cyber Security and Information Assurance Western Governors University - Pittsburgh, PA July 2019 to Present Associate in Computer Networking COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF BEAVER COUNTY - Township of Center, PA May 2010 to December 2011 Skills Active directory (10+ years), Android (8 years), Cisco (2 years), Client/server (10+ years), ios (4 years), Ms office (10+ years), Pcs (10+ years), Preventive maintenance (8 years), Remedy (5 years), Safari (4 years), telephony (3 years), Vmware (2 years), System Administrator (5 years), networking (10+ years), System Admin, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Security, Microsoft Office Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jjmarch72 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ Present CompTIA Security+ February 2019 to February 2022 MCITP Server Administration 2008 Present Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ewveky4xjhzg4whe Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4n5144b19fy-t5qq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.