Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - AECOM Littleton, CO Work Experience Systems Administrator AECOM - Centennial, CO August 2017 to Present • Handle routine server maintenance including reboots and patch application.  • Handled deployment of laptops\desktops\tablets as well as replacing printers and ensuring the new ones were set up with correct IP.  • Supported staff for entire region of Colorado and Wyoming including VIP directors\executives.  • Create Active Directory accounts and granting necessary access to share directories and mailboxes.  • Helped transfers get setup with hardware as well as ensuring all their files were copied over from server at old office to local server at new location using Robocopy.  • Monitored the size of users home directories and increased size limit as needed.  • Travelled to remotes sites for various onsite maintenance (install temp sensors, replace backup tapes, install UPS).  • Retrieved lost files from daily backup tapes.  • Administered over project to get all machines upgraded to Windows 10. Network Administrator Colorado Bankers Life Insurance - Englewood, CO 2010 to 2017 Establish, revise, and maintain company computer systems, including working with Active Directory. Secure network facilities for individual machines, including personal computer and printer drivers and settings. Devise and position LANs, Internet and intranet systems, and network components. Place and support LANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems. Ensure overall LAN infrastructure network connectivity meets technical considerations. Install and preserve network hardware and software. Review and find issues. Track networks to assure security and availability for specific users. Study and update system performance. Recognize user needs. Decide network and system specifications. Uphold network, server deployment, and security integrity. Design and launch networks. Determine network addresses. Sustain network technology, including file servers, VPN gateways, and intrusion detection systems. Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  Key Contributions:  • Utilized report mining to permit users and leadership simple access to review, improve, and present data from wherever it resided to enable better business processes and more effective decision making  • Established user accounts and approved shared resources.  • Monitored remaining disk space to guarantee enough for regular operations.  • Conducted unannounced server/ network security checks to verify adequate virus protection and compliance with corporate procedures.  • Followed departmental procedures to build/place new/recycled hardware systems.  • Assured SR. management of data protection by demonstrating permission settings. Help Desk Analyst Colorado Bankers Life Insurance - Englewood, CO 1996 to 2010 Devised and implemented computer systems and processes to increase quality, productivity, and company profits. Installed, investigated, and resolved issues for and made repairs to hardware, software, and related items, including personal computers, servers, and mainframe clusters. Managed computer help desk, aiding users with problems and solutions. Conducted complete system tape backups and emergency tape recoveries. Trained and helped users with daily equipment operational needs. Supported hardware and software equipment and installations. Determined issues with hardware modems, printers, cables, and telephones. Participated in technical conferences and seminars to learn about new product developments. Replaced and revised motherboards, CD-ROMs, and hard drives. Performed routine maintenance on multiple types of computer equipment and printers. Oversaw data imports from external sources. Designed and sustained user logins and passwords. Developed and modified reports with Monarch and Monarch Datapump.  Key Contributions:  • Tested new technologies and routines to improve efficiency/shorten processing time.  • Implemented company's initial disaster recovery plan for minimal productivity loss.  • Developed and maintained complex applications for data-driven information.  • Successfully maintained connectivity with host systems, including native operating system protocols, TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, NETBIOS, and associated sharing devices.  • Created user documents to help with off-site operation and troubleshooting.  • Watched and ensured compliance with federal regulations and industry standards.  • Assisted mainframe to PC connections and data transfer.  • Reduced average trouble ticket response time from four days to 48 hours. Education Computer Programming Certificate Metropolitan State College - Denver, CO Technical Center - Lakewood, CO Skills HELP DESK, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, IBM MAINFRAME, MAINFRAME, HELP DESK MANAGEMENT Additional Information Highlights of Expertise:  Project Management Test Development & Execution Process Redesign  IT Storage Solutions Help Desk Management Client Relations  Strategy & Execution Troubleshooting/Issue Resolution End-User Training  Novell Networks IBM Mainframe/Lotus Notes Windows 7, 10  Windows Server 2012 and 2016 Active Directory