Tier 2 Technical Support Tier 2 Technical Support Network Administrator Scottsdale, AZ I am a dedicated and hard working individual. I also will bring laughter and smiles to the team. I have multiple years of experience installing and configuring computer networks, systems, identifying and solving any problems that arise with computer networks and systems. I monitored computer networks and systems to identify how performance can be improved while working with IT support personnel providing network administration and support. I am not interested in help-desk positions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tier 2 Technical Support Dataprise - Scottsdale, AZ December 2018 to Present Virtual Customer Service Associate Amazon - Baltimore, MD May 2017 to Present • Uphold company values and respect every customer with the ability to resolve conflicts and set appropriate expectations while determining customer needs to provide appropriate solutions  • Comprehension skills-- ability to clearly understand and respond appropriately to the issues that customers present  • Ability to approach problems logically and with good judgment to ensure the appropriate customer outcome while making decisions on behalf of the customer quickly and effectively  • Composition skills-- ability to consistently compose a grammatically correct, concise, and accurate written response to customer issues Network Engineer/ Administrator United Ministries October 2008 to Present Baltimore, M.D.    • Analyzed and revamped antiquated and inefficient processes to increase productivity while bringing in newer and more efficient technologies. Brought the company and network up to industry standards, ensuring 99% up time.  • Oversee network and equipment upgrades, and configuration changes. Windows Server administration and maintenance including Active Directory and Group Policy.  • Document network problems and changes working in diverse management environments.  • Monitored daily backups, antivirus status, shared storage space and network activity, adjusting network equipment and settings as needed.  • Ensure thorough network documentation, including maintaining each account's network matrix, backup configurations and network diagrams.  • Corrected networking connectivity issues in wireless, routing, and switching using a layered model approach  • Standardized site surveying, positioning, and configuration for WLAN upgrades for coverage in office areas, large-scale manufacturing warehouses, and outdoor layouts Network Administrator/Desktop Support FedSolutions - Washington, DC January 2015 to April 2017 • Supervised a full Network Infrastructure Overhaul including Enterprise Server Racks, routers, switches, VPN Concentrators, full remote access for users across the country and multiple migrations for severs to Office 365 Cloud  • Full accountability for managing day to day network changes, including VPN, firewall, dual ISP connectivity and redundancy changes and hardware or software modifications.  • Accountable for configuring, installing, and managing remote installations of LAN / WAN hardware for remote offices.  • Scheduled, coordinated and deployed server updates and preventative maintenance with limited downtime.  • Provided escalated IT support including hardware troubleshooting, backup and recovery, email communication and application support.  • Planned and built redundancy into existing systems to eliminate downtime due to server failure.  • Knowledge of network hardware including servers, routers, and other computer devices.  • Mentored and coached new Network Administrators and Network Engineers. Tier II Technical Engineer / LabTech Administrator Horsetail Technologies - Baltimore, MD September 2013 to November 2014 • Headed and supervised 1500 agents using LabTech RMM.  • Utilized LabTech to run scripts, patch, install software, remote assist users, run reports, and automate tasks  • Provided technical support to clients on telephone, email, and through tickets using Connectwise  • Created help desk documentation including step by step instructions on problem resolving techniques  • Worked with servers in a Hyper-V environment, gained experience building, updating, and migrating servers.  • Administered LabTech server by troubleshooting issues, updating, implementing new policies for agent maintenance, and implementing server configuration changes to increase productivity Internship Xerox - Elkridge, MD October 2006 to October 2010 • Monitored routers, switches, interfaces, servers, remote PCs and applications on the State of Maryland's Department of Human Resources Network  • Troubleshot nonresponsive devices within the network and escalated as necessary for further attention  • Compiled, formatted and analyzed server CPU statistics using the following Network Monitoring Software: What's Up Gold, Foglight, and Solarwinds Education A.A.S. in Information Technology and Computer Science Community College of Baltimore County - Scottsdale, AZ August 2018 to Present Bachelor of Science in Computer Networks and Cyber Security University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD May 2019 Skills Customer Care (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Computer Hardware (10+ years), Computer Repair (10+ years), Network Administration (7 years), Customer Support (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Vmware (1 year), Networking (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Vmware (1 year), Windows 7 (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), MAC (10+ years), Security (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/Gabriel Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Certification December 2010 to Present LabTech Certified Professional August 2014 to Present Assessments Customer Service Skills — Proficient October 2018 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/d22fpdgc9oow8ahm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.