Director of IT Infrastructure (Promoted 2/2018) Director of IT Infrastructure (Promoted 2/2018) Director of IT Infrastructure Marysville, MI Information Technology Specialist with extensive experience in the IT field adapting to an ever-changing environment and maintain an efficient network environment. My personal motto is 'Find a Way'. I use creative problem solving to impact company performance, maintain profitability through knowledge, research and ingenuity. I also have several years of supervisor experience. Work Experience Director of IT Infrastructure (Promoted 2/2018) Event Solutions International - Troy, MI June 2012 to Present Responsibility Statement: Promoted when the Vice President of Information Technology resigned. During this period the company rebranded itself as Motus One and began the process of expanding from 5 sites to 18. They also acquired another automotive related company that we were required to support. This was done by adding a domain to our network. I led and oversaw the configuration process and installation of network equipment in remote locations.  • Continued to perform the duties of System Administrator while assuming the additional responsibilities of the VP of IT. During a period when the demands of the IT department were increasing, I used my versatility to adapt to a changing environment and fill the needs once performed by two people.  • Migrated from an in-house exchange server to Office 365 and PSTN phone system to a company wide VOIP system.  • Incorporated new web-based systems into the business environment including Office 365, mobile device management system and VOIP system.  • Redesigned the existing network to incorporate the newly acquired company. Transformed a simple single domain network to a more complex multi-tree forest to meet the needs of a connected but segregated company. Network Administrator Event Solutions International - Troy, MI June 2012 to Present Responsibility Statement: Responsible for the secure operation of the systems and network infrastructure of a company containing 5 remote interconnected sites. Provided desktop support, network maintenance and system maintenance while developing new network systems. I oversaw all network equipment, servers, desktops, laptops, in-house and web-based solutions. I also supported other peripheral items such as phones and security camera systems.  • Designed and configured a new IPSEC VPN system to replace the out of date system that was not meeting the user's needs.  • Maintained in-house and web-based solutions serving company, partner and client personnel.  • Upgraded the existing wireless system to a more secure system using RADIUS authentication. The company wireless only allows company computers and the guest wireless is segregated.  • Established new network audit and security policies and developed a disaster recovery plan.  • Wrote the company network documentation to increase efficiency. Network Administrator M & O Marketing January 2011 to June 2012 Responsibility Statement: Provide all network services and IT support for a Southfield based insurance marketing firm. Responsibilities include maintaining, planning and upgrading of company network environment encompassing main office and satellite offices.  • Migrated existing Exchange 2003 Server to Exchange 2010  • Replaced the existing phone system with a VOIP phone system. Owner The Computer Network February 2009 to January 2011 Responsibility Statement: Provided Network Administrator services as a sub-contractor for two IT firms. Examples of services provided: corrected network security concerns for a financial consulting firm, performed a domain migration project for an industrial firm and routine domain maintenance. I also provided IT services under contract for Hewlett Packard in a laptop deployment project for Blue Cross Blue Shield. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA Certificate in Website Development University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA Certificate in A+, NET+, MCSA, MCSE Knowledge Alliance Certificate in Exchange Server, SQL Server and SharePoint New Horizons Certificate in Effective Speaking and Human Relations Dale Carnegie Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, IIS, NETWORK SECURITY, VOIP, Vmware, IT Management, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Vendor Management, Excel Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/gregschuster https://www.facebook.com/greg.schuster.54 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft MCSE Microsoft MCSA CompTIA Network+ CompTIA A+ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Active Directory  • Network Security  • Disaster Recovery  • Multiple Backup Solutions  • Certificate Services  • WSUS  • IIS  • Distributed File System  • SQL Server  • Exchange Server  • Microsoft CRM  • Microsoft SharePoint  • Microsoft Dynamics  • Network Design  • Mobile Device Manage  • SCCM  • Development  • Azure  • Microsoft Office Suite  • Remote Desktop Service  • VPN  • VOIP  • Failover  • Linux  • Hyper-V  • VMware  • RADIUS  • NAP  • Dell  • HP