Network Administrator/Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Engineer Network Administrator/Engineer - Houstonian Hotel, Club, & Spa Houston, TX To obtain a position within an Information Technology environment that will provide an opportunity for professional growth. Work Experience Network Administrator/Engineer Houstonian Hotel, Club, & Spa - Houston, TX 2016 to Present I support, maintain, implement, and design the network infrastructure of the Hotel, club, and spa. We have two networks, guest and corporate, that are of mixed cisco and meraki switches. I also provide and contribute to the telecommunications on campus.    ? Design, configure, and implement network infrastructure, ie Routers/switches/Meraki appliances.  ? Vendor management to ensure SLA and timelines are met.  ? Project management of all IT related projects and ensure all milestones and deadlines are met on time.  ? Cabling of existing and new locations for Cat6 and phones.  ? Network monitoring and configurations using our monitoring software.  ? Senior resource for escalation of help desk tickets.  ? Mentoring of less senior employees. Network Administrator Tory Burch LLC - Houston, TX 2015 to Present I am part of a small team that supports the network infrastructure of six satellite offices, the corporate office, and 100 stores. All support outside of the corporate office is remote using terminal emulation software.    ? Configure and install network infrastructure, ie Routers/Switches/Steelhead.  ? F5 Administration  ? Configure and install wireless networks in stores and offices.  ? Created and executed maintenance schedule for network equipment  ? Configure and roll out OSPF and BGP routing protocols.  ? Configure and update access lists on the router.  ? Responsible for ordering all network circuits and their turn up/activations.  ? Experience running cable and extending phone/data lines.  ? Monitor circuits and utilization using Solarwinds.  ? Responsible for ordering and activating new circuits.  ? Oversee the new stores from a Project Management standing. Network Administrator Tory Burch LLC - New York, NY 2011 to 2015 I am part of a small team that supports the network infrastructure of six satellite offices, the corporate office, and 80 stores. All support outside of the corporate office is remote using terminal emulation software.  ? Configure and install network infrastructure, ie Routers/Switches/Steelhead.  ? Configure and install wireless networks in stores and offices.  ? Created and executed maintenance schedule for network equipment  ? Configure and roll out OSPF and BGP routing protocols.  ? Configure and update access lists on the router.  ? Responsible for ordering all network circuits and their turn up/activations.  ? Experience running cable and extending phone/data lines.  ? Monitor circuits and utilization using Solarwinds.  ? Responsible for ordering and activating new circuits.  ? Oversee the new stores from a Project Management standing. System Support Analyst Tory Burch LLC - New York, NY July 2008 to 2011 I am part of a two man team that supports the user community globally, Field representatives, and 50 stores.  ? Configured and installed end points, ie laptops and printers.  ? Successfully launched the Help Desk, setting SLA, policies, and procedures.  ? Successfully opened offices and stores globally.  ? Support all users hardware via phone, software, and in person visits.  ? Establish vendor relationships to help with store openings and other ongoing projects.  ? Participated in after hour support rotation.  ? Configure all hardware for new store openings. Go onsite and configure the store. Turn up MPLS, DSL, and other equipment.  ? Part of a two person team to launch the Help Desk at Tory Burch. Installed and configured Track-IT and setup to use with the user community  ? Created documentation on all servers. Documentation included server responsibility, ip address(es), support information, and contact information.  ? Provide courses to the user community on how to add printers, map network drives, etc. Network Engineer Precision IT Group - New York, NY October 2005 to July 2008 I am the primary IT support person for a major retail company. I support the corporate office consisting of 60 users, MAC's and pc's. I also support 15 stores remotely. I also support a variety of other clients remotely, as well.  ? Configure sonicwall firewalls for remote stores and setup the vpn tunnels.  ? Setup remote access using the sonicwall vpn client. Configured the group vpn on the sonicwall and walked users through setting up/connecting.  ? Worked with DHCP scopes, setting reservations when needed. Also worked with DNS, TCIP, and LAN.  ? Setup new client accounts via Active Directory, disabled accounts, password resets, and renaming accounts.  ? Field all support issues via phone and email. Try to resolve issue by walking client through the fix over the phone, and if necessary, connecting via remotely.  ? Used help desk software to log and resolve tickets. This software helped us to keep track of the troubleshooting process done by other engineers.  ? I contributed to landing new clients and bringing in new personnel to support those clients.  ? Setup and troubleshoot Blackberry issues and BES. Enterprise Activate blackberries remotely.  ? Installed/configured Symantec Backup exec for clients to be able to run backups. Education Telecommunications Management Devry College of Technology - New Brunswick, NJ June 2002 to May 2003 Chubb Institute - New Brunswick, NJ 1999 to 2000 Computer Science Brookdale Community College - Lincroft, NJ 1996 to 1999