Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Crystal Clear Tech/Omaha Bennington, NE Cyber Security Engineer / Network Engineer Work Experience Network Engineer Crystal Clear Tech/Omaha - Omaha, NE January 2016 to Present Configure, install, and test to verify operations and security in a secure data network for the Department of the Defense. Configured an NTP server, AAA appliance, and a TAP network. Provide customer support and troubleshoot issues to a complete resolution for a government contract that requires a top secret security clearance. Network Engineer Land O Lakes/ITRgroup - Arden Hills, MN July 2015 to December 2015 Worked with vendors to do site survey, install the cabling, purchased equipment. Configured and tested Cisco routers and Cisco switches, Aruba Wireless Access Points to be deployed to remote sites. Deployed to remote site, remotely accessed to install, configured, and tested to verify operations as new sites. Configured checkpoint firewalls, deployed, and got them installed at site. Provided customer support and troubleshot issues to a complete resolution.  Equipment supported: Cisco, Aruba, Checkpoint. Network Engineer II Ameriprise - Minneapolis, MN December 2014 to July 2015 Designed and built a lab simulating the MPLS network connectivity using BGP. Enabling the configuration and testing of 3925 and 881 routers, with 1 to 3 Cisco switches and a terminal server using EIGRP before remote deployment. After finishing the equipment is deployed to the remote site, remotely accessed to install, configure, and test to verify operations as new sites. Also use lab to test new equipment before deployment into a preexisting site. Provide customer support and troubleshot issues to a complete resolution.  Equipment supported: Cisco    Permanent Position Network Engineer II CenturyLink - Saint Paul, MN September 2013 to December 2014 Remotely accessed to configure, install, and test to verify operations and security as new sites were deployed into a newly developed secure data network for the Department of the Defense. Provide customer support and troubleshoot issues to a complete resolution for a government contract that requires a top secret security clearance.    Contract Positions VSAT Engineer / Network Engineer Proactive Communications - Killeen, TX September 2012 to May 2013 Installation and maintenance of WAN/LAN infrastructure services such as Vsat systems and network operations. Using Cisco security strategies of best practices for high availability secure data networks.  Equipment supported: Comtech TDMA modem, Fortigate security appliances, Riverbed WAN appliance, Cisco Routers (2811) (Call Manager express-Cisco 2811 router), Switches (2960/3550/3750), WAP (Cisco 1310), & Firewall (Cisco ASA 5505). Network Engineer Telos/Infinitel - Chantilly, VA May 2012 to August 2012 Supporting the Minneapolis International Airport Air Force Base.  Installation of the second generation of Aruba wireless access points throughout the Air Force Base. Mounted wireless point, pulled and terminated Cat6 cables with RG45 or punched down on a patch bay. Tested cables, assisted in the configuration of the Cisco switch for proper throughput of the Aruba access points. Network Technician Bailiwick - Chaska, MN April 2012 to May 2012 Assisted the CCIE in the transfer of the IOS and configurations from the old switches to the new switches. Used Visio drawings for locations of the switches and MS Project for the timeline throughout the conversion process.  Swaped existing (Cisco2960) to new (Cisco3750) along with existing (Cisco6500) to new (Cisco6500E) switches, cleaned & prepped the fiber ends and the Cat5 cables, & verified the proper operation of the new switch with the CCIE on site. Network Administrator McKinzie Metro Appraisal July 2002 to May 2012 Design, installation, and maintenance of LAN/WAN system for PCs and printers.  Redesign and migration of company web site incorporating new page designs and company information, Installation, programming, and maintenance of AT&T Merlin Legend phone system Freelance Design Engineer Digital Images, QVC@MOA, KSTP, and AT&T - Shakopee, MN January 1999 to July 2002 Freelance Electronics Engineer Systems Engineer Northwest Teleproductions Inc - Edina, MN February 1994 to January 1999 Manager of Engineering Cycle Sat Inc - Forest City, IA 1986 to February 1994 Education Associate Degree of Electronics Engineering Technology in education Worldwide ERC the Relocation Appraisal Training Program - Forest Lake, MN Skills CCNP, GCP (Gigamon Certified Professional), CCDP Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance CCNP April 2022 GCP (Gigamon Certified Professional February 2021 CASP July 2019 CCDP April 2022 CCNA Security April 2022 Additional Information Skills Summary    CCNP GCP (Gigamon Certified Professional) CCDP  CASP (CompTIA) CCNA Security DELL EMC Professional  NRS1 iDirect Certified GVF Certified  Troubleshooting Problem Solving Managerial Skills    Technical Proficiencies    System Design System Installation System Maintenance  Cisco (Router, Switch, Firewall) Alcatel-Lucent (Router) Juniper (MX-xx/Firewall)  Checkpoint TCP/IP Cable Termination and Installation