Mid Network Engineer Mid <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Mid Network Engineer - WBB Cheverly, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mid Network Engineer WBB December 2017 to Present Job Duties: Support design documents and final system design documents and drafting of required engineering input to procurement and implementation program artifacts. Plans, designs, and evaluates new and existing computer network systems and services, including local area networks, wide area networks, intranets, and the Internet, providing analytical, technical, and administrative support. Plans, oversees, develops, and implements network policies and procedures and ensures network integrity as maintenance and modification projects to existing applications are undertaken. Use IT infrastructure requirements analysis, development of candidate architectures, standards and integrated solutions based on existing technologies, life cycle planning, testing and evaluation, and technical documentation to support accreditation, procurement, and implementation. Perform engineering analysis and prepare integration designs for an IT infrastructure and conduct requirements analysis, including assisting with performing and documenting results of functional analysis, development, and documentation of prototype hardware and software components and subsystems to provide required functional capabilities or improve the performance of information processing and data transport. Helpdesk Sparks IT - Washington, DC September 2017 to November 2017 Job Duties: Providing expert Tier I and Tier II help desk support. Analyze, troubleshoot and solve IT related issues from FHFA clients. Resolve problems which are reported primarily through phone and email by the customers. Open and resolve actions using Footprints ticketing system. Demonstrate proficiency with Microsoft Office 2016. Managing hardware and software within the Microsoft Windows 10 Operating System. Senior Help Desk Administrator rights to the Cisco Meraki to manage agency iPhones/iPads. Utilize Bomgar to remote-in to user computers to assist and install software. LCAT IMG July 2016 to September 2017 3: Senior Hardware Technician; Network Installation Technician  Job Duties: Performs installation, maintenance, and repair of telecommunications systems. Installs, maintains, and repairs voice, data, and wireless communications systems. Maintains telecommunications equipment and installs, rearranges, and removes equipment and associated wiring. Interprets service orders, circuit diagrams, and electrical schematics. Tests, locates, and repairs equipment problems associated with trouble calls and performs routine maintenance. Verifies work order information and receipt of all necessary equipment and information. Provides guidance and work leadership to less-experienced technicians. Maintains current knowledge of relevant technologies as assigned. Participates in special projects as required. Network Engineer KSH December 2013 to July 2016 Job Duties: Provide routine preventative measures and implementing, maintaining and monitoring network security, particularly if the network connects to the internet. Configure, install, and support network hardware and software infrastructure including switches (Cisco 3700's, 3500's and 4500's), routers, firewalls (ASA 5550), WLAN equipment (WLC 5508's, 4400's, and 1131AP's). Network Administrator IMG - Fort Meade, MD January 2012 to July 2013 Job Duties: Configure Cisco Switches (Catalyst Models: 2940, 3550, 3750, 4500 and Cisco Nexus) and Cisco Routers. Configure Taclanes (KG-175 Taclane E-100, KG175A, KG175B, KG175D).Perform port management by using the command prompt or putty to telnet and Secure Shell (SSH) to switches and routers to enable, disable, and administer ports. Use Solarwinds Orion software to monitor LAN/WAN networks. Use Microsoft Windows Server 2000 and 2003 for account management Senior Consultant ( Network Engineer) Booz Allen Hamilton May 2011 to January 2012 Job Duties: The responsibilities of the position oversee the installation, configuration and maintenance of networked Cisco switches and routers. Install all new hardware, systems, and software for networks. Plans and supports network and computing infrastructure. Perform troubleshooting analysis of Cisco switches, routers, servers, workstations and associated systems. Documents network problems and resolution for future reference. Monitors system performance and implements performance tuning. Network Engineer Alta - Crystal City, VA September 2010 to April 2011 Job Duties: Responsible for implementing, monitoring and maintenance of local and wide area networks that typically link to numerous computer platforms, operating systems and network topologies across a widely dispersed geographical area. Install all new hardware, systems, software, Cisco switches and routers for the network. Systems / Network Administrator Lockheed Martin - Washington, DC January 2008 to August 2010 Job Duties: Install new / rebuild existing servers, Cisco switches/routers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements. Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups. Perform daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media, recovery tapes or disks are created, and media is recycled and sent off site as necessary. Create, change, and delete user accounts per request. Apply OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis, and upgrade administrative tools and utilities. Configure / add new services as necessary. Designs, installs, upgrades, configures, and repairs of local and wide area network Cisco hardware and infrastructure. Installs and tests computers and related network (Cisco) hardware in a networked environment. Maintains network maps of all sites.    Andrews Air Force Base, MD  Title: Computer Technical Support Analyst Senior  Job Duties: Provide Tier I to III level support for government civilian, military and contractor users on Andrews AFB and AFDW (Air Force District Washington) in a 2000 and XP environment, Perform hardware and software diagnostics and coordinate repairs, provide desk side support solving end users issues concerning computer equipment and software, Image hard drives using Symantec Ghost, Drive mapping, Install and configure local printers, Troubleshoot user issues remotely using Remote Desktop and Dameware, Administer user accounts, network security, permissions, and reset user passwords with Active Directory and NetIQ, Install and troubleshoot applications such as ActivCard Gold, PKI/CAC, MS Office and XP, as well as Adobe Acrobat Professional, Blackberry support consisting of closeout of trouble tickets, activation issues, Mail Sync issues, address book/Contacts sync issues, calendar sync issues, application deployment, Internet access issues, configurations for the Blackberry Enterprise Server and Bluetooth issues. Senior Desktop Support Analyst K-Force - Vienna, VA December 2006 to January 2008 Job Duties: Provide Tier I to III level support for government civilian, military and contractor users on Andrews AFB and AFDW (Air Force District Washington) in a 2000 and XP environment, Perform hardware and software diagnostics and coordinate repairs, provide desk side support solving end users issues concerning computer equipment and software, Image hard drives using Symantec Ghost, Drive mapping, Install and configure local printers, Troubleshoot user issues remotely using Remote Desktop and Dameware, Administer user accounts, network security, permissions, and reset user passwords with Active Directory and NetIQ, Install and troubleshoot applications such as ActivCard Gold, PKI/CAC, Office 2002 and XP, as well as Adobe Acrobat Professional, Blackberry support consisting of closeout of trouble tickets, activation issues, Mail Sync issues, address book/Contacts sync issues, calendar sync issues, application deployment, Internet access issues, and Bluetooth issues. Installation Field Engineer NetStar-1, Inc - Rockville, MD October 2006 to November 2006 Job Duties: Take down of exiting Congressional member offices, disconnecting all network equipment, labeling equipment based on customer defined specifications, compiling equipment count reports, reconnecting equipment in new office locations, assisting with the installation of new hardware, PCs, servers and printers, running static IP network addresses, loading Windows XP and configuring network settings, tracking documentation of all work in Lockheed Martin's online tracking system. Data Migration Analyst Apex Systems, Inc - Columbia, MD August 2006 to October 2006 Job Duties: Performing hardware installs on Dell PC's and laptops. Performing backups of data to the server using Altiris. Switching out old PC's/laptops and replacing with new. Migrating information from the server to new desktops and laptops. Mapping network drives/printers, configuring IP addresses for specific applications, checking network connectivity, setting up Lotus Notes. Instructing end users about the new OS and equipment, resolving any reported issues. Compile reports of technical issues with the migration or hardware. Break/Fix Support Specialist Unisys - Columbia, MD April 2006 to July 2006 Job Duties: Responding to and resolving Remedy ticket assignments for desktop support, Troubleshooting hardware issues related to desktop, printers and peripherals. Configuring and installing new computers using standard software imaging packages. Also using Nuke program to wipe sensitive government materials from computers. Information Specialist University of Maryland - Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD April 2000 to July 2002 Job Duties: Provided library users with information and directional assistance in retrieving material from the library, Charged and discharged circulating library materials on automated systems and sensitizing material, Performed routine clerical tasks such as collecting and compiling statistics, filing, typing, and periodical maintenance. Participated in training for monitoring students and faculty help. Troubleshoot problems with computer systems, including troubleshooting hardware and software, network and peripheral equipment problems; makes repairs and corrections where required. Webmaster University of Maryland - Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD October 1998 to June 1999 Computer Lab Assistant University of Maryland - Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD August 1997 to June 1999 Job Duties: Assisted in the management and development of the University of the World Wide Web site homepage using Microsoft Publisher, Ensured that the "virtual" aspects of the Website were stable, well designed, effective to use, and up-to-date, Supported in designing and coding using HTML for the site.  Employer: University of Maryland - Eastern Shore, Princess Anne, MD, 08/1997 - 06/1999  Title: Computer Lab Assistant  Job Duties: Provided technical support and troubleshooting for end users to include; computer systems, hardware, software, e-mail, network and peripheral equipment problems, Generated reports of any damaged equipment for the System Administrator, Installed hardware and software, assembled and configured; computers, monitors, network infrastructure and peripherals such as; printers, scanners and related hardware; pulled cables and rewired or directed the rewiring of cables as required for new installations and office reconfigurations. Education Certification in Training ASM Education Center, Inc - Rockville, MD June 2016 Computer Networks & Security University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD January 2014 to February 2016 Computer Science University of Maryland Eastern Shore - Princess Anne, MD May 2008 to June 2008 Skills CISCO (8 years), PRINTERS (6 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), BLACKBERRY (3 years), GHOST (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Hardware: Switches/ Routers (Cisco, 3Com, Linksys), ( Network / Local) Printers, Dell PC's/Laptops, HP Compaq PC's/Laptops, Gateway PC's/Laptops, Servers, Blackberry    Software: Remedy, Active Directory, Microsoft Windows (NT 4, 2000, XP, Vista,7, 8, Windows 10), Microsoft Server 20xx, Microsoft Exchange 20xx, Norton Ghost, Symantec Veritas NetBackup, Blackberry Enterprise Server, WireShark.    Programming: C/C++, HTML, Pascal, Assembler, Cobol, Basic