IT Technician Level 2 IT Technician Level 2 IT Technician Level 2 - Renaissance Pharmaceutical Staten Island, NY Work Experience IT Technician Level 2 Renaissance Pharmaceutical - Lakewood, NJ April 2019 to Present • Image and deploy Windows 10 laptops to users upgrading from Windows 7.  • Maintain Sophos corporate anti-virus deploy to new computers and intercept viruses and malware.  • Solve user issues day to day through phone and ticketing system.  • Install and setup custom applications for users in various departments.  • Onboard new users and train on use of applications.  • Analyze and document company virtual and network infrastructure.  • Provide support for Level 1 technicians. Help Desk/Engineer Ocean Computer Group - Matawan, NJ June 2018 to September 2018 • Provide support for customers issues by telephone and ticketing system.  • Analyze customers infrastructure and make improvements.  • Maintain and troubleshoot all customers data backup systems.  • Schedule all customers weekly windows patching.  • Provide support for internal engineering staff.  • Update and maintain customers documentation and network diagrams. Systems Administrator/ Network Engineer ABT/SRBI - New York, NY August 2016 to April 2017 • Monitoring of network infrastructure, VM servers, websites and physical servers.  • Managing of tape and disk backups VM infrastructure for disaster recovery.  • Maintain vSphere 5.5 /6.5 infrastructure, updates, server builds, managed over 250 VM's  • Research and test new hardware and software for deployment.  • Update security certificates for external websites.  • Build and deploy vSphere appliance servers.  • Maintain Data Center systems and documentation.  • Build and deploy Juniper and Dell network switches. Systems Administrator for District Montville Board of Education - Montville, NJ April 2012 to February 2016 7 remote sites  • Provided support of 2000 users AD account setup, email support, IP phone support, setup and deployed Group Policies and permissions.  • Setup and deployed Office 365 Cloud Email service and Google Apps Service for district.  • Maintained and updated vSphere ESXi 5.5 and Vcenter5.5 for 30 Windows 2008/2012 and Linux VM's  • Provided network troubleshooting, installation and upgrading of all Cisco network equipment.  • Installed and maintained Fortigate firewall system to improve infrastructure security.  • Setup IPsec tunnel and VPN accounts for remote users.  • Maintained security certificates for external websites.  • Monitored network infrastructure at seven sites for bandwidth and security issues.  • Responsible for managing disaster recovery for AD, File server, and VM servers using Disk Array/LTO tape backup systems.  • Operated, repaired and updated video surveillance and badge door access security systems.  • Maintained and monitored Cisco wireless access network.  • Provided second tier level support for field technicians.  • Setup Radius server for secure access network switches. Senior IT Systems Administrator CENX Inc - Somerset, NJ October 2009 to April 2010 • Provided support of end user computing environment including Windows Vista, Win 7, and Mac OSX both on site and remotely.  • Managed email accounts for MS exchange and Blackberry servers.  • Deployed and maintained Vsphere 4 and Vcenter servers for Windows and Linux instances.  • Supported web development team by building Linux servers according to specifications.  • Setup and monitored IPSec site to site tunnels for intra office networking.  • Maintained VPN accounts and provided support for users.  • Supported company ticketing system and wiki.  • Monitored network infrastructure for bandwidth and security issues.  • Responsible for managing corporate DLT tape backup system.  • Setup of new users including preparation of desktops/laptops and telephone, Active Directory/Exchange account creation, software installation as well as provided new hire orientation. IT Manager/Systems Administrator Origin Digital Inc - Weehawken, NJ August 2006 to January 2009 • Served as a liaison between development, technical teams and other departments providing project coordination, logistics and critical information to achieve business goals.  • Built and deployed VMware ESX 3.0 Servers. Deployed VMware Virtual Center Instances and templates. Continually evaluated better ways to monitor VMware environment and recommended solutions to improve efficiencies. Ensured preventive maintenance schedules are performed and all equipment is maintained to current standards. Ascertained security configurations, images and files are backed up and tested on a regular basis. Maintained network management alerts, traps and notifications for virtualization layer monitoring.  • Created, tested the implementation of the disaster recovery plan to insure business continuity. Preserved disaster recovery documents, scripts and performed periodic disaster recovery tests.  • Performed cost-benefit and return on investment analyses for hardware purchases to aid management in making implementation decisions.  • Responsible and accountable for operating the Windows infrastructure (Active Directory, MOM and Enterprise Applications) at peak performance 24/7.  • Designed and performed server and security audits, system backup procedures, and other recovery processes in accordance with the company's disaster recovery and business continuity strategies.  • Integrated servers, including database, e-mail, print and backup servers and their associated software into enterprise systems.  • Lead technical expert for SAN infrastructure. Deployed and maintained various storage environments utilizing fiber attached storage, iSCSI and NAS technology.  • Provided a managed hosting environment for clients. Responsible for 99.99% uptime of client's websites, applications and related backend databases.  • Administered SQL 2005 databases using clustering and mirroring technology.  • Utilized Windows 2003 network load balancing servers for ftp and website hosting redundancy.  • Built and configured Linux 4 and 5 servers for web hosting.  • Installed and maintained corporate Symantec anti-virus server. Network Systems Administrator Savvis Communications Inc - Weehawken, NJ April 2004 to July 2006 • Designed and coordinated office layout, network and phone system for transition from a Savvis division to the standalone company, Origin Digital.  • Responsible for the design, implementation, management, and maintenance of all routers, data firewall security, switches, servers, infrastructure hardware, data cabling and management.  • Monitored network traffic with SNMP using various monitoring programs.  • Tracked project activities against plans and developed and managed project status documentation and communications. As part of project status tracking and reporting, continuously assessed project risk factors and recommended appropriate courses of mitigation.  • Created and maintained vlans, subnets and IP lists.  • Managed ACL lists on Cisco 6509 and 3750 switches.  • Configured and maintained Linux based DNS servers. Education Computer Science City University of New York - Staten Island, NY Skills Linux, Cisco asa, Ipsec, Wireshark, Cisco, Clustering, Dhcp, Vmware, Dns, Nas, Raid, Smtp, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql, Hyper-v, Iscsi, Backup exec, Wireless, Xml, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Red Hat Additional Information Technical Expertise    Software Skill Set:  Windows Server 2008 R2/2012/2016 MS Office 365 Cloud email Site 24x7 network monitor  Windows AD 2008/2012 Google Apps Cloud gmail Symantec Backup Exec v15  Windows 2012R2 Hyper-V MS SQL Clustering Service Cisco CCM and CUC IP Phones  Office 365 Professional Suite SQL Server 2008/2012 Symantec Corporate Antivirus 11  Linux 6.0 Redhat ES SUSE 10 VMware ESX 5.5 /6.5 Cisco Prime Infrastructure 3.0  Windows 10 VMware Vcenter 5.5/6.5 Cisco IOS VLANS, IPsec, ACL  Powershell 3, XML DNS, DHCP Sophos Corporate Anti-virus  Whats's up Gold v16 Kaseya Monitoring Quest Rapid Recovery  Commvault v10 Backup DR software WireShark, Syslog SMTP, IIS7 and 8    Hardware Skill Set:  Cisco 3560X, 2960X Stack Switches Dell Servers Blade LSI SAN Fiber Raid Arrays  Cisco 6900, 4500, 2621Series Routers HP Servers Blade iSCSI and NAS Storage Arrays  Cisco ASA 5510, Fortigate 1500D Barracuda Appliances Cisco Wireless Access controllers