Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Coppell, TX • Over 3 plus years of experience in Network design, deployment and operations of both Cisco and Juniper Networks  • Hands on experience on Up-gradation of Cisco IOS of different Cisco devices & modules.  • Strong hands on experience in installing, configuring, and troubleshooting of Cisco 7600, 7200, 3800, 3900, 2800, 2900 series Routers, Cisco Catalyst 6500, 4500, 2960 and 3750 Stack Switches.  • Designed and deployed new Cisco catalyst 6513 and 6509 with dual Supervisor Engine 720 at both Distro and Core layer.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration across our global networks  • Implemented traffic filters using Standard and extended access-lists, Distribute-Lists, prefix lists and Route Maps.  • Experience testing Cisco & Juniper routers and switches in laboratory scenarios and then deploy them on site for production.  • Moderate knowledge in configuring and troubleshooting Cisco Wireless Networks: LWAPP, WLC, WCS, Standalone APs, Roaming, Wireless Security Basics, IEEE 802.11 a/b/g, RF spectrum characteristics.  • Highly motivated with the ability to work independently or as an integral part of a team and Committed to highest levels of professionalism. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Fastnet Software Inc August 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  Deployment of OSPF dynamic routing NOC engineering network routers, previously running RIP and Static routes.  Involved in designing VPN architecture with IPSEC, VPN-Services, RADIUS-Servers, IP-addressing.  Completed service requests (i.e. - IP readdressing, bandwidth upgrades, IOS/platform upgrades, etc)  Hands on experience on Windows server installation components like DNS, DHCP, Active directory and ISA application for load balancing on the servers  Installation of windows active directory for the creation of users and groups and assigning policies based users application.  Used Cisco-Works/solar winds for the tracing of IP address, mac-address, ports, servers attached to the various switches  Experience in Configuration of ADSL (PPPoE, PPPoA), ISDN, leased lines and frame relay connections.  Involved in L2/L3 Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANs, Port security, Trucking, STP, Inter-Vlan routing, LAN security.  Worked on Solar winds Orion for analysis and monitoring purposes Network Administrator ZAFCO - Dubai August 2009 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  Hands on experience with Cisco 3500, 2950 series equipment and configuring and deploying from the scratch and fixing them with various modules like Gig card, VPN SPA Card, T1-WIC card and other modules.  Experience in deploying EIGRP/BGP redistribution and the changing the metrics for the primary and backup paths for the packet prioritization and EIGRP tuning.  Performed switching technology administration including VLANs, inter-VLAN routing, Trunking, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation Involved in designing and applying QOS to 2600 series routers for all the branches  Worked on Riverbed devices for WAN bandwidth Optimization in the data centers for the sensitive applications.  Provide Technical support to end-user either through remote management or onsite based on the requirement.  Experience in configuring routing protocols like EIGRP, RIP v2, OSPF, BGP, Cisco ACS protocols like RADIUS &TACACS+  Coordinated with senior engineers with BGP/OSPF routing policies and designs, worked on implementation strategies for the expansion of the MPLS VPN networks.  Involved in IP Quality of Service (QoS) implementation including Priority and Class-Based Weighted Fair Queuing, IP Precedence, DiffServ. Education Master of Information System Management in MISM Keller Graduate School of Management - Irving, TX April 2016 B.A in Business Management University of Sunderland 2009 Diploma in Computer Science PANTA College of Information Technology Skills Routers, Routers (5 years), Switches (5 years), Wireless (5 years), Security, Security (3 years), Cisco, Cisco (5 years), CCNA (4 years), Network Administration, Network Administration (5 years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA Security December 2018 CCNA Routing and Switching December 2018 Palo Alto Accredited Configuration Engineer NSTISSI-4011 Additional Information TECHINICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows (Server 2003/2008, Vista, Windows 7,8, 10), Basic Linux  Routing: MPLS, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, RIP-2, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Static Routing.  Switching: LAN, VTP, STP, PVST+, RPVST+, Inter VLAN routing & Multi-Layer Switch, Multicast operations, Layer 3 Switches, Ether channels, Transparent Bridging.  Network security: Cisco ASA 5510, ACL, IPSEC VPN, GRE VPN  LAN: Ethernet (IEEE 802.3), Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet.  AAA Architecture: TACACS+, RADIUS, Cisco ACS.  Network Management: SNMP, Solar Winds, HP open view, and Wire shark  Reports: Microsoft (Visio pro)