CMS Senior Engineer CMS Senior Engineer CMS Senior Engineer - Computex Odessa, TX Work Experience CMS Senior Engineer Computex - Odessa, TX June 2014 to Present Duties: MSP engineer for West Texas area. Provide server, desktop, infrastructure support and installation. Provide support for managed services (backups, Exchange, Office 365, hosted server solutions) Support for multiple infrastructures from single server, switch and router environments to multi-site networks connected via VPN. Network/System Administrator, PC Specialist American Lenders Service Company - Odessa, TX October 2011 to June 2014 Duties: Support and maintain corporate network, servers, workstations and user accounts. Administer email, antivirus and anti-spam systems. Monitor and support company web app security and uptime. Assure continuous data backups and maintenance of power failure backup systems. Provide help desk support for corporate office employees as well as nationally located franchise employees as well as those of Arrow Printing, Golden Honda and Golden Coach. PC Technician II Insphere Insurance Solutions - North Richland Hills, TX July 2007 to October 2011 Duties: Provide help desk support for field agents across the country. Support of custom Microsoft CRM and iOS/Android app, as well as custom company software. Responsible for imaging field office PCs including PGP encryption and setup of remote office networked printers. Extensive remote support/troubleshooting of PCs and printers. Administrator of Google Apps with Postini service and VUE database user access. Network Administrator ICG Inc - Addison, TX March 2006 to June 2007 Duties: Maintained corporate network and support network users in two offices of approximately 35 users. Deployed and maintained workstations and servers using Windows XP, 2000 Workstation, Windows Server 2000 and 2003. Implemented use of Active Directory, Sonicwall Firewall and Symantec Corporate Anti-Virus. Designed and deployed data backup system using Backup Exec with Continuous Protection Server. Centralized data backups and server hardware. Audited and corrected company wide software licenses. Monitored intrusion detection system and content filtering systems. Education Associates of Applied Science in Information Technology ITT Technical Institute - Arlington, TX January 1996 Skills Active Directory, Desktop Support, Helpdesk Support, Comptia, Tech Support, System Administrator, DNS, Vmware Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present CompTIA Server+ Present CCNA Present