Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - T-Mobile Data Center Warren Park Frisco Irving, TX • Working on Cisco IOS upgrading and uploading on switches and routers  • CCNA (routing and switching, security) with good understanding of access and distribution layers  • Good knowledge of industry related specification & standards (ANSI, IEEE), familiar with OSI, TCP/IP model  • Good communication, interpersonal skills, adept at using MS office tools (excel, outlook, power point, Visio).  • A seasoned Network Professional with over 5 years of experience in network administration and troubleshooting  • Working knowledge of networking devices such as Routers, Switches, Firewalls and Wireless Devices (Controllers and Access Points)  • Good knowledge of industry related specification & standards (ANSI, IEEE), familiar with OSI, TCP/IP model  • Good communication, interpersonal skills, adept at using MS office tools (excel, outlook, power point, Visio). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer T-Mobile Data Center Warren Park Frisco December 2016 to Present • Creating required CLI commands, testing and validating the CLI commands in lab using Putty, SecureCRT.  • Using CLI commands and GUI's to configure VLAN's, virtual switch, VLLI, vPC, SVI, SSH, SNMP, CFM, LACP, RSTP, ACL, Etherchannel, system timing, pseudowires, SyncE.  • Familiar working with different physical media (single mode, multimode fibers, UTP, SFP, SFP+, XFP, CFP)  • Implementing, troubleshooting, documenting and maintenance of networking device from different vendors.  • Configuring layer 2 protocols such as STP, RSTP, VTP, PVSTP+ on different switches to prevent loops.  • Involved in configuring IP Quality of service (QoS)  • Experienced in WAN environments, installing and troubleshooting data circuit problems (MPLS, T1)  • Involved in designing GRE tunnels for encryption of data flow from source to destination  • Involved in LAN, WLAN and WAN development (IP address planning, designing, installation, configuration, testing, maintenance, and troubleshooting issues on CLI Putty, Super-putty and SecureCRT  • Performed IOS upgrading on switches and routers as per SLA  • Good hands on skills on backhaul environment on different types of routers like Cisco, Alcatel, Juniper,  • Performed with the circuit providers to troubleshoot any circuit LAN /WAN issues  • Troubleshooting of existing network configurations, analysis of issues with element management systems and network elements  • Co-ordinating with different service providers such as ATT, Verizon, Zayo Bandwidth, Cox communications,  • Supported on Resolving network issues, ran test scripts and prepared network documentation on a newly established network  • Supporting on design, implementation, configuration, and management of enterprise wireless hardware, software, and management systems (NMS).  • Identify opportunities and solutions for improving efficiencies with emerging technologies, including Cisco routers/switches and wireless systems  • Support to analyze, and troubleshoot Cisco APs, wireless controllers and different series of switches using the Cisco ISE/Cisco Prime management systems.  • Working on the Trouble tickets of the various venders on phone regarding Layer 2 layer 3 issues and troubleshooting the issues to fix them and give call back to them to report them the after the completion of the task or to make an inquiry regarding the latest updates on the trouble tickets and creation of new tickets as per requirements  • Interact and support the team in person or with the team through email, skype and IM whenever required and submit the sum of the spreadsheet at the end of the day  • Actively Working on Piers for ticket updating, monitoring tools together with Slip for the analysis on the Trouble tickets.  • Involved in the various project like audit, CSR acceptance, RFC and Burst testing, CIR upgrading on the routers, etc.  • Involved in the migration deployment task of 2G and 3G into 4G i.e. LTE telecommunication technologies  • Actively involved on the various types of training and seminars conducted by the companies for the skills enhancements Network Administrator Genco Fedex August 2014 to November 2016 • Working knowledge on CISCO Router and Switch  • Working Knowledge on Cradle Point, Wireless LTE Network device and Cradle Point Enterprise Cloud Manager tool.  • Working Knowledge on Wireless controller and access point.  • Working knowledge on Secure CRT, Putty and Super Putty.  • Working knowledge on HP Networking Automation tool  • Worked on tools like Cisco Prime and Cisco Corporate.  • Experience on configuring cisco routers, switches and cradle point device.  • Experience on network migration from T1 to Broadband.  • Experience on PIER web ticketing tool. Education Bachelor of Arts in Arts and Humanities Tribhuvan University Northlake College Skills CISCO (3 years), NETWORKING (3 years), WIRELESS (3 years), MPLS (1 year), BGP (Less than 1 year), Ccna, Ospf Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Network security: Firewall (Cisco ASA), VPN, ACL  Network Protocols: BGP, ISIS, OSPF, RIP, UDP, EIGRP, RSTP, VTP, TCP, ARP, LACP  Networking concepts: Ethernet, VLAN, DNS, G.8032, MPLS, TCP/IP, NAT, STP, QoS  Tools: Wireshark, SecureCRT, 5620 SAM, Packet tracer, Putty  Cellular/wireless Technologies: LTE, MIMO, UMTS, GSM, VoLTE, CDMA, Wi-Fi, LTE-A