Adjunct Instructor Adjunct Instructor Adjunct Instructor - BISHOP STATE COMMUNITY COLLEGE Mobile, AL Computers, servers, routers, databases, Backups Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Adjunct Instructor BISHOP STATE COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Mobile, AL 2014 to Present Teach undergraduate courses: Introduction to Computers, Micro Application, Server Administration, Directory Administration, CCNA#I, CCNA#2  Advise Students  Maintained meeting for departmental and advisory meetings to discuss course curriculum, pending goals, and upcoming events.  Participate in service activities  Perform all other duties as assigned by the department chair  Maintain a class syllabus, assignment log, and additional material helps for the students.  Plan lectures, assignments, and in-field experiences to collaborate with necessary curriculum. System Support Specialist MOBILE COUNTY COMMISSION - Mobile, AL 2012 to Present Manage upgrading and installing various system hardware, and software.  Manage end-users in one or a variety of subject-matter fields.  Manage servers, storage, databases, and specialized IT system.  Providing technical guidance, designing and implementing new system modifications.  Enhancements to improve current information system operations.  Preforms studies to research, analyze, design, implement, and test Information Technology systems.  Provide advice and/or guidance to various levels of personnel regarding administrative and technical matters related to Information Technology programs and/or services.  Performing daily file system maintenance, system backups and database archives.  Performing backup and removal of all temporary files and posted files.  Investigating system errors, resolving problems, providing technical guidance for the implementation of a disaster recovery plan and assist with the disaster recovery. Network Administrator MOBILE HOUSING BOARD - Mobile, AL 2011 to 2012 Performing daily file system maintenance, system backups and database archives.  Performing backup and removal of all temporary files and posted files.  Investigating system errors, resolving problems, providing technical guidance for the implementation of a disaster recovery plan and assist with the disaster recovery. Network Specialist MOBILE COUNTY ENGINEERING - Mobile, AL 2001 to 2011 Maintain the routers and switches for the Wide Area Network.  Install ORACLE 9i on two of our Application Servers.  Install, maintain, and support Microsoft Office application.  Maintain, Troubleshoot and resolve multiple servers and workstations in Windows NT 4.0 / 2000.  Working knowledge of network switches, experience with routing protocols, and network security devices.  Perform network administration functions, periodic network backups and evaluate, and resolve  network/client problems Data Base Analyst II MOBILE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT - Mobile, AL 1999 to 2001 Implemented and designed a database using SQL Server 7.0 and Visual Basic 6.0.  Configured Cisco Routers for the Wide Area Network.  Developed, designed, tested, and delivered new databases. Training Specialist QMS - Mobile, AL 1998 to 1999 Trained field technicians, on QMS printers, UNIX and Microsoft Applications.  Created training manuals for QMS employees. Instructor MERCY MEDICAL - Mobile, AL 1997 to 1998 Taught students on Introduction to Networking, Visual Basic and Web Design, and Microsoft  Windows" Network / PC Manager MERCY MEDICAL - Daphne, AL 1994 to 1998 Supervised the installation of Windows NT, and Wide Area Network.  Supervised the implementation and maintained Microsoft Access.  Supervised the implementation of Microsoft Exchange (E-mail).  TEACHING EXPERIENCE Education Master of Business Administration in Information System Management Walden University - Minneapolis, MN 2009 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Management Alabama State University - Montgomery, AL 1983 Skills Literature, IT Management, Network Administration, Vmware, Exchange, Excel, Active Directory Additional Information System Support Specialist skilled in Information System Technology, maintaining system management,  system support and system performance. Assures the continuous operation of the user community by  continuous monitoring of the operation and maintenance of all departmental hardware, software and  servers; maintains, monitors, and adjusts the system for optimal performance.