Senior Manager Architecture and Engineering Senior Manager Architecture and Engineering Senior Manager Architecture and Engineering - Cooley LLP San Diego, CA Throughout his 19-year career in Information Technology, Pete has progressively worked up the ranks establishing himself as a technical thought leader in multi-region global environments. Currently acting as the Senior Manager of Architecture and Engineering with Cooley LLP, Pete leads a team of six Senior Architects that act as the focal point for all firm technology initiatives. Cooley LLP is an AMLaw 50 law firm with over 1,000 attorneys, 2,500 employees spread over 15 locations in the US, Asia, Europe and the UK.     Pete specializes in taking complex problems, be they technology or business process and breaking them down to their simplest elements to identify root causes and provide executive summary to a non-technical audience. He differs from many technical managers in the belief that people, policy and process come first over technology. He believes the IT industry is primarily a customer service industry and good technical ability in no way substitutes for customer service.     As the chair of the Architecture Review Board Pete works closely with other business owners and practice groups in product selection then developing a design that meets stringent firm security, compliance and DR/BC requirements and provides training and documentation for other teams to support their systems. A heavy proponent of change control he also sits the Change Control Board to guide other departments how best to implement their changes.    A believer in constant innovation he leads the firm in adoption of cloud systems, having built out two virtual data centers with plans to expand into additional regions, and adoption of Azure AD and O365. As manager of the firms Microsoft EA and Premiere multi-million dollar contracts, he designs the firm’s hardware and software deployments to best minimize cost while maximizing benefits gained through credits and training vouchers.     A leader of teams up to eleven direct reports, Pete is heavy advocate of continued education through on-the-job and formal training sessions, and the importance of regular group meetings in team development. As a principle engineer turned manager, he appreciates the rarity of true high-level technical ability and strives for the happiness for his team, priding himself in a perfect staff retention record. Work Experience Senior Manager Architecture and Engineering Cooley LLP - San Diego, CA September 2014 to Present Lead technical manager for a firm of 2500. Responsible for design and implementation of all firm infrastructure and application deployments, including but not limited to Storage, Messaging, SQL, data center design, DR/BC. Azure implementations for Virtual Data Centers, Azure MFA, Single Sign-On, Windows Hello 4 Business. Chair of Architecture Review Board, working with SMEs and vendors to implement all systems, to confirm with firms performance, security and DR/BC requirements.    Leading a team of six senior System Architects, environment includes 1400+ servers and 3.5 Petabyte of storage, UCS blades on Nexus 7K switches and Netscaler GSLB load balancers.  Multiple Cloud (Azure), SaaS solutions, and managing vendor relationships.  Introduced new process and efficiency enhancements to Apps, Operations and KM teams.  Projects completed successfully include:  • Azure Virtual Data Center deployments across three regions to support with rapid firm  expansion and DR/BC requirements.  • Designed and deployed Worksite 10, Elite 3e 2.8, Sharepoint 2016, RAVN indexing, eBrevia, Iridium, dozens of other smaller products large firms typically encounter.  • Enterprise Infrastructure Refresh, replacing server/SAN hardware for data centers and regional offices globally.  • MS Always On VPN deployment. Custom designed solution, using Netscalers for load  balancing, deployed firm wide to widespread acclaim.  • 3,800 mailbox Exchange 2016 migration (from 2010) using full site failover GSLB and capable of scaling to over 60 TB of Online Archives.  • 60 TB PST ingestion to Exchange Online Archives using Quadrotech Flight Deck.  • New London, Brussels, Hong Kong, Princeton, Beijing, NY office build outs.  • VMware View Horizons VDI and XenApp remote access solutions, globally.  • Azure MFA deployment, Windows Hello for Business, several supporting Azure / o365  integrations. Manager Network Services Fish & Richardson P.C. San Diego - San Diego, CA 2008 to 2014 Managed a global team of 11. Responsible for the design, planning, implementation and day-to- day support of all Firm's infrastructure, including data centers, servers and storage, and DR /  Business Continuity for all systems. Develop documentation and best practices followed by Engineering, IT Desktop Support, Litigation Practice Systems and User Admin groups. Provide  in-house training on all infrastructure and systems.    Project management of all Enterprise projects Firm wide projects including a wide array of application selection, integration and deployment, in many cases developing unique solutions  adapted to be consistent with the firms DR/BC and client security assessments. Enterprise Systems Engineer NetApp Australia 2008 to 2008 Pre-sales engineer working on enterprise accounts for NetApp, designing and pitching large- scale solutions to prospective clients such as Telstra and Australia Post. Principle Network Engineer Fish & Richardson P.C. San Diego - San Diego, CA 2004 to 2008 Lead technical position in the group. Responsible for implementing all major infrastructure  projects from storage to Microsoft Enterprise Suite. Provide tier 3 escalation for front end and back end issues. Support Specialist Technology Partners Australia - Adelaide SA 2001 to 2004 Australia. (3 years)    Network Administration for approximately 50 highly varied small business clients.  Position also included level 1, 2 and 3 Helpdesk, Project Management, Operational  Management, and "Road Warrior" end user support. Network Administrator Able-Disabled Advocacy - San Diego, CA 2000 to 2001 1 year)    Designed, planned and implemented a Windows 2000 and Exchange 2000 migration for a medium sized network.