Assistant Director of IT Assistant Director of IT Assistant Director of IT - Network Engineer Mansfield, TX Work Experience Assistant Director of IT Network+, Security+ - DeSoto, TX July 2017 to Present Project+, A+, MCP, MCDST,  Managing all information systems for a regional emergency dispatch CIW Javascript Specialist, CIW  center. Supervising network operations and workflows, working with Web Foundations Associate, regional and local users. Managing all data resources, installations, CIW Web Design Specialist,  quality control and upgrades and ensuring compliance with local, state, ECCouncil Security5  and federal security guidelines. Budgeting and planning upgrades and    maintenance. Infrastructure Associate Conoco Phillips - Dumas, TX January 2016 to July 2017 Maintenance and configuration on telecommunications assets to include  Routers/Switches/Wireless Radios etc., in Panhandle, Anadarko, and Fort  Worth Basins. Support of all IT assets within the area. Support for over  200 users, 20 sites, including 13 tower communication facilities. Senior Network Elite Technologies - Dumas, TX June 2015 to December 2015 Configuring and deploying managed services to clients. Monitoring and maintenance to client networks/servers in order to obtain better  performance and reliability for client networks. Multiple successful  projects in consolidating or upgrading server and network environments for multiple clients of many sizes. Deployed Virtual environment for large  client in consolidating all servers into virtual environment. Senior Network Planned Parenthood - Dallas, TX August 2014 to May 2015 Management of Cisco UCS environment. Over 50 Virtual Servers, 30 Bare  Metal. 21 site operation managed via Cisco Enterprise devices.  ASA/Routers/Switches. Cisco Ironport, Barracuda Spam Firewall all  configured, monitored and maintained by myself. Maintenance and configuration of MPLS/VPLS WAN. I reorganized and reconfigured our  WAN in order to achieve a more stable WAN while providing a savings of over $18000/month in monthly service charges. I enhanced and upgraded  the Citrix Xenapp environment to house more users and applications as well as consolidating into one simple configuration. Networking/Server  maintenance. Backup and Disaster recovery planning. Project  Management as well configuration and implementation of network  design. Systems Admin SemGroup Corporation - Dumas, TX June 2012 to July 2014 Implementation and Design of network and all systems within.  Deployment of Servers (AD DS, DC, Exchange). Project Management.  ASA/Router/Switch configuration, deployment, and maintenance.  Disaster Prevention and Recovery. Technology Specialist Dumas ISD - Dumas, TX October 2010 to May 2012 Maintain 2300 Computers, 45 Servers, and the Network. Maintain Cisco  based Wireless and Wired based networks at 8 campuses. Employ  techniques to provide better uses of technology within the classroom  setting. Assist with the deployment of the many different types of software used within the educational environment, also enhance the use  of. Owner/ Network Admin Computer Guys - Dumas, TX January 2010 to October 2010 Small business network design and implementation. Customer hardware and software support. System design and maintenance. Administrator/Manager Panhandle Computer Services - Dumas, TX May 2007 to December 2009 Responsible for handling all onsite technical issues our customers may  have at all times of the day. I.e. Network Solutions/Connectivity  Issues/Server Deployment/File & Printer Sharing/Hardware Failure/  Software Issues and Deployment/ Network Design and Implementation. US Navy - Groton, CT 2006 to 2007 Understanding Network Technology and types of Circuitry used in the US  Navy. Gained excellent experience in the various types of hardware/software available Education BS in IT Network in Security Western Governors University June 2011 to January 2016 Computer Career Center - Amarillo, TX May 2008 to July 2008 Skills Network Administration, Vmware, Exchange, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Active Directory, Citrix, Disaster Recovery, Excel, IT Management, Vendor Management, VoIP