Senior Network Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Administrator - Tropic Oil Company Davie, FL To secure a Senior Network Administrator or Network Manager position, utilizing the education and  experience acquired during the last 10 years of my professional career, which includes excellent customer  service and communication skills in both English and Spanish Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Administrator Tropic Oil Company May 2017 to Present • Day to day troubleshooting of users issues, making suggestions to improve IT infrastructure.  • Upgraded Windows environment 2012 r2 from 2008 r2, successfully transferred FSMO roles.  • Upgraded EOL WatchGuard XTM550 to M370.  • Upgraded Symantec End-Point from version 12 to version 14, updated all clients  • Setup DC on AWS cloud, build tunnel through WatchGuard.  • Updating/creating firewall policy on all WatchGuard firebox devices as needed, as well as updating  firmware to latest version.  • Currently working on project to migrate Exchange 2013 to O365. System Engineer FSCC June 2016 to April 2017 • Troubleshoot and assist different clients on their new or existing network.  • Implement Active Directory 2012 for new client, and add required workstations to new domain.  • Setup Amazon Web Services environment server migrated client QB 2013 to QB 2017.  • Monitoring of client's backup solution Acronis / Cloudberry / Symantec, restoring items as needed.  • Setup and monitoring clients Microsoft Hyper-V environment.  • Updating firewall policy on WatchGuard as needed, as well as updating firmware to latest version.  • Entering all time, client resolution and client information into ConnectWise.  Mobile: (786) 246-0555 • Email: ailyn77@gmail.com Backup Specialist Administrator TEKsystems September 2015 to May 2016 Day to day managing, monitoring and troubleshooting as needed of over 100 backup jobs within Symantec  Backup Exec 2014 and Veeam version 8.  • VC was upgraded from 5.1 to VC 6; I than pointed all Veeam jobs to the new VC 6 without interrupting  backup schedule.  • Restoring any Windows encrypted or non-encrypted files as upon request by user via email, TrackIT or phone calls.  • Restoring any VMs if needed upon request by our Infrastructure Team.  • Create and update a list of our tape rotation for the entire year and send it to both off sight storage  facilities as well as data center to ensure the proper tapes are needed for the scheduled backup job.  • Working with EMC Data Domain to ensure necessary space availability for compressed backups.  • Recalling tapes from off sight storage facilities as needed for restoral jobs. Senior Network Administrator Tropic Oil Company September 2014 to September 2015 • Successfully migrated our in-house monitoring applications, from Windows 2003 to Windows 2012.  • Reconfigured Symantec Backup Exec 2010 jobs to run concurrent on NAS storage device to ensure timely  and successful backup job,  • Deployed new File Server in 2012 environment which allowed migration of all user documents from current  client machine to the FS location. Allowing faster backup job rate since files are in one central location.  • Currently working on upgrading Symantec Backup Exec 2010 to SBE 2015.  • Day to day troubleshooting of users issues, making suggestions to improve IT infrastructure.    E D & F Man Senior Network Administrator April 2010 to September 2014 Upgraded Symantec Backup Exec 2012 to SBE 2014. Successfully moved all catalog files, job logs and data files associated with the SBE application, to ensure no interruption of scheduled backup jobs or failure  of future restore jobs.  • Rolled out new Symantec Endpoint Protection on all client machines and servers via Symantec Endpoint  Protection Manager, setup scheduled of full scans on non-peak hours.  • Supporting users in our remote offices in Latin America and Caribbean.  • Successfully moved in house database from our main office and restoring from tape to our DR site  location.  • Migration of 20% of physical servers to virtual using VMware.  • In collaboration with my IT manager, successfully setup HP StorageWorks LUNs. This allowed us to virtualize a good portion of our servers and deploy new VMs from a central location.  • Mirrored this same setup at DR site, for backup redundancy.  • Day to day troubleshooting of users, making suggestions to improve IT infrastructure.  • Modifying multiple users/computer accounts using PowerShell commands. System Administrator Magic City Casino October 2009 to April 2010 • Maintained and managed current Symantec Backup Exec 2010.  • Setup print server deploy GPO to successfully add all clients to shared network printer.  • Maintained and managed Active Directory in a 2008 environment.  • Patched all client and servers of latest Windows Updates  Mobile: (786) 246-0555 • Email: ailyn77@gmail.com Network Administrator Early Learning Coalition of Miami August 2006 to July 2008 • Established new IT policies, which defined acceptable use of IT assets within the company.  • Fulfilled network administrator responsibilities including the addition and changes to user desktop, laptops, email and PBX accounts.  • Worked with Active Directory in 2003 environment.  • Day to day troubleshooting of users, making suggestions to improve IT infrastructure. Desktop Support/ Network Administrator Corporate Travel Consultants II LLC February 2005 to August 2006 • Supported/Troubleshooting end-user's desktop with their desktop environment.  • Applying the proper Windows patches monthly.  • Managed current GPO setup.  • Assisted IT Manager with all projects. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Network Systems ITT Technical Institute - Miami, FL September 2004 Skills VMWARE, HYPER-V, BACKUP EXEC, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, VERITAS, WEB SERVICES, WEBSENSE, ANDROID, IOS, AVAYA, EMC Additional Information • Information Technology • System Integration • Network Administration  • Technical Analysis • Network Engineering • Multi-Platform Networking  • Migrations / Upgrades • Hardware / Software • Technical / User Support    Operating Systems: All Windows Platform, ESXi, iOS, Android    Hardware: EMC, WatchGuard, FortiNet, SonicWall, Quantum, Buffalo    Software: ConnectWise, Data Domain, Veeam, VMware, WatchGuard,  Backup Exec, WebSense, VNC, Avaya, Office, Veritas End-Point  Hyper-V, Amazon Web Services, Acronis, Cloudberry