Desktop Support Technician Desktop Support Technician Computer Network Administrator San Antonio, TX Windows 7 to Windows 10 migration specialist. To have an opportunity to utilize my skills and training as a Computer Network Technician, to display the efficient employee that any employer would be proud to acquire. Seeking an opportunity that will allow me to demonstrate my hard working abilities, and anxious to increase my knowledge, thereby becoming an asset to the company. Work Experience Desktop Support Technician Our Lady of the Lake University - San Antonio, TX October 2017 to July 2019 SCCM experience. Supported multiple Windows 7 to Windows 10 migrations. Install and maintain computers, printers and mobile devies, which include Apple products. Use ticketing system to keep track of open tickets. Trouble shoot tickets to find resolution. Forward tickets to appropriate depts to resolve tickets. Image computers to University standards with approved programs. Computer Network Administrator San Antonio College - San Antonio, TX June 2009 to September 2017 •Helpdesk Lead  •Use Hyena/VMware/ PDQ for PC remote  •Map Drives on large network  •Map Printer across network  •Use Norton Ghost to Save and Load multiple PCs and Laptop images  •Use Trackit and Footprints Ticketing System to track user issues  •Help Desk - troubleshoot user/PC problems  •Apple Mac experience  •Domain Admin for large AD Network- 25,000 Users  •Reset user passwords and unlock user accts. Manager of the IT Dept Inksell.com - San Antonio, TX 2008 to August 2009 Install and Maintained Printers at Client Locations  -restrict Access to certain Internet Websites  -Repair and maintain all Company PCs  -Troubleshoot & remote connect to PCs with VNC Computer Network Administrator Robert Half Tech - San Antonio, TX March 2007 to September 2008 Computer Network Technician Royal Management - San Antonio, TX May 2006 to March 2007 •Answer phone with multiple lines  • receive and troubleshoot calls for corporate offices  •Do updates, run virus scans, check disk, and defrag computers  •Installed software, troubleshooting systems  •Retained an accurate database  •Remote control company machines using PC Anywhere to transfer company Files.  •inventory all items computer items  •calls stores if their daily reports are missing  •Do crucial back up of assigned company computers  •Call stores to assure that critical backs up are done Education Information Technology Security San Antonio College 2017 Career Point Institute 2005 Skills Cisco, System Administrator, Vmware, Desktop Support, Help Desk, MAC, SCCM Additional Information •IT Helpdesk Trainer/ 40 people  •Vitrual Cloud computing and Microsoft private cloud  •Trained in VMware and HyperV  •Multiple ticketing Systems Heat/ Remedy/ Footprints/ Manage Engine  •Windows 98/2003/NT/XP/windows7/windows8, Server 2000/2003  •Windows Office Suite 2008/ 2010 and 2011 for MAC  •Novell Networks  •Netware: 5.0, 5.1, 6.0/Knoppix 3.4, 3.6, 3.7  •E-mail Applications, Super Networks (WANs)  •Help Desk Procedures, Web Page Development  •Troubleshooting Networks  •CAT 5 Cabling/Fiber Optics/Routers/ Hubs/Switches and Protocol Addressing  •Spreadsheets/Word Processing for Networking  •Electrical Safety, Hardware Installation