System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Inglewood, CA Multi-certified System Network Administrator with education and experience in network & security management, offering in-depth work experience managing and maintaining server infrastructure and data centers operations, as well as configuring multiple Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows Servers, VMware cloud computing, EMC Network Storages, Cyber network Security applications, and CISCO network appliances in several unique business sectors including IT Service Providers, Financial Institutions, Retail Management, and Healthcare. Work Experience System Administrator Prime Healthcare Centinela - Los Angeles, CA July 2015 to March 2017 Oversee Prime Healthcare, Centinela branch data center infrastructure by maintaining and managing complex integrated network, systems, and hardware. Maintained and managed Centinela EMC VNX Array and NetApp data storage, backup & tape rotation.Configuring and managing DNS, DHCP Scope, WSUS, user's accounts, user email accounts. Collaborating with vendors to support healthcare application Systems provided by vendor. Tier - III Support point of contact dealing with complex trouble shooting issues, & customer service support. Maintaining and managing VMware infrastructure, troubleshooting hardware failure, resources management and optimization. Managing, maintaining server upgrades, and vulnerabilities by patching, fixing bugs, and security related vulnerabilities. Configuring, managing and maintaining cisco router and switches within LAN/WAN. Systems/ Network Administrator Bid Network Online - El Segundo, CA May 2014 to December 2014 Managed and maintained server upgrades, and vulnerabilities by patching, fixing bugs, and security related vulnerabilities. Managed network connectivity between departments, systems and network infrastructure in the organization. Tier - I Support point of contact dealing with systems & network trouble shooting issues, & customer service support. Deputy Manager IT Service Rokel Commercial Bank - Freetown, SL April 2011 to October 2013 Responsible for managing team involved in end of day banking transaction and checking figures for final merging. Managed and maintained server upgrades, and vulnerabilities by patching, fixing bugs, and security related vulnerabilities across its twelve branch offices. Documenting application procedures for IT staff orientation and managing their project plans. Managing and maintaining ATM systems and network infrastructure. Assisted IT Manager in Strategic Planning, executing of disaster recovery plan, Project planning. Tier - II Support point of contact dealing with systems & network trouble shooting issues, & customer service support. IT Consultant Personal Cloud, Computer - Kingston, JM August 2008 to October 2010 Implemented and supported Microsoft Customer relationship management (CRM) and Point of Sale (POS) for retail management systems. Implemented, managed, and supported Server side infrastructure and application for small to large business sectors. Provide real-world solutions for home user by implementing WiFi, Internet TV streaming, Personal Cloud, Computer/internet service, and security camera. Manager IT Service KPMG Jamaica November 2006 to December 2007 Responsible for managing team involved in providing LAN/WAN migration, application and end user support services to offices in Kingston and Montego Bay as well as to member firms in CARICOM. Implemented and ensured compliance with KPMG's information security program, including the areas of business continuity and disaster recovery. Resource provider for information systems audit staff providing security advisory services to clients. Tier - I Support point of contact dealing with systems & network trouble shooting issues, & customer service support. Managed and maintained server upgrades, and vulnerabilities by patching, fixing bugs, and security related vulnerabilities. System Engineer DCS Telcom SAE - Cairo, EG 2004 to 2006 Implemented and supported VoIP via Satellite using K-Band, KU-Band and C-Band; Installed, implemented and supported internet service via Satellite using K-Band, KU-Band and C-Band systems for client. Managed and maintained servers and computers upgrade/Patches for vulnerabilities. On site Position and installation Internet Via satellite 2 Way & 1 way system. Tier - I Support point of contact dealing with systems & network trouble shooting issues, & customer service support. Configured, managed and maintained Cisco router and switches within LAN/WAN for clients. System Administrator Worldwide Computer Service - Cairo, EG 1999 to 2003 Managed and maintained a small LAN environment including server upgrades, and vulnerabilities by patching, fixing bugs, and security related vulnerabilities; Assembling computers for home users. Assist in training clients how to use the internet and Microsoft windows operating system. Education Associate in Computer Science West Los Angeles College - Culver City, CA 2017 to 2019 St. Edwards Secondary High School Skills Active directory (10+ years), Appletalk, Bgp (6 years), Dhcp, Eigrp, Ospf (6 years), Tcp, Tcp/ip (10+ years), Vmware (6 years), Dns, Exchange (10+ years), Virtualization, Hyper-v, Svc, Disaster recovery, Database, Sql (6 years), Scripting, Ipx, Igp, System Administrator (10+ years), Linux Administrator Additional Information Technical Skills  Microsoft Hyper-V, Active Directory infrastructure, Active Directory Right Management svc, Active Directory Certificates, Adv. DNS, Adv. DHCP, Group Policy, File & Storage, AD.FS, High Availability, Printer Server, Disaster Recovery, Exchange email server, office 365, MS SQL Database, VMware Virtualization, Cloud computing, EMC SAN Storage, System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM), Windows Embedded, Routing protocol OSPF, RIPv2, EIGRP, BGP, IGP, IS-IS, Routed Protocols TCP/IP, AppleTalk, IPX/SPX, DOS Command, VB Scripting, PowerShell.