IT Support/Management, Network/System Administrator IT Support/Management, <span class="hl">Network</span>/System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Support/Management, Network/System Administrator Cerritos, CA Self-motivated IT Support, IT management with System and Network experience. Skilled at operating in a wide range of platforms to support local and remote users efficiently. Detail-oriented IT professional commits to increase employees' productivity by strong IT hands-on skills.    Knowledge and Experience:    Systems OS: Support Windows7 to10, Linux (CentOS), Windows Server 2016, Mac.  Hardware: Can build a new computer system from parts; can replace hard drive, CD drive, main boards, power supply, fan, CPU, printer head, printer drum, refill/replace toner; can install router, firewall, switch and network cable.  Network: Can configure firewall/server, switch, NAS, SAN, TCP/IP, VPN, Linux Samba network, and network printer/scanner.  Application: Microsoft office 365, Google G-Suite, IBM EDI Gentran Director, Linux Richter ERP, Pro5/Bbx, Apple mail, Anti-virus, Anti-spam, QuickBooks, remote application, terminal emulator.  Data and System Duplication: data backup, disk image preservation, recover system and data.  Programs: Bbx, PowerShell, PHP, Linux bash scripts, Python, Assembly language.  Software Configuration and Support: diagnostic, troubleshooting OS and applications, install desktop, server operation systems and applications; configure, update operation systems and applications on Windows/Linux systems; manage users' account on servers, mail, web portals; setup and configure network printing and network scanner for users. Work Experience IT Support/Management, Network/System Administrator KBL Group - Santa Fe Springs, CA July 2009 to August 2019 Supporting and Troubleshooting systems and network for  - local and remote 85 users on MS Office, Windows OS and applications; MAC, Apple mail.  - CentOS Linux server, Windows 2016 server  - ERP database, EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) and QuickBooks server.  - desktop/laptop systems, NAS, SAN, printers.  - LAN, WAN, firewall, switch.  - network activities and securities.  - data and system image, backup and restoration.  Managing  - EDI team (Electronic Data Interchange).  - user accounts on Linux, NAS and Windows servers, email server, web application.  - IT service contracts and billing.  Improvement  - on firewall, severs, network security  - on EDI data transactions by PowerShell scripts and Bbx program.  - on automation, scheduling of EDI processing by PowerShell/PHP.  - on modification of a standalone EDI PC to a simultaneously multiple user to reduce cost.  - on email communication by groups.  - on data accessibility via Samba/NAS/SAN.  - on server ERP application by program modification, Linux scrips and Linux Cron.    Coordination  - with users to resolve IT issue and to educate users to prevent future mistakes  - with customers' IT and EDI teams to setup EDI Communication and testing.  - with production and manufacturing teams to process EDI.  - with departments to setup users' email, application, storage and web portals accounts. Desktop/System Support and Administrator Crystal Kobe - E Rutherford, NJ March 2005 to July 2009 Support and maintain  - local users on MS Office, Windows OS and applications, HP 9000 Linux server.  - desktop systems, Linux, Windows network printer.  - firewall, switch and computer network.  - UPC systems for product catalogue  - printers, copiers, scanners, phone system.  - MS Windows server and exchange mail server.  - user accounts for applications, Linux/Windows Exchange server.    Field IT Technical/System Support - Darwin Computer System, Edison NJ  - support clients' computer hardware, software, printer and computer network.  - setup and installation of clients' computer network, printer and computer systems.  - troubleshooting clients' computer hardware and application.  - provide clients' computer basic training.  - service, repair computer hardware and printer for clients.    Senior Firmware Design Engineer - Monroe Systems for Business, Morris Plains, NJ  Design and test Bond Trader System Interface Programs  - 3 years project of coding Intel 8096 controller assembly language for the printer, keyboard  and display. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology BA in Electronic Engineering Taipei Institute of Technology