Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - CADMART Miami, FL To apply my experience and skills in telecommunications engineering to a challenging position in a creative,  technology-driven organization that encourages innovative thinking, recognition, and career development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer CADMART - Miami, FL May 2017 to Present • Provide daily technical support via on site, phone and e-mail to users on different companies.  • Configure and maintain Cisco Firewall ASA 5505 and 5506 series.  • Configure and maintain Cisco Wireless equipment (WAP561, WAP571, WAP 581 and AIR-AP1852).  • Manage and maintains Active Directory and Group Policies.  • Build, configure, and troubleshoot network equipment and network systems.  • Create and manage user accounts in Microsoft Exchange Server including Office 365.  • Build, configure, and troubleshoot local area network (LAN), virtual local area network (VLAN) and other company  networks.  • Manage and maintains Cisco UC (500 series), Grand-stream and RingCentral phone platforms  • Enter all work as service or project tickets in ConnectWise Network Administrator ISPJAE - Havana, CU September 2015 to October 2016 Cuba    • Deployed, maintained, optimized and support infrastructure and telematics services in a multivendor  environment  • Responsible for installing and maintaining firewalls, IDS and other security measures such as OSSIM  Alienvault product.  • Performed technical troubleshooting with responsibility and in an organized manner.  • Worked daily with customers and local providers offering phone and email support.  • Provided timely response to all incidents, outages, and performance alerts.    ADDITIONAL SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE  • Strong experience and knowledge of TCP/IP concepts, protocols and services.  • Experienced with Windows Server 2012 R2 administration, Active Directory (AD) and Group Policy.  • Experienced in maintaining and managing telematics services such as: DHCP, NTP, DNS, Mail and Web  servers in Linux and Microsoft environments.  • Experience configuring Cisco and HP vendor switches, Cisco's WAP and Cisco ASA FW.  • Experienced configuring Remote Access and Site to Site VPN using Cisco ASA FW.  • Experienced in Printer Deployment.  • Knowledge about routing protocols like RIP, OSPF and BGP. Education B.S. in Telecommunications and Electronics Engineering INSTITUTO SUPERIOR POLITECNICO JOSE A. ECHEVERRIA - Havana, CU August 2015