MIT NETWORK SPECIALIST MIT <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> SPECIALIST MIT NETWORK SPECIALIST - MARCO TECHNOLOGIES Aberdeen, SD Work Experience MIT NETWORK SPECIALIST MARCO TECHNOLOGIES May 2014 to Present Conducted scheduled onsite visits on a monthly or quarterly basis, reviewed reports from RMM tool and performed checklist of tasks to include updating documentation. Performed new client onboarding, scan network for devices, inspect network equipment, document and label servers and infrastructure equipment, created Visio network diagrams. Provide support advice and technical support to various users/clients regarding operational/applications issues. Stayed up to date with relevant state-of-the-art technology, equipment, and/or systems. Troubleshoot firewalls, network switches. Installed PC's as requested based on client needs. Accurately maintained documentation and complied with service administrative procedures in a timely basis. Advised customers on software and hardware upgrade road maps. REGIONAL IT ADMINISTRATOR December 2010 to May 2014 SANFORD HEALTH  Responsible for the configuration, installation and maintenance of personal computers and their respective applications that are common to everyday use. Installed and supported medical applications and peripherals that are used every day. Analyzed, troubleshoot and resolved performance issues with these systems. Practiced general networking support and knowledge of commonly used concepts and practices within the networking field. Some use with Norton Ghost to create standard PC images for different roles in the medical departments. Some experience with Mitel IP Communications Director. Supported five different remote sites and oversaw roughly 1200 computers, peripherals and worked with several different engineers to keep all systems in check and resolve issues. During the Sanford Aberdeen Medical Campus build out I updated the project manager daily of the happenings of current and future projects. Worked with the PM and hospital directors to evaluate computer and other peripheral devices to that would satisfy hospital work flows and budgets. Worked closely with the Network Team to deploy new equipment and bring up new circuits. PC LAN SPECIALIST/ NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR VERIFICATIONS INC April 2005 to December 2010 Setup and supported workstations and servers running Server 2003, Windows XP and Office 2003 applications. Setup Windows Deployment Services and built standard images for different job roles. Setup and managed user accounts in Active Directory. Supported various computer peripherals, monitors, video cards, printers and fax machines. Responsible for scheduling, restoring, troubleshooting and overseeing data protection services running Veritas Backup Exec and CommVault. Built, maintained, and troubleshooting for Inter-Tel Phone Systems across the enterprise. Managed business critical Capteris Enterprise Rightfax fax servers. Managed Trend Micro antivirus platform, keeping servers and workstations up to date. Implemented email archive solution to relieve tension on exchange environment. Built new SharePoint Environment for migration to colocation. Built VMware servers and implement backup protection services for those servers. Liaison between end users and IT staff regarding troubleshooting and problem solving for software applications. Skills directly related included problem solving, organization, negotiating, communication skills and team work. INTERNSHIP SOUTH DAKOTA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS April 2004 to July 2004 Installed database software, managed web pages, installed antivirus software, managed email accounts, and printing problems. Researched setting up a List Serve, changed web hosting companies and helped advise for the business. Skills directly related included problem solving, organization, negotiating, and communication skills. WORK STUDY LAKE AREA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE August 2003 to December 2003 Video streamed for instructors, recorded lectures which were immediately streamed to a media server. Extensive use of PowerPoint and Media Encoder were used. Skills directly  related were on the spot problem solving, organization, negotiating, advising and communication. WORK STUDY LAKE AREA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE February 2003 to March 2003 Describe your responsibilities and achievements in terms of impact and results. Use examples, but keep it short. Education ASSOCIATES DEGREE in Intro Computer Programming LAKE AREA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE September 2002 to March 2004 ASSOCIATES DEGREE LAKE AREA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA SULLY BUTTES HIGH SCHOOL - Onida, SD