Treasurer Treasurer Treasurer - St. John Evangelical Lutheran Church Fort Wayne, IN Work Experience Treasurer St. John Evangelical Lutheran Church January 2019 to Present Oversee all bookkeeping and records for the church finances. Maintain Fund Accounting records in PowerChurch church management software. Audit payroll, A/P and A/R functions performed by bookkeeper. Prepare monthly reports for the finance team and congregational council. Work with grant organizations and foundations to obtain funds for charitable events and activities. Improve workflow and efficiency in the financial office. Financial Aid Administrator Rudae's School of Beauty Culture April 2005 to July 2019 Provide leadership for all daily operations of the Financial Aid Department including processing, staff supervision, compliance, and process improvements. Maintain all corporate financial records QuickBooks. Prepare financial statements for the CEO and administrative staff. Provide direct administrative support for both the School Administrator and CEO. Prepare documents for CPA's, Federal Department of Education audits and tax preparation. Achieved and maintained audit compliance rates of 97% or higher during yearly audits. Counsel students and families on financial aid options and repayment budgeting.  Prepare and maintain files to ensure completeness and accuracy of all documents. Attend many aid training seminars and workshops to maintain compliance with multiple government agencies. Supervise and train new financial aid staff. Develop and maintain policies and procedures.  Oversee and maintain all A/P and A/R ledgers. Perform bank reconciliations and closing month procedures. Audit other staff work for accuracy before reports go to executive staff.  Extensive knowledge of QuickBooks through use of the program for over 23 years.  Proficient in most Microsoft Office applications with high proficiency in Excel. Network Technician Stone Computer 2000 to 2004 Network Technician for several small business clients. Tech Support in store. Sales floor support. Shipping, receiving & RMA experience. Bookkeeper Country Garden & Farm Market 1996 to 2000 Maintained QuickBooks record and general bookkeeping. Accounts Payable and Receivable. Tax preparations and payroll. Education Associate of Science degree in Accounting Rudae's School of Beauty Culture 2018 to Present Technical Certificate in Accounting Ivy Tech Community College 2018 Southern New Hampshire University 2015 to 2016 Skills Administrative support, Quickbooks, Excel, Microsoft office, Highly organized, Maintenance Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/charity-wolff Additional Information SKILLS  • 20+ Years in QuickBooks Experience    • 20+ Years with Microsoft Office with recent certification as a Microsoft Office Specialist Excel    • Excellent in providing administrative support to company executive.    • Highly adaptable to the work environment and can work by myself or in a team    • Extensive experience with computer maintenance and installation    • Hard-working, highly organized and well versed in multi-tasking