NASA Contractor NASA Contractor NASA Contractor Huntsville, AL • Managed/implemented a multitude of IT, network, and telecommunication projects.  • Experienced in network design, configuration, and implementation.  • Familiar with multiple operating systems, including MS Windows (98, 2000, XP), UNIX (AIX, BSD, Solaris, Sun OS, Irix, Linux), OS/400, IBM OS/2, Macintosh OS 7,8,9.x, NetWare3.x, 4.x.  • Practical experience with FORTRAN, C, C++, Pascal, Rexx, HTML, and Cisco IOS.  • Equipment: AS/400, IBM RISC (i.e. RS/6000), Sun Enterprise Servers, DEC Alpha, Fiber Drive arrays, Tape Drive Jukeboxes, Cisco Enterprise Catalyst Switches, Cisco Routers, Lucent (Ascend) Routers, Lucent Remote access servers, Perle and Livingston Communication Servers, Lucent (Telica, ConnectStar) and soft switches, Tekelec.  • ISO 9000 auditor  • Certified SDWAN Expert (SDWAN-CSE)  • Certified Carrier Ethernet Expert (CEA-CCEE) Work Experience NASA Contractor SAIC - Huntsville, AL December 2010 to August 2019 Project Management Analyst  • Oversees the procurement of voice and data circuits for all of the NASA Centers.  • Coordinates with GSA vendors to insure all of the customer needs are met in a timely manner.  • Verifies vendors are providing services concurrent with the contracts, and that pricing is not out of scope for reasonable pricing alternatives. BPL Network Engineer International Broadband Electric Communications - Madison, AL April 2010 to October 2010 • Developed, re-mapped, and maintained a broadband-over-power line network to provide customers with reliable broadband services through electric power lines.  • Coordinated with field crews to troubleshoot, install, and maintain BPL Modems.  • Worked with co-ops, network technicians, and field engineers to certify networks for customer use.  • Provided support to engineering in the form of IT consulting. Senior Engineer Kord C3I/Technologies - Huntsville, AL July 2006 to July 2009 • Helped build and configured space to ground networks for communication with the International Space Station (ISS), Interim Backup Command Center (IBCC), and the Backup Command Center (BCC) for NASA.  • Instrumental in setting up complex lab modules to simulate various space to ground configurations.  • Instrumental in the further development of communication protocols for transporting the forward and return link to ISS, to include video conferencing and greater bandwidth for data communications. NOC Systems Administrator KMC Telecom/CenturyTel - Huntsville, AL December 2001 to March 2006 • Planned, implemented, and administered nation-wide network for monitoring and surveillance of 48 telephone switch locations.  • Planned and implemented installation of a national telephone "soft switch", to include the management service, billing, and statistical application.  • Installed and administered Sun Solaris servers for multiple applications including HP OpenView, NetCure, apache web server, and network management services.  • Act as an advisor and supervisor for multiple aspects of the telecom business, soft switch, routing, design, and network operations center. Network/Telecom Manager Verilink Corporation - Huntsville, AL March 1999 to December 2001 • Established IT operational and security objectives while managing Unix/NT network and WAN sites.  • Planned and managed a layer 2 routed switched network that consisted of 35 various servers (UNIX and NT) and Cisco Enterprise Catalyst switches and routers.  • Setup and maintained WAN/VPN sites in TX, MI, MA, CA utilizing Cisco routers and Checkpoint Enterprise Firewall 4.X / Checkpoint Gateway on Unix and NT platforms.  • Coordinated and implemented moving of Verilink Corporate network from San Jose, CA, to Madison, AL, as well as moving the company network to Cummings Research Park, Huntsville, while maintaining consistent data connectivity to all servers and Oracle database.  • Supported and administered Oracle Forms, application, and database servers.  • Planned and supervised data and telephone cable plant at new building to include single mode and multi mode fiber.  • Developed and managed corporate data security policies.  • Provided support to engineering research and development in the form of IT consulting and router configuration.  • Planned and implemented a high speed, modular, and scalable network with a fiber backbone and VLANs.  • Planned, coordinated, and administered corporate Northern Telecom PBX upgrade, installation, and corporate voice/voice mail infrastructure. Systems Engineer N&L Enterprises, Inc - Huntsville, AL September 1996 to March 1999 • Managed System Services Division.  • Provided consulting and LAN/WAN integration services to small and medium size businesses in the Huntsville area.  • Responsible for providing LAN/WAN technical solutions including PC Support.  • Provided support for the installation and maintenance of PBX and voice mail systems, and configuration of ISDN and T1's with Ascend Routers. Optimized in-house network as systems administrator within an integrated environment of Netware 3.12, NetWare 4.11, MS Windows NT 4.0, and IBM RS/6000.  • Designed and implemented various client/server networks. Education bachelor degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Alabama and University of Alabama Huntsville - Tuscaloosa, AL 1984 to 1988 Skills Cisco, Security