Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Systems Administrator - General Dynamics Jacksonville, FL • Active TS/SCI/TK/G Clearance with Full Lifestyle Scope Polygraph • Able to apply management concepts and decision-making techniques in order to build appropriate business strategies and manage smooth and efficient business operations.  • Experience in systems administration and analysis of all phases of network deployment to include both military and civilian computing environments using Active Directory, Windows Based environments, Cisco routers, network encryption servers, hubs, fiber optics, analysis and implementation of voice communication systems, as well as LANs/WANs.  • Determined, creative and result-oriented individual with a highly acclaimed reputation for producing superior, high quality imagery, with expertise in Photoshop and Lightroom editing, image manipulation, and image restoration. Proven ability in defining themes and concepts for photography and graphic design, while performing and supervising photography, and high volume post-production editing.  • Effective interpersonal, persuasive and communication skills.  • United States Army Veteran Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator General Dynamics February 2015 to Present • Team Lead with job duties that included creating and administrating user accounts in Active Directory, interacting with users and evaluating vendor products, setting up administrator and service accounts, monitoring customer's in-house trouble ticket queue (ESMT, UAS, IMAGINE, DARS, EMS, EARRS) • Respond and resolves end-user IT related discrepancies which include, but are not limited to rebuilding workstations and laptops, Varidesk installs, basic trouble shooting of printer, copiers, Smartboards, VTCs and faxes, monitoring and troubleshooting of servers, routers and switches.  • Responsible for developing/implementing strategies and documenting results as well as maintaining system documentation. Purchasing hardware and software. Support duties cover systems, network and applications within the Common Workgroup Environment (CWE) to include Lotus Notes, Microsoft Office, Excel and custom internet/intranet software applications. Position also entails Data Transfer Officer responsibilities as well as courier duties which require the transfer of classified materials. Provided direct support of a real time 24- hour mission as part of a special IT team that provided on-call support, brief, or grant any specific access in relation to the mission. Sr. Systems Administrator INSI/PSS November 2012 to February 2015 • Administered, network and applications within the Common Workgroup Environment (CWE) using Lotus Notes, Microsoft Office, and custom internet/intranet software applications. creating and administrating user accounts in Active Directory; Monitoring customer's in-house trouble ticket queue (Remedy, and ESMT) and subsequently responding to and resolving end-user IT related discrepancies which included but were not limited to rebuilding of all agency workstations and laptops, basic trouble shooting of printer, copiers, Smartboards, VTCs and faxes, monitoring and troubleshooting of servers, routers and switches.  • This position also entailed Data Transfer Officer Responsibilities, as well as courier duties which require the transfer of classified materials. USIS August 2012 to November 2012 Provided physical security in cleared facilities, closely observing the activities of individuals both cleared and uncleared visiting the customer's facility; Securing and surveying classified work areas. Sr. Network Systems Administrator Bogart Associates August 2009 to August 2011 System Analyst/ Administrator for general systems and network administration tasks in Windows environment. Manage CWE2 server support; Lotus Notes Domino 4.6, Network backups and file restores and User account maintenance. Management of user accounts in Active Directory. Monitor customer trouble tickets using Remedy. Process of Business Access Request via AADS. Monitoring of customer helpdesk and routing of trouble tickets. Mutinous and tracking of customers Blackberries, Laptops and PDAs. Sr. Network Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin April 2006 to February 2009 • System Analyst/ Administrator for general systems and network administration tasks in an integrated VMS, UNIX and Windows environment and systems administration support for the operational environment. Install configures and maintain secure and unsecure desktops, laptops, and servers.  • Create and maintain user account as well as set security permissions in Active Directory. Use SRS/Remedy to create and track trouble tickets. Performed backups as well as patches and installs on Windows Server 2000 and 2003. Technical services include, but not limited to, systems administration of desktop and server systems connected to local and wide area networks, desktop system management responsibilities involving account monitoring, security, installing of fax machines, scanners, color printers, network printers and other local area Network System Administration related functions.  Responsible for updating of a local Standard Operating Procedures, which was used directly in the training of new employees. Attended weekly staff meetings to work with programmers and engineers to implement new hardware and software to the current configuration. Also carried a pager and be on 24hr call. BAE June 2005 to April 2006 • Responsible for Windows servers and the operating systems software and its successful integration with the hardware and applications software of the major computing systems across the organization. Responsible for installation and maintenance of the Windows-based CWE operating configurations. Install and maintain the Windows-based CWE operating configurations on all organization NT servers and desktops. Troubleshoot problems that may involve applications and the network Responsible for network user accounts and data accesses to include final configuration work in setting up Lotus Notes and EA/SSo. Also located at customers Headquarters site.  • Responsible for general and complex problem reporting and resolution for customers Tier 1 and Tier 2 problems in the Common Workgroup Environment (CWE) this includes workstations, laptops, faxes, and scanners, to include inventory, pagers, Blackberries, CWE applications, Lotus Notes, AIN, and NCS applications. To include DUCS, MDSX, as well as STARBASE. The Help Desk is also responsible for entering problems into the SRS/Remedy problem tracking system. Provided phone and in-person support to users, including e-mail, LAN/WAN, directories, standard desktop images and applications. Also during the course of this position I was directly responsible for the setup of all VTC equipment as well as all overhead projectors. Also was responsible for sponsoring all new hires, which required me to bring them up to speed on all local SOPs. Forensic Health Technician Southwestern State Hospital September 2004 to June 2005 Assisting with the entry of preliminary patient data into the hospital's records management system, which operated on a Windows XP baseline. Responsible for providing support to the system users, especially with the retrieval of lost files. Responsible for setting up network printers and fax machines. Sr. Installation Technician American Systems Corporation May 2003 to September 2004 Responsible for the surveying, planning, and execution of network installations at a government client's site.  Required paying careful attention to existing structures, blueprints, and security concerns. Network deployments involved installing cable trays, conduit, routers, hubs, switches, bridges, and the laying and termination of CAT5, CAT6, fiber-optic and co-axial cables. NATO November 2001 to May 2003 Responsible for the installation and maintenance of telecommunications networking systems.  My duties required me to work with foreign nationals, and to assist transfers involving classified information. Accountable for over $200,000 worth of equipment. Network Administrator August 1999 to November 2001 Provided second tier network, hardware and software to 500 users in a W2k environment. This includes the creation and administration of user accounts, setting policies and system security, and creating outlook mailboxes and distribution lists.  Supported the users by responding to trouble tickets and troubleshooting several networks.  Responsible for the installation and configuration of FCC 100 modulators for use primarily with data and voice transmission in conjunction with Tactical Satellites, also to include the setting up and managing of desktops, laptops, printers, scanners, VTC, secure and unsecure phones.  Installed and configured network encryption servers and deployed Windows NT networks in tactical and strategic settings. Telecommunications Operator/Maintainer PMCS and unit level maintenance on COMSEC devices January 1998 to August 1999 Installs, operates, and performs unit level maintenance in telecommunications centers. Operates automated message switches and strategic telecommunications centers using system command consoles, computer terminals, processors, magnetic tape units, disk packs, tape readers, visual display units, facsimile, and associated COMSEC devices. Processes message traffic. Installs, operates, and performs strapping, restrapping, PMCS and unit level maintenance on COMSEC devices. Performs Battlefield Information Services (BIS), consisting of printing services, publications management, files and forms management, reproduction services, Operates and performs Preventive Maintenance Checks and Services (PMCS) on assigned communications equipment.  Using the DINAH messaging format, I was responsible for the transmission and reception of Top Secret information. I also ensured that classified messages maintained the proper format by adhering to regulation ACP134.  Team Lead in several communications security vaults. Responsibilities included maintaining an accurate inventory of classified materials and ensuring the destruction of classified materials. Education Bachelor's in Business Administration Strayer University June 2015 to March 2019 Skills Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator