Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - LO Eye Care Dallas, TX IT Professional with 10 years of experience in the IT industry as a WAN and LAN technical specialist, Desktop Support Specialist, Systems Administrator, and a Systems Engineer. Background includes user support, systems installation, repair, maintenance, server setup and configuration, troubleshooting, problem resolution, installation of structured wiring systems, and purchasing new equipment. Experienced in project management and oversight for information systems technology, organizational development, strategic planning, systems analysis and troubleshooting, quality control, forecasting, scheduling and planning, and tracking of results. Knowledge of database and application software development, as well as custom hardware systems for a variety of platforms and environments.    For added experience, I also own enterprise network that consists of 5 physical servers, 4 virtual servers with server 2016 datacenter, 24 port cisco POE switch, 48 port netgear gigabit switch, Mikrotek Routerboard router, watchdog temp sensor, PFSense firewall, 8 port KVM, 1500 rackable APC UPS, a Cyberpower rackable power supply, 2 Unifi AP's connected to 2 POE + injectors with the controller running on one of the VM's. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator LO Eye Care July 2018 to Present • Server Management- Provided overall support and management of all servers at Lansing Ophthalmology, and all 13 affiliated remote sites.  • Installed new VM servers.  • Troubleshoot existing servers.  • Facilitated maintenance schedules for servers  • Recommended upgrades, patches, new applications, and equipment  • Followed up on patch failures.  • Responsible for back up or recovery procedures.  • Ensured the servers are secured internally and from external intrusions.  • Designed, implements, documents and maintains security files and policies.  • Analyzed and monitors bandwidth usage, making adjustments and recommendations for changes as appropriate.  • Identified opportunities for cost savings and time savings with respect to technology and the customer.  • Monitored the wireless connectivity throughout all Lansing Ophthalmology locations.  • Ensured the spiceworks inventory is current.  • Designs and implements policies on group usage, ensuring they are effective and efficient.  • Desktop Support - Provided tier 3 support at Lansing Ophthalmology and all affiliated remote sites. This includes computers, applications, operating systems, internal components, peripherals, printers, scanners, etc.  • Installed new hardware  • Troubleshoot existing hardware  • Troubleshoot Internet connectivity  • Facilitated repairs of equipment both warranty and non-warranty  • Facilitated maintenance schedules for printers  • Kept records of warranty information  • Organized and stores of software media and miscellaneous hardware parts  • Provided cleaning and maintenance of hardware  • Maintained software licensing and compliance  • Installed and updates operating system  • Installed and updates applications loaded on the local drive  • Provided user support for applications and operating system  • Recommended upgrades, patches, new applications, and equipment  • Network Administration - Provides day-to-day support for the network.  • Setup exchange and active directory user accounts  • Oversees network security including password maintenance and antivirus protection  • Installed and upgraded network clients  • Installed and troubleshoot cabling and connectivity as required  • Monitored network performance & resources  • Performed printer administration  • Installed network applications and implements appropriate security  • Troubleshoots network applications  • Cisco VOIP administration  • Cisco switch setup, configuration and administration  • Cisco Meraki switch setup and configuration Systems Engineer I Dewpoint Inc June 2016 to July 2018 Setup and configuration of Dell \HP blade servers and VM's with server 2008, 2012 & 2016. Build Server Images for VM's (Domain Controllers,  Exchange servers, WSUS, Ticketing Servers - (Solarwinds and ManageEngine), software installation, configuration and management.  • Created network shares for Dewpoint and clients on the NAS and SAN's.  • Office 365 management (Licensing, Account Creation, permissions, created policies, groups, and documentation) and configuration daily through PowerShell or admin portal.  • Created Domain Policies Using Group Policy Editor (Server 2008, 2012 & 2016).  • Setup and configuration of Active directory, user accounts, and groups.  • Password Management.  • Encryption management with Bitlocker. I assisted the team with deploying bitlocker and PGP to domain laptops using Server 2012 and 2016 (Full Disk Encryption).  • I setup and managed Symantec Endpoint Cloud to endpoint's and servers. Account setup and policy configuration.  • Used VmWare workstation v12 and Vsphere v6.  • Upgraded clients from Exchange 2010 on-prem to Office 365.  • Managed Exchange 2010 and Office 365 accounts and licensing.  • SolarWinds setup configuration for Dewpoint, and Client server environments.  • Patch management with ManageEngine Desktop Central and WSUS.  • Level 3 support with training to Desktop and Helpdesk Staff members for Dewpoint.  • Phone system (VOIP At&t RingCentral and Polycoms) configuration and management.  • Assisted Level 3 Engineers with Setup and management of servers and switches - (2008, 2012 & 2016 Windows Server) , switches - (Cisco and Brocade), Routers (Brocade, Cisco, and Netgear) Symantec Net Backup servers, backups,  • License management and data recovery.  • Supported Microsoft and Apple OS.  • Software and hardware purchasing and management. Customer service  • Wrote Run books, and how-To's for Dewpoint and all clients.  • Managed SharePoint - account access and page creation assistance for SharePoint Administrator.  • Assisted Firewall engineer with VPN setup and configuration for Cisco VPN client and Cisco AnyConnect for Dewpoint staff and clients.  • 24Hr on-Call rotation (Op's Genie) with the managed service's team of 50 Dewpoint managed services Staff members (Server down, all Exchange issues, Router and switch issues, server software issues, and endpoint issues).  • Was always willing to assist Dewpoint where needed (Desktop, Helpdesk, Etc.).  • Provided support to local and external users (Over 300 users) on the Dewpoint network.  • Install and remove user equipment and accounts as needed.  • Managed the anti-virus server and monitor the network for viruses, malware, unauthorized software, and intrusions.  • Monitor server events through SolarWind's Orion Network Monitor.  • I work with the team with any downed server\PC issues.  • Build, Manage and configure over 50 servers.  • Provided 3rd level support to both client and Dewpoint users, managers, and programmers.  • Script creation.  • Worked with my team to create GPO's for the OS builds.  • Built VM servers using Server 2012 R2 to run the asset tracking\ticketing server.  • I provide 3rd level support to over 200 users on a weekly basis with incoming work orders, calls, walk-up's, and incoming emails.  • Manage file systems, storage devices (SAN), network servers and workstations. Wrote and developed technical documents. Established and administered IT security policies.  • Manage 20 servers for Michigan Bankers Association and Michigan Bankers Title.  • Designed and led network and security system upgrades, providing technical guidance and problem-solving analysis. Administered primary and back-up domain controllers, file servers, print servers, proxy server, and e-mail server.  • Established and administered periodical testing of network backup and recovery procedures to protect corporate data and system assets.  • Worked with Digital Defense Inc. for security penetration testing from the WAN to the firewall to within the LAN to find vulnerabilities for Michigan Bankers Association and Michigan Bankers Title.  • Setup and managed a helpdesk ticket server using ManageEngine Servicedesk plus and Solarwinds Web Helpdesk with SQL Server Express for Dewpoint and Dewpoint's clients to use to track issues, workstation deployment, asset tracking, remote management, package deployment, and system updates.  • Used ManageEngine AdManager and Active Directory to manage the network.  • Build Virtual Servers using VMware and Hyper-V.  • I create training documents to our team for faster break fix and how-to solutions. Infrastructure Specialist GC Services - Lansing, MI May 2014 to June 2016 • Office 365 management (Licensing, Account Creation, permissions, created policies, groups, and documentation) and configuration daily through PowerShell or admin portal.  • Provided 2nd and 3rd level support to local and external users on the State of Michigan's network.  • Installed and remove user equipment as needed.  • Managed the anti-virus server and monitor the network for viruses, malware, unauthorized software, and intrusions.  • Manage all software installed on the servers and workstations with System Center Essentials.  • Monitored server events through System Center Essentials.  • Worked with the team with any downed server\PC issues.  • Managed and configure 56 servers, build VM servers, and provide 3rd level support to the call center users, managers, and programmers.  • Light script creation, built MSI packages with the Infrastructure Architect.  • Used EMSO package builder for the OS builds.  • Worked with my team to create GPO's for the OS builds.  • Built a VM server using Server 2008 R2 to run the asset tracking\ticketing server.  • Migrated the client PC's from XP to Windows 7 Pro using MDS.  • Network Drop installations and repair.  • I provide 3rd level support to over 200 users on a weekly basis with incoming work orders.  • Managed file systems, storage devices (SAN), network servers and workstations. Wrote and developed technical documents. Established and administered IT security policies.  • Managed Microsoft updates with WSUS. Pushed updates after hours, monthly.  • Designed and led network and security system upgrades, providing technical guidance and problem-solving analysis. Administered primary and back-up domain controllers, file servers, print servers, proxy server, and e-mail server.  • Established and administered periodical testing of network backup and recovery procedures to protect corporate data and system assets.  • Setup and managed a helpdesk ticket server using TrackIt 11.1 with SQL Server Express for GC Services to use to track issues, workstation deployment, asset tracking, remote management, package deployment, and system updates.  • Used System Center Essentials and Active Directory to manage the network.  • Managed Cisco Catalyst 48 port switches.  • I create training documents to our team for faster break fix and how-to solutions. Network Administrator Maximus Inc - East Lansing, MI April 2012 to May 2014 • Provided technical support to local and international users.  • Installed and configured Windows Xp and Windows 7 (operating systems) workstations.  • Used Active Directory to manage user accounts and PC's on the LAN.  • Diagnosed and repaired computers to component and software level, establishing alternative repair procedures to meet customer needs.  • Performed advanced troubleshooting and resolution of desktop, server, and application issues.  • Managed all software installed on the servers and workstations with Service Desk Plus.  • Directed Windows Xp to Windows 7 Professional migration.  • Provided extensive customer support with both face-to-face and telephone consultation.  • Trained and assisted users with hands-on troubleshooting of workstation equipment and peripherals.  • Supported 150 - 200 users and 15 servers daily.  • Setup and configure servers, setup domain accounts, manage the phone system, domain, Symantec, print, backup, wsus and database servers.  • Built Michigan Enrolls an internal intranet site for access to information and tools.  • Built a helpdesk ticket server (Servicedesk Plus) for the desktop support team to organize, track, and create tips and tricks for day to day issues.  • Our project (Michigan Enrolls) was recently named "Call Center of the Year" (By Benchmark Portal) of the entire United States.  • Established and administered periodical testing of network backup and recovery procedures to protect corporate data and system assets.  • Designed and led network and security system upgrades, providing technical guidance and problem-solving analysis. Administered primary and back-up domain controllers, file servers, print servers, proxy server, and e-mail server.  • Managed file systems, storage devices, network servers and workstations. Wrote and developed technical documents. Established and administered IT security policies.  • Setup and managed a helpdesk ticket server using Servicedesk Plus for Maximus to use to track issues, workstation deployment, asset tracking, and system updates.  • Created a new cope and installed a new Catalyst 48 port switch for an addition to our LAN Desktop Support Technician Michigan Public Health Institute - Okemos, MI March 2011 to April 2012 • Developed and wrote procedures/manuals for the installation, use, and problem solving of communications hardware and software.  • Created and edited documentation for installation and training manuals.  • Collected frequently asked questions and wrote formal answers to ensure accuracy of responses and consistency with other Help Desk personnel.  • Developed and implemented desktop computing and networking standards and procedures to simplify network environment and troubleshooting.  • Designed and implemented database to track network equipment, computers, servers, and software.  • Worked with the firewall engineer to monitor network traffic using Wireshark.  • Office 365 management (Licensing, Account Creation, permissions, created policies, groups, and documentation) and configuration daily through PowerShell or admin portal.  • Implemented a relational database system to maintain inventory records for hardware and software, ensuring software license compliance for all installations.  • Installed, configured, and updated server-based applications, including accounting system and records database. Performed impromptu security checks of servers and workstations to verify adequate virus protection and compliance with corporate procedures.  • Ran the iPad\iPhone team. Created training documentation to train the other tech's on how to connect and configure the IOS devices to synchronize Outlook 2010 contacts, tasks, and emails from our network.  • Installed Cat5e network cable and network jacks in the user's offices for new users.  • Supported over 400 users on a weekly basis with network issues, software issues, and all hardware issues.  • Supported blackberry's, iPhones, iPads, laptops, desktops, servers, Hp and Cannon printers.  • Used remote software to resolve software and network issues on and off the premises.  • Built laptop, and desktop OS images and used Norton Ghost and Acronis imaging software to image over 15 to 20 laptops and desktops per week.  • Worked with Windows 7, Snow Leopard MAC OS, and Windows Xp OS.  • Worked with Heat, ITSM and Astea Ticketing software.  • Used Centennial to inventory all hardware and software.  • Used Active Directory to manage user accounts and PC's on the LAN.  • Manage all software installed on the servers and workstations with Centennial. Firedog Manager Circuit City Inc - Lansing, MI February 2010 to March 2011 • Ran a 5-man team of technicians to service all the Lansing area for all computer related issues, upgrades, and infection solutions.  • Virus and Malware removal.  • Installed and tested anti-virus software to sell to the public.  • Built OS images and adjusted the OS for increased performance.  • My team and I brought in over $300,000 of services revenue into the store from services sold in 6 months.  • Assisted the sales team to sell laptops, desktops, Firedog Services, and printers.  • Serviced Hp, Compaq, Acer, and Sony laptops and desktops. Manager\ Network Administrator Universal Equipment Inc - Howell, MI January 2009 to February 2010 • Setup and serviced the company network. Computer maintenance and solved all network and computer issues.  • Managed a 3-man warehouse team to build and ship product.  • Software training.  • Ordered and built users workstations for customers to use with the measuring system.  • Performed hardware and software support and installation.  • Participated in field installations, engineering and customer support.  • Operated computer help desk assisting users with problems and solutions.  • Configured and maintained Cisco routers and switches.  • Evaluated, purchased, configured and installed equipment.  • Planned and managed all networking projects, budget, configuration, installations and support.    Certifications and Designations  • Dell Systems Certification, Okemos Mi. - Certified Dell Technician to service Desktops, Laptops, and Blade Servers.  • Dell Network Certification, Okemos Mi.  • A+ Certification, Lansing Mi,    • CMNO Certification Lansing Mi    • Network+, Security+, and MCSE in process.    Specialized Training  • Microsoft Windows 7 Enterprise Desktop Support Technician Certification, New Horizons Learning Center, East Lansing Michigan,  • Network+ Certification class, New Horizon Learning Center, East Lansing Michigan.  • Security+ Certification class Online, TestOut.    Areas of Strengths  • Built, maintained, and repaired computer systems and servers to improve speed, reliability, and efficiency of operation.  • Demonstrated high quality, results-driven, prompt, and professional customer service and support to instill confidence in technical advice and directions.  • Assembled system and software application documentation, informing users of training opportunities in the corporate learning center.  • Developed and implemented desktop computing and networking standards and procedures to simplify network environment and troubleshooting.  • Reduced stress levels of customers by adopting a cooperative attitude and positive approach to every task and assignment.  • Designed and implemented a database (Centennial) to track network equipment, computers, servers, and software.  • Installed, configured, and updated server-based applications, including accounting system and records database.  • Built networks from the servers to the workstations, setting up active directory, creating the domain, IP scopes, and creating login scripts for the end-users to connect to their mapped network drives, and printers. Worked with server 2000 to server 2008, 2012 and 2016 datacenter. Created user accounts, groups and policies to ensure added security and control. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance