IT Support Manager IT Support Manager IT Support Manager - Century21 Department Stores Staten Island, NY Work Experience IT Support Manager Century21 Department Stores - New York, NY 2012 to Present Responsible for managing Technical support Team to support 2000 Users community on different Platform and enabling the business to scale while improving performance indicators impacting their efficiencies and improving overall user experience. Research, recommend and implement technology and process improvements to reduce overall support tickets and costs.    • Improved user support efficiency by streamlining team support activities and standardizing responses to common questions and problems.  • Focus on team member development, training, coaching and evaluation resulted in achieving users' satisfaction each year.  • Appointed IT Support Manager for Enterprise Support Services and handpicked by executive management as emergency contact based on calm demeanor, problem solving capabilities, and proven ability to handle stressful situations.  • Oversaw training, development, scheduling, and performance management for 12 technicians. System Administrator Century21 Department Stores - New York, NY 2008 to 2012 Responsible for administrative and management tasks to maintain systems operation on approximately 300+ windows servers 2003/2008/2012 both physical and virtual (VMware), new server builds, maintaining system security and performance, and maintaining data integrity.    • Interface with Application Support Specialists, system users, and vendor contacts to meet operational requirements.  • Performed system maintenance duties such as System patching, system backups using Avamar and file restoration from both disk and tape backups.  • Manage new hire account creation, user terminations, privileges and all other user account modifications.  • Acted as liaison for outside vendors during installation, redeployment, repair and/or removal of equipment or services.  • Monitors and responds to hardware and software alarms (SCOM) using appropriate problem determination tools.  • Responsible for all day-to-day Server activities, end user requests, racking of equipment, cabling and labeling, decommissioning of systems, system tracking and documentation and documentation updates.  • Using IBM BIGFIX to patch windows critical and important updates on servers and workstations.  • Install and update Symantec Anti-virus to all windows servers.  • Install and maintain Cisco AMP anti-malware to all windows servers. PC Network Support Leader Century21 Department Stores - New York, NY 2000 to 2008 Provided expert level desk-side support to 2000 users in 15 remote locations and personally trusted by C-Level Executive to address escalated IT issues at their homes. Awarded "Employee of the Month" multiple times on an excellent support company-wide.    • Led desktop support team in upgrading approximately 2000 users from Windows XP/Office 2003 to Windows7/Office 2010 in approximately 3 months.  • Deploying Thin Clients to replace PCs and managed HPDM to use VMware View.  • Assisted Network and System Administrators to nightly upgrades to Servers and Cisco Network routers/switches.  • Install, configure and maintain Media players company-wide using Netkey, cNario and CommandCenter applications.  • Using Acronis and Ghost image software to image PCs and Laptops  • Support Mac platform to 50 users in fast pace Ecomm dept.  • Install Anti-virus and malware to workstations Network Layout Specialist INFORMATION SERVICES, INC - Nyack, NY 1998 to 2000 I was responsible to organize the cable layout diagram, installed pathway components to support cabling installation, including raceway, runway, wire way, molding and ladder rack systems. Aligned horizontal cabling into walls, furniture, and under floor duct systems; pulled copper cables, optical fibers, and provided documentation for installed cabling. Gathered and installed wire management units that supported cross connection and patching of provided services. Executed daily, quarterly, and annual inventory checks for secure communications equipment and all related information and manuals.    Optimizing Operations:  * Constructed and secured relay rack systems and frames to support telecommunication services.  * Developed and established a backbone layout between floors to back high-speed layer-3 switching at gigabit speed over fiber.    Leadership: * Directed cable for special projects in secure communication center environments.  Quality Assurance:  * Tested and terminated Cat 5 and Fiber Optical cables; provided certification for the entire building, including data and voice. Education Bachelor Degree in Science Islamia College Skills Cisco, Juniper, Vmware, Vpn, Exchange, Rsa, Sql server, Sql, Mdm, Avamar, Security, Web security, Deployment, Imaging, Client management, Pcs, Emc, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, MAC, Service Desk Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information Technical Skills:  Windows Server OS 2003/2008/2012/2016, IBM Bifix client Management. VMware vSphere, VMware Horizon View, Exchange 2010, Office365, EMC Backup Avamar System, EMC Storage, Cisco UCS Systems, Cisco IronPort Web Security Appliances, Cisco AMP, Cisco Meraki, MobileIron, Soti Mobicontrol MDM, Juniper, RSA Secure ID and cisco anyconnect VPN Systems. Windows OS XP/7/8/10, Windows SQL Server, Acronis for imaging PCs. IGEL thin clients OS for VDI. SCCM 2012 to deploy packages. PDQ deployment for workstations.