Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Jacksonville, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer BORLAND-GROOVER CLINIC - Jacksonville, FL June 2017 to Present responsible for configure and deploy virtual servers in a VMWare and Acropolis Hypervisor environment, manage Active Directory, DNS and DHCP, configure  communication equipment and in charge of the company's e-mail services on Microsoft  Exchange 2013 platform.  Biggest accomplishment: Full Microsoft Exchange 2013 implementation and complete migration from Exchange 2007. Automatization of Microsoft SQL Server database purge processes. Network and System Administrator October 2014 to April 2017 responsible for the network infrastructure, security, communications, and core system application. Project Manager, in charge of planning, executing, and closing the company projects.  Biggest accomplishment: Full network implementation. (LAN, WAN, Security and VoIP) Network Administrator AGRISAL January 2009 to October 2014 responsible for managing the network infrastructure and implement IT  projects in the Central America region and The United States, focused on the core business, which is Hotels and Real Estate.  Biggest accomplishment: Cloud Infrastructure Migration. (NAP of the Americas) Technical Sales Representative and Post Sales Engineer DELL January 2007 to December 2008 responsible of identifying customer  technical requirements with the objective of design and recommend solutions according to the customer's needs.  Biggest accomplishment: Bronze and Silver award for outstanding contributions to the company. Regional IT Administrator Central American Bank for Economic Integration March 2006 to January 2007 responsible of establishing network standards, analyze, and implement  security policies, configure communication equipment and managing the data center.  Biggest accomplishment: Enforce the Data Center security. Education Networking Instituto Tecnologico Centro Americano January 2010 to June 2012 System Engineering Universidad Politecnica de El Salvador December 1995 to November 2001 Skills Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Windows Awards DELL Bronze Award 2008-04 For outstanding contributions to the Latin America Team in helping provide an Excellent Customer Experience. Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Administrator (CCNA) April 2017 to Present • Network Fundamentals  • Routing Protocols and Concepts  • LAN Switching and Wireless  • Accessing the WAN Symantec Technical Specialist November 2008 to Present • Symantec Endpoint Protection  • Symantec Backup Exec  • Symantec Deployment Solution Additional Information • Leadership • Self-Motivated • Documentation  • Decision Making • Problem Solving • Self-Learner  • Time Management • Adaptability • Teamwork  • Multitasking • Planning • English - Spanish    Technical Expertise  Twenty-five years of IT experience in different network environments with proven experience  handling mission critical issues under extreme time constraints that required immediate  resolutions.