SR IT Analyst ( Network) SR IT Analyst (<span class="hl">Network</span>) SR IT Analyst ( Network) - SSAB Mobile, AL Work Experience SR IT Analyst ( Network) SSAB - Axis, AL October 2017 to Present Design, Manage and administer Cisco networking environment by installing, configuring, testing and documenting the routers, switches, and firewalls according to the design and specifications.  • Responsible for the day-to-day networking tasks to ensure network reliability, availability and serviceability within minimal interruption.  • Provide 24/7 technical support, respond to work orders and tickets from the users, analyzes and solve reported network problems.  • Responsible for the administration of Palo Alto firewall and TrendMicro proxy server security settings to access permissions groups for individuals and sets up provisions for incoming data.  • Oversee network technology upgrade or expansion projects, including installation of hardware, software and integration testing, as well as coordinating these activities without disturbing function of other systems.  • Team lead in the development and production of complex documentation for installation, network topology, and troubleshooting of communications hardware or software.  • Develop solutions for network expansions and new operational capabilities  • Plan, deploy, and manage security systems within the network, including Cisco Network Access Control, Cisco Intrusion Prevention System, Virtual Private Networks Part-Time Contractor TekSystems/University of South Alabama Health - Mobile, AL October 2017 to Present Sr Systems Administrator -  • Present Manage VMWare User Environment Manager to deliver shortcuts, printers, and shares to desktops  • Manage Compellent and EqualLogic SAN data storage for Hospital and Ambulatory environments  • Utilize ADAudit Plus to identify user accounts that are locking out regularly and are flagged for review  • Use VMWare Horizon and vSphere Client to manage VMWare environment for the Hospital and Ambulatory, including replacing hardware on the hosts and switches located on campus, as well as creating templates and taking snapshots  • Utilize Citrix Director to restart Citrix sessions  • Utilize Imprivata Management Console to give Imprivata access to users and computers  • Patched Windows based servers and ESX hosts  • Created documentation/instructions, for example: Domain Migration Manual, UEM Management Console Install, Ambulatory on-call procedures, how to Delete Old VM Pools, how to Update Virtual Desktops, Logging Off Session in VMWare Administrator, Setting up VMWare Unmapping of Datastores, etc.  • Presented several manuals in a classroom setting for Desktop Support Team education  • On the on-call rotation for server support IT Manager RedLion - Mobile, AL January 2013 to October 2017 Responsible for directing the daily operations of the IT department.  • Provide day-to-day supervision by delegating work assignments for all IT personnel.  • Handled computer equipment, hardware, and software upgrades to meet organizational needs.  • Optimized security standards, procedures, and guidelines for multiple offsite locations.  • Spearheaded the upgrade of all network appliances including the upgrade and installation of new Fiber Optic and CAT5 cabling and cable management.  • Developed working relationships with vendors and third party providers to ensure contracts are kept up to date and cost maintenance strategies are assessed and analyzed on a periodic basis.  • Administered appropriate maintenance strategies and system changes to ensure uninterrupted systems usage and proper backup and recovery procedures are followed.  • Headed up departmental meetings to review strategic goals and initiatives, promote team building and work to provide growth paths for staff.  • Assist in recruiting, hiring, and providing appropriate training for IT support staff.  • Administered and supported Citrix XenApp in a VM environment. Installed and published applications for end users.  • Built VM servers, created and added to Citrix farms, tested, and implemented into production. Network Administrator DailyAccess Corporation - Mobile, AL January 2010 to January 2013 Administered user accounts, permissions, group policies, and login scripts using Active Directory 2003 and 2008.  • Installed MS-Windows XP and Windows 7 for workstations. 2003 and 2008 server.  • Handled all aspects of Exchange 2007, DPM, SCR, and GFI Mail Archiver  • Responsible for setup, configuration, and monitoring of Cisco routers, switches, ASA's, and WAP's.  • Configured firewall policies through ISA and Cisco ASA firewalls.  • Oversaw entire IP Telephony system: CallManager, Unity Voice Mail, Presence, and IPCC servers. IVR for client account summaries and ZOOM for call recording.  • Managed all call routing through Cisco3825 voice gateway. Including configuring IPCC applications, prompts, scripts, and skills routing for call center redirects.  • Designed IPCC scripts to control call routing based on a DNIS triggered event for national call center.  • Created and configured agents, agent skills, and teams to aide in efficient call queueing and routing.  • Well Versed in all configuration, maintenance, and administration of Cisco IP Telephony system and appliances.  • Built and configured Cisco IP phones (7911, 7940 series, 7965 LCD Display, and 7975 Conference), Video conferencing in Executive and conference rooms.  • Scheduled and maintained backups using Veritas (Windows) and VEEAM (VMware).  • Administered and supported Citrix XenApp in a VM environment. Installed and published applications for end users.  • Built VM servers, created and added to Citrix farms, tested, and implemented into production.  • Instituted backup and replication for Citrix VM servers to ensure continual connection with minimal business impact for DR purposes. Desktop Technician Eclipsys Corporation - Mobile, AL January 2000 to December 2009 Maintained desktop PC's.  • Installed RAM, NICS, hard drives, processors, etc.  • Loaded MS Outlook, MS Office, Adobe, Novell Netware, NASI, Internet Explorer, Etc.    System Administrator -  • Administered user accounts (Novell and AD), print queues, configuring switch ports (general administration).  • Installed and configured print servers, domain controllers, PC's, Laptops, and production servers.  • Installed MS-Windows 95, 98, NT 4.0, 2000, and XP for workstations. NT, 2000, 2003 server, and Novell 4.11 for servers.  • Monitored and verified backups using Tivoli Storage manager (Windows) and Arcserv 2000 (Novell).  • Created data storage for existing servers by setting up, configuring, and connecting server to EMC SAN.  • Designed, installed and implemented Citrix MetaFrame XP. Installed and published applications for end-users.  • Setup and configured Citrix web applications.  • Created Citrix farms, added servers and assigned rights. General administration maintenance and troubleshooting.    Support Services Manager -  • Organized and delegated the timely, efficient, and effective project completion ranging from PC deployments to application installs.  • Managed technician work flow governed by ISO best practice standards.  • Oversaw 5 support services technicians responsible for 250 bed hospital with over 800 PC's and 200 servers. Education Associates in Information Technology specifically systems and network Southeast College of Technology - Mobile, AL September 1998 to January 2000 Skills Cisco, Citrix, Metaframe, Vmware, Xenapp, Exchange, Voip, C++, Visual basic, Sql, Ios, Cobol, Java, Rpg Additional Information Skills  Programming:  Visual Basic  Cobol  C++  RPG  JAVA    Windows:  PC:  95, 98, NT, 2000,  XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10  Server:  NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016  Exchange:  2007, 2010, 2013    SQL:  2005, 2008, 2010, 2012    Citrix:  MetaFrame XP, XenApp    Cisco:  IOS:  12 - 15  VOIP:  CallManager 7, Unity V-Mail 7,  IPCC 7, CUPS 7, CUPC 7    VMware vSphere:  4, 5, 6