Lead Technical Engineer of Networking Lead Technical Engineer of Networking Lead Technical Engineer of Networking - JoAnn Stores Corporate Stow, OH Experienced Lead Network Engineer seeking to obtain the position of a Full-time Network Engineer / Lead Network Engineer. Work Experience Lead Technical Engineer of Networking JoAnn Stores Corporate - Hudson, OH November 2016 to Present * Manage, troubleshoot, and configure the network infrastructure and wireless infrastructure in the corporate office, 3 distribution centers, disaster recovery center, and 870 retail store locations.  * Implement, manage, and maintain Cisco routers, switches (both Catalyst and Nexus OS), and access points.  * Implement and manage firewall technologies including Palo Alto, Meraki, and Cisco ASA devices.  * Implement, Operate, and optimize network authentication services including radius and TACACS (Cisco ISE) for both network equipment administration and network access (802.1X).  * Manage multiple Infoblox devices both physical and virtual for IPAM, DNS, and DHCP services.  * Manage and monitor network management software including: What's Up Gold and Solarwinds Orion.  * Respond to tickets utilizing Service-now help desk software. Network Engineer / Systems Engineer TAC Computer - Oakwood Village, OH August 2003 to November 2016 * Prepare, plan, design, implement, operate and optimize (PPDIOO) network infrastructures for police departments, fire departments, and city halls. This includes: Cisco switches, Cisco routers, Cisco ASA, Sonicwall and WatchGuard enterprise firewalls. Implement and manage Cisco and Ubiquiti controller based and standalone wireless solutions.  * Design, implement, manage, and maintain company services over a multi-vendor, multi-location, and multi-agency VPN infrastructures. These infrastructures consist of 800+ site-to-site and mobile VPNs, over multiple WAN services including: cellular, DSL, cable, fiber optic, and T1 technologies all across the State of Ohio.  * Implement, maintain, and optimize various internetwork, internet, and intranet services including: VLANS, advanced routing, failover and high availability mechanisms, IPS/IDS, content filters, DNS, DHCP, FTP, web, email, and various spam filters.  * Manage and implement direct connections and pass-through connections to both the State of Ohio LEADS System and Federal FBI (CJIS) networks. Adhere to security and operational policies required by both the State of Ohio LEADS System and Federal FBI (CJIS) mandates.  * Provide top tier support to other vendors and agencies to implement their systems/services within our company and other agency's networks.  * Advanced setup, maintenance, and replacement of Windows 2003 (R2), 2008 (R2), and 2012 (R2) server software and hardware. Network Administrator National Interstate - Richfield, OH 2007 to 2010 * Setup and administration of Microsoft Exchange Server 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013, and SQL Server 2008, 2008R2, and 2014.  * Disaster recovery planning, implementation, and testing.  National Interstate Richfield, OH 44286  Network Administrator  June 1998 to February 2001  * Administered and implemented NetWare 3.1x - 5.0 and NT/2000 servers  * Implemented and maintained a VPN over a DSL, T1, and frame-relay to 20+ sites  * Set-up and maintained all intranet and intranet services including: DNS, email, and web services  * Repaired, set-up, and maintained desktop PCs, notebooks, printers and servers  * Designed, implemented, and maintained the network infrastructure Education diploma Nordonia High School - Macedonia, OH 1998 to June 1998 associate degree in Computer Service and Network Technology program Wayne College Campus University of Akron - Orrville, OH