IT Infrastructure Lead, Network Architect IT Infrastructure Lead, <span class="hl">Network</span> Architect IT Infrastructure Lead, Network Architect - HighJump Software Gwynn Oak, MD Timothy R Simmons is a 20+ year IT veteran currently seeking new opportunities in IT Architecture and Leadership. Mr. Simmons has served in a wide variety of roles ranging from desktop support to systems administration to architecture and implementation of a variety of IT systems, services, and platforms. A well rounded and innovative technologist, he has a background in software development languages and processes, information security and vulnerability assessment, operating systems, IT hardware and equipment, and an especially keen focus on networks, servers, storage, and foundation systems like Active Directory. Work Experience IT Infrastructure Lead, Network Architect HighJump Software - Baltimore, MD February 2006 to Present • Worked with IT management, cloud service devops, and enterprise architecture groups to design and implement network, compute, storage, power, security, out-of-band management, and cooling requirements and systems for a global software development and high-tech services company.  • Coordinated efforts of remote team members engaged in systems engineering projects for solution development in internal development, staging, production and customer-facing IaaS environments.  • Provided peer mentoring, training, and top-tier support for senior and junior IT engineers across a variety of IT disciplines.  • Drove IT cost reductions while maintaining quality and improving uptime.  • Developed and wrote recommendations for departmental policies, procedures, technical standards and guidelines.  • Implemented, managed, and supported a wide variety of network and computing systems in datacenters and offices including Juniper and Cisco switches, firewalls, and routers, Dell and Cisco server and blade systems, and Compellent, HP, and Nimble storage systems. IT Consultant Independent Contracting - Baltimore, MD August 1996 to January 2019 • Worked with various clients to meet their short-term IT project needs.  • Gathered requirements, implemented systems, and trained engineers for various IT systems in expertise domain - IP networks, Server and Storage, VoIP, Data Center, IT Automation, Active Directory, etc.  • Provided IT management and governance advice and support.  • Instructed training courses for systems engineers in various expertise domains.  • Developed custom scripts and management tools in a variety of languages and environments to suit customer's needs.  • Implemented, managed, and supported a wide variety of network and computing systems in datacenters and offices. Systems And Network Administrator Champion Realty - Severna Park, MD March 2003 to February 2006 • Installed, configured, and supported local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) and Internet system.  • Introduced infrastructure and management tools to create and manage server computing environment.  • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  • Ensured continuity of computer and telephone system services for users through technical expertise, assistance and project coordination.  • Managed all software and hardware issues for end-users. Commtech 4 Comcast - White Marsh, MD September 1998 to March 2003 • Installed cable modem systems for residential and business customers.  • Performed maintenance on ISP Motorola/DOCSIS, Ethernet, SONET, WAN, CATV delivery equipment.  • Developed and instructed training for cable technicians to install cable modem services.  • Performed repairs on customer equipment damaged by technicians. Education GED Parkville High School & Center For Math - Baltimore, MD 1997 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, BGP, CCNA, CISCO, DFS, DHCP, EIGRP, IPV6, JUNIPER, NFS, ORION, OSPF, SWITCHING, TCP, TCP/IP, VLAN, VMWARE, VPN, DNS, NAGIOS, NSX, Wan, LAN, Wi-Fi, NAC, Automation, Scripting, RADIUS, IT Security, Ansible, AWS Links https://shareitonce.com Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) October 2018 to October 2021 CCDA October 2018 to October 2021 CompTIA A+ September 1997 to Present ITIL 4 Foundation August 2019 to Present