Sr System Admin Sr System Admin Sr System Admin - DXC - RBS Charlotte, NC Proven Professional with18+Years of Experience in Information Technology, which includes 5+ Years on VMware, Hyper-V Citrix, Virtualization environment, 3+years in SCCM, Central Administration Server(CAS) environment, and Azure/AWS Cloud technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr System Admin DXC - RBS - Salisbury, NC May 2018 to Present Description: Provides the highest level 3 support in a system with both Level1 and Level2 teams. As a primary lead, responsible for Retail Business Loyalty (coupon promotion/tracking) sales systems for the Delhaize DXC Client.    VMWare/Server Services/System configuration, application environments and networking communications.  Providing the following scope of work activities for a multimillion dollar system with 1200+ Retail Grocery stores and several corporate side application interfaces.  Delhaize Loyalty System and Application Platform Support and Production Server heath.  Monitor and facilitate the applicable servers that provide the DA Loyalty system services.  File space, CPU Usages/availability, Memory availability/Usages  Monitor and facilitate Store side and host systems availability.  System communications - monitor and facilitate incidents with communications between store/host/web features.  Application availability - Monitor and maintain application user availability regarding all ticket able elements for production. Facilitate resolutions across available teams as needed to bring incident resolution.  Application performances - monitor/alert and facilitate remediation regarding application element performance both at stores and host systems.  Monitor application Databases and facilitate resolution of issues impacting the application  Production Application maintenance  Monitor the health of the application and feature set availability and performance  Provide and use monitoring tools to ensure timely response to issues and outages  Provide and use reporting systems to track and facilitate regular monitoring of system/application health  Interface with Client incident ticket system (Service Now) to track/facilitate resolutions inside service level agreement times.  Communicate to external teams as needed for each resolution. Sr System Admin Indian Eagle Inc April 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities  Description: Perform extensive work with AWS/Amazon architecture - key icons, Cloud integration, the creation of instances, and various database-related tasks. Successfully implemented storage/security for applications. Collaborate with leads, developers to manage IT function. Defined acceptance criteria and developed test plans.    • Involved in designing and deploying a multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud formation.  • Integrated Amazon Cloud Watch with Amazon EC2 instances for monitoring the log files, store them and track metrics.  • Configured AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC.  • Created AWS S3 buckets, performed folder management in each buckets, Managed cloud trail logs and objects within each buckets.  • Created Highly Available Environments using Auto-Scaling, Load Balancers, and SQS.  • Hands on Experience in AWS Cloud in various AWS Services such as RedShift, Cluster, Route53 Domain configuration.  • Established connectivity between application and MySQL DB and tested this connectivity (by RDS-endpoints).  • Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto Scaling groups.  • Configured S3 to host Static Web content.  • Experienced in S3 Versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files and archive files in Glacier.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Configured AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) Group and users for improved login authentication.  • Implemented Auto scaling for scaling out to ensure availability and scalability of customer website and applications.  • As a part of Job I also had responsibility to maintain the networking form AWS cloud back to On-Primary connectivity and no direct internet access from AWS cloud VPC to the rest of the world (Internet).  • Created Security Groups, configuring Inbound /Outbound rules, creating and importing Key Pairs.  • Leveraged AWS S3 service as Build Artifact repository and created release based buckets to store various modules/branch based artifact storage.  • Utilized Cloud Watch service to monitor the QA/on demand instances, S3 metrics, configuring alarms for performance environments during load testing. Senior Systems/ Network Administrator Tecra Systems Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2006 to March 2017 Responsibilities  • Responsible for day-to-day System Administration for Linux / Windows Servers.  • Windows Server 2003, 2008R2 & 2012R2 administrations.  • Windows 2003 and 2008 Servers deployment, troubleshooting and configuration.  • Planning and implementing Server setup, configuration & administration for Windows server2008R2 & 2012R2 and Active Directory Administration.  • Install vendor software and troubleshoot issues with them.  • Installing Server OS 2003,2008 R2 and 2012 R2 in all kind of Servers.  • Involved in AD migration and DHCP configuration. Active Directory Migration through ADMT across Forests and Domains.  • Managing FSMO roles, Global Catalog Servers.  • Perform installation activities remotely on equipment after physical installation on-site.  • Worked with network team to troubleshoot /make required VLANS available on chassis and rack mount servers and server network related issues.  • Managed Windows Server Disk Storage, Configured Windows Server Printing Administered Software Licensing, Hot Fixes, Service Packs, Backed Up and Restored Data.  • Managed Groups, User and Computer Accounts, Implemented and Managed Software Update Service (SUS).  • Configured and Supported remote access to a network, Installed and configured a DHCP Server, and DNS server.  • Managing windows Services - AD, Group policy, DNS, DHCP, Terminal Services and WINS.  • Disaster Recovery planning, design, implementation and testing.  • Anti Virus updates and MS Patches Management through SCCM.  • Active Directory Services - Managing Users & Other Resource objects.  • Web Server Administration - IIS 5.0 / IIS 6.0/ IIS 7.0:  • Managing IIS 6.0/IIS 7.0 Web servers and hosted web sites.  • Creating and configuring new internal & external websites (HTTP and HTTPS).  • Website content and application release management and heath check of the servers.  • Application support for asp, .NET based hosted internal & external websites.  • Planning and implementing the disaster recovery and resolve web architectural issues.  • Deploying and troubleshooting of .Net based Applications on large IIS web server farms.  • Creating, deploying, renewing and Import & export of the SSL certificates.  • Optimization and performance and resolve performance bottlenecks.  • Replication/update of content with Site server/ Interwoven/Wansync in the web server farm.  • Installation and Configuration of MSSQL servers.  • Website content and application release management and heath check of the servers.  • Application support for ASP.NET based hosted internal & external websites.  • Planning and implementing the disaster recovery and resolve web architectural issues.  • Deploying and troubleshooting of .Net based Applications on large IIS web server farms.  • Creating, deploying, renewing and Import & export of the SSL certificates.  • Optimization and performance and resolve performance bottlenecks.  • Checking the DB connectivity of MS SQL, Oracle, from web server to DB servers using various tools.  • Well-versed with installation, configuration & administration of Microsoft SQL Server  • Provided database support for data extractions and other database operations within Microsoft SQL Server 2008r2 and basic usage of Oracle 10g as well as Microsoft Access databases.  • Performed SQL queries in multiple database systems (MSSQL and Access) to provide raw data for IT Department Analysis.  • Responsible for implementing and supporting high availability solutions with SQL Server including SQL Mirroring.  • Experience in SQL server Administration Tasks like database backups and restore, troubleshooting SQL server connectivity issues etc.  • Experience troubleshooting issues with bulk SQL Server jobs, long running queries and deadlocks.  • Experience in configuring availability groups and listeners in SQL 2012 Always ON.  • Experience in tuning SQL Server database performance using SQL Profiler, DMV's,Index Tuning Wizard and Windows Performance Monitor.  • Experience in Installation of Oracle and MYSQL.  • Root cause analysis and fixing the Windows / IIS Web Server Related issues.  • Tracking and documenting production support issues.  • Experienced in managing Group policies, user accounts and configuring sites in a multi-site domain structure.  • Creation/Configuration of Additional swap/tmp dynamically as and when required NFS Management - Take care of user accounts/groups, setting up of NFS Environment.  • Install, Update and Erase the required packages to provide services using RPM and UP2DATE.  • LINUX systems administration and application support. Proficient in Red-hat Linux.  • Involved in installation, configuration, upgrading, patching and administration of Ubuntu and Centos 5.0/6.0 Servers.  • Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Linux.  • Setup and Maintained an internal development LAMP environment for web development.  • Research and troubleshooting on performance issues.  • Hands on experience in various web servers like Apache, Tomcat, JBOSS, Apache with Tomcat.  • Installing, configuring, and maintaining Samba, Webservers, Web Logic and Web Sphere Application Servers.  • Developed and Configured numerous LAMP environments with High Availability (HA) and Redundancy (Linux Apache MySQL PHP)  • Expertise on Creating virtual machines, installing operating systems inside VM's and installing tools and configure these VM's based on customer requirements.  • Installation and troubleshooting of VMware.  • Provisioning virtual machines.  • Deploying virtual machines from Templates and by cloning.  • Installing and upgrading VMware tools.  • Upgrading virtual machine hardware version.  • Creating and deleting of vm's snapshots.  • Assigning LUNs to ESX/ ESXi servers and creating data stores.  • Adding virtual machine memory and vcpu.  • Migrating VM's through Vmotion and SVmotion.  • Convert physical machines to virtual machines (P2V) and virtual machines to virtual machines (V2V) with VMware converter.  • Implement virtualization on ESXi 5.5, vSphere 5.5 vCenter.  • Configured and managed NetApp FAS 3270 system with Data 7-mode.  • Configuration of qtrees, quotas, volumes, aggregates/ spare disks.  • Performing Snapshot restore for business critical applications as and when required.  • Support & Configure multi-protocols including NFS, CIFS for UNIX and Windows Hosts.  • Developing reports and maintaining of storage configuration and storage provisioning.  Network / Security  • Installation, configuration of Cisco2600 / 2800 Routers and Cyberoam 50ING Hardware based firewall for network security and Load Balance.  • Creating VPN certificates for clients to from remote location.  • URL filtering, implementation of Corporate Rules.  • Installation, configuration Linux based Firewall on IPCOP for Network security. Systems/ Network Administrator EDSS Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2001 to June 2006 Responsibilities  • Designing, testing, installing and monitoring new systems.  • Preparing documentation and presenting progress reports.  • Implementing web server for Dev Teams,  • Monitoring Resource Utilization on Production servers using various tools.  • Installing Windows, Linux Operating System.  • Implement, Troubleshoot and Administer NFS, NIS based network.  • User & Network administration  • Data backup and restore administration  • Hardening Windows servers.  • Backup monitor and review backup policies through Data Protector S/W.  • Providing MSSQL databases recommendations and database tuning for Dev Teams.  • Install and configuring MS SQL servers for Development, QA, and Production environments.  • Supporting windows servers for production and Development environment includes  MS SQL servers, IIS servers and third party applications.  • Day to day SQL Server duties as well as major projects including hardware migration, replication, and upgrades.  • Maintained Management Server for R&D, Development and QA environments for EDSS internal applications.  • System performance Monitoring and Management.  • Troubleshooting Windows Time related issues.  • Account Lockouts Configuring Password Policies.  • Configuring and managing Domain Naming System (DNS).  • Managing Domain Controllers in DMZ Environments.  • Active Directory installation/un-installations, Metadata Cleanups.  • Implementing, Managing and Troubleshooting Group Policies.  • Configuring Folder Redirections. Education Bachelor's Skills Dns, Iis, Cisco, Dhcp, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, System Admin, Linux Administrator Additional Information Technical skills  VMware Products: Design and implement Virtual Infrastructure 4/5 with Virtual Center, ESXi 4.x, ESXi 5.x vMotion, HA, DRS, Resource pools, VMware Converter, Virtual Center, ESXi Patch management (VUM) VMware Converter: Expert Level in Physical to Virtual migration of datacenter, Virtual to Virtual Migration (VMware 3.x to VMware 4.x), Physical to Physical Hardware refresh.  Microsoft: Windows Server (2012, 2008 and 2003), ADDS, DNS, DHCP, Windows 7,8,10, Windows XP, SCCM, WSUS.IIS, MSSQL 2008,2005,  Hardware: Dell PowerEdge R710's, Cisco UCS B200's B250's M1's M2's HP BL460C, C-7000, DL580's. Racks and Cabling: Installation of Hardware, Cable Management. UCS Servers, Dell Power Edge, HP ProLiant DL & ML Series, IBM Servers, Dell Blades Power Edge R610 blades, power edge M 620, Power Edge, R710, Power edge R730