Digital Press Operator Digital Press Operator HP Digital Presa Operator Lake Hiawatha, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Digital Press Operator Digital Room Inc - Saddle Brook, NJ July 2019 to Present Machine Operator Deluxe Corporation - Mountain Lakes, NJ May 2015 to July 2019 Job Responsibilities:  • Perform a complete set-up of press in an efficient manner, which may include: identifying and loading correct stock, setting correct paper path and stretch, mounting plates, die registration, making appropriate adjustments to the ink and water levels, assuring accurate single-color register and setting up any attribute functions, e.g. perforations, number, file holes, thermo unit, etc.  • Determine and understand all order instructions and running of press productively while, meeting job requirements of ink density, ink and water balance, color matching, and required attributes at a quality level that meets or exceeds our customer's expectations.  • Maintain the ability to troubleshoot mechanical breakdowns; demonstrate the ability to make adjustments to the equipment including blanket changes, wash up units, cleaning water system and roller settings as required.  • Perform daily, weekly, and monthly preventative maintenance and cleaning to ensure a quality product to customer as required. Understand all press controls and demonstrate their use.  • Maintain knowledge of the press, current printing processes and develop continuous process improvements that support the Lean philosophy and work environment.  • Contribute toward team effectiveness and workflow efficiency by rotating duties as needed.  • Maintain customer confidence and protect operations by keeping information confidential.  • Support operations and contribute toward team results by performing other production or related jobs as required. System Administrator II Baltimore City Public School September 2008 to January 2011 Job Responsibilities:  • Provide tier 3 technical management and support for more than 180 schools  • LAN/WAN/WLAN troubleshooting, problem isolation and break/fix.  • Build, configure and install Cisco routers and switches.  • Configuration, management and troubleshooting of Cisco's WAN routing protocol EIGRP, Frame Relay and switch based fiber network TLS.  • Add/delete/move/modify Cisco Unified Call manager and IPCC servers for new IP phones installation.  • Perform network monitoring, analyzing and troubleshooting, fault isolation, performance and network utilization  • Provide data center installation, troubleshooting and VLAN configuration  • Configure and install Cisco wireless Access points and LAN controllers.  • Attends project meetings and vendor demos and provide key inputs for the successful implementation of the project. Technical Support Network Engineer AirNet Communications Corporation September 2004 to July 2006 Job Responsibilities:  • Provide tier 2 technical management and network support for company's domestic and foreign customer via 24x7 phone and email correspondence in an NOC type environment.  • Design small and medium network architecture consisting mostly of Cisco routers and Switches.  • Perform troubleshooting, monitoring and day to day administration of Cisco routers and switches to provide 99.99% network reliability and availability.  • Manages in-house network monitoring system for pro active monitoring, troubleshooting, coordination and resolution.  • Provide on-call support as needed. Sr. Data Network Engineer Smart Communications Incorporated September 2000 to August 2003 Job Responsibilities:  • Build, configure, install and manage Cisco routers and switches  • In-charge of Business Systems integration including LAN/WAN and VPN configuration  • Design, install, support and troubleshooting of LAN and VLAN architecture  • Successfully manage and implement new business office re-location which includes structured LAN layout design using cat5, fiber optic cabling and power requirements Network Engineer Pilipino Telephone Corporation - Manila December 1996 to September 2000 Job Responsibilities  • Manages the LAN structural cabling design using copper and Cat5 cables of more than 40 Business centers all over the country.  • Manages PC desktop, laptop and printer upgrades to optimize computer operation and customer relations satisfaction.  • Performs software upgrades of more than 500 desktop and laptops from Windows 3.11 to Windows 95 and 98 OS.  • Manages anti-virus software installation using McAfee, CA and Norton suite.  • Manages MS 2000 Exchange server user creation, deletion and password services.  • Determine network standards, baseline specific to the company's networking application requirements  • Supervises help desk operation, manpower requirements and training. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Lyceum of the Philippines - Manila, AR 1996 Skills Machine Operator Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information IT SKILLS HIGHLIGHTS:    ** Actively pursuing Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) certifications    • LAN/WAN/NOC Administration * Workflow Planning and inventory  • Project Management * System Installation, Configuration and Upgrade  • Technical Support * Training and mentoring    TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY:    HARDWARES: Cisco routers, switches and IP phones, Alcatel Switches, Etreme switches.  HP, Toshiba, Dell, Sony, Acers, Gateway and MAC desktop and laptops    SOFTWARES: Microsoft family of OS ( XP. 95,98, Win 7 & 8.1) MAC OS, Windows Office suite, Cisco IOS, Solarwinds