Data Center Architect Data Center Architect Data Center Architect - Baume and Associates Concord, CA • I have excellent customer services skills and a strong willingness to learn new technologies with A+ (non-CE), Network + (non CE), Security + (non-CE), HP PCE, Dell DDM, MCP, MCSE, MCSA  • I am extremely attentive to detail and accept responsibility/ownership for assigned tasks and projects.  • I have strong communication/interaction skills as well as a positive attitude and willingness to learn as well as to mentor others. I have always been noted as one who possesses strong analytical skills, an ability to define problems and present solutions with supporting data to management. I have and ability to work well with others, and ability to understand requirements from all functional areas.  • I am quick learner and remain knowledgeable of new products and processes. I am also highly motivated and self-starter with the ability to work with minimal direction, able to effectively interact with team members, as well as, clients and customers.  • I have several years of experience both in large enterprise environments as well as in smaller network atmospheres. I can perform software and hardware installations and upgrades; troubleshoot diverse hardware and software environments. Work Experience Data Center Architect Baume and Associates April 2019 to Present • Responsible for reverse engineering of an existing data center for relocation into a new facility.  • Identification of existing assets for relocation.  • Create the Basis-of-Design drawings (SOR) to match the physical requirements of the data center, to include but not limited to physical/architectural requirements, power and cooling capacities, mechanical, electrical and fire protection systems.  • Create Basis-of-Design Drawings (BOD) - Develop preliminary drawings that include a data center floor plan and schematic designs.  • Estimate Rough Order-of-Magnitude Construction Costs (ROM) - Develop an estimate of construction costs and create an installation schedule based on the approved conceptual design.  • Progress Drawings - Working from the finalized SOR, create comprehensive design drawings for the new data center facility.  • Complete Design - Final design work is completed that reflects input from various in-house teams.  • Launch and directly oversee the final construction effort (Hands on) - Execute the construction plan, keeping the project on target and on budget. Network Telephony Engineer/Infrastructure Engineer TEKsystems November 2018 to March 2019 • Responsible for implementing, maintaining, supporting, developing and, in some cases, designing communication networks and platforms within an organization or between organizations, ensure the integrity of high availability network and infrastructure to provide maximum performance and stability.  • Configuration of telephone and voicemail services through a cloud based vendor.  • Creation and implementation of telephony processes, documentation and implementation of SOP's, documentation, system processes, working closely with management, counterparts, and end users to stabilize the integrity of the vendors' solutions.  • Responsible for the writing, distribution, collection, storage, and maintenance of documentation for both user and internal helpdesk usage.  • Analysis of data to be used in the compilation of documents to train colleagues on the correct interpretation of user profiles  • Revising outdated documents and ensuring that all staff is using the correct version.  • Standardizing of credential application for use within the West IP database and Active Directory. AFG Engineering Technician (Lead) ESP Services March 2016 to November 2018 • Installation and refresh of TVM, AFM, AFG, Revenue, & PVM equipment throughout the BART system.  • Head end Network (Cisco routers/switches/firewalls) hardware replacement, configuration/connectivity of same, & troubleshooting of issues.  • Lead and manage a small team (12) to accomplish the project goals.  • Inventory asset management.  • Working within various physical demands and time constraints to achieve the goals set forth. System Administrator IT Network January 2016 to March 2016 • Provide day to day support for all Server and Networking duties as well as provide level 2 support for IT Services team  • Maintain a stable Microsoft Windows Servers 2008/2012, both physical as well as VMWARE virtual environment utilizing ESXI 5.5  • Monitoring of Server architecture to ensure high availability  • Perform frequent server health checks and implement patches to ensure current revision level.  • Manage day to day operations of help desk, network administrators, and various technical staff members  • Maintain Cisco Network switches, routers and Palo Alto firewalls  • Maintain Altigen Phone VOIP phone system including configuration changes and OS upgrades.  • Participate in the planning, building, upgrading and maintenance of all Servers and Networking equipment  • Develop and deliver appropriate document for all IT related services Senior Network Engineer WideOrbit October 2015 to December 2015 • Evaluate alternative technologies and architectures in relation to infrastructure needs. Interface with management and vendors to develop and implement new solutions to meet business requirements.  • Design and manage the rollout of critical network infrastructures to support products and services, on both a strategic (long term) and tactical (immediate term) level.  • Perform analytical, technical, cost analysis and CAPEX development work in the planning, design, installation and on-going administration and management of core data networks.  • Ensure that network infrastructure is fully documented and performing as required for internal and customer SLA guarantees and expectations by means of specific metrics and measurements.  • Oversee and manage operations of helpdesk and server administrators  • Responsible for making changes to the corporate and cloud firewalls to align with the transition from an all Cisco network to a Cisco/Juniper network.  • VPN/Tunneling Configurations to include IPSEC and SSL  • Caballing of both copper and fiber to industry standards  • Senior Network engineer for all global corporate nodes.  • Create new and streamline existing network standards in preparation for cutover to the new network.  • Advise and conduct short and long-term planning to meet network requirements.  • Provide support for network connectivity or related network issues for the user and client community.  • Troubleshoot, diagnose and resolve network problems. Research, analyze and recommend the implementation of software or hardware changes to rectify network deficiencies and to enhance network performance.  • Provide technical services and support for the following areas Network level: WAN and LAN connectivity, routers, firewalls, and security  • Troubleshooting, configuration, and implementation of internal systems, cloud, VPN, and network infrastructure Senior Network Administrator Rainin Instrument LLC December 2014 to August 2015 • Install, support, and maintain network hardware and software, LANs, WAN's, internet and intranet systems, video camera surveillance system.  • Design, configure, test, and implement Cisco switches, routers, and wireless access points for SAP roll-out for new warehouse configuration.  • Avaya S8400 phone system/Voicemail configuration and maintenance.  • Lead the Helpdesk team to maintain, monitor and completely manage the company network infrastructure  • Assistant department manager, managing day to day operations of technical staff.  • Active Directory management. Set permissions for user's access; assign different levels of access to different levels of authority based on job duties of the resource.  • Monitoring and maintaining of all the Hardware and software in the organization.  • Complete troubleshooting of both software and Hardware problems.  • Provide suggestions on Hardware that needs to be upgraded, analyze the hardware requirements with actual usage requirements.  • Create new Hardware requirements and ability to design a new Plan for networking in the organization.  • Train and provide troubleshooting procedures to helpdesk personnel for first-line network issues.  • Analyze and isolate issues.  • Run, terminate, test, and configure data and telephony cabling.  • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability.  • Assist in physical and network security operations.  • Evaluate and modify system's performance.  • Determine network, system, and user requirements.  • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.  • Design and deploy networks.  • Perform network address assignment.  • Assign routing protocols and routing table configuration.  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Maintain network servers such as file servers, virtual machines, & VPN gateways.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  • General Helpdesk duties. Network Administrator Berkshire Hataway - San Francisco, CA February 2014 to November 2014 • Perform server administration activities to include, but not limited to, account management (creation/adjustments/deletions), monitoring and auditing system logs, back-ups and recovery, security, managing operating systems, and storage management.  • Hands on management of tech projects from inception through architecture, execution, QA and post launch.  • Manage and update user access permissions, data schemas, roll-backs, resets and integration with applications.  • Server Hardware maintenance  • Capacity planning/Architecture for network and server resources to include Visio drawings, and HVAC requirements  • Backup configuration and troubleshooting utilizing Symantec Backup Exec  • Storage architecture  • Cisco router and switch configuration  • Research, recommend, write test and integration plans, and purchase new technology  • Utilize network tools such as, Solarwinds, Secure CRT, Wireshark  • Disaster recovery architecture to off -site vendor Field Installation Manager Clean Hands Company August 2009 to February 2014 Part time  • Hardware and Process device engineering, marketing, customer service, & installation.  • Build and configure proprietary monitoring devices to the component level for deployment.  • Manage installations and install staff  • Create technical documentation for the building and installation of proprietary monitoring devices.  • Inventory control management.  • Consult, engineer, & assist with new device designs & implementation from inception/design phase through to field deployment and beyond. Senior Field Services Technician LEVEL 10 - St. Louis, MO April 2005 to February 2014 Part time  • Install, configure, troubleshoot, rack & stack network hardware refresh projects in multiple retail environments.  • Data and Telephony caballing to company standards within local code guidelines to include CAT5, 5e, 6, and optical fiber.  • Install and configure wireless networking hardware/software as well as various Wireless networking protocols to 802.11a/b/g standards.  • Troubleshoot hardware, software, network issues for various retail clients.  • Install and configure Cisco 800, 1700, 1800, 2900, 2950, 2960, 3500 series routers and switches.  • Oversee multiple new store openings to include architecture, implementation, cabling, POS, design center pc's, back office servers & pc's, etc.  • Manage and oversee technical staff for installations, repair, and troubleshooting  • Support of various Windows NT/2000/2003/2008/2012, UNIX, LINUX, and Sun servers within LAN/WANs.  • Deployment and configuration of Avaya, Cisco, Nortel, Toshiba, Panasonic phone systems within enterprise environments. Owner/Installer/Computer consultant Global Audio March 1993 to February 2014 • Install, configure, troubleshoot, rack & stack, caballing, & network architecture for small businesses up to and including larger enterprise applications, for PetSmart, Famous Footwear, Panera Bread, Office Depot, Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, The Children's Place, Pattonville School District, Atlantis Resort (Bahamas), US Government/Department of Defense, St. Louis Community College, Dollar General, among others.  • Build and configure new, refurbished and used PC's, Servers, laptops, and workstations (IBM, Dell, Compaq, HP, Acer, E-Machines and Gateway) Configuring (laptops/desktops) Pc's, servers, and enterprise class servers for business and personal use.  • Installation of audio/video equipment in both homes as well as in corporate enterprise environments for home theater, home automation, conference room/presentation, etc.  • Hands-on lead technician on several projects supervising multiple employees.  • Install new VOIP/wireless system. Decommission old router, switches, phones, Install new router, switch, phones, cable runs, cut over existing LEC lines, & troubleshoot/test new system.  • Configuration and implementation of Avaya, Cisco, Nortel, phone systems within enterprise environments.  • Medical device hardware and software validation within a pharmaceutical environment.  • Troubleshoot and validate MS clustering in a mixed MS Windows 2000/2003 environment to promote failover between multiple nodes within the cluster, all done at the behest of one of the larger manufactures of computer /server/ network/SAN equipment.  • Configuration and administration (including active directory/SMS/MOM architecture) of Windows 2000 network for personal and business usage  • Network caballing using cat 3, 5, 5e, 6, and optical fiber  • Component-level repair of electrical equipment and.  • Expertise in hard wiring of circuits, layout and transfer of patterns to new materials. Information Systems Administrator II BAE March 2013 to October 2013 Active security clearance)  Department of Defense  DISA (Defense Information Systems Agency) - CONUS  • Troubleshooting, repair of networking equipment both local/regional and throughout CONUS.  • Perform on-site installation of equipment for DISA and break-fix actions, replacing cards, router repair, ATM, Promina, Optical Transport Network & MSPP troubleshooting/repair and replacement, Installation, termination, and interconnection of a wide variety of cables, overall testing.  • Maintain and administer computer networks IT hardware/equipment and related computing environment including computer hardware, software, and related documentation  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software and hardware  • Network path (WAN/LAN) troubleshooting/repair. Network Design Engineer II Defense Information Systems Agency January 2011 to February 2013 Active security clearance)  Department of Defense    • Network Troubleshooting, Monitoring and configuration of Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet) & Unclassified-But-Sensitive Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet), Missions, ISIS adjacency and BGP, SME-PED, Predator & RPA circuits.  • Network Troubleshooting, Monitoring and configuration of Web Content Filtering, IAP (Internet Authorization Protocol routers) Increase security of Unclassified-But-Sensitive Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet), both from internal and external users. Better control over traffic that traverses IAPs in/out.  • To create a global security buffer capability between the Unclassified DOD Network and the Internet.  • Providing a framework for monitoring and controlling access to internet web traffic.  • Protection of internal servers and networks from intrusion to include mail, web, DNS etc.  • Real-time monitoring of NSA/CSS threat operations center (NTOC) IAP sensors.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of routers throughout enterprise/theater and beyond within a mixed Cisco & Juniper environment  • Configuration and implementation of Cisco UCM  • Liaison between Node Sites, Customers, LEC's, & Commercial vendors.  • Utilize various network tools such as Netcracker (similar to HP OpenView), NetCool  • Configuration of static routes, BGP, router interfaces, white lists, threat management & intrusion monitoring.  • Monitored and managed DISA networks supporting over 1 million customers worldwide.  • Remotely managed and configured Cisco (2611, 2811, 7509, 7513, 7609, 7613), Juniper (M7, M40, M120, T320, T640).  • Operated and troubleshot various crypto equipment.  • Troubleshooting utilizing tools such as Cisco call manager, NetCool, NCCM, WWOLSR, Palo Alto, Splunk, BMC Remedy, etc. Project Coordinator Blue Cross/Blue Shield/WellPoint/Health Link/Anthem February 2010 to August 2010 • Oversee day-to-day operations for deployment/refresh project.  • Manage deployment technician staff and assist with day to day steady state technical operations.  • Reverse engineer & troubleshoot various issues with proprietary deployment tools, and out of spec software package deployments.  • Inventory control of existing assets, as well as allocation of new hardware for refresh.  • Lead software-packaging team to ensure that software library packages were up to date and deploy-able.  • Software sponsor for several mission critical packages. Network Engineer AT&T August 2008 to January 2009 • Network troubleshooting and administration  • Configuration and administration of Cisco 7900 and 6500 blade series router/switch/firewalls.  • Daily hands-on administration and maintenance of network security equipment, including firewalls, IDS, and Router ACL's.  • Create/change firewall, router, and switch rules.  • Configure access though WAN to various LAN segments for the Special Events group of AT&T. Network Caballing installer TEKsystems October 2007 to December 2007 • Install cable trays, fiber back bone, and CAT6 cable for project at several government facilities  • Test and terminate CAT6 cable  • Install floor mount racks for patch panels  • Install and test fused 66 punch down blocks  • Installation of 100 pair CAT 6 phone/data cables  • Stitch cable for power a cellular field office. Network Architect/Document Control Specialist Grand Prix Speedways April 2006 to June 2006 • Overall network Engineer/Architect/Designer.  • Build network maps and designs, from cable drops.  • Design solutions for switches, routers, A/V, smart rooms, servers, and telephony.  • Design/build/stack equipment racks.  • Microsoft server networking.  • Responsible for building network design and specifying the equipment.  • Complete architecture of network, order, configure, and rack and stack equipment once delivered to the site. Cisco SAN Switch Specialist Sprint November 2005 to March 2006 • Administration of configuration of Cisco 9950 SAN switches.  • Configuration of Net App Storage appliances and HP, Sun, & Windows file servers.  • Provide storage management within a multi-tiered environment.  • Manage storage area networks (SAN) and highly available architectures, along with complex backup architectures including replication technologies  • Storage allocation experience.  • High availability solution design and implementation within a large production & test environment.  • Completing requirements analysis for new storage design solutions.  • Demonstrate an overall understanding of storage networking architecture.  • Windows scripting using various VB scripting tools.  • Research and Troubleshooting complex environments.  • Work was done either by working directly onsite as well as telecommuting. Lead Configuration Specialist Getronics January 2001 to April 2004 Part time  • Oversee multiple new store openings to include management of staff, architecture, implementation, cabling, POS, design center pc's, back office servers, wireless networking, pc's, etc.  • Configure and install routers and switches for network cut-over using company standards  • Troubleshoot hardware, software, as well as T1-DS3 ISP lines for routers during cut-over  • Support of various Windows NT/2000, UNIX, LINUX, and Sun servers within several network LAN/WANs  • Roll out/upgrade of several servers and workstations from Windows NT 4.0 to Windows 2000 Professional  • Create technical documentation to be used by configuration and end users.  • Remove & decommission old routers, switches, ADTRAN modems and replace with new equipment.  • Update the Cisco routers to newer 2600 series routers, replace Cabletron switches with more current Cisco switches, reconfigure T-1 cabling service to run through the new Cisco routers instead of the ADTRAN modems that had previously been in place  • Configure existing workstations and printers within the LAN to network configurations  • Replace & configure Jet Direct cards for various printers within the LAN  • Coordinate enhancement requests with local Telco's for upgrades to existing T-1 services. Education Certificate in Computer and Networking Science A Technological Advantage - St. Louis, MO January 1999 to December 2000 GED Hazelwood Central High School - Florissant, MO 1984 to 1987 Skills Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Dhcp, Juniper, Ras, Switching, Vpn, Avaya, Telephony, Cisco asa, Backup exec, Shark, Ghost, Ms exchange server 5.5, Symantec, Exchange server 5.5, Ms office, Hardware, Cabling, Data Center, Datacenter, Ethernet, NOC, Stacking Additional Information Technical Expertise  • Hardware: PC (IBM, Dell, Compaq, Build to spec) PC Server, Laptop, Cisco routers/switches/firewalls, VPN Servers, RAS Servers, IBM 3494 data tape storage, Dell TL4000 data tape storage.  • Operating Systems: Windows 2000-2012 Sever, Windows desktop 3.1 - 10.  • Applications: MS Office (95 - Office 365), Proxy Server, Seagate Backup Exec, Symantec Backup Exec 2010-2012, Adobe Acrobat 4.0-9, Agilent sniffer suite, Wire Shark, Cisco Works, MS Exchange Server 5.5/2012, Symantec/Norton Ghost.  • Networking: Cisco routing and switching, Juniper Routing, Cisco ASA (5505 - 5525) series firewalls, DNS, and DHCP configuration.  • Telephony: Avaya, Cisco, Nortel, Toshiba, Panasonic.