Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer Maricopa, AZ Work Experience Senior Network Engineer Arizona Nutrition Supplements - Chandler, AZ May 2017 to January 2019 • Responsible for all aspects of the network  • Implemented a System Center Configuration Manager to deploy operating system and maintain patch  management.  • Cleaned up Cisco switches and streamlined over 50 VLANS into logical network plan.  • Cleaned up 30+ VMs into precise, roll based, systems.  • Worked to produce workstation imaging.  • Built out new infrastructure to a new locations.  • Maintained day-to-day operations of the network.  • Oversaw the ticketing system and coordinated Jr. Engineers on general maintenance.  • Worked to move file systems from local storage to One Drive.  • Maintained Aztec redundancy and backup.  • Maintained video security systems  • Maintained Office 365 environment.  • Worked in Office 365 with PowerShell to maintain the environment, as well as to remove any dangerous  e-mails, that got through filters, company-wide.  • Used PowerShell extensively for off-boarding in AD as well as for many types of reports from AD. DFS expert Western Alliance Bank - Phoenix, AZ July 2016 to May 2017 • Created stable DFS environment as the bank worked through multiple acquisitions  • Responsible to creating, maintaining and documenting environment for handoff to their support teams  • Worked with security team to ensure encryption and DFS replication worked side by side  • Helped move multiple types of data and worked to make sure the migrations were seamless for hundreds  of end users.  • Set up the DFS system at 2 remote and redundant data centers to ensure high availability of all data. Senior Engineer/Level 3 Lead All Covered/KMBS - Phoenix, AZ 2003 to May 2016 Responsible for all aspects of client networks including writing and negotiating contracts, project plans  and budgets.  • Designed, built and maintained Windows networks VMWare and Exchange servers.  • Recommended and implemented new hardware into existing networks.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft Office applications.  • Recommended, installed and configured firewalls, VPN servers, and networks.  • Installed and maintained terminal servers.  • Used a variety of remote support applications.  • Oversee day to day operations in our Remote Support Center  • Supervised over twenty level one through level three engineers in a fast paced help desk environment. Network Engineer/Integrator/ Administrator Onsite Computer Services - San Jose, CA 2002 to 2003 • Responsibilities included the design, integration, and maintenance of computer networks for professional companies.  • I was responsible for recommending hardware and software upgrades to keep in step with the client's  changing needs.  • Responsibilities included keeping systems current with the latest security patches and fixes from Microsoft and other software vendors.  • I worked to keep both the servers up and the client workstations functioning. Problems I dealt with included analyzing and fixing DNS issues and first line end user support. Network Engineer/Consultant Michael Price Associates - Menlo Park, CA 2000 to 2002 • Designed, implemented and maintained computer networks for professional corporations.  • Designed networks, configured routers, and assembled computers  • I made several company-wide migrations from Novell to Widows 2000  • I worked heavily with Windows 2000 Active Directory and DFS.  • I was responsible for both reported problems and was responsible proactive solutions. Network Administrator/MIS Networks Telephony Corp - El Segundo, CA 1998 to 2000 • Set up and maintained users and equipment  • Installed and configured software and hardware  • Installed and troubleshot experimental, proprietary VOIP  • Maintained network integrity and upkeep network, servers and workstations.  • Responsible for network security, integrity, upkeep, backup, and software integration.  • Responsible for DNS on multiple domains.  • Responsible for user account maintenance and preventive maintenance. Junior Network Admin/System installer Edward's Technologies Incorporated - El Segundo, CA 1995 to 1998 • Installed and configured hardware and software Windows and Linux environments.  • Assisted in testing new software for deployment.  • Maintained internal computers, hardware, and software applications.  • Performed onsite installs and configuration of entertainment hardware and kiosks nationwide. Education High school or equivalent Skills Wireless (10+ years), Active directory (10+ years), Cisco (5 years), Dfs (10+ years), Dhcp (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), windows server (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Sonicwall (10+ years), Juniper (10+ years), Fortinet (10+ years), Sonicwall (10+ years), VMWare (10+ years), ILO (10+ years), DRAC (10+ years), WAP (10+ years), POE (10+ years), VPN (10+ years), SCCM (10+ years), ITIL (5 years), Backup (10+ years), AntiVirus, Anti Spyware (10+ years), Azure (2 years), Worldox (10+ years), IPv4 (10+ years), IPv6 (8 years), Outlook (10+ years), Office 365 (8 years), WSUS (10+ years), Sharepoint (10+ years), SNMP (10+ years), Wireless (10+ years), ESXi (10+ years), Maraki (2 years), VOIP (10+ years), Lync (10+ years), ITIL (5 years) Certifications/Licenses MCSE June 2002 to Present MSP May 2002 to Present MCSA June 2002 to Present