Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Kirkland, WA Work Experience Network Administrator American Express (Ekaria) April 2018 to April 2018 Duties: To keep up the computers and static networks for a 15 year old company that built and manages the American Express Rewards website. Main office is in Redmond with offices and servers in Toronto and Calgary Canada.  • General Cisco router/switch/firewall configuration & maintenance.  • Static routes/default route on cisco routers and switches.  • IP address sub-netting.  • Cisco HSRP (Hot Standby Router Protocol)/ Cisco ASA firewall redundancy configuration.  • Cisco VPN tunnel configuration/support.  • Cisco Access-list configuration/maintenance.  • F5 Big-ip configuration and maintenance.  • Create and maintain VIPS  • Create and maintain NATS/SNATS  • Sonic-wall firewall configuration/rules management/VPN tunnel configuration /VPN client configuration and support. Network Engineer NASA (Jacobs Technology) February 2018 to February 2018 Duties: The Network Engineer position creates, configures and maintains the network configurations that interface with various elements of Ground Support Equipment needed for support of the SLS/Orion spacecraft while processing, monitoring, and commanding the vehicles through assembly, testing, and launch.  • Participate and contribute in network team meetings.  • Reviews user requirements and needs for new network configurations and performs analysis, design, implementation, installation and documentation related to new configurations that is acquired.  • Provide real-time troubleshooting, anomaly resolution and system recovery as necessary.  • Monitors the operation of the different LCS Network Systems and responds to problems by diagnosing and correcting errors in configuration or revision.  • Reporting network operational status by gathering, prioritizing information; managing projects.  • Maximizes network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshooting network problems and outages; scheduling upgrades; collaborating with system architects on network optimization  • Updated Pub Documents.  • Configuring and maintaining Extreme Networks switches  • Configuring and maintaining Linux, AIX and windows servers at the Hardware and BIOS levels Network Engineer XOC Comcast Cable July 2017 to July 2017 Duties: Overnight Coverage Operational Engineer to implement configurations on 1G and 10G RUR/RER port sessions including pre/post validation. Clean up of old 10G and 1G port configurations, including IP address and descriptions. This also includes cleanup of DNS and IP control. These are all projects related to RUR/RER and SUR migrations.  • Participate and contribute in network team meetings.  • Cisco ASR9K and Juniper MX960 routers for the SUR platforms.  • Upgrade Juniper EX-4200 upgrades for the UEN.  • Regularly scheduled capacity augments as well as OS upgrades on the Arris E6K and the Cisco CBR8.  • Used Comcast's Net Admin tool to make the changes.  • Need Overnight Coverage to make the cable moves and implement new configurations.  • Updated Pub Documents.  • Worked in the XOC which has the lead on these maintenances.  • Executed the standardized SMOP's for these changes. Network Engineer & Tech Manager/ Network LTE Test Engineer AT&T October 2013 to February 2015 Duties: Engineered and Managed AT&T Calico 3G LTE Networks. Other duties include regression testing and MSP testing for AT&T's Wireless 3G and 4G Networks.  • Support MSP Big Data Stream Testing  • Participate and contribute in network team meetings.  • Cisco 7613 Routers for the Calico LTE Network.  • Upgrade Cisco Sami blades with correct IOS upgrades.  • Troubleshoot the SPEW-PCEF Gates in the Sami blades before putting into AT&T LTE production.  • Hire New Employees for the Calico LTE Network Team.  • Sami Blade module Swaps.  • Updated Pub Documents.  • Regression testing from the user cell phone for customer use on AT&T 4G and 3G Networks.  • Generate Reports for group discussion on the Calico LTE Network on the above equipment. Network Implementation Services Engineer\AZURE VPN Data Centers Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA January 2013 to May 2013 Duties: Worked with Microsoft Senior Network Engineers to build IPSEC VPN tunnels from customer's site to corporate site. Ensuring PSK values, Crypto Maps and access-lists are correct for VPN connectivity for AZURE Virtual Machines. Allocated correct IP's(IPV4) for customers VM's and gateways for their AZURE VM's.  Worked with MSIT Team to replace and decommission EOL devices. DTAP's, 6500 Series switch's and 6348's to 6148's for upgrading modules on the 6500 switch. Install and upgrade Pub Documents for Microsoft Corp. Net all over the Microsoft Redmond Campus.  • Respond to tier 3 network support requests by setting up IPSEC VPN tunnel's for Microsoft AZURE customers.  • Support MSIT team  • Participate and contribute in network team meetings.  • Cisco ASR 1006/1001 for VPN devices.  • Replace EOL equipment with correct upgrades.  • Cisco 6500 E Series Switch's, Cisco 4500/2900 switch's HP switch's.  • Cisco 3500 Routers.  • Modules 6348/6148 Swaps.  • Updated Pub Documents.  • Issued IP's for customer use on AZURE VM's.  • Implemented IPSEC VPN's on above equipment. Network Engineer Coinstar - Bellevue, WA August 2012 to October 2012 Duties: Plans, designs and implements local and wide-area network solutions between Coinstair's coin and Redbox machines and ensure the platforms and protocols are both stable and scalable. With Senior Engineers assist engineering and architectural responsibilities for the existing and new network systems. Supports/troubleshoots tier 3 network issues and coordinate with vendors for installation of such items as routers and switches. Assist with training and proposal writing. Assist with project planning, cost analysis and vendor comparisons.  • Respond to tier 3 network support requests by troubleshooting various network services.  • Collect and compile utilization reports to support capacity analysis.  • Participate and contribute in network design meetings.  • Cisco ASA 5540's for VPN devices.  • Juniper EX Switches. Riverbed WAN Optimizers.  • Compile detailed network documentations  • Responsible for evaluating current systems and implementing changes to enhance network performance.  • Collaborate with administrators and engineering team. GNS Network Implementation Engineer Microsoft Corporation February 2012 to April 2012 Duties: Involved with device implementations with Build team and Project Management team for GNS Networks for Microsoft Corporation.  • Write MOP's (Method of Procedures) and put them in the correct GNS change management before being approved and implemented. The equipment involved is: Juniper 960 MXS Routers, Cisco 7010 and 5000 Nexus Switches, Cisco 6500, 3500's and 4948 Switches. BigIP 8900's and 6900's F-5 load balancers. Used OOB Modem tools: Cisco 3800's and 3700's to console in and set up testing and implementing of new network parameters, set up new VLANs and decommission old VLANs. Put in new ACL's decommissioned old ones. New device configurations according to customer's specifications and hardware needed. Decommission old device hardware and configurations. Proper labeling of the hardware equipment.  • Handled network support escalation, helping to manage network performance, working issues for customers SLA's for Microsoft's clients and ensuring a smooth transition between shifts.  • Protocols on routers used: BGP, OSPF, and MPLS with IPV6 and IPV4.  • Cisco ASR 1004's and 1002's for VPN devices.  • Juniper Firewalls ISG 2000's and 3000's.  • Stamp Deployments consisting of whole network deployments.  • Management Switches: Cisco 3500's which is used also as media converters.  • Top of Rack switches Quantum and Cisco 3500 and 4900 Series. Tier 1-3 Network Engineer Microsoft Corporation September 2010 to February 2012 Duties: Involved with monitoring and troubleshooting and escalating Network issues for Microsoft Corporation for the BOS-F Federal client USDA in the MOC at Microsoft Headquarters in Redmond, WA. Worked on shifts in a 24/7/ operational support environment.    • Monitor and troubleshoot USDA networks and escalate networking issues to a Tier 2 Level Engineer. The equipment involved is: Juniper 9600 MXS Routers, Cisco 7010 Switches, Cisco 4948 Switches and F-5 load balancers including all L3 and L2 and L1 for the Global Foundation Services. Used OOB Modem tools, set up testing of new network parameters, and monitor the routers and switches ensuring device is operating and up 24/7 network in USDA environment.  • Handled network support escalation, helped to manage network performance, worked issues for customers SLA's for Microsoft's clients and ensured a smooth transition between shifts with shift turnover log.  • Protocols on routers used: BGP, OSPF, and ISIS with IPV4 and IPV6 IP's.  • Assisted with F-5 load balancer troubleshooting and write ups for new network cloud configurations.  • Juniper Firewalls with HP IDS. Staff Sergeant U.S. Air Force Reserve, 482 Fighter Wing - Homestead Air Reserve Base, FL February 2005 to February 2011 Homestead Air Reserve Base, FL / Air Reserve Base 439 Westover ARB, Chicopee MA (Active Reserve)  Dates: 2/05 to 2/11  Job Title: (E-5) Staff Sergeant: Crew Chief  • Duties: Perform scheduled inspections, functional checks, and preventive maintenance on C-5's and F-16's and the aircraft's installed equipment.  • Prior to flight, inspect and perform various functional checks of the aircraft as well as ensure that the aircraft has been properly serviced with fuel, hydraulic fluid and liquid oxygen.  • After flight, I ensure the aircraft is still in "operational ready" condition. I maintain and repair all parts of the aircraft, and if any malfunction occurs, I request, through maintenance control, assistance from the shop concerned. GCSC Network Engineer AT&T - Durham, NC August 2010 to September 2010 Duties: Involved with monitoring and troubleshooting the WAN Networks for AT&T's Global Client Call Center in AT&T's Network Operation Center in Durham, NC. Worked in a 24/7 operational support environment. This included over 14 different clients on 14 different WANs.  • Performed daily systems administration with AT&T's AOTS ticketing system.  • Troubleshoot networks CE routers, PE routers and Telco ISP services to ensure WAN connectivity. Used OOB Modem tools, set up testing of CSU/DSU, and Demark points with circuit providers when no access to routers and ensuring device is powered up and ready to put back into network.  • Handled network support escalation, helping to manage network performance, working issues for customers SLA's for AT&T clients and ensuring a smooth transition between shifts with shift turnover log.  • Protocols on routers used: BGP, OSPF, EIGRP and RIP.  • Network deployments issued with Telco's on circuit issues.  • WAN Protocols: Packet over SONET at 10Gbs speed, Frame Relay VPN's, PPP, HDLC and ISDN. Network Engineer Premise Networks Inc - Graham, NC February 2009 to May 2009 • Duties: Performing upgrade integration of Fort Lee's, (US Army), Networks using Cisco 3560's and 6500-E Series switches. POE for VOIP installations.  • Installed and configured to US government standards. BGP and OSPF routing protocols.  • Support the introduction of new hardware platforms to the network.  • Planned and developed new core, distribution and access layers with fiber for speeds up to 10GBps.  • Coordinate and interact daily with Verizon Federal Inc. and the US Army Field Service Engineers and operational base engineers and Technicians on the new networks.  • Set up the lab for the startup of the new hardware. Worked with internal and external groups to resolve implementation issues.  • Once installed performed daily systems administration, troubleshoot networks: routers, switches, gateways, hubs and firewalls for core, distribution and access layers.  • Used SNMP for monitoring/management of the hardware. Self Studies WIA thru State of Florida - Maitland, FL May 2008 to December 2008 • Studies: I studied for and recertified my CCNA and CCNP certifications.  • During the course of my studies, I designed WAN technologies, including private-line facilities, Frame-Relay and VPN technologies, and configured numerous networks with routing protocols such as BGP, IGRP, RIP/RIP Version 2 ,EIGRP, IS-IS and OSPF.  • Exposed to Cisco Call Manager, Cisco AS5400 Universal Gateways.  • Additionally, thru self-studies, I've provided trouble resolution on WAN and LAN equipment, including Cisco routers and switches using Cisco Works for trouble shooting data.  • Successfully recertified both my Cisco CCNA and CCNP certifications.  • Performed daily systems administration, troubleshoot networks on the schools routers, switches, gateways, hubs and firewalls. Engineering Technician B Harris Corporation - Melbourne, FL November 2007 to May 2008 • Duties: Perform scheduled inspections, functional checks, installation of materials and preventive maintenance on the new reflectors (Satellites), worked in all aspects of stocking of equipment and training.  • Coordinated and interacted daily with managers and inspectors in multiple departments.  • Testing of the satellite prior to the reflector being put in space. This satellite is used for Commercial Communications and was done in a clean room environment.    Employer: Walt Disney World Magic Kingdom Resort, Lake Buena Vista FL  Dates: 6/07 to11/07  Job Title: Ride and Show Technician IBEW Local 606  • Duties: Scheduled inspections, functional checks, automation checks, installation of materials and preventive maintenance on the parade floats at the Magic Kingdom.  • The Disney "Make a Wish Parade" and "The Magical Night Light" parade as well as the seasonal parades.  • Towed the parade floats up hills and over obstacles.  • Installed DC Motors for drive systems, AC/DC control units, communication systems, lighting, and animation sounds for the parade floats.  • Installed navigation sensors to sink up the music during the parade operation and kept the batteries charged for the next performances. Wireless LAN Installation Engineer Harris Corporation - Melbourne, FL March 2007 to May 2007 • Duties: Wiring, installing Access Points, Antennas, and End User Bases for a LAN Network on Patrick Air Force base in Florida.  • Punching in the cable, testing and debugging of the CAT 5 Cable, switches and AP's in the Network.  • Installing, configuring, and troubleshooting the wireless peripherals and protocols.  • Using 802.11 Network Architecture to perform site surveys and performance tuning of classified radio frequencies used in the LAN configuration.  • Analysis and characterization of data to identify problems in the wireless network.  • Performed daily systems administration, troubleshoot networks: routers, switches, gateways, AP's and controllers. Installed new access layers and distribution layers.  • Wireless networks equipment using Cisco AP's, Antenna's using Wireless 802.11a/b/g LAN/WAN installations using, SSID, WPA, WPA2, DSSS, OFDM, PSK, BSS, ESS NOC Administrator/ Network Engineer Sprint - Maitland, FL June 2006 to February 2007 • Supported the NOC and field personnel, operations, and engineering with the resolution of day-to-day issues, problems, and questions. Issues will include, but not limited to, working with the wireless access network, layer-2 networks, microwave and fiber transport, and server applications.  • Used Cisco Call Manager.  • OSI 1-4 Layered Protocols.  • Monitored Network KPIs and taking proactive action to avert network performance degradation.  • Used protocol analyzers, Cisco Works, Wireshark, and sniffers for trouble shooting data circuits.  • Used Remedy for trouble tickets. Lots of phone contact with clients and TELCO companies for WAN networks.  • Participated in team meetings.  • Ensured that the priority time-critical traffic receive the network resources.  • Juniper Networks J-series routers, EX-series switch's, SSL VPN, Intrusion Detection Devices.  • Performed daily systems administration, troubleshoot networks: routers, switches, gateways, hubs and firewalls.  • Handled network support escalation, managed network performance, and network deployments. Staff Sergeant U.S. Air Force Reserve, 439 Westover ARB - Chicopee, MA November 2005 to April 2006 Chicopee MA (Active Duty)  Dates: 11/05 to 4/06, Sheppard AFB TX, Dover AFB DE  Job Title: (E-5) Staff Sergeant: Crew Chief    • Duties: Trained to perform scheduled inspections, functional checks, and preventive maintenance on C-5's and the aircraft's installed equipment. (Honorable Discharge) Field Service Test Technician 2 Varian Semi-Conductor Group - Gloucester, MA June 2005 to November 2005 • Duties: Wiring, assembling, setting up equipment, debugging and testing Varian Semi-Conductor Ion Implant Machines.  • Test and read electrical/electronic schematic diagrams and installing the proper software to properly line up the machines to the client specifications before shipping the product to owner overseas. Network Operation Center Network Analyst/ CCNA, CCNP Universal Music Group - Universal City, CA June 2004 to January 2005 • Duties: Coordinate and interact daily with customers and multiple departments in a NOC environment at Universal City Tower, Universal Studios CA.  • Responsible for maintaining Universal's WAN which needed to be kept up 24/7 for Universal Music Group.  • OSPF, with BRI and PRI lines. Nortel VPN's and ISDN/DDR, CSU/DSU Modems using Frame Relay switched circuits for WAN use.  • WAN included Europe, Asia, South America and USA.  • Used HP Open View to monitor and troubleshoot circuits.  • Remedy tracking to document circuit problems & Telco problems.  • Handled network support escalation, managing network performance, and network deployments. Education Bachelor's in Technical Management in Electronic Engineering Technology DeVry University Pomona - Chicago, IL November 1993 to Present Associate in Math and Science Orange Coast College - Costa Mesa, CA January 1990 to December 1993 High School Diploma Santa Fe High School - Santa Fe Springs, CA June 1978 Skills Customer Service, Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Sales, Cisco, VPN, MPLS, DNS, Cisco Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/david-hunt-13278618 Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: SSGT Certifications/Licenses CCNA November 2002 to February 2017 ·        Cisco Certifications CSCO10575721, CCNA, CCNP Since 2003 (15 years)  CCNP February 2003 to February 2017 ·        Cisco Certifications CSCO10575721, CCNA, CCNP Since 2003 (15 years) 