Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems/ Network Adminisrator Glenside, PA IT professional with over 15 years experience working with Windows Server/Active Directory beginning with Windows 2000, with over 15 years of experience working with GPO's/OU's, Active Directory Users and Computers, DNS, DHCP, AD Replication & Trusts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator PITC Institute - Wyncote, PA January 2019 to May 2019 Involved in all day to day IT operations to include staff and students. Worked with Gsuite, multiple on-line applications, 8x8 VOIP phones, RDP setups, TV setups, tablets, phones, AV, Firewall maintenance, Switch configuration, data drops and ensuring site connectivity. IT Consultant Miles Technologies - Lumberton, NJ March 2018 to October 2018 Worked with various IT technologies to include O365, Exchange 2010, 2016, multiple ERP systems, proprietary software suites, MS Office (all), MS server 2016, GPO's, multiple A/V suites, DNS, AD migrations, user creation/disabling, vpn setups on multiple platforms (cisco, netgear), cisco/netgear/sonic firewall setups. Independent Consultant Tri-State Area/New York January 2016 to March 2018 Corporate IT Support, Tri-State Area/New York - Catering to small and mid-size businesses. Project work completed:  • Adding/refreshing/decommissioning workstation and laptops.  • Migrating/creating new AD domains, creating groups/users, updating GPO/OU's, maintaining local & pubic DNS records.  • Create/secure new and existing Wi-Fi networks for both employees and customers.  • Installing applications/peripherals, migrating data, ensuring ERP/SQL functionality and securing network devices behind routers/firewalls.  • Installing/updating Anti-Virus/Anti-Malware on end points and servers and ensuring best practices are maintained when configuring internet/email routing & configuration.  • Most recent projects completed for travel agencies, doctors offices and automotive repair facilities. Network Supervisor/Team Lead United Refrigeration - Philadelphia, PA August 2004 to December 2015 Hands on role working with a team of 5 IT specialists. Responsible for the entire company's network, including all 350 branch locations within North America as well as all European sites. Maintain, optimize and manage 120 virtual servers (on a 650 node network) via Active Directory, including Microsoft WSUS server, Barracuda Spam, Proxy & Load Balancers, enterprise anti-virus server (Kaspersky), Windows servers 2000/2003/2008/2012, SQL 2000/2005/2008 servers, Domino server 8.5/9, Listserv, multiple middle-ware servers, Citrix meta-frame/Presentation servers and several file and print servers. Responsible for over 350 Cisco & Juniper routers/switches across the LAN and WAN via VPN network. Installed, configured and backed up various Ubuntu servers hosting multiple applications within the enterprise. Administer all thin clients throughout the organization. Responsible for all desktop pc's (including new builds/images, patching & inventory control). Manage 10 domino servers to include over 3,000 email accounts within Lotus Notes. Work with various vendors to purchase and secure all hardware and software (including communication/data lines) for the entire organization. Maintain inter-operability with all site locations and new acquisitions that reside on the company WAN. Run daily reports and backups on all servers. Work with e-commerce team in maintaining and supporting several servers, applications & databases.    Major Projects for United Refrigeration:  • Transitioned eCommerce hosting from outsourced to in-house saving over 250k annually  • Conceptualized, Implemented & managed complete WAN restructuring from 325 low bandwidth frame relay lines to high speed dsl/broadband vpn network, saving over 650k annually  • Lead project manager in moving all physical servers to VMware virtual environment within datacenter, with an annual estimated savings in excess of 200k  • Managed the migration of all Windows 2003 servers to 2008/2012 along with the decommissioning of servers as it related to lifecycle management Network Administrator Arbor Career Center - Philadelphia, PA January 2001 to August 2004 Administer all Windows 2000/XP desktops and Terminal Servers (with Active Directory). Provide ongoing maintenance and security by securing ports/monitoring SOHO firewall and deploying service packs via Microsoft WUS and group policy via Active Directory. Maintain Access database by creating user accounts, developing custom queries and redesigning each front end as necessary. Create and modify reports using Microsoft Access and Crystal Reports. Teach client's Microsoft Office suite including Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. Work with vendors in purchasing/upgrading network infrastructure and software. Troubleshoot and reimage all desktops/laptops as needed. Responsible for the in house CTX telephone system. Backup all servers using Veritas. Desktop Technician Glaxo/Smith Kline - Philadelphia, PA March 2000 to January 2001 Provide first and secondary desktop support for all users including executives and out of office employees. Responsible for building and imaging new dell and compaq laptops and desktop computers to conform to company standards. Effectively multi-task duties while maintaining prompt and effective customer relations regarding problem tickets. Communicate with team members any issues or escalating problems that need to be addressed. Desktop Technician RHI Consulting - Mount Laurel, NJ January 1999 to March 2000 Accountable for the installation, maintenance, troubleshooting and connectivity of PC's to the network. Perform testing and validation to ensure proper performance of software, device drivers and peripherals. Configure PC's with proper protocols, profiles and clients as the job details. Maintain a professional appearance and attitude while dealing with executives and office workers. Education BA in Management Information Systems Eastern University - Saint Davids, PA May 2007 Certificate Chubb Institute - Cherry Hill, NJ June 2001 Certificate Delaware Valley College - New Britain, PA July 2000 Master's in Information Technology Leadership LaSalle University - Philadelphia, PA Skills Customer Service, Call Center, Customer Care, CSR, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware