Field Service Technician Field Service Technician Service Delivery Technician II Aurora, CO Extensive experience with Windows XP Professional and Windows 7 Enterprise. Active Directory, Exchange, Citrix Metaframe and Citrix terminal setups, ECM/VMC (automated software rollout technologies used to deploy patches/upgrades of software and security), Dameware, Hyena, Microsoft Office products including XP/2007/2010, Configure Cisco VoIP Phones using Cisco Call Manager and other applications such as Cisco Unity for voicemail, Cisco Desktop Agent, Cisco Desktop Administrator, TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, and support handheld devices configuration and deployment. I adapt easily to all situations as proven by my varied experience and responsibilities in a wide range of industries. Service Now ticketing system currently using. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Field Service Technician Stewart Title - Denver, CO November 2018 to Present Travel to different sites in Colorado and assist with software and hardware issues. Program network printers and check printers. Use Bomgar to remote a user to provide assistance. I am currently the only FST in Colorado. Service Technician MDC Holdings Inc. - Greenwood Village, CO May 2013 to August 2018 Responsibilities  Helpdesk/Desktop Support  Remote assistance, answering phones, imaging laptops and desktops  Provide assistance with hardware/software,smartphones, printers and other peripherals.  Use Track-It Helpdesk ticketing software. Service Delivery Technician II Ent Federal Credit - Union, CO December 2007 to January 2013 Director of IT Operations US Alliance Federal Credit Union, Denver, CO - Merged with Ent  * Respond to requests for hardware repair, installations, upgrades, network, connectivity problems and printer problems/setup requests  * Respond to requests for software problems, installations, upgrades, and troubleshoot tickets  * Configure, build/rebuild, and deploy workstations  * Maintain security configurations for workstations and images  * Maintain and update a variety of images for workstation deployments  * Assist with workstation life cycle management  * Responsible for handling incoming Service Desk calls, entering them into Cherwell (Help Desk Software) and provide good call resolution time  * Write Knowledge Base articles for procedures  * Worked on Windows 7 deployment, 600+ users  * Mentor new users in all aspects of Service Delivery within the company Systems & Network Operations Specialist Westerra Federal Credit Union - Denver, CO August 2005 to December 2007 Gateway Credit Union, Denver, CO - 8/2005-12/2007  * Oversee all phases of daily, weekly, month-end, quarter-end and year-end processes from preparation to completion.  * Responsible for accuracy of tape library, including core operating system backups and network backups.  * Troubleshoot and analyze problems and review options for corrections.  * Monitors all databases, job log errors and hard disk space.  * Responsible for maintaining I.S. related documentation and procedures including computer hardware/software inventory, device identifications and schedules.  * Develop and maintain programming of special electronic forms, front line macros and enhancement products.  * Maintain printers, PC's and peripheral devices.  * Liaison between vendors and Gateway Credit Union. Consultant No company - Aurora, CO August 2003 to August 2005 Identified and removed viruses, spyware and adware.  * Upgraded BIOS, software and hardware.  * Installed and configured firewalls and spyware.  * Troubleshoot hardware and software issues, identified the problems and made appropriate repairs.  * Installed RF switch in major retail company. Chief Information Officer Aurora Schools Federal Credit Union - Aurora, CO March 2002 to August 2003 Set-up IT department from the ground floor, creating the policies, procedures, and guidelines.  * Created disaster recovery plan, backup schemes and security policies.  * Negotiated purchase of PC's.  * Converted Novell LAN to Windows 2000 Active Directory.  * Project manager for upgrading infrastructure.  * Managed department budget.  * Upgraded telephone system from analog lines to in-house PBX and digital phone system, consisting of DIDs.  * Trained and supported end users and clients.  * Troubleshoot and repair hardware and software issues.  * Maintained intrusion detection system, backups, internet and email.    Network Administrator Denver Community Federal Credit Union, Denver, CO - 12/2000-3/2002  * Provided support to end users.  * Developed Intranet  * Maintained and monitored intrusion detection system, backups, internet and email.  * Troubleshoot and repair hardware and software issues.  * Mentored the Systems Administrator and Help Desk Administrator. Network Administrator Denver Community Federal Credit Union - Denver, CO December 2000 to March 2002 Provided support to end users.  * Developed Intranet  * Maintained and monitored intrusion detection system, backups, internet and email.  * Troubleshoot and repair hardware and software issues.  * Mentored the Systems Administrator and Help Desk Administrator. Network Administrator Talisman Partners, Ltd - Englewood, CO February 2000 to October 2000 Provided support to software programmers and clients.  * Setup PC's and performed repairs on hardware and software.  * Coordinated vendors for T1 installation and problem solving. Information Management Systems Administrator Acculabs, Inc - Golden, CO July 1998 to February 2000 Wrote scripts to customize menus for environmental chemists in LIMS (Laboratory Information Management System)  * Converted workstations from UNIX environment to Windows LAN maintaining connectivity using terminal emulators.  * Setup PC's, email and intranet.  * Troubleshoot and repair hardware and software issues. Manager Sample Control - Arvada, CO October 1997 to June 1998 Managed staff of Sample Control Department.  * Maintained database.  * Supervised the chain of custody and integrity of samples. Manager Sample Control - Golden, CO February 1994 to October 1997 Managed staff of Sample Control & Reporting Departments.  * Maintained database.  * Supervised the chain of custody and integrity of samples. Education BS in Technical Management DeVry University - Denver, CO February 2009 Certificate of Achievement Cisco Systems Networking Academy - Aurora, CO Associate of Applied Science Denver Technical College - Denver, CO Associate of Arts in Chemistry Red Rocks Community College - Golden, CO Hinds Community College - Raymond, MS Skills Help Desk, Service Desk, Active Directory, Desktop Support, MS Office (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Troubleshooting for Maintenance Technicians — Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply mechanical reasoning when repairing malfunctioning hydraulic, pneumatic, and electrical systems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mnnkmn6m20m1z7sj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Volunteer at Food Bank of the Rockies