IT Director IT Director Senior Level IT professional with 17 years experience in manufacturing environment. Claremont, CA Information technology professional with comprehensive experience  in ERP/MRP systems, project management, network design and  administration, Business Continuity, and web development for over 17 years. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Director AGSE LLC - Santa Fe Springs, CA May 2016 to Present Direct information technology function by aligning IT resources with strategic  vision of company; ensure integrity and security of corporate information  systems; provide direction and problem solving utilizing IT-related solutions.  Ensure highest level of cohesion, support and availability of organization's  Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems and drive global strategic ERP  initiatives.  Utilize in depth knowledge of fundamental ERP component modules including  Supply Chain, Distribution, Service, Finance, and HR in Project Engineering and Manufacturing environment.  Liaise with business unit partners to ensure that software implementations,  system operations and process improvements meet fidelity needs of organization as a whole.  Develop and manage technology plan and overall design, analysis, and implementation of enterprise data warehouse, business intelligence/analytics and all reporting systems.  Perform analysis of current business processes to recommend automation  improvements and/or process reengineering suggestions.  Oversee planning, organizing and execution of all IT functions.  Maintain all management information systems; upgrades hardware and updates software as required.  Provide user support and manage IT staff and service providers. IT Manager AGSE LLC - Santa Fe Springs, CA June 2010 to May 2016 Worked with leadership to develop vision and roadmap for information  technology to promote company advancement and growth. Assessed and analyzed processes to improve ERP system.  Met IT financial objectives by forecasting requirements, preparing annual  budget, scheduling expenditures, analyzing variances and initiating corrective  action to ensure financial health of company.  Conducted research on potential technology solutions and implementations in support of new initiatives, opportunities, and strategy efforts.  Managed IT staffing, including recruitment, supervision, scheduling, training and development, evaluation, and disciplinary actions.  Developed, implemented, and adhered to all IT policies and procedures,  including those for architecture and infrastructure, security, disaster recovery, standards, equipment purchasing, and service provision.  Authorized and oversaw deployment, monitoring, maintenance, development, and support of all hardware and software including end-user devices and  applications.  Acted as escalation point for resolving network related issues/complaints for users when necessary including contacting all parties directly.  Oversaw negotiation and administration of vendor, outsource provider, and consultant contracts and service agreements.  Implemented information technology strategies, policies, and procedures by evaluating organization outcomes; identifying problems; evaluating trends; and  anticipating requirements.  Maintained quality service by establishing and enforcing technology standards  aligned with company core values.  Implemented disaster recovery and back-up procedures and information  security and control structures. Network Administrator AGSE LLC - Santa Fe Springs, CA January 2006 to May 2010 Responsible for keeping network functioning at optimal levels, including LAN, WAN and connection with external networks.  Identified root causes of error conditions and efficiently resolved system  problems; server maintenance and backup; software maintenance and patch  level administration; managed application change control and deployed  internal and external applications to QC and production systems.  Assigned and maintained user logon and access privileges, safeguarding  company data from loss or corruption, and protecting internal network users from outside threats, including hackers, viruses, spyware and malware.  Established network specifications by conferring with users; analyzing  workflow, access, information, and security requirements; designing router  administration, including interface configuration and routing protocols.  Prepared users by designing and conducting training programs; providing  references and support.  Upgraded network by conferring with vendors; developing, testing, evaluating, and installing enhancements. Network Engineer Teknica ITG - Rancho Cucamonga, CA 2004 to 2005 Oversaw design, installation, configuration and maintenance of network  infrastructure.  • Worked with small business owners with their IT needs. System Support Specialist IBM - Santa Fe Springs, CA 2003 to 2004 Education Master's in Information Systems University of Phoenix 2008 to 2009 BS in Computer Engineering AMA University 1996 to 2000 Skills Erp, Mrp, System administration, Strategic Planning, Vmware, Customer Service, Exchange, Network Administration, Exchange, Network Administration, Excel, Strategic Planning, Vendor Management, Customer Service, Vmware, SQL, Disaster Recovery, IT Management, Active Directory, Cisco, VoIP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-achondo?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BDCRk6rmcTSe%2B9xnCwlxR1g%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information Top Skills    Vendor and IT Team Management  ERP Implementation  System Administration  Network Design and Configuration  Virtualization  Backup and Disaster Recovery Implementation  CRM implementation and Ecommerce website maintenance