AT&T Flexware SME AT&amp;T Flexware SME Professor - CCNA Instructor - Ana G. Mendez University System Trujillo Alto, PR Work Experience AT&T Flexware SME AT&T - San Juan, PR February 2019 to Present Team leader for Flexware federal accounts and International  Troubleshooting VNF and automation platforms  Monitoring reports and creating solutions  Coaching group on new process and trainings Professor - CCNA Instructor Ana G. Mendez University System - Carolina, PR 2016 to Present • Instruct Students in the materials to obtain the CCNA certification  • Instruct Students in the materials to obtain the CCNA Security certification  • Maintain Curriculum records in accordance with the University System Network Engineer AT&T - San Juan, PR 2012 to Present • Implementing AT&T Flexware technology that involves SDN & NFV  • Configuring Velocloud SD-WAN on Federal accounts and Internationally   • Routing Engineering with Cisco Technology and Juniper Networks   • Trainer of AT&T Flexware and Networking Technologies  • Managing Core routers, Multilayer Switch, Wireless Technology and Security  Network Engineer and administrator Protective Security System - San Juan, PR 2011 to 2012 • Led the logical and physical networking of the Electric Power Authority of PR  • Network Designing and implementation of Surveillance Cameras  • Implementing VPN technologies and Servers applications  • Manage and dispatch a group of technicians to the field Technology Coordinator Escuela Daskalos - San Juan, PR 2009 to 2011 • In charge of the Technology department of the entire campus School  • Windows Server Administrator with active directory and firewall policies  • Inventory of all computers, servers, laptops, and network devices. Education Assoc.Degree in Science and Technology- Network Engineer Universidad del Este - Carolina, PR January 2010 to May 2012 Skills Business Operations (10+ years), Cisco (9 years), Instructor (2 years), Security (9 years), Wireless (10+ years), juniper network (2 years), CCNP, BGP, Ccna, Juniper, Switch, WAN, Nexus, Ospf, Router Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) August 2019 to August 2022 CCNA Security CCNA Routing and Switching CCENT Network + Present CompTIA A+ Present MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Additional Information Key Skills    ? Federal Security Clearance  ? Configuration Specialist  ? Troubleshooting/ Problem Solving  ? Data Analysis  ? Cabling Management  ? Routing Protocols  ? Network Security  ? Cisco Instructor    ? Business Operations  ? Technical/User Support  ? Developing & Engineering  ? Documentation  ? Circuit Specialist  ? Wireless Environment  ? Project Management  ? Network Management