Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Ventra Plastics, LLC Vermilion, OH Microsoft Office Suites and Office 365  ? Proficient with all client Windows  Operating Systems  ? Network Systems Management  ? Proficient with troubleshooting printers  ? Microsoft Windows Server  ? AeroHive wireless products  ? Virtualization products (Vmware &  HyperV)  ? Monitoring software IPMonitor  (SolarWinds) and Kaseya  ? Barracuda products  ? Experience with Active Directory and  Exchange  ? Familiar with Intermec/Zebra Line  printers Work Experience Network Administrator Ventra Plastics, LLC - Sandusky, OH August 2014 to Present • Manage a VoIP PBX phone system  • Entire plant network upgraded to Cisco switches and routers with dual fiber backbone  • Provide Help Desk Support for local and external plant via Solar Winds ticket system  • Manage daily IT Operations of the Network, Servers, Users and Telecommunications  • We standardized and maintained the technical documentation of inventories through Databases and Excel spreadsheets. Service Desk Engineer Trustpoint Technologies, Inc - Strongsville, OH September 2011 to August 2014 Provided Network and PC/Laptop support in a Windows based environment for over 600  users  • Experienced in diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving client issues with hardware  maintenance, installations and upgrades.  • Manage various Firewall models  • Centrally manage 50+ Access Points  • Deployed new Motorola Intermec Ordering guns for 50+ grocery stores for Giant Eagle  • Manage all Client/Server restores/backups centrally through various software  • Imaging and configuration of new client systems IT Network Technician Automotive Components Holdings, LLC - Sandusky, OH September 2008 to August 2011 • Manage an Avaya Definity PBX phone system and Audix Voicemail Server.  • Completed company wide computer upgrade and data migration from IBM to Dell  systems.  • Entire plant network upgraded to Cisco switches and routers with dual fiber backbone  • Provide Help Desk Support for local and external plant via BMC Remedy ticket system  • Manage daily IT Operations of the Network, Servers, Users and Telecommunications  • We standardized and maintained the technical documentation of inventories through Databases and Excel spreadsheets.  • Ford Subsidiary with 1000+ employees Library Assistant / Backup Systems Support Technician ITT TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Warrensville Heights, OH September 2007 to August 2008 • Assist students with references and advice when they are doing class work or research.  • Managed small Library of books using the Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) and Library of Congress classification.  • Built Open Source Linux Imaging Server to increase the number of computers being  imaged by 40%. Education Associates of Applied Science degree in Software Applications and Programming ITT Technical Institute - Strongsville, OH June 2007 to March 2009 Associate in of Applied Science degree in Computer Network Systems ITT Technical Institute - Strongsville, OH June 2005 to June 2007 Skills Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Microsoft Office Additional Information Comptia A+