IT Support Specialist III IT Support Specialist III IT Support Specialist III IT Systems specialist seeking opportunity to expand skills and experience in larger Windows and Citrix environments while using 16 years of knowledge to contribute to the organization's overall operations. A Citrix and Microsoft certified professional with in-depth understanding on how to administer and support a variety of hardware and network functions. A dependable and skilled communicator comfortable working with and training team members, but who is also capable of effectively working independently. Work Experience IT Support Specialist III Seattle Vocational Institutes 2012 to 2016 • Captured and deployed Windows 7/10 images using Kace 2100.  • Managed computers through Kace 1100 and Faronics Insight.  • Built and maintained classroom and office computers.  • Managed and configured Microsoft Active Directory and Microsoft HyperV.  • Managed and configured HP and 3com switches.  • Troubleshot Citrix XenDesktop.  • Managed and configured Dell servers.  • Performed backups using Microsoft System Center Data Protection.  • Performed migration of Windows 2003 domain to Windows 2012 R2 domain.  • Helped Administrative employees and students with their technical issues.  • Created technical documentation.  • Maintained and supported Eaglesoft dental software, computer on wheels and dental sensors.  • Troubleshot and maintained HP and Xerox network printers. Network System Administrator Technical Career Institutes 2008 to 2012 HP switches and Sonicwall firewall 2010 to 2010 • Managed and configured Citrix XenApp, XenDesktop, XenServer, Microsoft HyperV, and Vmware vSphere.  • Managed and configured Microsoft Active Directory and Microsoft SQL.  • Researched software and hardware technology for recommendation.  • Managed and configured Cisco switches, HP switches and Sonicwall firewall.  • Installed, managed and configured Dell Equallogic SAN, EMC VNX 5300 SAN, HP Storageworks and HP/Dell Blade Servers.  • Worked with vendors to discuss new products and ideas.  • Worked with associates to troubleshoot remote sites.  • Configured SAN technologies such as iSCSI and fiber.  • Built test environments for production use.  • Managed helpdesk tickets using ZenDesk.  • Created and provided technical documentation. System Support Specialist Technical Career Institutes 2000 to 2008 • Maintained 500+ computers (deployed and updated operating systems and applications).  • Configured computers and networking devices for A+ and N+ class used.  • Assisted professors and students with their technical questions, and supervised student employees.  • Setup computer and networking equipment for open houses and workshops.  • Researched on the latest hardware and software.  • Installed and maintained HP switches, Netgear switches, Cisco 2600 series routers and 3500 series switches.  • Installed and troubleshot 802.11b/g/n wireless network.  • Ran, troubleshot and installed Cat5e and Cat6 cables.  • Retrieved lost data from different kinds of media.  • Troubleshot and maintained HP 2100, 2430, 4100 and 4 plus series network printers. Additional Information • Ability to review and audit documentation.  • Outstanding time management skills and multitasking skills.  • Meticulous attention to details.  • Follows all instruction as outlined by my supervisor.  • Fluent in both English and Tagalog.