Manager of Information Systems Manager of Information Systems Manager of Information Systems - Phoenixville Hospital Gilbertsville, PA An IT leader with over 25 years of progressive responsibilities spanning from PC  and printer repair to networking and server configuration and support. Solid  reputation as a team player with strong communication and relationship skills.  Always exceeding departmental and project deadlines. Work Experience Manager of Information Systems Phoenixville Hospital - Phoenixville, PA 2004 to Present • Manages 3 helpdesk/field service staff members  • Works closely with hospital business partners on IT projects and other IT  related projects  • Provides professional IT service through diagnosis and troubleshooting  servers, desktops, laptops, copiers/printers and custom software.  • Configures and supports network switches.  • Installs VM environment and configures VM servers and computers.  • Runs Windows updates on all servers.  • Monitored Cisco switches using Netqos for CHS and now utilizing Orion.  • Troubleshooting and fixing all server application problems.  • Installation and set-up of custom software for all departments.  • Monitors all network closets for connectivity of switches and wireless  access points.  • Mentors and supports existing Helpdesk employees while training new.  • Documents policies and procedures to provide support for customers and applications. Network Administrator Efficient IT 1999 to 2004 services provided including the diagnosis and troubleshooting  of all computers, servers, printers, phones and custom software.  • Diagnosis & correction of server issues for applications.  • Configuration and support of network switches.  • Hospital-wide installation of software.  • Responsible for the monitoring of all network closets for connectivity of switches and wireless access points.  • Trained and mentored existing and new helpdesk staff.  • Responsible for entire life cycle management of all Help Desk (Service  Now) tickets. Lan Analyst Full IT 1996 to 1999 services provided including the identification and correction of all  issues for servers, desktops, copiers and software.  • Monitored Windows 2000 and 2003 server, performed updates and antivirus checks for all software.  • Monitored Citrix server farm.  • Responsible for the creation and monitoring of both new and existing user  accounts in the active director and exchange.  • Corrected issues in all Microsoft applications.  • Configured network and local copiers and printers.  • Resolved all Help Desk calls in a timely manner. The Corner Computer - Trooper, PA 1994 to 1996 • Administered full process IT services including the identification and troubleshooting of computers in the office and at client sites.  • Ran virus, spyware and check disk diagnosis on hard drives.  • Ran memory diagnosis on all in-coming computers.  • Reloaded operating systems including Windows 2000, 2000 Pro, Windows  for Workgroups and Windows NT.  • Activated Windows operating systems.  • Transferred data to be re-installed after reloading OS.  • Made suggestions for upgrades and replacements of both hardware and software.  • Deployed for field calls for all desktop, laptop, printer and network issues. Education Montgomery County Community College - Blue Bell, PA