Systems Analyst IV Systems Analyst IV Systems Analyst IV - SAIC / Leidos / Marlin Alliance El Cajon, CA Work Experience Systems Analyst IV SAIC / Leidos / Marlin Alliance - San Diego, CA October 2007 to Present • Manage DON Application & Database Management System (DADMS) for Team NAVWAR. Ensure all NAVWAR applications are registered and meet NMCI compliance requirements and are certified to be use on NMCI networks.  • Provide supports to Department of Navy Chief Information Office (DoN CIO) with reduction of applications being used throughout Team NAVWAR. Provide FAM support service in conducting research on applications that have been identified by the appropriate FAM as an application that will no longer allowed for use.  • Review DADMS applications requests to ensure they are completely and accurately registered and are compliance with DoN and Functional Area Manager (FAM) policies.  • Provide customer with guidance to successfully achieve and maintain software compliance with Department of the Navy and NAVWAR policy.  • Created monthly reports to inform customers about disapproved applications and applications that are having Last Date Allowed (LDA) coming up to ensure customer to take the appropriate actions.  • Conduct Business Case Analysis (BCA) to provide senior management and FAMs with necessary information to direct migration, consolidation, or retirement of applications and database.  • Review DIACAP/RMF software packages within eMASS to ensure all applications supporting a system is compliance with DON.  • Review applications listed in the IT procurement Request (ITPR)in Navy Information Dominance Approval System (NAV-IDS) to ensure all the application line items are in DADMS and FAM approved.  • Act as a NAVWAR account manage for Navy Enterprise Software Licenses (ELA) with Microsoft, Oracle, Redhat and VMWare products.  • Review and approve custodian form with purchase requests.  • Assigned software licenses and act as an administrator to approve Microsoft, Oracle and Redhat accounts.  • Provide training and administrate DADMS access to new users who requires the use of DADMS.  • Update NAVWAR policies as new requirements or changes released by DoN CIO.  • Utilize the DoD IT Portfolio Repository - DON (DITPR-DON) to further customer's knowledge of DON system specifications. Blue Force Tracking (BFT) Administrator Lead AMTI / SAIC - San Diego, CA October 2004 to October 2007 • Provide Systems Administration of all IT systems connected to the Local Area Network (LAN) and a combination of developing, monitoring, coordinating, processing, controlling, transmitting, and safeguarding electronic information.  • Developing and implementing policies and procedures for the command System Administration functions.  • Reviewing requests for procurement of software and hardware, coordinating and monitoring the command System Administration training program.  • Manage user accounts, network rights, and access to systems and associated equipment and software.  • Provide monitoring of systems resources to include performance capacity, availability, and recovery of systems.  • Develop and document System Administration standard operating procedures and maintain system configuration documentation. Ensure system availability, functionality, integrity, and efficiency at all times to include the installation and integration of system fixes, updates, and enhancements.  • Provide day-to-day updates to the Mission Support Center (MSC) Battle Watch Commander, MSC N6 Department Head, and MSC Officer-in-Charge by functioning as the technical specialist for Blue Force Tracking (BFT) and Global Command & Control system (GCCS) related equipments and data circuits.  • Supports the Common Operational Picture (COP) systems such as Global Command and Control System (GCCS), Command and Control PC (C2PC) and FalconView.  • Provides training to users on all Blue Force Tracking (BFT) devices usages and software operations.  • Develop JUNIT tables, auto-forwarding, SD addressing and filters for GCCS/C2PC.  • Manages watch bills for the watch standers. Provides weekly and monthly reports to MSC N6 Department Head. Network Integration Coordinator/ Network Implementation Technician Vector Planning Services Inc. (VPSI), Camp Pendleton, MCAS Miramar - San Diego, CA October 2003 to October 2004 San Diego, CA. Oct 2003 - Oct 2004    Network Integration Coordinator/ Network Implementation Technician    • Maintain inventory of Cisco routers and switches and keep tracks of inventory.  • Manage database to input all incoming equipment and track all deliveries.  • Perform configurations on routers and switches prior installation is made.  • Patch fibers to buildings to connect switches and routers into network.  • Troubles shoot mal-function routers and switches and perform Return Merchandise Authorization (RMA).  • Research on hardware compatibilities and recommend the best solution.  • Act as a Point of Contacts for various commands and create reports for management. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration/Information Systems San Diego State University Skills Jira, Customer service, Team player, Microsoft office Additional Information • Excellent knowledge with DADMS, DITPR-DON, NAV-ITAS, eMASS, JIRA and ISF Tools  • Great customer services and communication skills  • Over 20 years of customer service experiences  • Details oriented and a team player  • Flexibility, energetic with outgoing personality  • Extensive knowledge on the operation of SPAWAR organization  • Excellent with Microsoft Office tools and the Internet  • Over ten years of computer hardware and software experiences