Senior Network and System Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> and System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network and System Administrator Rosedale, MD To enhance the understanding of education on business and science in order to complete career  goals and objectives.  Core Knowledge  Business administration • Acronis 2019 • Hyper-V •  Windows Server 2008/2012R2/2016 • Windows 7/8/10 • Unix/Linux • PBX VOIP • MySQL •  Java Intermediate • Active Directory Management • Group Policy Management • Veeam Backup  Software • AWS management • Cloudberry Backup (S3 and Glacier) • MS Suite 365 • Zabbix  Surveillance (Open Source) Software • OTRS Ticketing System (Open Source) • Spice Works • Work Experience Senior Network and System Administrator Global Healthcare Management, LLC - Milford, NJ September 2010 to January 2019 34 Bridge Street, Milford NJ 08848 P: (908) 505-1603  Position: Information Technology Manager/ Network and System Administrator  • Report back to the Chief Technology Officer on monthly budgets and other critical  operations.  • In charge over 3 Data centers and 30 office locations across the Unites States for their  proper technology needs and network functionality, this included travel arrangements which consisted of 35% to 40% of the work year.  • Communicate with outsourced overseas developers and NOC teams on network  surveillance and integrity.  • Maintain and oversee IT staff in all related fields such as Network Administrators,  Systems administrators, Cyber Security Technicians, and Helpdesk Agents in order to maintain all IT related operations up-to-date.  • Evaluate and control all company data by administering daily, weekly, and monthly  backups and procedures. Maintaining data integrity and redundancy.  • Design, develop, and implement department's policies and procedures.  • Audit department's functionality across all performance fields such as internal customer  service to company employees to new technology implementation.  • Interview, train, and recruit new staff to the company's IT department structure.  • Develop training awareness for Cybersecurity protocols to internal users.  • Investigate and order new equipment, determine usability in order to upgrade current  systems.  • Handle annual budgets to insurance cost effectiveness across departments.  8500 Upton Circle Unit 302, Rosedale, MD 21237 • Cell: (484) 541-2499 •  sebastianpatino01@gmail.com    • Work with external vendors such as Penetration Testers, Risk assessment analysts, and Compliance Agencies for proper HIPPA/Cybersecurity protocols. Gate Agent Lehigh Northampton Airport Authority - Allentown, PA July 2010 to April 2011 • In charge of two arriving and departing flights per day.  • Greeted travelers at the front desk terminal and assisted with check in operations.  • Graduated and certified for American Airlines proper UNIX system check-in platform.  • Assisted pilots with final release operations at the gate by providing them with corporate  flight plans and other relevant information about the flight.  • Operated the jet way for incoming flights and arrival procedures, greeted arriving  travelers. Valet St. Luke's University Hospital - Fountain Hill, PA April 2007 to April 2011 • Greeted arriving patients and assisted with their automobile parking.  • Helped patients with disabilities to get around the hospital.  • Conducted driving operations with patient cart transporting them to distant parking  sectors. Education Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration, Management of Info Tech Desales University August 2016 to May 2018 Associate's Degree in Business Administration Northampton Community College May 2013 to August 2016 Associate's Degree in Aviation Science Lehigh Carbon Community College August 2009 to June 2012 HS Diploma in Sebastian Patino Velasco Easton Area High School - Rosedale, MD August 2006 to June 2009 Skills Strategic Planning, exchange, SQL, Active Directory, Disaster Recovery, Cisco, VoIP, Vmware