Managing Partner Managing Partner Management, Senior Management, Partner Gainesville, GA Very diverse skills. Professional, Organized, Project Management, Sales, IT. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Managing Partner Riggy's Grill - Gainesville, GA January 2016 to Present Designed the restaurant, lead the remodel project from start to finish, hired management, trained staff, designed menu. I lead all aspects of the organization. Managing Partner Mazzy's Sports Bar & Grill - Roswell, GA November 2000 to September 2015 Managing Partner for a restaurant group. We opened 4 locations (Roswell, Marietta, Norcross, Kennesaw) in 11 years.  Responsibities started at the front door and ended at the back door.  Menu design. Hiring / firing staff. Training staff. Weekly inventory. Scheduling. Payroll. Taxes. Customer service. I would work at 3 restaurants every week. Team building was essential to our success. Network Administrator WorldCom - Alpharetta, GA October 1998 to November 2000 Local area network administrator and Webmaster. I oversaw 70 workstations and 6 servers that supported Alpharetta, GA and Ryebrook, NY. Job duties: We replaced all computers in the network. I took an image of the proper setup and ghosted that image to 70 desktop computers.  Daily backups of all servers.  Oversaw and implemented updates of all software.  Provide support to any MS Office related questions. MS Outlook was the majority of support.  Wrote scripts that would backup the office personnel laptops to our servers automatically.  Design and update the internal website.   Day to day operations for any needs of the 70 person office (IT related). Help Desk Support Uptons - Norcross, GA October 1998 to November 1999 Help desk support. Take phone calls from various retail stores to help solve problems associated with point of sale equipment. Owner Absolute Advertising - Tallahassee, FL May 1994 to October 1998 Web design and outside sales. Education Bachelor's in Industrial Engineering Florida State Univerisity - Tallahassee, FL January 1992 to May 1996 Skills Customer Care, Customer Support, Customer Service, Call Center Certifications/Licenses ServSafe May 2016 to May 2021 Food Safety Manager CPR & First Aid