Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer - Frontier Communications To continually enhance the development of my professional and academic proficiencies for the purpose of making a significant contribution in the area of business and leadership with higher education students. This will be accomplished using practical instruction, which will help improve my students understanding of business concepts and practices in today's challenging global market place. Work Experience Senior Network Engineer Frontier Communications - Fort Wayne, IN 2016 to Present Network Engineer 2002 to 2016 Engineered, drafted, and project managed projects ranging from 5K to 3M.    • Attended meetings with municipalities, other utility companies, and construction crews to coordinate large projects.  • Design and implementation of all new outside plant facilities in assigned areas for both residential and business customers from central office to customers termination point.  • Implementation of both fiber and copper facilities within Frontier's Northern Indiana footprint.  • Resolving customer complaints for all responsible area within a timely manner.  • Leadership and support of the Network Engineers in Indiana.  • Tracking and Monitoring all INDOT road projects for the State of Indiana. Adjunct Professor, College of Business Indiana Institute of Technology - Fort Wayne, IN 2010 to 2014 Administrator-Contract Administration Frontier Communications - Fort Wayne, IN 2001 to 2002 • Tracking and managing all invoices for 5 States for outside contractors through Microsoft Excel.  • Accounts payable management with outside contracts.  • Assisted with contract reviews and rebids for 5 States for outside contractors. Education Doctor of Philosophy in Global Leadership Indiana Institute of Technology - Fort Wayne, IN November 2014 Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ April 2004 Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Administration University of St. Francis - Fort Wayne, IN June 2002 Skills Time management, Budgeting, Organizational skills, Cad, Cad drafting, Microsoft office, Problem-solving, Drafting Additional Information SKILLS & EXPERTISE    Project Management • CAD Drafting • Engineering and Design • Strong Problem-Solving Skills • Time Management  Leading and Directing • Interactive Skills • Openness • Budgeting • Solid Verbal/Written Communication Skills • Presenter • Driven and Passionate •Organizational Skills •Cross Functional Teams• Sales • Proficiency in Microsoft Office