Assistant Program Manager Assistant Program Manager Network Engineer / Motorcycle Coach Pflugerville, TX IT Engineer seeks Networking, Security, and Leadership career. Candidate has gained familiarity with global, regional, and store-based retail and logistics operations, corporate objectives, enterprise operating systems, and user requirements. Forward-thinking and open-minded individual with a focus for security and technology. Works effectively as a leader and team member. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Assistant Program Manager Total Rider - Austin, TX May 2019 to Present Coach students of all ages on the basics and safety of riding motorcycles  Evaluate coaches to ensure quality customer experience and curriculum is being followed  Travel to and maintain classroom, range, and equipment conditions for multiple TX sites Network Engineer Wesco Aircraft - Austin, TX July 2018 to May 2019 Removed outdated Juniper firewalls and replace with Cisco routers  Participate in global initiatives to refresh and build network hardware and security  Administer warehouse, office, and datacenter networks and VOIP systems SolarWinds Engineer Wesco Aircraft - Austin, TX January 2017 to July 2018 Provide monitoring and support for 100+ warehouses' and offices' infrastructure and servers.  ? Create transparency in IT monitoring and security to the business operations.  ? SolarWinds Certified Professional #6158 Global Network Administrator Whole Foods Market - Austin, TX 2009 to 2017 Provided support for 400+ stores' communication networks worldwide  ? Expanded and supported multiple local and remote Enterprise Data Centers  ? Built and maintained layer 3 network connections and carved out firewall rules    Infrastructure Systems Analyst  ? Designed, built, and supported network infrastructures across 26 Whole Foods Market locations  ? Provided support to end users and customers on both mission- and business-critical situations  ? Planned, purchased, and constructed IT-related software and hardware for new store locations    IT Help Desk  ? Participated in and managed subprojects for the consolidation to a centralized help desk unit  ? Provided technical support to all stores within the region  ? Participated in storewide cash register conversions from NCR to IBM Computer Crimes Unit Intern Bergen Cty. Prosecutor's Office - Paramus, NJ 2007 to 2008 Analyzed and stored computerized evidence to assist in criminal apprehension procedures  ? Designed, documented, and implemented the rerouting of networks within the department    JOB-RELATED EXPERTISE:  ? Cisco Routers, Switches, Access Points  ? IBM and NCR registers and controllers  ? Windows Servers, VMWare  ? SolarWinds  ? Cisco IOS, HP, Juniper  ? Active Directory Education B.A. in CRIMINAL JUSTICE Seton Hall University 2009 Skills Customer Service, Monitoring, Solarwinds, Cisco Certifications/Licenses SolarWinds Certified Professional February 2017 to February 2022 SCP# 6158 MSF RiderCoach April 2018 to April 2020 RC 270627 Assessments First Aid Skills — Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to identify treatments for common medical emergencies. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6wtumcxwvb-lyo1w Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.