Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Admin, Military Veteran ready for the next step in career Zebulon, NC Well-versed Network and System Administrator with an electrician background. Able to troubleshoot network devices, wiring, and also over 5000 field devices/end-users, both hardware and software. Experience maintaining vital networks' connectivity, ensuring 99.999% up-time even in high-stress and challenging environments. My unique billet on-board the latest and greatest aircraft carrier, USS Gerald R. Ford, has given be the opportunity to be a man with many hats( Network Admin, Infrastructure Maintenance Technician, and end user). Demonstrated ability to provide technical support on diverse, specialized electronics and also to users of all levels, and lead junior sailors within division. Strong information technology professional with certifications (soon) in Security+, Splunk, and ITIL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator United States Navy - Hampton Roads, VA August 2016 to Present Mentored and supervised a cross-functional team of engineers, technicians and administrators to support multiple diverse networks and technologies. By implementing a SOP on proactive network monitoring through network management software, Splunk and custom applications to view signals and data from data centers to the field device, my watch team was able to more effectively triage issues and maintain redundancy. As the lead supervisor, would serve as a point of contact for support calls, ensuring that trouble calls would be logged correctly, and assigned to the proper technician, engineer, or administrator for prompt resolution if technical support could not be provide over-the-phone. Although I was assigned to CVN 78 as an administrator, I was also given the role of the Cyber Security Departmental Representative (CSDR). As the Combat Systems CSDR, I ensured permissions for network files and directories were only given to those who required access and had proper authorization with change management processes. Also, being responsible for the on-boarding and off-boarding of personnel for CANES network account creation and deletion, I provided continuous training on cybersecurity awareness for over 200 personnel. Completed quarterly inventory validations and inspections of assets connected to CANES network worth approximately $350,000. Network Technician United States Navy - Hampton Roads, VA April 2015 to Present Upon arrival to the most advanced aircraft carrier in the Navy, I was assigned to CS-5, Combat Networks Division, in a network technician role, which helped me build upon my passion and previous knowledge of information systems. Responsible for several mission-critical networks, my team and I were able to ensure 99.9% availability on specialized systems through redundancy, fault-tolerance and UPS. I learned a broad range of system and network administration tool and procedures. As a liaison between Newport News Shipyard - Huntington Ingalls Industries, and various vendors, ensured 100% on-time turn of vital software and hardware components through verification of updates, patches, and inspections. Education Associate in Computer Science Wake Technical Community College - Raleigh, NC September 2018 to May 2020 High school Skills Firewalls (2 years), Windows 7 (3 years), Active Directory (3 years), Python (1 year), Troubleshooting (4 years), Network Administration (4 years), Network Security (2 years), Network Management (4 years), Information Technology (6 years), Routers (3 years), Switches (3 years), Servers (4 years), Linux (3 years), Military (4 years), Asset Management (2 years), Computer Repair (4 years), Software Development (1 year), Excel (2 years), System Administration (4 years), Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Microsoft Office, Customer Service Military Service Branch: United States Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 April 2015 to Present Secret security clearance