Technology Administrator / Network Engineer Technology <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Technology Administrator / Network Engineer - BMI Audit Service, LLC North Liberty, IN Work Experience Technology Administrator / Network Engineer BMI Audit Service, LLC - South Bend, IN February 2017 to Present Provide IT services that drive productivity improvement for all employees  ? Direct and implement all staff technology training and security training, both electronically and by leading staff discussions.  ? Issue all technology devices to staff and set up staff accounts, network access, and issue software per staff needs, along with maintenance and repair of IT equipment  ? Support all remote users on technology issues, VPN, Firewall, and security questions and client security questionnaires.  • Ensure a secure IT environment for a company that runs on data  ? Provide oversight of Network Security, HIPAA protocols, PPI, PHI, Email protocols, and working with staff on encryption and secure data handling  ? Provide input on technology policies, procedures and forms.  • Ensure technology is productive, secure and meets the needs of our user community.  ? Interact with all technology vendors and have company oversight on vendor projects, technology requirements, project management, testing.  ? Research, interview, and build focus groups in selecting new technology equipment and counsel owners on positive outcomes and negative concerns.  ? Research and present technology upgrades, efficiency gains, cost saving procedures, and processes.  • Ensure efficient, accurate and timely data processing for our client base.  ? Processing all client data for all forms of claims audits; Medical, Rx, and Eligibility.  ? Build client audit framework, based on contractual agreements  ? Build the client data definitions based on fields data dictionary provided by client's administrators.  ? Assemble client data (.txt .csv.xls .xlsx. bi-xlsx .pipe) and communicate missing client data to auditor or administrators.  ? Process the client data throughout the Audit IQ process, including, importation, transformation, and verification.  ? If needed, I meet with all parties to communicate positive outcomes on data fields needed and data dictionary's administrators provide.  • Improve the efficiency and effectiveness of data process for our Client base. IT Analyst II Trinity Health - Novi, MI February 2011 to January 2017 • Manged the IT responsibilities for 35 million dollar ER dept. upgrade  • Upgrading systems and devices, fielding help tickets,  • Building mobile computer platforms, assisting users in training of Microsoft products and proprietary apps.  • Project manage IT projects for both the hospitals and Providers offices, Built schedules for staffing, and coverage on weekends and holidays. President Complete Computing, Inc November 1999 to November 2014 • Personal computers - build custom configuration computers, including specialty designs  • Software for people with disabilities.  • Networks - Ethernet/fast Ethernet networks, Peer-to-Peer, Client-to-Peer, LAN, IP    • Access Points, Routers and Hubs, Novell. Certified in CAT 5 cable.    • Support all versions of Windows OS for hardware and software issues, setting up network  • Connectivity and troubleshooting problems.  • Service - troubleshoot, diagnose and repair all personal computer brands, laptops, Servers    • Printers. Install and support software applications and Internet Service  • Provider applications.  • Assist and provide direction to customers including products, features, vendors, post-deployment support  • Training & Support - In person, remote workstation & over the phone. Contractor TEK Services January 2008 to January 2010 BOSCH  • Supervising Bosch Customer Services Call Center for 17 employees, creating schedules, work Matrix, monitoring call volumes & help-desk tickets.    • Hardware/Software Configurations, Server Administration, Network Schemes, RAS, VPN, All Microsoft Operating Systems from Windows 3.1 to Vista.    • Remote conference with Vendors and Customers Worldwide.    • Schedule employees PTO, On Call coverage, Overtime.    Trinity Health  • Assisting with the Project implementation of Electronic Medical Records.    • Converting, updating, roll out of new hardware systems and software products.    • Performing user support, and training on use of new hardware and peripherals.    • Working with Trinity IT staff on problem solving, integration issues and roll-outs.    • Providing application trouble shooting support for all Cerner applications and Health Quest. Education BA in PSY Apostolic Bible Institute Inc - Saint Paul, MN August 1982 to May 1987 Skills Cisco, Microsoft office, SQL,router, vpn, citrix, PLC, SCADA, HMI, RTU, (10+ years), Active Directory, security, Cisco, Exchange, LAN, VPN, Networking, Vmware, DNS, MPLS, firewalls, Case Management, Basic Math, Customer Service, Microsoft Office Certifications/Licenses A+, MCSE, Security+I Present