Windows System Engineer Windows System Engineer System Engineer Lithia Springs, GA Experienced systems engineer with excellent client and project management skills. Action-oriented with strong ability to communicate effectively with technology, executive, and business audiences. Knowledge and expertise in planning, designing, installing, operating, managing, and securing information technology infrastructures within Enterprise environments; in-depth knowledge of Security guidelines and best practices within Enterprise environments. Work Experience Windows System Engineer Integrio Technologies - Herndon, VA July 2012 to September 2016 • Planned, developed, and administered enterprise application programs for various Centers for Disease Center enterprise services.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of software/hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs.  • Provide Tier II, Tier III, other support for various Centers for Disease Center Enterprise services.  • Performed Application development and integration for CDC Enterprise services.  • Implemented and monitored policies, processes and procedures for the governance of information technology and security for Centers for Disease Center operations.  • Implemented and managed application systems for the Centers for Disease Center that could be accessed by the CDC in remote locations.  Systems Administrator System Engineer Advancia Inc - Fort Gordon, GA August 2006 to July 2011 • Responsible for the administration of systems security of Windows and Linux based Servers and desktops.  • Maintenance of local database, and responsible for the integrity of the data, the efficiency and the performance of the system.  • Installing and configuring new software and hardware upgrades, and performing routine audits of systems and software, and system backups.  • Ensuring network infrastructure integrity and managing updates and install systems patches for Servers and Desktop systems.  • Database Administrator consisting of branch's content management systems • Implementation and administration of web-based training for soldiers in remote locations.  • Implement policies, procedures, and best practices to safeguard and protect data, reports, and access.  • Performed preventative maintenance and upgraded systems to ensure network, system and data availability and integrity.  Network/System Administrator Network/System Administrator US ARMY - Fort Gordon, GA August 1999 to July 2006 • Managed 100+ desktops in Windows domain with windows-based servers for multiple applications and deployed firewalls to connect and protect network users.  • Installed and supported Microsoft Windows Servers in an Active Directory Cluster.  • Served as Training Officer to perform duties as Information Assurance Officer/Information Management Officer (IASO/IMO) for support representatives and team leaders.  • Created, edited, and updated project manuals and technical documentation used by the Department of Defense.  • Set up, optimized and managed network equipment for US Army Tactical Deployment systems.  • Orchestrated and oversaw upgrades to system hardware and software of US Army Tactical Deployment systems. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Tempe, AZ Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), Aws (Less than 1 year), Deployment (7 years), Dhcp (Less than 1 year), Dns (Less than 1 year), Hyper-v (Less than 1 year), Iis (Less than 1 year), Internet information services (Less than 1 year), Linux (4 years), project management (Less than 1 year), Scom (Less than 1 year), Ssl (Less than 1 year), Tcp (Less than 1 year), Tomcat (Less than 1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), Active Directory, SCCM, Powershell, System Administrator, Cisco Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SGT Certifications/Licenses CompTia Security+ October 2010 to Present Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS): Windows Server 2008 Network Infrastructure, Configuring Present