Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Felicia Lee Photography West Des Moines, IA seeking a position in Information Technology. Dedicated to improving skills  through hands-on learning and development work. Proficient in mobile and  desktop development and/or troubleshooting. Current and past school  projects included building apps, optimizing programs, troubleshooting  hardware and software issues, and validating code. Desiring to use  education and previous on-the-job training to gain real-world experience  with a growing team. Work Experience Network Administrator Felicia Lee Photography - Des Moines, IA April 2017 to Present Monitored stability of network and wireless services to ensure  comprehensive stability.  Optimized network operations by monitoring, troubleshooting and enforcing Department of Defense (DoD) security compliance.  Installed, configured, and supported local area network (LAN), wide  area network (WAN) and Internet system.  Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  Ensured continuity of computer and telephone system services for users through technical expertise, assistance and project  coordination.  Backed up company data to distributed storage centers to avoid  massive data loss in event of network breach or failure.  Managed and maintained stability of all network and wireless  services throughout enterprise.  Planned, coordinated and implemented network security measures.  Answered and triaged requests for assistance in order to provide  top-notch support.  Investigated and corrected problems with printers, copiers and other  peripheral devices. Automated Powdercoat Operator Dee Zee Inc - Des Moines, IA January 2015 to March 2017 Provided supervisor with daily status report on all job tasks and workers' duties.  Executed work orders to painting team quickly and in professional  manner.  Identified malfunctions or failures by routinely monitoring and analyzing equipment operations.  Calibrated, tested, and adjusted machine settings or controls in preparation for paint operations.  Maintained and recorded inventory transactions to reflect items  used in each job and accounted for any discrepancies.  Complied with OSHA regulations and company safety standards to promote worksite safety, protect team members and prevent  equipment damage.  Analyzed and interpreted test data and adjusted, calibrated and aligned circuitry.  Removed and replaced malfunctioning components to correct  hardware problems.  Configured hardware, devices and software to set up work stations for employees. Marketing Manager/Social Network Coordinator Phat Daddyz BBQ, Phat Boyz BBQ - Des Moines, IA January 2011 to January 2015 Devised and deployed online marketing plans with effective SEO, social media and viral video campaign strategies.  Helped incorporate product changes to drive customer  engagement and firm profits.  Built brand awareness and generated leads while managing internal and external marketing campaigns and programs.  Enhanced profitability to achieve marketing objectives and drive  productivity and growth from concept to implementation.  Maximized branding initiatives by strengthening program outreach and increasing communication between marketing and public  relations. Server Granite City - West Des Moines, IA April 2010 to May 2012 Compete with co-workers to achieve sales goals.  Verified the accuracy of charges, delivered customer checks, and ensured prompt processing of transactions.  Ensured customer satisfaction by monitoring needs and filling special  requests.  Utilize P.O.S (Point of Sale) Station and software to order food and provide guest checks. Intern Volt - Des Moines, IA January 2011 to December 2011 Match potential candidates with employment opportunities.  Collaborated with Supervisor to determine department's short and long-term hiring needs.  Managed applicant tracking system (ATS) database by entering, updating and maintaining candidate contact details, resumes and  supporting documentation.  Maintained work structure by updating job requirements and job  descriptions for all positions.  Communicated with potential hires to provide clarity on expected  tasks, compensation and policies. Telephone Sales Representative Heartland Inc - Urbandale, IA November 2008 to February 2010 Performed outbound sales calls regarding a variety of magazine  subscriptions, processing orders and submitting payments.  Provided quick, efficient and friendly service to customers dealing with both new orders and previous orders.  Resurrected inactive accounts through consistent sales calls.  Set up appointments with potential and current customers to discuss  new products and services.  Interacted with problematic accounts, helping to build lasting  rapport and boosting revenue opportunities. Education Master of Science in Software Engineering Colorado Technical University December 2020 Certification Des Moines Area Community College - Des Moines, IA Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Kaplan University - Urbandale, IA Associate of Applied Science in Business Administration Kaplan University - Urbandale, IA Skills Optimization, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Backups, Maintenance, Microsoft office, Mac, Mac os, Graphic design, Training, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Vmware, Sales, Customer Service Assessments Technical Support — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wpk-lux22hmymhmo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS Video Editing Analysis and critical thinking  Troubleshooting Data backups  Graphic Design Network repairs and  Microsoft Office maintenance  Mac OS Effective communication  Windows OS Technical documents  System Optimization tools comprehension  Adobe Creative Suite Software diagnosis  Network systems installation Technical issues analysis  Hardware and software TCP/IP  monitoring Staff education and training