Systems Engineering Manager/IT Operations Systems Engineering Manager/IT Operations Systems Engineering Manager/IT Operations - United Commercial Travelers Columbus, OH To obtain a challenging position in IT management and system's operations with opportunities for learning and professional development.  Responsible for cyber security implementation. Work Experience Systems Engineering Manager/IT Operations United Commercial Travelers - Columbus, OH December 1999 to Present Responsibilities include all Network Administrator duties (As described below) and all AS/400(V3R7 - V6R1)  Administrative operations, supervising three  associates.  Installed and configured frame relay connectivity to our Calgary, Canada office, setup included Windows 98 workstations, Ethernet network, IBM 5494 controller, Console display and printer.  AS/400 820 to 520 conversions and upgrades.  BRMS (Backup Recovery and Media services).  Disaster recovery including creating policy and procedures and successful mock disaster recovery at hot site.  Created, installed and enforce all Internet/Intranet e-mail and use policy.  Perform software installations and upgrades to operating systems.  Schedule installations and upgrades and maintain them in accordance with established policies and procedures.  Monitor and tune operating systems to achieve performance levels  Develop and promote standard operating procedures.  Conduct routine hardware and software audits of servers to ensure compliance with established standards, policies and configuration guidelines.  User and security management.  Manage printers and queues.  ROBOT Alert  on-call support activities.  Identify and correct OS and hardware related issues/problems.  Install, test and implement hardware on servers (fiber cards etc).  Make system hardware and software recommendations as required.  Implemented network upgrade from Novell to Microsoft Active directory on MS Server 2008 R2.  Kwiktag Software Administration.  Laserfiche Document Workflow and quick fields' configuration and Administration.  Asymex - Spoolit software setup, configuration & Administration  Setup and Configuration of the Nortel/Avaya BCM450 Phone System.  Setup and configuration of ShorTel phone system.  Responsible for migration, install and configuration to Hyper-V systems.  Install, configure and administration of Watch Guard firewall.  Install, configure and administration of Vipre antivirus  Install, configure and administration of Malwarebytes professional.  Configure and administration of Barracuda spam server.  Install configure and administration of Alien vault USM. Network Administrator United Commercial Travelers - Columbus, OH May 1998 to December 1999 Insurance    Responsibilities include managing the entire network infrastructure of 100+ users in a multi-platform environment. Novell 4.11, Windows NT 4.0,2000, XP and A/S 400. Responsible for setup and configuration of implementing IP Network and Internet access, including DHCP, VPN, WINS, Exchange Server 5.5 upgraded to Exchange 2003, Firewall, Spam mail server, Internet Manager servers, Network monitoring system.Arcserve backup and recovery. Etrust Server/Client setup and virus signature updates. Manage the help desk over two PC support associate. All workstation hardware and software builds and upgrades. Setup remote dial-up in our Calgary office. PC Support Specialist United Commercial Travelers - Columbus, OH February 1998 to May 1998 Insurance    Responsibilities include managing NetWare 4.11 on a Compaq ProLiant 6000 256/36gb on Ethernet, network backup using ArcServe 6.0 on a Compaq DLT 7000, and data grooming with AvailHSM using near line optical storage on an HP SureStore 200fx. Perform workstation migration to Windows NT. Mainframe support including file transfers, running reports, and mail account maintenance. Responsible for AS/400 backup. Workstation support and training. Network/PC Support Specialist TS Tech USA Corp - Reynoldsburg, OH October 1996 to February 1998 Manufacturing - Other    PC troubleshooting with networking problems, i.e. printer setup, drive mapping, share setup. Upgrade PC's with new software, modems, memory, network, and video cards. Education Certification in Networking Columbus State Community College - Columbus, OH June 1986 to June 1998 Skills Brms, As/400, Hyper-v, Avaya, Netware, Arcserve, Imaging, Sql, Novell, Operations, Nortel, Workflow, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, DNS, Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Network Administration, Exchange, Excel Additional Information SKILLS  BRMS  AS/400 Operations V5R3 - V6R1  Novell Netware 4.11a  Office Suites, O365  Arcserve  Windows 9x, NT, XP, 7, 2000, 2003, 2008R2, 2012, 2016  Network Topology  InoculanIT/Etrust  Asymex, SpoolIT  Exchanger server 2003, 2007, 2013, 2016 Edge Server  Kwiktag Imaging System  LaserFiche Imaging and Workflow, Quick fields, Administration  SQL 2005 and 2008, 2016  StoneRiver Pro Financial Solutions installation and administration  Backup Assist  Evault Cloud Backup system  Windows Desktop Support  Windows Domain Administration  Hyper-V installation and Administration  WatchGuard XTM Firebox Setup and Configuration  Nortel/Avaya BCM 450 Setup and Configuration including Call Pilot and CCR