CTO/Engineer CTO/Engineer CTO/Engineer Opelousas, LA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CTO/Engineer Catalyst Holdings, EU - EU July 2009 to May 2019 Energy and Technology Capital Ventures  We look at companies that require funds to expand their company, start-up a project or new company or even buy-out we offer such services.  We are also interest in Renewable Technologies and Biotech's, Real Estate, Green Energy, Solar  technologies, Start-ups, Mergers and Acquisitions, Buy-out, Expansion, Entertainment  Responsibilities Included:  • Participated in various company IT projects and collaboration with various vendors on project  requirements, SLA's and budgeting using MS Project.  * Service Delivery both upstream and downstream  • Streamlined Global Help Desk and IT support methodologies resulting in reduced support calls and down time.  • Implemented IT/Company Change Control processes/measures using various tools including MS  SharePoint, Skype for Business, MS Excel, and Exchange Messaging Services.  • Engineered and implemented many ERP solutions.  • Managed IT and Help Desk staff located throughout Europe.  • Participated in corporate data center & server/ network design and implementations.  • Collaborated with internal staff and vendors for Corporate LAN/WAN/VOIP (Cisco Unified, Skype  Business Messaging) site network upgrades.  • Implemented mobile/instant messaging & messaging solutions for corporate and consultant  divisions, including BB's, SmartPhones, audio/video conferencing, WI-FI and wireless Broadband  technologies.  • Implemented tier one through three for Systems Administration and Engineering along with all  networking devices primarily being Cisco for corporate and consultant divisions, including BB's,  SmartPhones, audio/video conferencing, WI-FI and wireless Broadband technologies thought Europe. CTO/Engineer B3W Group LTD, EU - EU July 2008 to 2009 Responsible for ensuring that the IT infrastructure, inclusive of the web site and application software,  is maintained so as to effectively satisfy business and customer functional requirements in a secure  environment.  • Ensure that the IT infrastructure is set-up effectively and securely so that it will adequately serve the business., Skype for Business  • Develop monitoring techniques and tools to constantly monitor the systems so that any problems  can be quickly identified and rectified. All problems must be logged.  • Keep up to date with technical matters relating to Internet based implementations and other  technologies.  • Ensure that you understand and adhere to the correct application of security procedures when managing and maintaining the company's systems.  • Review and assess all computer related problems reported by both company employees and customers and where applicable and possible implement the necessary solutions.  • Maintain a good working relationship with all suppliers of software, telecommunications and hardware devices and to act as the sole contact between the company and its IT related suppliers.  • Ensure, through regular review of maintenance agreements that they are satisfying the company's  support requirements and request changes when necessary.  • Maintain all system documentation and diagrams up to date at all times.  • Be available to travel on IT orientated trips, either locally or overseas, as the company may  reasonably require from time to time.  • Maintain the back-up strategy and regularly test and update Disaster Recovery Procedures to ensure  that they are sufficient to adequately protect the company's business in the event of disaster.  • Perform regular capacity checks on the system to ensure that upgrade measures are taken  proactively rather than reactively. Network Operations Administrator Pegasus International - Lafayette, LA October 2007 to January 2008 Manage and maintain network, systems, installations and support issues.  • Responsible for defining the architecture, evaluating products and implementing new technology into the network infrastructure.  • Evaluate multiple vendor data products through documented test plans, select vendor, and develop  engineering specifications and guidelines for these data products.  • Work with departments to develop and enhance networking and security products and services  through the product implementation process.  • Establish and document standards, policies and procedures.  • Interfacing with high profile customers during both the pre-sales and post sales installation  processes.  • Project managing and supporting large network projects.  • Responsible for Network VPN, Firewalls, and Devices. Network Operations Engineer CCBill -EU August 2006 to August 2007 Manage and maintain network systems installation and support issues.  • Responsible for defining the architecture, evaluating products and implementing new technology into the network.  • Evaluate multiple vendor data products through documented test plans, select vendor, and develop  engineering specifications and guidelines for these data products  • Work with departments to develop and enhance networking and security products and services  through the product implementation process.  • Establish and document standards, policies and procedures.  • Provide technical support and training to Operations (NOC), Sales Engineering, and Account  Management on all related technologies.  • Interfacing with high profile customers during both the pre-sales and post sales installation  processes.  • Project managing and supporting large network projects.  • Responsible for Network VPN, Firewalls, and Devices. Third Party Systems Engineer FEMA-Federal Emergency Management Administration October 2005 to May 2006 Performed troubleshooting for 4000+ end-users, server administration, configuration management  and problem resolution support.  • Serve as problem resolution specialists with an ear to the pertinent issues at hand. Support includes  coordinating, dissemination and resolution of trouble tickets, LAN Administration, Internet, Customer  developed application and integration, and End-User Client Workstation troubleshooting and Software  Assistance.  • Tier 1 and Tier 2 configuration and troubleshooting of hardware and software issues as they affect  Internet/Intranet access, peripheral device (Blackberry), configuration and support configuration, Education Master's in CS UM May 1985 to August 1989 Skills Aws (10+ years), Change management (10+ years), Employee resource group (10+ years), ERP (10+ years), IT Management (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (10+ years), Change Management (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/damianfrilot/ Additional Information Global IT Professional, with both American and Maltese citizenship.