Network Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Network Security Engineer - LIGHTPATH/ALTICE USA New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Engineer LIGHTPATH/ALTICE USA - Jericho, NY 2014 to Present Jericho, NY  Altice provides broadband, pay television, telephone services, Wi-Fi hotspot access, proprietary content and advertising services to residential and business customers in 21 states. Lightpath Inc. provides Ethernet-based data,  Internet, voice, video transportation solutions and managed services to businesses.    Network Security Engineer  Retained as Network Security Engineer following the acquisition of Lightpath by Altice in 2016, transitioning to a new scope of responsibilities.  As Network Security Engineer with Lightpath, provided critical support to the Network Engineering team and the Development  team, serving as a trusted advisor and subject matter expert (SME) in the field of Information Security. Instrumental in influencing the company's efforts to package and sell security services to its existing base of Internet and Voice customers.  • Administered an RFP to solicit proposals from 21 vendors providing security solutions; worked with the CEO, CIO, and other senior  corporate leaders to define the company's security product offerings scope and MSSP strategy. Led RFP response analysis and vendor management. This effort was suspended upon the acquisition of Lightpath by Altice.  • Strengthened corporate information security, meeting with executives to develop an enterprise-wide security plan and associated  policies while serving on a team responsible for internal cybersecurity health. Coordinates and leads vulnerability and penetration  scans, working with stakeholders to mitigate findings.  • Serves as the SME for all security vulnerabilities, threats, and analysis, training and mentoring new hires and NOC staff members;  coordinates and leads presentations to executives on emerging security and DDoS trends.  • Provide effective situational management, facilitate communications between various stakeholders and project teams, which includes  business and IT.    As Network Security Engineer with Altice, transitioned to a role managing information security on behalf of the company's clients, with a focus on administering the company's Firewalls and Arbor Networks SP and TMS appliances that safeguard networks against  DDoS attacks.  • Managed the Arbor solutions for 5 million customers in 21 states with 99.99% uptime; addressed and resolved inbound support  tickets.  • Effectively manages and processes change management requests for over 50 Check Point firewalls and F5 load balancers. Network Security Advisor DELLSECUREWORKS 2013 to 2015 Remote Position  Dell Secureworks protects organizations in a digitally connected world. We offer a cyber-defense that is  Collectively Smarter. Exponentially Safer.    Network Security Advisor  Fulfilled a critical role managing network security for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, a key client, contributing to the oversight of over 1500 firewalls worldwide as a member of the information security team. Addressed requests for Check Point and Juniper  firewall configuration changes and a variety of support issues in full compliance with SLA terms. Authored documentation detailing  security plans, processes, and procedures.  • Collaborated with Bank of America technical personnel and project teams to investigate and resolve network and security issues.  Served as a mentor to colleagues and SOC personnel, training new staff in provisioning network security changes. IT Security & Compliance Administrator MEDISYSHEALTHNETWORK - Jamaica, NY 2008 to 2014 Jamaica, NY  Medisys Health Network, Inc. operates through its healthcare centers, a nursing and rehabilitation center, and an inpatient coma recovery and traumatic brain injury unit.    IT Security & Compliance Administrator, Promoted from Network Security Analyst in 2013  Managed IT security and compliance for Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, Flushing Hospital Medical Center and Trump Pavilion for Nursing & Rehabilitation, building policies, procedures, and best practices. Examined and selected the appropriate security  products and technologies to meet the needs of the organization, while working with auditors and executives to maintain compliance with HIPAA, PCI and other regulatory requirements.  • Collaborated with Chief Compliance Officer to roll out Hospital wide security awareness & training program.  • Negotiated new terms with security vendor and additional product features, resulting in an annual savings of $250,000  • Led Hospital wide evaluation & implementation of information security policies, procedures and standards.    As Network Security Analyst from 2008 to 2013, led the design, configuration and administration of all facets of network security  including email encryption, web content filtering and Check Point firewalls.  EARLY CAREER  Network Security Trainer, Invenio Technology, New York, NY  Systems Engineer, CGI (Formerly Logica), New York, NY  Windows System Administrator, CGI (Formerly Logica), Boston, MA Education Bachelor of Science degree in Human Resource Management FLORIDA ATLANTIC UNIVERSITY Skills SECURITY, PMO, RFP, OPERATIONS, CLIENT SUPPORT, Information Security, Cyber Security, Siem, Network Security Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Building and Leading IT Security Strategy • PMO: Management, Planning, Execution & Control  • Overseeing IT Operations in Multiple Sites • Fortune 500 Corporate Client Support  • Defining Project Management Strategy • Aligning Technology and Business Strategy  • Developing Resilient, Future-Proof Solutions • Key Advisor to Organization Leaders  • Assembling and Leading Top Teams • Administering the RFP Process  • Skilled in IS Appliance Configuration • Surpassing Performance Targets