Driver Driver Premises Technician La Verne, CA Accomplished, seasoned, and qualified professional with proven success in Information Technology, Network Support Operations and Multimedia Operations. Highly skilled and proficient in Mac and PC platforms, Microsoft Suite, and with audio/visual multimedia equipment. Technically skilled in supporting the infrastructure of major institutional operations and providing customer service.  As an Assistant Basketball Coach - College level. I oversee player development and teach the fundamentals of the sport. I’m a certified master physical trainer with more than 20 years in the field.   I recently in the last year obtained my CDL class b with endorsements license. I have a passion for driving big vehicles. First starting with driving school buses. Then moving onto transit buses. Currently training to obtain my CDL class A license with all endorsements. Recently completed my BSIS training 2019 with multiple certifications and an active guard card. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Driver MV Transit - Los Angeles, CA March 2019 to Present Driver, Fly Away bus. Dedicated routes to LAX. Assistant Basketball Coach Los Angeles Harbor College - Wilmington, CA June 2014 to January 2019 Responsible for training and development of college athletes. Premises Technician AT&T - Glendale, CA 2007 to 2009 Internet Services. Maintain network, troubleshooting individual networks, install network and internet services. Telephone, Internet and Video. Network Administrator/Multimedia Technician Computer Sciences Corporation - Pasadena, CA 1987 to 2006 Network administration. Troubleshoot, install internet services. Education Certificate in Computer Science Computer Learning Center - Tustin, CA January 2003 to June 2003 Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Class A Expires: July 2023 State: CA Skills Microsoft Office Suite (5 years), Physical Fitness (Certified) (10+ years), Internet Services (10+ years) Certifications CDL Class A Driver's License Assessments Delivery Driver — Proficient May 2019 Interpreting instructions, reading maps, and solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6f0rjn9vgsos15cu Vehicle Maintenance — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of general vehicle maintenance inspections to complete minor repairs. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/t3g1bdfs9z-93soy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Driving buses and coaches, I had to upgrade my license to a CDL Class B license. With Passenger endorsement. I then upgraded my license again to a CDL Class A license with endorsements. Which I currently have. I am permitted to drive almost any vehicle.