Network Engineer/ Administrator Part-Time <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Part-Time I.T. Specialist possessing a unique talent for troubleshooting and understanding the role of security in facilitating a properly maintained infrastructure. Possessing over 18 years of technical expertise in managing networks and designing, implementing and testing the security for these environments. Highly motivated by a position that challenges my skill set and consistently feeds my desire for learning. Work Experience Network Engineer/ Administrator Part-Time August 2013 to Present • Re-designed and implemented LAN architecture across all locations.  • Designed and implemented the security, monitoring, auditing, and disaster recovery policies  • Re-designed the security camera system used by each location.  • Designed and implemented a SSL and IPSec VPN solutions for each location  • Developed the wireless network design for each location  • Automated key processes for network and systems management. Senior Network Security Analyst ICSA LABS - Mechanicsburg, PA September 2006 to Present • Responsible for deploying, administering, and managing various security technologies including Anti-Malware (Desktop, Server, Gateway, Advanced Threat Detection(APT)), VPN's, Firewalls, Web Application Firewall, VoIP, and mobile devices in both IPv4 and IPv6 environments (Including appliances, soft appliances, and virtual appliances.).  • Developed and improved existing testing methodologies, tools, techniques, test beds, and infrastructures for Anti-Malware Desktop/Server, Anti-Spyware, Firewall, Web Application Firewall and HA in accordance with ISO 9001 and 17025 requirements.  • Automated several key testing processes in the Anti-Malware, Firewall, and Web Application Firewall programs.  • Build and vet tools for testing scenarios and test bed infrastructure management, and log parsing.  • Supervised a team of certified malcode analysts in analyzing and replicating malware to test against various anti-malware products, including desktop, servers, groupware, and gateway deployments, for certification.    YMCA of the Greater Harrisburg Area Harrisburg, PA. Technical Instructor CLN /YTI - Mechanicsburg, PA 2004 to 2009 • Taught Networking, Information Security, Routing and Switching, A+ curriculum, Operating Systems (Client/Server), Wireless Communications, Systems Administrations Best Practices, Scripting/Programming and Business Applications.  • Regularly lead intensive lab-based sessions for all subject matter using vendor specific platforms and maintained several autonomous networks specifically for lab activities.  • Built testing tools, designed audits for students to perform for security both digital and physical, and re-designed curriculum for the security, wireless, and scripting/programming portions of the course. Skills Iis, Security, Tomcat, Active directory, Switching, Systems administration, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vpn, Exchange, Firewalls, Remedy, Virtualization, Malware, Data recovery, Information security, Nmap, Splunk, Python, Scripting Additional Information SKILLS:  • RADIUS • Packet Analysis • TCP/IP  • Active Directory • MS, MAC, Linux OS • Microsoft Exchange  • Information Security • Firewalls • MySQL  • Project Management  • Virtualization  • Malware Analysis    • Network and Systems Administration    • Monitoring/Auditing  • Data Recovery  • Technical Trainer    • Microsoft Office  • Routing and Switching  • Pen testing  • Scripting  • RCE    • Remedy A.R.S.  • WLAN Security  • Compliance testing  • NMAP  • Python  • Security Research    • Peoplesoft CRM  • Apache /IIS/Tomcat  • VPN Solutions  • Acunetix  • Splunk  • Vulnerability Assessment/Scanning