Help Desk Technical Support Help Desk Technical Support System Analyst Guaynabo, PR Professional in various positions of responsibility and coordination of information systems. Extensive experience in designing, implementing, maintaining and get optimal functioning of the service provided by the different systems and platforms that support the business service companies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Help Desk Technical Support Soft Inc - Carolina, PR May 2014 to Present Provide technnical assisntance for the multiple pharmacies around Puerto Rico with the SW they use, RX30 and RMS for the cashiers, HW,( switches, PC, Peripherals, Networkin( ISP ip conflic, Subnet, DNS,) Policies, Wifi, Ipad Application, Windows, Unix, CentOS, OS between others System Analyst Quest Diagnostics, Inc - San Juan, PR 2007 to 2014 • In charge of the custody of the Data Base and application maintenance SAIL.  • Write, edit and create SOP for the auditing process the company has.  • To give technical support to the different staff in the company  • High level for trouble shooting on peripherals device and interfaces with the laboratory instruments  • Manage the cellular devices and BB, IPhones connection to the company according to the standard  • Operate different task on the PBX (adding a line, adding voice mail, edit the user access to the telephone).    Special Project:  * Successfully implemented the installation for over 68 external client an Eref application which results a duplication of the volume of samples that the laboratory receive.  * I worked in the creation of new accounts for Eresults, an external resource for external clients in support with the Sales team with more than 200 accounts created, which classified as an asset on the Goal Sharing.  * Have installed and configured a digital punch clock of Kronos in different facilities, which facilitated the work of the Human Resources Office.  * Wire 17 workstation in a two day project with out supervision.  * Move and wire a department with telephone direct line for a fax modem they used. System Administrator Puerto Rico Health Department - San Juan, PR 2003 to 2007 To give technical support to the personnel of the Program. Train the personnel in the areas related to the system, complete charge of the database of the Program. To maintain total control of the inventory of any electronic equipment, analyze the existing system to submit changes requirements, create and maintain every user in the system of the Program, install, configured and train the personnel of the different application that the Program has, created a database for a special Division in Access XP, in complete charge of the system backup program.    Special Project:  • As a part of the committee for the implementation of a web-application PEMS (Program Evaluating Monitoring System), this application is been development by the CDC together with the rest of Health Department of the USA, for the collection of several data that needs to be place in the CDC.  • As a project coordinator of the phase I of the ETS Laboratories Mechanization using the PMP philosophy. Network Specialist FHC Heath System of Puerto Rico 2000 to 2002 Serve as a Network Administrator at this business management enterprise dedicated to the administration of five mental healthcare facilities, including the main office. Monitor over 120 users in six separated sites operating under Windows NT environment and a data support unit with full accountability for backups, processing unit, support and trouble shooting, Printers, PC, Network Wired, and software installation. Manage and monitor the connection between the five external clinics with a dedicated line (56K), AS/400 application, client access (MHS, ABSolute). Prepare category 5 UPT cables under 568B standards. Managed telecommunications system, worked directly with four T1 and T2 pair switchboards. Support a 15-person Call-Center using a Nortel software (Symposium), as well as RDA modem line recovery. Install and configure routers, switches, HUB.    Special Project:  • Implemented a wireless network, for the Hoare Clinic, providing access up to 20 end users. Education BBA in Management Information System METROPOLITAN UNIVERSITY - San Juan, PR 1993 Skills System Analyst (10+ years), Help Desk (10+ years), Tech Support, Helpdesk Support, Service Desk, Linux Groups PR Chess Federation September 2017 to Present Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    • Strong leadership skill  • Effective communication  • Strong technical expertise on Information Systems  • Strategic vision for innovation and change  • Manage on the following system SW