Operations Manager Operations Manager Senior Systems Engineer Brooklyn, NY Work Experience Operations Manager Alphaserve Technologies - New York, NY August 2017 to April 2019 Designed, supported and managed entire IT infrastructure and technology needs of client corporate  headquarters and 5 remote offices. Provide leadership and direction to 3 administrators at remote locations.  Very hands-on manager and technical lead for all IT-related projects, functions and responsibilities.  • Spearheaded 6 concurrent infrastructure projects as part of major clients Digital Transformation and Compliance initiative. This included migration to Office 365, Citrix XenDesktop and XenApp deployments,  VMWare upgrades, Okta MFA with AirWatch roll out and SQL upgrades.  • Managed all IT vendor relationships, including negotiating related contracts and creating annual IT business  plan and budget ($3M) reflective of corporate and business unit initiatives. Implemented changes resulting in over $250K in operating expense savings in the first year.  • Collaborated on enterprise-wide BCP and disaster recovery project and oversaw overall risk management with specific reference to operation delivery and security. Developed and instituted formal IT processes, policies,  procedures and Powershell/VB/Bash scripts to help streamline repeatable business functions. Sr. Systems Engineer Alphaserve Technologies - New York, NY June 2014 to August 2017 • Took the lead on 14 client accounts as part of an initiative to transition myself as the technical lead around several sensitive active systems projects.  • Spearheading emergency real-time client takeover, ensuring that client was up and running before start of the next business day. Gained direct access to existing infrastructure, migrated over existing domain and VM's to  newly configured ESX host and migrated existing Exchange DB's into newly built-out Exchange server.  • Created and instituted firm-wide automation processes via Powershell to streamline reoccurring critical tasks  and procedures as part of our migration to ServiceNow.  • Managed and supervised major client relocations, collocations and expansions. Served as liaison between client  and vendors/contractors and designed and implemented firm-wide policies to get clients up to SOX- compliance. Client Services Engineer Alphaserve Technologies - New York, NY June 2010 to June 2014 Took lead on company-wide initiative ensuring major clients were up and operational during the Hurricane  Sandy outage.  • Maintained excellent client relationships during various major incidents. Took the lead on financial firm  AirWatch MDM deployment fallout.  • Managed client documentation and migration from Desksite platform to Connectwise. Network/Server Administrator NPowerNY - New York, NY February 2005 to May 2010 Provide first, second and third level Server, Network, and PC support for 15 NPower Scheduled Support clients  throughout NYC. This included leading the delivery of scheduled maintenance and troubleshooting  engagements along with client visits, documenting environment and managing client needs and expectations. Network Technician/Help Desk Analyst Palladia - New York, NY August 2003 to February 2005 Provide local and remote desktop support for main office and 12 satellite locations. Planned and implemented  the upgrade of 80 workstations to Windows XP and Office 2003. Provided troubleshooting of network  connectivity, network printing and user access issues. Installation of Hard Drives, memory, network adapters, modems & other hardware, and various peripherals. Education None in Computer Science University of Michigan Ann Arbor - Ann Arbor, MI September 1998 to June 2000 None Bronx High School of Science - Bronx, NY September 1994 to June 1998 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CITRIX, VMWARE, XENAPP, Excel, Inventory Control, Management, Operations, training, Microsoft Word, MS Office, Inventory Certifications/Licenses MCSE Present MCITP Present MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Present