Advanced Placement Computer Science Teacher Advanced Placement Computer Science Teacher Clermont, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Advanced Placement Computer Science Teacher LAKE COUNTY SCHOOLS - Clermont, FL July 2016 to January 2018 Teach Advanced Placement computer science class to public high school students. APCSA and APCSP Network Administrator Electric Cooperatives of South Carolina - Cayce, SC 2007 to June 2016 Installation, configuration and management of full network. This includes strategic planning, budgeting, implementation, optimization, and maintenance through disposal of all network hardware, software and services.  Laptops, desktops, servers, firewalls, switches, access points, wireless, Ethernet, cabling, Exchange, fax server, mobile devices, printers, scanners, copiers, telephony, UPS, building generator, building access, building security video, interactive white boards, projectors, video conferencing, digital presenter, purchasing, repairs, building fire alarm.  Support technology needs for 1st Cooperative Federal Credit Union. Housed is the same building 1st Cooperative has connectivity to two networks. Specialized equipment as well as different software and priorities which are supported independently.  Strategic planning and design for current and future business needs. Recognize need and diligently work to resourcefully provide effective results for the business need.  Project management: Logically research, plan, schedule and deploy new installations, upgrades and replacements of hardware and services to network and building. Including: whole building UPS for critical services, access control system, video surveillance, panic buttons, video conference system, cable management rack, telephone system/ voicemail system migrations, internet service providers, building fire alarm, electric car charging station, and wireless network services.  Educate employees on new technology and solutions. Identify and mentor employees about features and benefits of technology to improve their performance and comfort level with technology. Create curriculum material and demonstrate through instructor led training classes proper use of technology.  Negotiate and manage contract services, phone lines, data services, security services, contract engineering. Utilize organizational skills while managing projects or tasks and tracking issues appropriately. Build and maintain relationships with a wide variety of vendors for support services.  Provide internal support to employees at all levels including interns to the C-level. External support to business related companies or people inside or outside of the cooperative arena.  Primary contact for after-hours security needs for two properties. Network Administrator Cooperative Electric Energy Utility Supply - West Columbia, SC 2001 to 2007 Under the direction of the Manager of Information Technology, provided services to include: laptops, desktops, servers, firewall, hub, Ethernet, cabling, Exchange, fax server, mobile devices, printers, scanners, copiers, telephony, UPS, building access, projectors, purchasing, and repair. Windows OS, Unix OS. Security for facility. Door access, building security.   Supported a statewide trade association The Electric Cooperatives of South Carolina for all network services.  Exhibited flexibility to creatively support any business need.    I supported all aspects of the IT infrastructure for the organization. I determine the needs based on discussions with staff. I assisted in the creation of budgets. I made purchasing decisions and deployed equipment based on the needs of the company. I was instrumental in developing a statewide IT group for members of the electric cooperatives in South Carolina. I provided training as needed to employees for all technology needs. Education Masters in Business Administration Southern Wesleyan University - Columbia, SC 2011 to 2013 Bachelor's in Computer Science Limestone College - Columbia, SC 2006 to 2008 Skills TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, POP3, SMTP, FTP, VOIP, Ethernet, LANs, WANs, KVM, MX, wireless networks, servers, routers, switches, UPSs, SSL certificates, domain registrar, domain records, PCI compliance, AD, Group Policy, Exchange, Trend Micro, Symantec, Veritas, LogMeIn, Box, Adobe, cloud services, Office 365, Office, remote support, SonicWALL, firewall, MS Windows, DOS, FaxFinder, BizHub, printers, Pitney Bowes, Lanier, Dell, HP, Meraki, projectors, digital presenters, Turning Technologies, Barracuda, mobile device, Lantronix print servers, building generator, access control, security systems, printers, multi-function printers, panic buttons, interactive white boards, MS Windows, MAC, IOS, Android, Linux, Office, Office 365, Google Docs, Exchange, Veritas, Symantec, Trend Micro, Peachtree Accounting. (10+ years), AP Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional Present #2307258 CompTIA A+ Present #10338408 CompTIA Network + Present #10338408 Additional Information Coordination and management of facility needs. Regulatory inspections such as; elevator, fire, sprinkler and backflow. Other needed services to include; Landscaping, plumbing, HVAC, electrician, roofing, UPS, generator maintenance and load testing.    I acted as the on-site owners rep for two major construction projects. First, a replacement generator to cover the entire property and all critical needs services for facility. Second, a building addition including the technical needs to incorporate audio and video conferencing and an upgrade to the building kitchen area in order to pass local fire code inspections.    AccountIng and payroll.  Experience (over ten years) with cost accounting, construction loans, union and non-union payroll, journal entries, account analysis, balancing, bank reconciliations, spreadsheets, data conversions, data processing and mail merging, electronic calendars, Outlook, presentations and slideshows, audio video equipment and group electronic meetings.