IT Director IT Director Tabernacle, NJ Work Experience IT Director 2008 to Present The Artcraft Group - Moorestown, NJ 2004 to Present Systems Administrator 2004 to 2008 Systems/ Network Consultant 2004 to 2004 to 2004)    Hired as a full-time systems administrator following initial consulting role. Provide Windows/Unix/Linux administration, network operating center (NOC)  administration, LAN/WAN administration, VMware administration, and intrusion detection and prevention (IDP) monitoring. Also manage AD/DNS, wireless access points and load balancers. Design and implement highly available (HA) and disaster recovery (DR) solutions for employer.  True "Jack-of-All-Trades" being a department of one growing to a department of four.    Key Contributions:  • Evaluated and reconfigured company's Server Infrastructure setup, including recommending, configuring and deploying an EMC VNX SAN  disk environment to engineer a robust, scalable solution using VMware vSphere.  • Planned, deployed and maintained Exchange migrations from 5.5 to 2000 to 2007 to 2010 to 2016. Current system is an HA system that  was tested and passed the test of Hurricane Sandy in 2012  • Improved system security through setup and ongoing maintenance of Symantec Endpoint Security. Delivered a cohesive solution  managing Cisco ASA firewalls and containing all IDP software.  • Researched, recommended and implemented network enhancements that improved system reliability and performance.  • Revamped BackupExec tape system to upgraded VEEAM snapshot disk system. Responsible for maintaining a 12 hour RPO on a 48  hour RPO for all key systems.  • Optimized system availability (averaging 99.9% uptime) and equipped company with scalable systems to support fast business growth.  • Trained employees across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, network management software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX 2000 to 2002 Bachelor of Science in Chemistry in Chemistry ST JOSEPH UNIVERSITY - Philadelphia, PA 1996 to 1999 Skills EXCHANGE, NOC, LAN/WAN, VMWARE, EMC VNX Additional Information Highlights of IT Skills     • LAN/WAN/NOC • Technical Support • Exchange Design &  Administration • Systems Installation, Management  • Project Management Configuration & Upgrading • VMware Design &  • UC/VoIP Administration • EMC VNX Solutions & Management  • Productivity Improvement HP Nimble Solutions • AWS Design &  Management