Network Service Manager <span class="hl">Network</span> Service Manager Experienced manager with over 20 years in telephony, data, and internet services experience leading high performing teams. Analytical and thorough approach for managing performance with a focus on customer satisfaction and delivering world-class service. Valencia, CA 20+ years telephony, data, and internet services experience leading high performing teams with the installation of AT&T products such as U-verse, Direct TV, internet, and phone. Analytical and thorough approach for managing performance with a focus on customer satisfaction and delivering world-class service. Awarded numerous service excellence awards and customer commendations for excellent communication and customer resolution.   * Proven strengths in team management, cross-team collaboration, risk management, and customer service.  * Demonstrated proficiency leading teams of technicians and maintenance administrators increasing productivity while maintaining high quality and safety standards.   * Strong customer focus and excellent written, verbal, and presentation skills.   * Advanced knowledge of voice and data circuits: ISDN, POTS, PSTN, DS1/T1, T3/DS3, PBX, IVR routing schemes, and customer support call flows.  * Advanced knowledge in telecom operations support (Carrier Ops, Call Processing, and Network Management). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Service Manager AT&T - Valencia, CA July 2008 to Present • Manage 22 installation and repair technicians, overseeing 60-70 daily installs and repairs. Measure daily install and repair progress, safety inspections, and quality. Responsible for team performance, evaluations, and union matters. Increased productivity results by 20% for each team of technicians supervised. Average monthly installations and repairs total 1,600 jobs.  • Perform quality and safety observations for installations, including on-site visits and technician ride-alongs ensuring safety compliance with company standards.  • Mentor low-performers by implementing training and action plans to meet performance targets. Meet with union stewards to resolve work-place violations.  • Maintain metrics for installation and repair times, customer satisfaction, quality, and safety. Evaluate performance metrics across the team using analytical tool sets to increase productivity. Maintained a quality rate of 95% accuracy, 88% dispatch efficiency, and less than 3 safety incidents per year on average.  • Responsible for emergency planning and compliance with laws and regulations by maintaining a safe and secure work environment.  • Create incentive recognition programs to promote safety, quality, and accountability.  • Resolve customer escalations, risk management reports, and damage claim investigations. Maintained an average of 93% customer satisfaction. Customer Service Manager AT&T - Valencia, CA February 2001 to June 2008 • Managed teams totaling 20-22 maintenance administrators responsible for resolving customer service issues related to AT&T phone products and services with an average handle time of 2 calls a minute.  • Excellent cross-team collaborator to resolve customer tickets across multiple departments, ensuring timely follow-up with customers.  • Responsible for team performance and evaluations for all targeted metrics. Analyzed 2600 tickets annually to provide quality feedback to improve employee results. Conducted 750 desk-side observations annually to analyze trends and change behaviors resulting in a decrease of average handle times.  • Resolved customer escalations, worked with regulatory office of president to resolve issues timely to ensure overall customer satisfaction.  • Managed in-charge call center to ensure office operations were followed.  • Coordinated and facilitated recognition committee, authored monthly newsletters, and organized team competitions to drive results. These efforts resulted in district teams out-performing targeted metrics by as much as 15%.  • Co-authored comprehensive cost analysis to find opportunities to reduce cost and increase overall quality results.  • Developed training material and coordinated scheduling training classes during a work stoppage to ensure no downtime with resolving trouble tickets. Maintenance Administrator AT&T - Valencia, CA June 1992 to January 2001 • Handled incoming repair calls for AT&T?S Service Department, performing circuit diagnostic evaluation for customer resolution. Resolved on average 2 calls per minute resulting in an average of 900 customer contacts per day.  • Created tickets and forwarded to the appropriate work group for handling with 95% accuracy for ticket distribution monthly.  • Interacted with multiple work groups to problem solve customers issues to ensure customer satisfaction.  • Assisted management in handling difficult customer escalations working with regulatory groups for customer resolution to maintain customer loyalty.  • Assisted with in-charge duties including overseeing office operations for 400 personnel in accordance with office policies.  • Trained office personnel with new and updated processes & procedures.  • Conducted initial and advanced training courses for maintenance administrators. Education High school or equivalent Los Angeles Valley College - Los Angeles, CA Skills Advanced knowledge of voice and data circuits: ISDN, POTS, PSTN, DS1/T1, T3/DS3, PBX, IVR routing schemes, and customer support call flows. Advanced knowledge in telecom operations support (Carrier Ops, Call Processing, and Network Management). (10+ years) Awards Service Excellence Award for exemplary customer service 2019-06 Service Excellence Award for exemplary customer service 2014-01 Vice President recognition for regional top performing manager 2013-06 Awarded highest district office revenue performer 2008-03 Assessments Technical Support — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1kz0wxbmcw3gzecx Critical Thinking — Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n-v6-o8w88s0dco Problem Solving — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/okc-aimay4a2o8dz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Numerous training courses completed for leadership, managing high performing teams, technology innovations, and environmental health and safety. Along with an emphasis on on-going training and learning, I have developed and instructed courses in basic electronics and troubleshooting and conducted monthly training with teams. I have participated in the American Heart Association (AHA) and educational programs in LA country and have volunteered with local animal shelters.