Network IT Consultant <span class="hl">Network</span> IT Consultant Network IT Consultant - Executech Layton, UT Work Experience Network IT Consultant Executech - South Jordan, UT December 2018 to Present * Provide network maintenance for company clients as well as break/fix items and project work such as Office 365 migrations, building moves, and Azure server migrations.  * Work with client Point of Contact to prioritize company IT projects and to-do lists. Consult on IT business solutions and hardware that increase security, efficiencies, and save money.. For example, Server Hardware, phones, backup solution, printers, software, A/V solution, firewall, switches, cabling. Configuration Management Specialist TimeShareWare - Ogden, UT September 2014 to December 2018 * Create PowerShell scripts to automate common build management tasks.  * Expert at configuring IIS to host TimeShareWare applications.  * Buildmaster of TimeShareWare MSI files; push updates to QA environments via scripts.  * Performed common SQL Server and Reporting Server tasks such as backup and restore of DBs, shrinking log files, and assigning SQL permissions.  * Assist Business Analysts with troubleshooting customer implementations of Enterprise TimeShareWare.  * Manage over 80 Dev and QA servers using Microsoft Hyper-V. Support Technician Eide Bailly, LLP - Ogden, UT November 2012 to November 2012 * Provide onsite desktop support to end users.  * Troubleshoots miscellaneous software, network, server/desktop issues, and printer hardware issues. Network Administrator/Consultant Schmitt, Griffiths, Smith & Co., P.C - Ogden, UT 1999 to November 2012 * Transformed job title to include IT consultant as well as network administrator by generating an additional $55K per year by consulting firm clients with their IT needs, thus reducing the cost of my salary to the firm.  * Provide sales quotes and proposals for software and hardware for the purpose of translating customer needs into an affordable and technologically sound networking system.  * Design and oversee firm and client Active Directory Windows networking systems, manage servers, workstations, printers, firewalls, network applications, user training, helpdesk support, phone system, application troubleshooting, and problem resolution.  * Excellent customer relation skills. For example, I'm frequently told by clients not to leave my current job. Network Administrator Nelson Laboratories (NL) - Salt Lake City, UT 1998 to 1999 Education BA in Communication Southern Utah University - Cedar City, UT December 1997