Desktop Engineer Desktop Engineer Desktop Engineer - Forward Edge Detail oriented desktop engineer and former systems analyst for 2+ years, along with a prior 10 months as a network administrator. Using experience working behind the scenes using a variety of software as well as working with customers to troubleshoot and resolve a variety of problems that would arise. Driven and determined to be the best, while still wanting to learn and excel in new skills to keep myself competitive and fresh in the dynamic world of IT. Work Experience Desktop Engineer Forward Edge June 2019 to Present • Using the Freshdesk ticketing system, responding to tickets regarding IT within the Forest Hills school district.  • Update, enroll, and make sure that the chromebooks for the school are in the right organizational unit whether or not the chromebook is just being used as a kiosk to fill out a form, or to power wash the chromebook to have a fresh image for student use.  • Preform any break fix on the variety of chromebook models within the district, along with Lenovo devices that the teachers are using.  • Troubleshoot any problems that arise with technology, such as storms knocking out chromeboxes or destroying projectors and going through the proper procedures of getting those items fixed or disposed of.  • Customer Service based in the way that we are the main point of contact with any faculty, staff, or student within the district that has issues with any technology owned by the district.  • Use SCCM to provide teachers and students with apps and programs specific to their needs. Assistant to the Shift Leader Firehouse Subs April 2018 to December 2018 References are available upon request. Systems Analyst Northern Kentucky University May 2016 to December 2018 Troubleshoot student/faculty accounts to ensure proper permissions and access is granted through the use of active directory, and office 365  ? Create mailboxes and grant access to various accounts with Office 365  ? Maintain servers; assist with the datacenter and the Infra ticketing system  ? Offer specialized support for over 9,000 university accounts and campus infrastructure.  ? Kept inventory of the servers in the data center to help with the yearly audit  ? Assess the vulnerability of an account that is compromised by spam and help the user recover access to their account. Interim Network Administrator SkytechBB April 2015 to March 2016 Install subscriber modules for each client.  ? Assess billing, finances and accept payments  ? Answer calls and address issues that arise with their equipment  ? Marketing and new client evaluation Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology in Computer Information Technology Northern Kentucky University August 2013 to December 2018 Skills Active directory, Ruby, Scripting, Linux, Java, Mysql, Sql, Wireshark, Helpdesk, Windows 7, Mac Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/joshua-frontz Additional Information Skills    • Active Directory  • Mac, Linux, and Windows Operating Systems  • Ruby Scripting Language  • Java Programming Language  • Office 365 and Windows Powershell  • WhatsUp Gold  • Helpdesk and troubleshooting experience with different ticketing systems  • Bomgar and Remote Desktop  • SQL and MySQL  • Wireshark  • Windows 7,8,10