Deputy Jailer Deputy Jailer Deputy Jailer Jacksonville, FL Dedicated Data Systems Administrator with comprehensive data, telecommunications, servers,  and networking experience. Expertise in helpdesk abilities and security analysis. Technically  proficient. Adept at solving networking, electronics, and computer technology problems.  Effective at training any and all personal. Can maintain a lucrative and social relationship with  customers, team members and the general public. Work Experience Deputy Jailer Richmond County Sheriffs Office - Augusta, GA April 2019 to August 2019 ? Enforced rules and kept order within jail.  ? Supervised activities of about 150 inmates.  ? Aided in rehabilitation and counseling of inmates.  ? Inspected facilities to ensure they meet security and safety standards.  ? Searched inmates and their cells for contraband items.  ? Reported on inmate conduct. Data Systems Administrator 9th Communication Battalion - Camp Pendleton, CA September 2017 to March 2019 Operated and maintained quality control of over $10 million in servers and computer  gear.  ? Established critical virtual servers needed to provide services to thousands of Marines  from different units.  ? Designed a pamphlet for over 100 different computers that are used by about 1500  different Marines that resulted in making the workload easier and stress free for our  helpdesk as well as making the other Marines happier and able to continue their work in an orderly and timely manner. Radio Data Team Supervisor 9 Communication Battalion - Camp Pendleton, CA October 2016 to August 2017 Assigned to the Radio Data Team to cross train and perform with satellite  communications which is outside my military occupation.  ? Led 2 other Marines under my charge across multiple exercises to better our experience  with our own job and on satellite communications. Cyber Network Operator/ Data Systems Technician 9th Communication Battalion - Camp Pendleton, CA July 2016 to October 2016 Accountable for over $100 million of server and networking gear, computers, and varieties of different cables and fiber.  ? Assigned as Maintenance and Tools Supervisor to keep track of all server and networking gear that needed repairs and or needed updating. Education Marine Corps Communications and Electronics School - Palms, CA February 2016 to June 2016 Skills training, Data Entry, Management, Time Management Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Corporal