Graduate Assistant, Assessment and Husky Compact Graduate Assistant, Assessment and Husky Compact Graduate Assistant, Assessment and Husky Compact - Saint Cloud State University Saint Cloud, MN Aligning Information Technology Security Services with business requirements and demands by creating security  solution deliverables through the establishment of security control in each phase of a project and network  infrastructures, including business case development, security design and testing. Work Experience Graduate Assistant, Assessment and Husky Compact Saint Cloud State University - Saint Cloud, MN August 2018 to Present • Creating Forms and surveys using TK20 and Qualtrics for Student and Teacher Assessment  • Updating Graduate and Undergraduate course Outcomes/Goals for University Programs in TK20 and Qualtrics  • Assigning roles to users in TK20 and Qualtrics as per requirement.  • Defining the assigned roles of various user in the TK20 and Qualtrics. Dispatcher Saint Cloud State University Public Safety - Saint Cloud, MN January 2018 to August 2018 • Gathering preliminary investigation information for first responders  • Dispatching personnel and equipment to scene of emergency, while maintaining radio contact, status reports  and computer screens to determine units available.  • Prioritizing emergency calls verify locations and determine the appropriate responder while entering the information into the computer database  • Broadcasting orders to officers in the vicinity to investigate complaints and replay instructions or questions  from other officers.  • Answering phone calls in a professional way and make sure that the requests that are made on the phone are  being sent to the officers so that they can handle the job.  • Monitoring various alarm activations, including fire, thefts etc.  • Maintaining call and activity logs along with various other clerical duties as needed. Network and Security Administrator Integrated Mobility Solutions - Kathmandu, NP February 2015 to July 2017 • Define access privileges, control structure and resources to protect the system.  • Recognizes issues by detecting abnormalities; reporting violations.  • Implement security updates by assessing current situation; evaluating trends; anticipating requirements.  • Develop, maintain and publish information security policies and procedures.  • Proactive monitoring and in-depth analysis of security related threats and events log.  • Respond to incidents, conduct investigation and define measures to prevent re-occurrence.  • Evaluating new security technologies and solutions in collaboration with other team members and prepare  proposal to the clients.  • Conduct ethical hacking and vulnerability probing to identify security risks in IT infrastructure and hosted  applications in internal and external datacenters.  • Determine security violations and inefficiencies by conducting periodic audits.  • Update system by implementing and maintain security controls.  • Keep users informed by preparing performance reports; communicating system status.  Skills:  Architectures: Role Based Security, Firewall and virus software repositories.  Networking: LAN/WAN, NMAP, TCP DUMP, HPING3, TCP/IP, UDP, VPN, WPA, WPS, WEP  System Admin: Security Configurations, User Administration, Server Configuration, Virtualization.  Applications: Oracle PL/SQL Developer, Oracle Application Express, Visual Studio Code, Cisco Packet  Tracer, Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe Photoshop CC, Power BI, Atom Text Editor, TK20, Task stream  Security/Vulnerability Assessment: Metasploit Framework, Weevely, Burp Suite, Snort, IP Tables, Nessus, Aircrack-ng  Programming Language: Python  Forensic Tools: FTK Imager Lite, Pro-Discover, OSForensics  Framework: NIST SP800-37, ISO 27000  Security Governance: HIPAA, NIST, ISO, PCI DSS  Security Policies: Acceptable use Policy, Data Sensitivity and Classification, Access Control Policy, Password  Policy, Privacy Policy, Care and use of equipment policy, Personnel Policy  Operating System: Linux, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows Server 2008.  Courses Studied: Database Security and Auditing, Database Design and Implementation, Cloud Security, Firewall and Penetration Testing, Intrusion Detection and Prevention, Cryptography, Digital Forensics, Security  Policy and IT Risk Management, Client/Server Security, Risk Management.  Soft Skills: Strong analytical and critical thinking ability, excellent at communication, Team Skills, Ability to work independently, Excellent at managing time and planning. Education Master of Science in Information Assurance St Cloud State University - Saint Cloud, MN December 2019 Master of Business Administration in International Business and Finance Amity University - Noida, Uttar Pradesh May 2014 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Amity University - Noida, Uttar Pradesh May 2011 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/arbaz-ahmed-siddique