INFORMATION SECURITY ANALYST INFORMATION SECURITY ANALYST INFORMATION SECURITY ANALYST - Netcracker Technology Work Experience INFORMATION SECURITY ANALYST Netcracker Technology - Cincinnati, OH February 2019 to Present • Effectively manage potential threats by efficiently responding to and managing security related incidents.  • Proactively improve and maintain SIEM rules and reports.  • Develop and own procedures for migrating application privilege control into corporate access management  process  • Routinely perform vulnerability assessments, generating and delivering reports upon completion.  • Utilize company provided tools to execute semi-annual penetration tests as well as separate segmentation  testing to ensure the private enclave infrastructure is separated from standard corporate resources. SYSTEM/ NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Prospera Solutions Group - Cincinnati, OH September 2016 to February 2019 • Provided exceptional Tier II/other support per request for 60 small/medium business clients housing more than  1000 end users. Investigated and troubleshot issues as necessary.  • Enhanced client productivity by providing system availability above 99% by monitoring and verifying the integrity of client systems and networks.  • Maintained up to date and accurate information for all client infrastructures by performing frequent technical  audits  • Maximized client network security by running quarterly penetration tests and vulnerability assessments,  generating and reviewing reports with them, and addressing any outstanding issues.  • Configured and maintained proprietary networking hardware according to the needs of the client  environment. COMPUTER SYSTEMS ANALYST INTERN Office of the Trustee - Cincinnati, OH February 2016 to July 2016 Worked seamlessly alongside senior analyst to maintain impeccable functionality of the private infrastructure  used within the firm.  • Offered regular technological aid to anyone in need of assistance within the firm. Education Master of Science in Cyber Security and Information Assurance Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2019 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology Northern Kentucky University - Newport, KY 2016 Skills Incident response (Less than 1 year), networking (2 years), Project management (Less than 1 year), Security (3 years), Unix (Less than 1 year), access, Cisco, testing, Active Directory Additional Information SKILLS  • Windows administration • Patch management  • Unix systems • Antivirus management  • Information Security • Detail Orientation  • Networking • Office 365  • Incident Response • SIEM  • Vulnerability Assessment • Project Management  • Penetration Testing