IT Specialist (technical support) IT Specialist (technical support) Extensive Technical Computer Skills - Degreed Profesional with Experience Boonville, MO Technical Support Specialist, Technology Manager, Programmer, and Technology Trainer. Network Administration skills as an Identification Administration specialist for IBM. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist (technical support) Isle of Capri Casino/Hotel - Boonville, MO March 2018 to July 2019 • Provided support for all computer and computer related devices in the Isle of Capri Casino/Hotel in Boonville, MO  • supported and installed all computers and software, phone systems, monitoring systems, and related devices.  • WiFi systems for the public and employees use.  • Backup reports of multiple databases on a daily basis for local and corporate use.   • Managed the operation and daily functions of several large software systems including SDS, CMS, MGT Kiosk Management System, Windows 2012 Network, Unix, and Windows v. 10 operating system. Identification Administration/ Network Administrator IBM Contractor for DOW Chemicals, Inc. - Columbia, MO August 2017 to February 2018 • Managed the Active Directory access for DOW Chemicals,Inc.  • Verified new employees for DOW Chemicals worldwide and added their privileges, accesses, and groups.  • Removed terminated employees from Active Directory access and use worldwide.  • Managed over 77,000 employees on a Wide Area Network Worldwide. Insurance Agent American General Life and Accident - Boonville, MO June 2001 to January 2003 Worked as a field agent for all of Mid-Missouri (Boonville, Columbia, Fayette, Glasgow, Slater, Sedalia) Selling Life and Accident Insurance. Held my MIssouri Life and Accident Insurance license. Ran an agency of several hundred clients managing their accounts, servicing their needs for personal lines of insurance. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Business Administration Central Methodist University - Fayette, MO August 1982 to May 1987 High school or equivalent in College Preparation Boonville High School - Boonville, MO August 1974 to May 1978 Skills Active Directory, Help Desk, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Tech Support, Microsoft Office, Unix (1 year), Insurance License for Missouri 2001-2004