Administrator, and part time Network Technician <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, and part time <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Administrator, and part time Network Technician - NetXperts Inc Oakland, CA To obtain a responsible and challenging position commensurate with my education and goals; where my personal initiative and experience will be of immediate value to an organization's goals and objectives. Work Experience Administrator, and part time Network Technician NetXperts Inc - Walnut Creek, CA April 2018 to Present DEFINITION ( Administrator)  • Provide administrative support to ensure efficient operation of the office. Support managers and employees through a variety of tasks related to organization and communication.  ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS  • Answer and direct phone calls  • Organize and schedule appointments  • Plan meetings and take detailed minutes  • Write and distribute email, correspondence memos, letters, faxes and forms  • Assist in the preparation of regularly scheduled reports  • Develop and maintain a filing system  • Update and maintain office policies and procedures  • Order office supplies and research new deals and suppliers  • Maintain contact lists  • Book travel arrangements  • Submit and reconcile expense reports  • Provide general support to visitors  • Act as the point of contact for internal and external clients  • Perform HR functions  DEFINITION (Part-time Network Technician)  • Provide troubleshooting and technical support for client computer systems and networks.  ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS  • Review email alerts as they come in and triage, as needed  • Fault handling and escalation of any alerts and incidents resulting from emails coming in to Help Desk queue to appropriate engineering resource  • Working knowledge on Windows Server OS and virtualized platforms  • Document problem descriptions and detailed problem diagnosis with accuracy and compliance with established practices.  • Facilities maintenance and support (Monitoring of alerts in relation to building facilities, i.e. AC Unit, Office Entry/Exit, etc.)  • Provide helpdesk support and resolve problems to client/end user's satisfaction and according to SLA  • Open, update, close, and track for billing Help Desk tickets (AutoTask) as they come in while keeping track of issues up to including adding notes into ticket as requested by engineering  • Install, test and configure new workstations, peripheral equipment and software  • Coordinate PC setup and deployment for new and existing employees using standard hardware, images and software, including setting up computer(s), monitor(s), and phone(s) as required  • Reset user passwords, modify network/email groups, add computers to network  • Perform timely workstation hardware and software upgrades as required  • Ensure shift handoff reports are documented and completed between all shifts Center Manager Ace Cash Express - Cleveland, OH October 2016 to November 2017 DEFINITION  • Manage employees and assist customers with check cashing, loans, and other transactions.  ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS  • Managerial functions such as opening and closing the store.  • Cash customer checks  • Sell Ace Debit Card and Direct Deposit to customers.  • Overseeing center operations  • Assuring maximized sales and profits  • Center security and safety  • Inventory control  • Expense control Insurance Agent, Life, Health, and Property United Insurance Company of America - Richmond, CA January 2015 to July 2016 January 2015 -July 2016)    DEFINITION  • Provide service to clients' changing insurance needs by selling life, health, property and casualty insurance.  ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS  • Collect premiums from policy holders. Develop base for long-term sources of clients by using referrals, occupational, and special-interest groups to compile lists of prospects.  • Determine clients' particular needs and financial situations by scheduling fact-finding appointments; determining extent of present coverage and investments; ascertaining long-term goals.  • Explain features, advantages and disadvantages of various policies to promote sale of insurance plans.  • Develop a coordinated protection plan by calculating and quoting rates for immediate coverage action and long-term strategy implementation.  • Interview prospective clients to obtain data about their financial resources and needs, the physical condition of the person or property to be insured, and to discuss any existing coverage.  • Ensure that policy requirements are fulfilled, including any necessary medical examinations and the completion of appropriate forms.  • Monitor insurance claims to ensure they are settled equitably for both the client and the insurer.  • Perform administrative tasks, such as maintaining records and handling policy renewals. Obtain underwriting approval by completing application for coverage.  • Complete coverage by delivering policy; planning future follow-up visits and evaluations of needs.  • Provide continuing service by providing direct deposit forms; processing changes in beneficiary and policy loan applications.  • Provide death benefits by delivering policy proceeds; reassessing client needs.  • Update job knowledge by participating in educational opportunities; reading professional publications; maintaining personal networks; participating in professional organizations.  • Seek out new clients and develop clientele by networking to find new customers and generate lists of prospective clients.  • Enhance insurance agency reputation by accepting ownership for accomplishing new and different requests; exploring opportunities to add value to job accomplishments.    JOB STANDARDS/SKILLS  • Prospecting Skills  • Meeting Sales Goals  • Motivation for Sales  • Selling to Customer Needs  • Client Relationships  • People Skills  • Product Knowledge Education Bachelor of Science in Business Management in Business Management Wilberforce University May 2014 Edison High School - Fresno, CA June 2008 Skills Receptionist, Dispatcher, Telephone, Accounting, Ms office, Security, Human resource management, Transmissions, Business writing, Presentation skills, Networking Additional Information Abilities and Skills  • Computer Information Systems  • Business Writing Certified  • MS Office Suite  • Accounting  • Human Resource Management  • Sales and Presentation Skills  • Client Relationships, and People Skills  • License # OK10247 Life, Health, Property, and Casualty Agent/Broker    • General Math Skills  • Organization  • Dependability  • California Life, Health, Property, and Casualty Licenses    Wilberforce University Campus Police  1055 North Bickett Road, Wilberforce, Ohio 45384  Police Dispatcher, Campus Security, and Parking Enforcement: (2009-2014)  • DEFINITION  Under direction of the Police Sergeant or Chief of Police; receive and transmit all incoming emergency and non-emergency telephone and radio messages to appropriate campus police personnel. Responsible for enforcing campus parking regulations through the issuance of parking citations on the campus of Wilberforce University. Issue warning citations, keep accurate records and compile a monthly report of citations issued, including time accountability.  • ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS  Receive all emergency 911 and non-emergency telephone calls and transmit to appropriate campus police personnel; answer radio transmissions for campus police; enter data on dispatcher log; serve as receptionist; keep various lists updated and filed such as lost and found and stolen and recovered property; relay weather related problems to the campus family; maintain and update various files; perform other duties as required. Communicate and interact with the students, faculty, staff and visitors on a daily basis; prepare handwritten records accurately and legibly; walk approximately two to four miles per day; inform Police Dispatcher when there is a need for law enforcement; maintain confidentiality about information learned on the job.  • JOB STANDARDS/SKILLS  Able to multi-task, with ability to do and listen to several things at one time; ability to receive and transmit radio and telephone communications; ability to communicate effectively both verbally and in writing; have a working knowledge of computers; ability to work under stressful situations.