LSG Sky Chef LSG Sky Chef LSG Sky Chef Jacksonville, FL Experience in data entry in high level including the following software:  C-Base, E-Base and SAP.  -Microsoft office, Windows, Outlook and Internet experience.  -Management and accounting experience.  -Excellent Costumer Services experience.  -Knowledge in Marketing and Negotiation, Public Relations and advertisement.  -Good communication skills.  -Fast learner.  -Good multitasked.  -Bilingual (Spanish-English).  -Inventory Management Work Experience LSG Sky Chef Buyer Planner Procurement Department October 2018 to June 2019 3500 NW 24th ST Miami FL, 33142  (305)-635-3900  - Planning coming orders in order to supply the coming schedule.  - Ensuring the products is delivered on time.  - Reacting to any changes in customer demand.  - Schedule inventory in order to maintain the necessary stock.  - Assist with coordinating purchasing details with vendor to include pricing revisions, order  cancellations, establishing discontinued items and acceptable substitutes, back orders, delivery  date revisions, invoice discrepancies, etc.  - Work with Program Management / Pricing departments to ensure proper items are sourced  and what is being sourced is within the specifications of the customer. FSA Dispatcher MDU and DROP B Department - Hialeah Gardens, FL September 2016 to August 2018 33016  (786)607-5803    - The dispatchers focus on pre-day activities, provide day of setup calls, and account  qualification activities so that everything is in place at the day of install for all lines of business.  - The dispatcher verifies, prequalifies, and validates appointments as well as confirms the appointment window and accuracy of the work order.  - Independently coordinate field activity work via phone and computer, track technicians and contactors daily progress to ensure production and time frame are met.  - Compile, prepare and maintain various operational reports, logs and files. Perform other  duties as assigned.  - Professionally handle all types of customer inquiries and complains to fully resolve customer  concerns. Front End Supervisor Ross Dress For Less - Hialeah, FL May 2016 to September 2016 33015  (305) 557-9933    - Provides customer service and oversight of front -store activities in accordance with all  company policies and procedures through proper handling of all transactions and corresponding documentation (i.e. refunds, check approval, employee discounts, price  overrides, gift certificates and any other transactions requiring supervisory involve)  - Responsible for the recruitment and training of new employees developing them to deliver  good quality services which should be maintained all throughout store operations. Head Cashier Dollar General - Hialeah, FL August 2015 to December 2015 33015  (305) 628-0234    - Open and Closet the store.  - Authorizing refunds. Override and count register. Deposit money on bank.  - Assist in ensuring the financial integrity of the store through strict cashier  - Accountability, key control, and adherence to company security practices and cash control.  - Manage store in Store Manager's absence.  - Follow prescribed ordering practices to ensure the meeting or exceeding of in-stock targets, review ordering plan, seasonal direction and inventory management issues on weekly basis.  - Provide Customers with friendly and fast services. Network Administrator Centro Pro Artes Escenicas April 2013 to July 2013 - Monitor of the Network performance every day.  - Updating programs and the system for better computer performance.  - Helping worker to use the accounting system to close the monthly and annual Company cost.    I consider myself a fast learner and I'm always eager to learn new procedures in order to complete my daily  task with the biggest goals on commitment. Education Bachelor's in Computer Sciences IPI Lazaro Cardenas del Rio September 2007 to July 2010 Skills Team Player, kitchen, Microsoft office, Windows, Outlook and Internet experience. (10+ years), Experience in data entry in high level including the following software: C-Base, E-Base and SAP. (4 years), Management and accounting experience (2 years), Excellent Costumer Services experience and Good communication skills (3 years), Knowledge in Marketing and Negotiation, Public Relations and advertisement (2 years), Inventory Management (Less than 1 year), Bilingual (Spanish-English). (4 years)