IT Systems Support Administrator IT Systems Support <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator Plainsboro, NJ Work Experience IT Systems Support Administrator Hamon - Somerville, NJ May 2019 to Present • Manage infrastructure and provide support to internal users and worldwide users.  • Set up IT Hardware and software for new employees.  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues submitted by employees.  • Provision/De-provision user accounts, including but not limited to Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange.  • Ensure that records of IT systems and equipment are properly maintained and inventoried.  • Monitor Global Help Desk, respond and bring closure to tickets in a timely manner, and document solutions.  • Work with 3rd party MSP for IT Services.  • Monitor IT-related supplies and coordinate orders.  • Support conference room trouble shooting and A/V support for events.  • Execute special projects as they arise.  • Monitor and maintain in house Network LAN/WAN   • Monitor and maintain in house server environments, physical and VM. Server 2003 – 2016.  • Creating Scripts to automate tasks. (Batch/Powershell)  • Set up new and manage existing servers on location.  • Work with external offices to make sure branches are in good working condition. Lab engineer MIERCOM - EAST WINDOR, NJ February 2019 to May 2019 Responsible for testing and Reviews in Miercom Testing Lab and supporting Sales in new  technology and test criteria for customers.  - Researching prospective clients, development and implementation of testing/review plan.  - Works in creating and managing a productive lab testing  environment.  - Create and manage projects including test plans, product research, customer  interaction, methodology/test plan, lab review reports and product write ups.  - Creates and manages lab test infrastructure and network. Jr Network Admin/Lead Helpdesk Technician AUGUST ETECH July 2017 to February 2019 - Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, or server function.  - Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  - Configure wide area network (WAN) or local area network (LAN) routers.  - Identify the causes of networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  - Install network software, including security or firewall software.  - Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments  - Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  - Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems  - Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  - Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software.  - Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks.  - Load computer tapes and disks and install software and printer paper or forms.  - Implement and provide technical support for voice services and equipment.  - Train people in computer system use.  - Perform routine network startup and shutdown procedures and maintain control records.  - Resolve daily helpdesk tasks. Education Associates in Computer Networking Technology in Computer Networking Technology DEVRY UNIVERSITY April 2016 Skills Active Directory (4 years), Architecture (4 years), Cisco (2 years), Data Center (Less than 1 year), disaster recovery (2 years), Exchange (4 years), Firewalls (2 years), Help Desk (4 years), NAS (4 years), Network Administration (3 years), Network Architecture (3 years), Security (3 years), Virtualization (3 years), VMWare (Less than 1 year), VoIP (2 years), Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Mac, Windows 7, Customer Service, access, Microsoft Office