Wireless Specialist Wireless Specialist Nemacolin, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Wireless Specialist The Revenue Optimization Company - Various Walmart location in PA April 2019 to July 2019 My duties included engaging with customers to find the right phone and plan for them. I was responsible on memorizing and knowing the differences between the phones we sold, and how to reasonably sell them to my customers. I also had to obtain knowledge on how to repair phones customers would bring in, ranging from software issues to replacing broken parts. I would also travel with my work, mainly to make sure stores wouldn’t go dark and lose sells.  Supervisor/ Manifold dispatch Gemms Oil Field Service Inc - Waynesburg, PA August 2018 to February 2019 Supervise pads and make sure manifold carried out their responsibilities safely and accurately. Cap Team Member Walmart - Waynesburg, PA June 2018 to August 2018 Unload freight, organize it, and stock it unto shelves for customers’ convenience.  Network Administrator Flenniken Memorial Library - Carmicheals, PA August 2017 to June 2018 Keep servers up and running, make sure there were no viruses or bugs in their network, and update/clean/ repair tablets and computers.  Crew Member Taco Bell - Waynesburg, PA June 2016 to September 2016 Prepare food by making sure it was fresh, safe, and presentable for   the customers’ consumption. My responsibilities included washing dishes, taking apart equipment to cleanse it, and providing a clean area to eat for the customers by sweeping, wiping down tables, and mopping floors. It was my duty to provide clean stocked restrooms to the public as well. Education High school or equivalent Carmicheals Highschool - Carmichaels, PA August 2012 to June 2018 High school or equivalent in Computer Network Tecnology Greene County Career and Technology Center - Waynesburg, PA August 2015 to May 2018 Skills Crucial thinking, Very social, Team Building (4 years), Interactive, Stress management (4 years), Listens very well Certifications/Licenses Network administration October 2018 to June 2024