Technical Specialist Technical Specialist MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT/TALENT DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROFESSIONAL Clemmons, NC Adult Education Expert | Organizational Development Strategist | Business Transformation Leader  Entrepreneurial talent development and training professional proficient at planning, project management, and driving human resources operations excellence. Particularly strong in employee relations, retention strategy and technical instruction. Dynamic, persuasive and consultative leader with cross-functional team training, coaching, team-building, and professional development course design and implementation skills. Results-driven strategic business ideation with exceptional communication, facilitation, problem solving and decision-making acumen. Profound understanding of business and staffing issues and trends affecting tactical program execution. Highly organized with a talent for unpacking complex staffing and strategic scenarios to create practical solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Specialist Flow Motors Acura W-S at Flow Automotive Companies - Winston-Salem, NC January 2018 to Present Responsible for delivering technology training and conveying comprehensive product information to potential and current clients. Promoting the brand's unique technical offerings to clients and colleagues. Assist Sales force in achieving performance goals for overall organization. Network and Training Administrator Second Harvest Food Bank NW North Carolina - Winston-Salem, NC November 2016 to December 2017 Conducted project technology assessments for client agencies in order to train users for online data tracking software. Provided technical support for entering data while onboarding new programs.Developed and updated training materials, Provided first level of support, training, and technical assistance for client data software users in a timely manner. Performed ongoing database cleanup. Produced reports for a variety of stakeholders and coordinated and supported the integration of the client data tracking software. Successfully trained over 500 volunteers at 44 Forsyth County partner agencies which required significant advance preparation, coordination, carefully planned instructional classes and a great deal of follow-up. Participated in deliverables of the grant such as meetings, developing performance indicators and reporting to the grant funder. Manager, Technical Training RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co - Winston-Salem, NC Created and delivered training and career progression strategy for globally distributed workforce with diverse set of technical, manufacturing operations, distribution and human resources responsibilities to enhance employee skills, performance, productivity, quality of work, and retention. Oversaw creation and maintenance of training materials and playbooks, multimedia visual aids, and presentations to progress adult workplace learning, create future bench strength and increase hiring from within. Managed initiatives which accomplished overall strategy of technical training and aligned with business mission, values, and strategic goals and objectives.  Key Achievements:  ? Managed three-shift training operation that developed and delivered 148 different technical training programs for domestic and international manufacturing machine operators, mechanical and electronic technicians, and adult education.   ? Improved efficiency of training process by reorganizing operation into one facility and eliminated unnecessary programs resulting in a 30% annual budget reduction.  Designed measurable metrics for training outcomes and researched new techniques for inclusion into existing training process.  Facilitated and proctored the NC State Engineering Masters evening programs for RJR employees and coordinated a qualification evaluation for the Electronic Engineering program with Forsyth Tech Community College. Management Consultant Ramel Talent Developers - Winston-Salem, NC Deliver expertise in areas of talent development, training facilitation, project and change management, reorganization and budget consolidation to drive company and client profitability. Apply analytical and technical thinking to identify and implement client solutions to routine and complex implementation challenges and issues across multiple areas of responsibility. Use high degree of insight, research, and analytical skills, to develop new or enhanced methods and techniques to resolve staffing, talent development and change management problems. Identify alternative resolutions, identify risk factors and provide implementation recommendations. Apply skills in Organizational Change, Digital Transformation, Organization Design, Program Management, HR Strategy, Service Delivery, Change Management, Operating Model, Process Redesign, and Cost Reduction within numerous industries. Contribute to overall planning of projects by recommending approaches, identifying skill set requirements and streamlining existing and new positions within an organization. Leverage lifecycle implementation experience to anticipate changes required in project plans and processes. Take initiative to achieve valued-added results and improve upon solutions offered. Manage engagement scope and client expectations.  Key Clients:  RJR International: plants in Canada, Puerto Rico, Germany, Italy, Belgium, UK, Switzerland, Spain, Japan, China and Russia.   Phase Four Engineering, Winston-Salem, NC   VF Corporation-Lee Jeans, Mocksville, NC   Woodland Church/School, Winston-Salem, NC   Richards Building Supply Company, Inc., Winston-Salem, NC  A&D Management, Tobaccoville, NC  Yadkin Valley Wine Company, Hamptonville, NC Education B.A. in Communication Salem College - Winston-Salem, NC Media Communication High Point University - High Point, NC Skills Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Publisher) (10+ years), American Red Cross CPR/AED, and First Aid Certification (10+ years), Certified NC Wildlife Hunter Safety Instructor (5 years), NC CDL Instructor and Drug/Alcohol awareness supervisor (6 years), Industrial Vehicle Operator Instructor (10+ years), United Way Solicitor Training Facilitator (10+ years), Quickbooks Expert (7 years), Human Resource, People, Instructional Design, Talent Development Certifications/Licenses Management Education Seminars and Courses March 1983 to Present Management Development Program   Performance Management Seminar  Writing for Effect Seminar  Communications Seminar  Managing Troubled Employees  Effective Communications  Administering Training Programs  Execu-Image Seminar  Designing/Delivering Technical Training Programs  ASTD Instructional Design Program  Microsoft Office and Quickbooks  Video/Audio Production   Certified Pro Tools Engineer   NC Wildlife Hunter Safety Instructor  NC CDL Instructor   Drug/Alcohol awareness Supervisor  Notary Public State of NC   American Red Cross CPR/AED and First Aid   Industrial Vehicle Operator Instructor  United Way Solicitor Trainer Certified NC Wildlife Hunter Safety Instructor January 2013 to December 2018 Teach hunter safety classes for the NC Wildlife Commission Notary Public State of North Carolina February 2004 to February 2018 NC CDL Instructor and Drug/Alcohol awareness supervisor April 2006 to Present Trained to teach CDL Classes for Drivers and detect any Drug/Alcohol abuse. Groups Association for Talent Development June 1985 to Present Toastmasters International January 1975 to November 1990 Additional Information Conducted a 2016 Adult Literacy Program Study with YMCA and Forsyth Tech