Network Supervisor Engineer in ZAK solutions for computer system <span class="hl">Network</span> Supervisor Engineer in ZAK solutions for computer system Network Supervisor Engineer in ZAK solutions for computer system - ADSL (Cisco) Routers US Looking forward to work in Networking & communications field and working with a team  to get possibilities for professional growth and a chance to work with experts in my field.    Identification and Personal Data:    • Name: Hatem Helmi Elsayed Amasha  • Place of Birth: Kuwait  • Birth date: 23/1/1983  • Gender: Male  • Religion: Moslem  • Address: Kuwait - Sharq - Khaled ben wailed St. home no 16  • Contact Number: 0096560626400  • Marital Status: Married  • Nationality: Egyptian  • E-mail: hatemhelmi83@hotmail.com Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Network Supervisor Engineer in ZAK solutions for computer system ADSL (Cisco) Routers 2012 to Present troubleshooting (Cisco) Routers & switches peripherals, Manage & monitor the network  activity, hardware problem, secure the Network & the servers, Plan & develop the network.    Supervisor Network Engineer LAN&WAN Support:    • Experience how to configure Cisco routers and switches: 9500, 6500, 4500, 3850, 3750,  3600, 3500, 2900, 2600, 2500, 800.  • Duties included LAN/WAN daily operations: Router & switch configurations/Access-lists.    • Maintained router and switch configurations, updated and changed configurations  depending on corporate requirements and documentation.    • Visio Drawings - drew and updating for reference use continuously.    • DNS & DHCP - Management of HQ and field office DNS.    • LAN/WAN monitoring / Vendor Contact - Continuously monitored all network circuits and specific HQ hosts through CNS.    • Created spreadsheets for all outages, giving start and end times, their duration and cause.  Responsible for taking care of RAS queue as backup.    • Troubleshooting of network problems - Made physical changes to routers, switches, DSU/CSUs in order to increase performance.    • Managed infrastructure installation services including network facilities, Information  Assurance, Cable Plant, WAN and BAN/LAN teams and performed design, survey, installation and commissioning of network devices Network Engineer in PAAET troubleshoot ADSL (Cisco) Routers 2009 to 2012 and switches.  Manage & monitor the network activity, hardware problem, secure the Network & the servers, Plan & develop the network. Network Administrator ITEC center - EG 2004 to 2009 Egypt), troubleshoot ADSL (Cisco) Routers and switches. Education Computer Science Delta Academy 2003 to 2004 Skills Cisco Additional Information • 15 years of experience working interactively with customers and all levels of  management.  • Strong ability to work with all customers in a network engineering role.  • Able to develop long-term relationships.  • Experience in all areas of client data support, including system design and  implementation.  • Ability to solve technical support problems and work clients through difficult  processes.  • Extensive knowledge of industry hardware to meet client requirements and  ability to work quickly using all available technical resources.  • Customer-focused, results-oriented and collaborative leader with ability to  interface across multiple departments for cost-effective management of  high-level projects.  • Superior communication skills, including strong presentation and writing  abilities.    Personal Skills:    • Very ambitious, very self-motivated professional, dynamic, independent, have aims  and goals that I must do my work in the best way and lead the work towards to the top.  • Familiar with a company's plans by creating & development Challenging person, high  solving problems & decision maker skill.  • Ability to manage people performance, motivate them & understand their needs.  • Ability to develop in written form strategic plan for all departments.  • Powerful communication skills in English, excellent organized skills.  • Sincere and hard worker, team worker, trouble shooter and ability to work under  pressure.  • Ability to manage multiple projects in a fast development environment Flexible to travel  inside or outside.