Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer New Port Richey, FL Work Experience Network Engineer Florida Properties Group - Trinity, FL 2013 to 2017 Achievement and Responsibility Overview    Network Engineer responsible for security and reliability for 22 branch locations and 700  associates including Residential, Commercial, Mortgage and Title divisions.    • Data center migration experience - Migrated Microsoft, Cisco and VMWare network  infrastructure to new data center including all voice and network services.  • Telco migration experience - Architected and implemented migration from hosted telco  service to in-house managed Cisco infrastructure.  • IDS/IPS configuration experience of Cisco Firesight for SOC requirements, enhanced  network visibility and layer 7 management.  • Cisco Route and Switch experience including SSL, QOS, VOIP, EIGRP, OSPF, Layer 2 and 3  switching.  • Cisco Call Manager new office deployments including H.323 and MGCP gateways.  • Managed departmental documentation including software licensing, audit preparation, SOC and Disaster Recovery Plan.  • Systems automation utilizing Microsoft Powershell for IP printing and new user  onboarding.  • Created Security Operations Center by consolidating all reporting for networking and databases to monitor access, changes and pattern recognition with Syslog server.  • Implementation of critical infrastructure upgrades including Cisco Call Manager, Cisco  Firepower and Cisco/Meraki Wireless systems.  • Implemented Barracuda Backup Appliances for disaster recovery, image backup and email message archiving.  • Streamline hardware infrastructure utilizing VMWare server virtualization.    Berkshire Hathaway Systems Administrator Florida Properties Group - Trinity, FL 2008 to 2013 Achievement and Responsibility Overview    • Management of Windows client and server infrastructure including file sharing and remote connectivity.  • Implementation experience of Cisco Firewalls, Routers, Switches and IP Phones.  • Implemented printer utilization reporting system with Excel Macros.  • Cisco Site-to-Site IPSEC VPN command line configuration experience.  • Cisco and Microsoft RADIUS integration configuration experience for Cisco SSL VPN.  • Microsoft 365 and Gsuite email management experience for over 700 users.  • Extract, Transform, Load activities for new systems onboarding.  • Microsoft Exchange 2003, 2007, 2013 administration experience.  • Implemented helpdesk utilizing Manage Engine for issue tracking and department  analytics overview.    Berkshire Hathaway Support Technician Polytech Solutions - Tampa, FL 2002 to 2010 Achievements and Responsibility Overview    Responsible for implementation of Active Directory for infrastructure clients and web project  contributions.    • Create and maintain networks for customers.  • Windows Server System domain implementation and maintenance.  • Creation and Maintenance of Virtual Private Networks.  • Web Design utilizing WordPress and Adobe Photoshop.  • Configure and maintain Active Directory, deployment of user accounts, security and distribution groups.  • Performance of root cause analysis and corrective action taken for issue resolution. Technical Specialist Florida Properties Group - Trinity, FL 2006 to 2008 Achievements and Responsibility Overview    • Support desk administration for 500 Real Estate agents and staff.  • Implemented computer imaging strategy for new machine installations. Decreasing  helpdesk workload by 36%.  • Exchange email server administration.  • New user onboarding and account terminations.  • Cisco IP voice administration.  • Onboard new real estate agents and staff. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems University of South Florida - Temple Terrace, FL 2003