Digital Imaging Customer Support Digital Imaging Customer Support Digital Imaging Customer Support Lawrence, MA Work Experience Digital Imaging Customer Support Hologic - Marlboro, MA June 2008 to June 2019 Currently provide support for Hologic mammography systems: Selenia, Selenia Windows, Selenia Dimensions, Securview, MIMS/+ and some basic R2/CAD and SecurExchange  issues. I was one of 3 initially trained for SSI AIXplorer Ultrasound support.  • I have maintained the knowledge base for the Mammo helpdesk. Using Treepad, our  "MyHologic" website, as well One Note when we moved to that.  • Familiar with Hologic1 (salesforce) and Oracle for creation of Cases/Service Requests.  • I communicate with customers and Hologic Field Service Engineers through phone and email communications. Network Administrator Acronis, Inc - Burlington, MA March 2007 to June 2008 Provided telephone support to users for resolving ISP connection, routing, and PC  software/hardware problems in several different countries.  • Managing multiple users' network and email accounts through Active Directory, proactively following up with users to make sure solutions are to their satisfaction.  • Supporting XP and Vista workstations, Microsoft Exchange (2003), internet browsers (IE  6/7 and Firefox), MS Office 2003/2007, MS Solomon and Citrix Presentation Server 4.0  • Sonicwall VPN experience.  • Postini Spam Filter (3rd party host)  • Responsible for purchasing most IT hardware and software. Assistant Network Administrator Sumaria Systems - Danvers, MA October 2000 to March 2007 Telephone support resolving ISP connection, routing, and PC software/hardware  problems for users.  • Managing multiple users' network and email accounts through Active Directory, proactively following up with users to make sure solutions are to their satisfaction.  • Supporting a variety of operating systems (all Microsoft Operating Systems), Microsoft  Exchange (5.5/2000/2003), internet browsers (IE, Netscape, Firefox), MS Office  97/2000/2003, and other programs (Accounting, Human Resources and other  departments).  • Cisco Firewall/VPN Concentrator experience.  • Email Firewall experience (Barracuda).  • Responsible for purchasing all IT hardware and software. Help Desk Supervisor, Wang Global Getronics - Tewksbury, MA January 2000 to September 2000 • Promoted to telephone help desk supervisor.  • Volunteered to and then created training materials and reference sheets for new hires.  • Researched solutions and created procedures for problems not covered in the technicians' troubleshooting database.  • Solved customer issues that had escalated beyond the Tier 1 and 2 technicians' skills. Getronics - Tewksbury, MA June 1999 to January 2000 Promoted to Roamer to assist both Tier 1 and 2 telephone support technicians solve  problems when they were unsure how to proceed.  • Handled unresolved customer issues from the Tier 1 staff and authorized which calls  would be allowed to be escalated to the Tier 2 support.  • Mediated difficult customer issues. Tier 1 Help Desk, Wang Global Getronics - Tewksbury, MA June 1998 to January 1999 • Telephone support resolving internet subscriber connection, routing, software, and hardware problems.  • Offered support for a variety of operating systems, internet browsers, email and newsgroup reading programs.  • Volunteered assistance to other Tier 1 technicians when they were unsure how to continue troubleshooting client issues.    COMPUTER RELATED EXPERIENCE  Hardware: All PC systems: laptops, desktops and servers; ISA/IDE/ATA/SCSI/PCI/USB/SATA, printers, cd/dvd readers/burners.    Operating Systems: DOS/Win3.1/9x/NT/2000 (Pro & Server)/2003 (Server)/XP (Home & Pro), Vista, OSX.    Email/Firewall/Security: MS Exchange, Barracuda, ScanMail.  Antivirus: Norton/Symantec Antivirus (both Personal and Corporate editions), McAfee.    Backup/Maintenance: Acronis True Image 9.1, NT Backup, Veritas v8.5 -v10d.    Communications: pcAnywhere v9.2 - v11, Procomm + Education ONLC Training Center - Londonderry, NH 2007 Computer Learning Center - Nashua, NH 2001 Sullivan & Cogliano Computer Learning Center - Tyngsboro, MA 1998 Northern Essex Community College - Haverhill, MA 1990 to 1991 Skills Network administration, Telephone, Self-directed Additional Information PERSONAL SKILLS    Self-directed, able troubleshooter both on site and via telephone, rapid learner, and well  organized, good communication skills, proactive, highly experienced in areas relevant to my  career thus far. My two job types through my career have been either IT/ Network administration  or End User technical phone support.