Senior IT Engineer Senior IT Engineer Senior IT Engineer - Rhapsody Norwood, MA I am seeking a position as a System/ Network Administrator and looking to apply my 10+ years of hands-on experience in installing configuring, troubleshooting and managing computer based networks and systems both in the cloud and on-prem. Work Experience Senior IT Engineer Rhapsody - Boston, MA November 2018 to Present Migrated emails and set up office 365 tenant for new Rhapsody company  ? Managed and configured all application rollouts such as Zoom. Office 365, Confluence  ? Setup office infrastructure and assisted in the deployment of cloud services such as AWS, Salesforce, Netsuite  ? Procured all IT equipment and managed new Rhapsody Budget  ? Assisted in the migration of On prem Active Directory into Azure AD Systems Administrator Orion Health - Boston, MA March 2013 to November 2018 Configured and deployed Intune device management on all Orion Phones.  ? Responsible for procuring IT equipment for new offices, configuring and setting up the networks and ensuring they are up and running in Europe, Canada and the US.  ? Monitor office network access using SonicWALL GMS, SolarWinds and Centron to troubleshoot and fix any issues that arise in a timely manner.  ? Worked hand in hand with the IT security department to get Hitrust certification for Orion Health as well as participated in a Splunk and Security Onion POC.  ? Utilize and configure information security tools built into the SonicWALL such as gateway antivirus, intrusion protection, content filtering, anti-spyware and SSLVPN.  ? Work with customers to set up and configure IPSEC site to site VPN connections and make sure all routes and access rules are set to company standards.  ? Set up radius authentication on all SSLVPN endpoints to be used through Office365 proxy using Microsoft authenticator.  ? Improved network speeds and saved costs in all offices by evaluating alternate Internet providers and finalizing service contracts with new partners.  ? Successfully oversaw the transition of remote offices' phone connections from T1 lines to SIP providers and managed all configurations of the Trixbox (asterisk PBX) servers.  ? Deployed endpoint management to a group of laptops which ensured they were secured and in scope for a customer. Systems Administrator Industrial Defender - Foxborough, MA May 2011 to March 2013 Upgraded Exchange from Exchange server 2003 to Exchange server 2010 environment and migrated all mailboxes.  ? Managed updates of computers using WSUS, Group Policy, and Kaspersky Anti-Virus.  ? Administered Active Directory, corporate security policies and change control processes.  ? Set up/Maintained IPSEC VPNs, Fortinet Firewalls, SSL VPNs, VMware ESX Nodes.  ? Migrated Datacenter and helped coordinate and create a disaster recovery site in Connecticut. System Administrator Lockheed Martin - Lexington, MA April 2009 to May 2011 Supported computer engineers and scientists with project planning and computer set up for remote locations around the country.  ? Provided MAC, Linux, and Windows administration and troubleshooting support.  ? Researched and coordinated procurement of hardware for government projects.  ? Set up computer test beds to demonstrate to sponsors how future sites can work in the real world.  ? Collaborated with other system administrators to meet technical staff requests and coordinated installations and upgrades of critical systems.  ? Assisted in performing backups and recoveries to secure sensitive data. System Administrator Vitale Caturano - Boston, MA September 2008 to December 2008 In charge of installing, configuring, and deploying virtual infrastructures designed to support field engineers.  ? Managed between 50 and 100 development VMs through VMware Infrastructure Client.  ? Worked on special projects such as OCS, Exchange 2007 installation and deployment. Network Administrator Collette Vacations - Pawtucket, RI December 2004 to September 2008 Maintained and applied security and operating system patches and enhancements on servers.  ? Responsible for designing, maintaining, monitoring and troubleshooting the network to ensure stability for over 500 employees in three different locations (USA, UK & Canada).  ? Maintained system backups and performed system/file restorations on Windows systems.  ? Provided on-call support 2 weeks per month for remote employees working in other states as well as internationally.  ? Installed and performed troubleshooting on Citrix client connections and Checkpoint VPN access.  ? Created and administered all user accounts with Windows 2003 Active Directory.  ? Supported and provided troubleshooting for Avaya phone system, Microsoft Office Communicator, and users of Sabre and Amadeus Air Systems. IT Help Desk Support CVS Headquarters - Woonsocket, RI March 2003 to November 2004 Provided guidance and support to end-users over the phone and in person for a wide variety of hardware and software issues.  ? Imaged and prepared PC's and laptops for distribution to the end-users.  ? Maintained the IT Help Desk inbox and knowledge base so that employees could easily find answers to over 3,000 CVS supported applications.  ? Assisted remote users with Blackberry and Treo data synching issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Network Administration Johnson & Wales University - Providence, RI May 2003 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CITRIX, LAN/WAN, VMWARE, EXCHANGE, FIREWALL, NIS, DEPLOYMENT, SHAREPOINT, DATABASE, SQL, LINUX, RADIUS, LAN, MAC, CHECKPOINT, POLICY MANAGEMENT