Senior IT Manager Senior IT Manager Senior IT Manager - IP AND CMOS Security Camera's Edison, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior IT Manager Computers & Networks, and Security Camera's - Brooklyn, NY May 2010 to Present - Assisted customers in installation and operating computer software, hardware and related problems to satisfy all needs.  - Managed support cases and resolved all issues.  - Evaluated resolution provided to confirm compliance with necessary guidelines for all kind of PC's, Mac's, IP AND CMOS Security Camera's.  - vSphere, VMware Installation, Configuration, Managing, Troubleshooting.  - Assisted support analysts and provided necessary feedback on cases escalated to CTO.  - Reviewed all cases and verified all information and corrected cases when required.  - Assisted in the development departmental financial plans.  - Implemented and monitored overall effectiveness of the same.  - Provided customer support and problem solving assistance to all customers and clients on a suite of proprietary applications.  - Qualified and classified all reported problems as hardware, application, communications, or network related and followed departmental escalation processes.  - Coordinated the resolution of all system issues through corporate and field resources.  - Collect analysis and organize advertisements for clients.  - LAN/WAN installation and configuration for multi-areas  - Servers Configurations and troubleshooting  Support Manager Computer Doctor Brooklyn, NY April 2007 to May 2010 - Support Design and Develop Systems -Server/LAN/Wan /Optimization  - Develop Web Site - Network Design Directory  - Hardware /Software troubleshooting  - Manage remote locations with Net Access internet VPN.  - Technical User Support  - Project Management - System /Computer IP Security Camera Lab Design  - Network Analysis & Administration  - Staff scheduling and payroll Lecturer and Network Supervisor Dammam, KSA September 2003 to April 2007 Sebai Institute  - Lecturer for Computer Department Understanding Networking Fundamentals, TCP/IP Networking, Practical Techniques for Analyzing VoIP Traffic, Enterprise Wi-Fi Administration, Enterprise Wi-Fi Security, Wireless LAN Foundations, Network Cabling Systems.  - Managed remote locations with Net Access internet VPN.  - Managed LAN and WAN for regional laboratory and assisted with support of WAN of national  laboratory at Sebai University branches.  - Managed field service techs by assigning daily work.  - Managed and implements connectivity solutions for all lab locations including patient service centers and with client accounts.  - Managed company phone systems and troubleshooting. Lecturer and Network Administrator Jordan - Jerash Private University August 2002 to September 2003 - Supervised teaching assistants and guided students doing project work.  - Handled the tasks of instructing students on the maintenance and upgrade of software tools and applications.  - Responsible for teaching networking applications like installing programs Security System and Firewalls.  - Instructed students in printer maintenance and repair.  - Managed remote locations with Net Access internet VPN.  - Assigned the tasks of purchasing software licenses and licensing agreements.  - Responsible for guiding students in creating websites and completing assigned projects.  - Handled the tasks of teaching the application of Logo Software Systems  - Provide instructional assistance in a PC and Mac lab.  - Help LAN installation and maintenance.  - Troubleshooting servers and PCS.  - Participated in help desk, system/process improvement, remote access, user training.  - Customized systems and software resolved all networking and server issue Provide services to local businesses and individuals. Network Engineer Lugansk - UA July 2000 to August 2002 - Implemented, monitored and maintenance of networks systems.  - Optimized LAN using performance reports and monitoring applications in 24x7 environments,  - Monitor and around 300 network devices.  - Manage 3 Network Technicians and 2 PC Technicians. Education Doctorate in Business Administration in Information Systems Argosy University - Chicago, IL May 2014 to December 2018 Master in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering East Ukrainian National University June 1999 to June 2000 Bachelor in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering East Ukrainian National University September 1994 to July 1999 Additional Information SKILLS:  - Assist in the implementation and installation of new service offerings  - Manage desktop and laptop inventory as well as supervising the installation, testing and setup.  - Field questions from user support staff and users; recommend solutions to end-user issues  - Manage the user support ticket queue and compile reports such as status and work-volume reports  - Manage scheduling and staffing of IT Operations  - Manage Complex Network  -vSphere, VMware experience  - Support sales management  - Create (RACI) matrix and care responsibilities  Willing to relocate: Anywhere