Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Fort Myers, FL Work Experience Network Administrator Specialists in Urology, PA - Naples, FL November 2010 to January 2014 Provided all levels of support for a multi-specialty medical group with 12 locations and over 300 employees. Our team provided support on a 24/7 basis. Performed scheduled server maintenance and addressed vendor support related issues. Supported the various EMR/EHR systems in use across the organization. Delivered applications and virtual desktops to  users via Citrix. Utilized thin clients, where possible, to minimize costs and to simplify the user experience. Implemented a company-wide systems management solution to track inventory, provide help desk ticketing and to provide alerts if sites or services went offline. Established a version controlled drive imaging solution for laptops and desktops. Maintained our VMware vSphere and EqualLogic SAN infrastructure. Monitored system performance, completed scheduled maintenance, and addressed after-hours support requirements. Simplified routing across our expanding network by coordinating the implementation of EIGRP and CDP. Supported the ShoreTel VoIP phone system across the enterprise. Streamlined workgroup call queueing, provided call activity audits and addressed call fl ow issues. Network Engineer I.T. By The Sea, LLC - Fort Myers, FL August 2007 to January 2009 Provided 24/7 support for over 50 clients across southwest Florida. Performed initial network discoveries, documented infrastructures, diagnosed problems, and recommended cost-effective solutions. Support ranged from answering customer calls to performing infrastructure installations. Addressed customer support needs and implemented solutions for data back-up,  content filtering, managed anti-virus, service hosting, and remote access. Education Computer Science Edison State College Computer Security East Stoudsburg University Diploma Dunbar High School Skills Network Administration, Systems Administration Awards Eagle Scout 2007-06 Venturing Leadership Award 2005 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer 2007 to Present Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator 2006 to Present Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician 2006 to Present CompTIA A+ 2006 to Present CompTIA Network+ 2006 to Present VMware Certified Associate - Data Center Virtualization 2014 to Present Astaro Certified Administrator 2011 to Present