Assistant Director Technology Services Assistant Director Technology Services Columbus, OH Lean Six Sigma, AWS, ITIL, HIPAA/FERPA/PCI, and CISSP trained technology & business professional with strong leadership, problem-solving, teambuilding & project management skills. Twenty-Six years of professional IT experience designing, implementing, & administering IT policies & technologies. Results-oriented manager with a strong Data Security & Unified Communications background. Ability to develop & maintain metrics that accurately gauge the effectiveness of processes & systems. Capable of leading, recruiting, developing, motivating, & retaining a diverse technology staff. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Assistant Director Technology Services The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH January 2010 to Present As Assistant Director of one of the Ohio State Universities larger Technology Services groups, I am responsible for providing strategic vision and technology road maps as well as operations level support for all of Student Life’s technology needs. I have a staff of 9 full-time Systems Engineers and 12 part-time student System Specialists. Collectively, we maintain and support over 2000 staff members and a network of more than 3000 devices. As a part of this support, my responsibilities include recruiting and retaining highly skilled technical staff and establishing training guidelines for the department. I am also responsible for establishing department-wide Information Technology standards and policies, monitoring client satisfaction, age and condition life cycles, budgeting, contract negotiation, upper management liaison, and data security. My group, referred to as Client Services, is also responsible for the universities Point of Sale systems which supports one of the nation’s largest networks of dining facilities. We also support time clocks, Audio Visual needs, digital signage, and provide project management. Student Life Client Services supports a diverse network of devices and operating systems.   Systems Manager The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH March 2002 to January 2010 As Systems Manager, I was responsible for managing 6 full-time Systems Engineers and 6 part-time student System Specialists. Collectively we maintained a network of 1800 devices. As a part of this support, my responsibilities include recruiting and retaining highly skilled technical staff and establishing training guidelines for the department. I was also responsible for establishing department-wide Information Technology standards and policies, monitoring client satisfaction, age and condition life cycles, budgeting, contract negotiation, upper management liaison, and data security. Student Life Client Services supported a diverse network of devices and operating systems. Network Administrator Vineyard Christian Fellowship - Columbus, OH October 1999 to March 2002 Vineyard Columbus is one of the largest churches in Ohio with more than 8000 attendees and hundreds of employees. Like many large churches around the country, Vineyard relies heavily upon cutting edge technology to support its many ministries.     I was responsible for all the Church’s technology needs including Networking Infrastructure, Servers, Desktops, and Audio Visual. With 2 staff members and 15 volunteers, I purchased and supported all of the church’s technology.  Information Technology Consultant XiTech - Columbus, OH March 1999 to October 1999 XiTech was a multi-state, fast-paced technology consulting and Microsoft Certified training company, offering a full line of MCSE and MCSD courses. I was assigned to a project management position for the Ohio Department of MRDD where I performed a broad range of technical and non-technical responsibilities. Network Administrator CGAS Exploration - Columbus, OH February 1997 to March 1999 CGAS was a natural gas and oil exploration company with over 200 employees in several locations around Ohio. They utilized highly specialized geological and seismic software requiring powerful desktop systems and servers with online and near-line storage. Enron acquired CGAS for its oil reserves and eventually closed its doors.    I was responsible for installing and maintaining networking equipment, Novell servers, NT servers, desktops, and an AS400 system.  Communications Manager Techneglas Inc. - Columbus, OH October 1994 to February 1997 Techneglas was once one of central Ohio’s largest employers and a leader in TV glass manufacturing. They once produced 33% of the world’s TV glass. The Columbus Techneglas plant closed its doors in 2004.    I was the primary communications manager for Techneglas and directly responsible for the installation and maintenance of all networking equipment, Novell servers, Microsoft servers, a ROLM PBX phone switch, and hundreds of desktop computers and green-screen terminals. I managed the conversion from green-screen terminals to desktop computers running WRQ Reflection’s terminal emulation software. I served as the lead communications manager with two Communication Specialists as part of my group.  Field Engineer Evcor - Columbus, OH January 1993 to October 1994 Evcor designed and implemented computerized shipping systems. Evcor was acquired by Pitney Bowes in 2000.    I was responsible for the design and installation of customized shipping and tracking systems for world-class clients such as The Limited, Ross Labs, and Wasserstrom.  Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology - Columbus, OH September 1986 to 1991 Officer Certificate in Logistics Management US Army Logistics Management School - Fort Eustis, VA Skills Strong Technology Background, Design, Implementation, & Administration of Technologies & Solutions, Unified Communications, Point of Sale, Audio Visual, & Digital Signage Systems, IT policies & Best Practices, Data Security - HIPAA/FERPA/PCI/, Data Security – CISSP Certified Information Systems Security Professional, Operations & Ticket Management, Staff Management & Development, Life Cycle Methodology, Project Management, Vision Casting & Technology Roadmaps, Service-oriented Management, Purchasing & Contract Negotiation, Budgeting & Cost Control Military Service Branch: US Army Reserves Service Country: United States Rank: 1st Lieutenant