NIGHT CLEANER NIGHT CLEANER NIGHT CLEANER - THE GREENBRIER RESORT Hines, WV To demonstrate why I would be a powerful addition to your organization. Work Experience NIGHT CLEANER THE GREENBRIER RESORT May 2019 to Present • Cleaned and prepared the resort for the following days activities.  • Adhered to strict sanitation rules.  • Cleaned and maintained Casino area on occasion.  • Setup equipment in various venues including chapel for weddings and shows.  • Maintained/Cleaned classic and priceless art collections. TIER II RESIDENTIAL TECH SUPPORT COX COMMUNICATIONS July 2015 to October 2016 • Handled inbound call center calls for customer having problems with their cable modems.  • Provisioned new equipment  • Acted as support for Tier I agents when they needed to escalate a call. TECHNICIAN EBRYIT October 2013 to October 2016 • Traveled from site to site doing warranty repairs on Dell Computer and Networking Equipment.  • Installed new Dell office networks in insurance offices up and down the east coast.  • Scheduled repair times with customers.  • Gave instructional sessions in the operation of new equipment and soft to office employees and IT staff that would be responsible for maintaining equipment on site. HEAD NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR TELCOM LLC October 2014 to December 2015 • Designed and overseen the construction of a WAN for voice and data covering 7 100+ unit apartment buildings.  • In charge of porting in phone numbers from other carriers and provisioning phone service after number was received.  • In charge of all new procedure creation for the IT department. NETWORK DESIGNER/ ADMINISTRATOR DELL 2000 to 2013 • On-site repair of customer purchased computer equipment covered under extended warranty due to component failure as well as software issues or failure.  • Extensive travel all over the east coast.  • Taught on site classes for customers who purchased blocks of instructional time. MAINTENANCE ADMINISTRATOR VERIZON 1994 to 1999 • Call center style support for field techs who needed features and programming changed in switching equipment.  • Limited customer contact but did handle the occasional escalated call for an emergency situation or data that was required for local law enforcement. Education B.S. in Web Design UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX 2019 Skills Network design, Web design, Customer service, Call center sales, Center sales, Office sales, Sales experience, Sales staff, Verizon, Telcom, Janitorial, Clean, Cleanroom, Housekeeping, Cleaning, Management, Excel, Communications, Customer Service Skills, Microsoft Office, Cash Handling, Warehouse, Forklift Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Customer Service Skills — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hb5urfw0wjituoch Basic Computer Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/boua342ubuzcuo7x Accounting Skills: Basic Principles — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prepare financial records according to federal policies. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/aoy6-qqpe2ccj9gw Accounting Skills: Bookkeeping — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to calculate and determine the accuracy of financial data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8x1m-kpds-tjgoc3 Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7mz0wowsiozkudrv Basic Word Processing Proficiency with Microsoft Word — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of basic Microsoft Word techniques for word processing, including the use of tools to format or edit text. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/abasy1lmvkithhk6 Written Communication — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/t6ivrjekgtzmqw-7 Memorization & Recall Skills — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to commit product or merchandize information to memory and recall at a later time. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ywt6ctwaycpskkgz Verbal Communication — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hhzm1ubdmxwnlonn Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills & Abilities  MANAGEMENT  • Project Management  • Network Design and Installation  • Customer Service  • Web Design  SALES  • Managed office sales staff for Telcom LLC IT related policies and procedures. 6 years of Call Center sales experience with Bell Atlantic/Verizon  COMMUNICATION  • Presented sales and new promotional classes for Bell Atlantic/Verizon. Drafted and communicated policies for Telcom LLC. Acted as go between, between major circuit carriers and firms I worked with and for just as CenturyLink and Cox Communications.  LEADERSHIP  • Lead office teams at Verizon, Cox Communications and eBryIT as a dell computer representative.