Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - SmithFoods, Inc Copley, OH Work Experience Network Administrator SmithFoods, Inc - Orrville, OH October 2018 to Present • Successfully migrated plant network from a public IP space to a private IP space  • Successfully diagnosed and corrected PLC related networking issues helping to stabilize communications  • Created and provided detailed network documentation to include unknown hub locations which were replaced with managed switches  • Implemented secure WPA2 enterprise encryption for wireless connections across multiple device types  • Corrected VPN configurations between PepLink firewalls  • Streamlined Sophos firewall rules for better security, access and management  • Effectively monitor and react to network alerts to unresponsive network devices Manager, information technology United Way of Summit County - Akron, OH January 2016 to September 2018 • Successfully merged and moved two organizations from two different locations into new office space  • Efficiently rebuilt internal infrastructure including servers, switches, cabling and firewalls  • Conceptualize documentation for procedures of both administrative and helpdesk processes.  • Consistently leading numerous projects where there is a need for leadership.  • Conceptualized and implemented physical security measures for two facilities  • Effectively monitor helpdesk tickets and respond to all issues within a timely manner.  • Oversee new employee onboarding and exit  • Successfully implemented new infrastructure for additional building in Kenmore  • Successfully increase network performance through the correction/clean up of DNS and DHCP entries.  • Effectively upgraded VoIP based phone system to Ring Central Systems/ Network Administrator and Helpdesk John D. Clunk Co., LPA - Stow, OH January 2016 to November 2016 • Effectively monitor helpdesk tickets and respond to all issues within a timely manner.  • Successfully increase network performance through the correction/clean up of DNS and DHCP entries.  • Continuously streamline the onboarding and off-boarding processes.  • Conceptualize documentation for procedures of both administrative and helpdesk processes.  • Serve as a point on ISP upgrades during the first several weeks of the position.  • Expertly create training material for software upgrades and images for all desktop models.  • Consistently leading numerous projects where there is a need for leadership.  • Efficiently handle the firm's network infrastructure, internet access, phone systems, Exchange 2010 Administration, 70 virtual servers, 10 physical servers, remote access via Terminal Services and VPN, and the maintenance of WatchGuard firewalls.  • Oversee new employee onboarding and exit.  • Exceptionally maintain physical security access and image new and desktop replacement systems. Systems Administrator Brouse McDowell LPA December 2012 to January 2016 • Headed the firm's network infrastructure, internet access, phone systems, Exchange 2010 Administration, 50 virtual servers, 30 physical servers, remote access via Terminal Services and VPN, and the maintenance of WatchGuard firewalls.  • Operated a mentor for all Technical Support Specialists. Brouse McDowell LPA - Akron, OH June 2011 to January 2016 Technical Support Specialist Brouse McDowell LPA June 2011 to December 2012 • Successfully delivered technical support for firms' hardware, software, and peripheral systems.  • Consistently developed documentation for tape rotations, new hires, exiting employees, moves, changes, and external repair tickets. Field Service Technician MCPC - Strongsville, OH March 2004 to June 2011 • Continuously provided support for projects responsible for the SAP migration.  • Conceptualized onboarding procedures and files for contractors as well as Access databases for technician time tracking.  • Earned a Technical Lead position during the Project One (SAP Conversion), instructing numerous technicians to provide the appropriate support levels for employees and contractors.  • Actively trained interns in PC configuration and installation.  • Delivered on-site and remote support for various hardware and software issues.  • Configured end users home wireless networks to match with office standards. Physician Service Network Akron, OH May 2000 to June 2003 Senior Technical Representative  • Successfully administered a multi-platform network with over 500 users.  • Aided in the migration of various databases to an integrated Simple Query Language (SQL) database.  • Efficiently completed 35-40% of trouble calls over the phone.  • Recovered 100% of system data on three systems that experienced hard drive failures. Associated Systems Engineer Sarcom-McDonald Investments, Cleveland Clinic, University Hospitals - Cleveland, OH September 1998 to May 2000 • Spearheaded a Fortune 500 company's computer image for the year 2000 compliance as part of a team.  • Chosen as a Team Leader for a Y2K project and oversaw four other technicians in their duties.  • Effectively implemented a new software package on a wide area network of 1500 users in order to standardize office communications.  • Oversaw junior personnel on project assignments and covered calls from desktop support for remote offices. Strategic Systems Repairer United States Army - Fort Huachuca, AZ September 1994 to September 1998 • Efficiently repaired numerous types of electronic equipment including computers, printers, and video projection units.  • Operated as Squad Leader, supervising 14 other soldiers within the unit.  • Continuously tested and maintained equipment for all users on the fort.  • Instructed new personnel on company policies, procedures, and quality standards.  • Earned top-secret security clearance and was awarded the Army Commendation Medal. Education Associate of Arts in Information Technology University of Phoenix 2016 Army Intelligence Center Strategic Systems Repair School - Fort Huachuca, AZ Skills CISCO, FIREWALLS, CITRIX, HUMMINGBIRD, REMOTE ACCESS, VMWARE, VPN, WIRELESS, ANDROID, IPHONE, AIX, LINUX, SCO, SOLARIS, SUN, UNIX, SQL, R2, BLACKBERRY, SYMANTEC, Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Windows, Windows 7, Security, Microsoft Office, Customer Service Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4 Specialist