Developer/Analyst Developer/Analyst Web Developer (MCPS ID: 3484415) Hoffman Estates, IL Committed professional offering more than 15 years of experience in the field of web application and Database development. Excellent analytical and programming skills combined with a keen attention to detail and strong troubleshooting and problem-solving abilities.  Ability to work independently, prioritizing projects and proactively determining areas that require additional attention, monitoring or maintenance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer/Analyst Jmmago corp. - Hoffman Estates, IL January 2016 to June 2019 • Responsible for designing, coding and modifying web sites, from design to function and according to customer specifications. Trying to create visually attractive sites that have an easy to use design and a clear navigation.  • Install and configure Hardware and Software  • Troubleshooting, diagnose and resolve problems with networks, Servers and peripherals.  • Analyzed business requirement to translate functional requirements into technical requirements using ASP .Net and MSSQL.  • Used Agile Development Methodology and Scrum team structure for the development process. IT Manager Bolivariana de Puertos S.A. - Caracas July 2014 to December 2015 IT Manager of Venezuela's principal port, and managed over 40 peoples and 3 departments.  Responsible for supervising and managing the information technology projects of the company. Coordinate the phases of the project from development to installation. Act as a liaison between clients, suppliers and consultants. Senior Developer Bolivariana de Puertos S.A. - Caracas July 2009 to July 2014 Design architectures, including the software, hardware and ommunications, to support the total requirements, as well as to provide for present and future cross-functional requirements and interfaces.  • Web application developer  • Database designer  • Design and develop Web Services Network Administrator Puerto Autonomo Puerto Cabello - Puerto Cabello July 2003 to July 2009 Keep the computer network of the organization up to date and running smoothly.  • Installing network and computer systems.  • Maintaining, repairing and upgrading network and computer systems.  • Diagnosing and fixing problems or potential problems with the network and its hardware, software and systems.  • Monitoring network and systems to improve performance. Education Systems Engineer Universidad Santiago Marino - Valencia October 1993 to December 1998 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCPS) in .Net Developer Conredsis - Caracas, Venezuela 2005 Skills .Net (10+ years), Databases (10+ years), HTML 5, CSS3, Web Development (10+ years), Web Services, IT Manager (1 year), Network Administration (3 years), IIS, Cloud Computing, Windows Server (5 years), Bootstrap, Javascript, Visual Basic (10+ years), Exchange Server, Active Directory, Azure, C#, MVC, ASP, .Net Core, VueJS Certifications/Licenses MCP June 2005 to Present Implementing Data Models and Reports with Microsoft SQL Server Present Planning, Implementing, and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server Active Directory Infrastucture Present Administering Microsoft Windows Server Present Implementing, Managing and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server Network Infrastructure: Network Services Present Implementing a Microsoft SQL Server Database Present Managing and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server Environment Present Maintaining a Microsoft SQL Server Database Present Supporting Users Running Microsoft Windows Operating System Present Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/h-l-5h08qdilutrt Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information ACCOMPLISHMENTS  Designed, developed and produced Web-App, which was successfully implemented by Tax Office of Puerto Cabello City, Venezuela.    Designed, developed and produced a real time 3D virtual App with Unity 3D, WCF and SQL Server, which was successfully implemented by Bolivriana de Puertos S.A. (Venezuela’s Port Terminals) and Venezuela’s Goberment implemented for monitoring the country's ports.    Designed, developed and produced several Web-App, which was successfully implemented by Bolivriana de Puertos S.A. (Venezuela’s Port Terminals).    Designed, developed and produced Website, which was successfully implemented by "Ministerio de Alimentacion" (Venezuela’s Goberment).