Site Services Technician Site Services Technician Hendersonville, NC IT professional with proven business acumen in design, implementation, support, and management with business goals and objectives as emphasis. A logical problem-solver with perspective for developing workable, cost-effective solutions, while maximizing productivity focusing on the overall success of the business. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Site Services Technician Apple Data Center - Reno, NV 2018 to 2018 Responsible for providing on-site support including the receiving, inspecting, tracking, installation, configuration, documentation, support and troubleshooting of technology equipment.  ? Installed infrastructure projects assigned to the data center team ensuring new servers are properly cabled while adhering to industry guidelines.  ? Performed optical and copper connectivity troubleshooting and remote connectivity  ? Performed Break/Fix and out of band management duties as needed  ? Responsible for multiple projects and prioritizing urgent tasks, minimizing customer impact Lead Technician Teledata Technologies, Inc - Reno, NV 2017 to 2017 Performed audit and documented location infrastructure pre and post- installation.  ? Install, test, certify, and repair low voltage systems by following blueprints to ensure correct installation  ? Installation of low voltage cable, including pulling and dressing low voltage cable for network, communication, security, and audio  ? Supervised, coordinated, and trained where necessary a daily work crew  ? Analyze and certify connections using Fluke DTX-1800 Technical Support SkyFiber Internet - Reno, NV 2017 to 2017 Troubleshoot and resolved broadband connection and account issues escalated from customer support and other departments issues  ? Monitor and maintain network infrastructure across multiple locations utilizing cameras, environmental controls, and network management. software  ? Developed alternative hardware solutions for network communications  ? Beta test and evaluate network hardware and services for future deployment  ? Assisted in inventory, asset recovery and sale of legacy equipment  ? Fielded phone queue and created service orders for customers.  ? Installed and maintained UPS and backup power systems at Points of Presence throughout network Consultant/Contractor Denver Metro Property Management, LLC July 2015 to August 2016 Provided network server and desktop administration with monthly updates for operating systems, applications, e-mail, and network clients  ? Performed network and telecom cabling for office expansion  ? Established VPN access and terminal services Shift lead of migration project MillerCoors Corporation September 2015 to November 2015 Migrate end-users to new hardware and transfer of end-user data  ? Diagnose compatibility issues and provide post deployment support to more than 7000 end devices  ? Document and resolve client issues utilizing the ServiceNow IT support system  ? Utilized AD FS to modify group policies and access for users  ? Created automation scripts for migration process reducing repetitive errors  ? Document the upgrade process through the ticketing system, asset assignment, and inventory management.  ? Utilized SCCM to push specialized applications for end-users across Corporate Campus Consultant Denver Metro Realty Executives LLC May 2014 to July 2015 Managed local area network, servers, and communications connections to remote locations, allowing access to information on demand  ? Performed maintenance of network computers and peripheral equipment, identifying problems and providing appropriate solutions. Consultant PhoneSuite Corporation November 2014 to November 2014 - 11/2014  ? Conversion of servers to VMWare ESXi & VMWare vSphere for system redundancy. Network Administrator Offices of Dr. Thayne Griener, ENT - Pascagoula, MS 2013 to 2014 • Negotiated service contracts including preventative maintenance, system upgrades, and new product installation.  • Designed and implemented a Microsoft 2012 server, migrated applications greatly improving record keeping and access to records.  • Migrated offices to VOIP telephone system reducing expenditures  • Install, configure, troubleshoot and maintain peripheral hardware devices including: printers, scanners, PCI devices, telephones Senior Network Analyst/Consultant ROMAC International, Inc. /Source Services, Inc - Dallas, TX 1998 to 1999 Network Engineer Electronic Data Systems, Inc - Orlando, FL 1997 to 1998 Network Analyst Darden Restaurants, Inc - Orlando, FL 1996 to 1997 Asst. Network Administrator Continental Cablevision - Jacksonville, FL 1994 to 1996 Systems Administrator PDMNet /Florida Broadband, Inc - Vero Beach, FL 1987 to 1992 2004-2006, 2011-2013    • Reverse-engineered ISP oriented equipment, creating a new revenue source through repairs.  • Designed, configured and project manage licensed and unlicensed microwave radio links throughout the region  • Mentored technicians in advanced trouble-shooting techniques resulting in reduced on-site service and downtime.  • Maintained, configured, and deployed network services DNS, DHCP, VPN, IIS, RDP and IP allocation for core network.  • Created physical and virtual server environment with VMware ESXi and vCenter.  • Analyze, troubleshoot, and resolved wireless local area networks utilizing protocol analyzers including Wireshark, Optiview, Backtrack, and tcpdump  • Implemented VLAN, OSPF, and STP protocols improving WAN infrastructure.  • Monitor, maintain, configure and troubleshoot routers and switches throughout corporate infrastructure  • Conducted site surveys to support future market buildouts and customer connectivity. Education BSCE in Computer Engineering University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL 1994 AA Santa Fe Community College - Gainesville, FL 1990 AS Tampa Technical Institute - Tampa, FL 1985