ISSO / Senior Tech Lead ISSO / Senior Tech Lead Information System Security Officer ( ISSO) Newark, NJ Highly accomplished security and Network Analyst with over 19 years of experience providing solutions for mission critical network systems and networks. Successful history of leading network infrastructure deployments and enhancements. An extensive Security Assessment and Authorization [A&A] experience, knowledgeable in Risk Management Framework (RMF), Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Network Security Life Cycle and vulnerability management using applicable NIST/FedRAMP/HIPAA standards. Detail-oriented with a track record of delivering infrastructure enhancements on time and with minimal impacts to production. Expert in developing procedures that improve information. network security and business continuity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ISSO / Senior Tech Lead Cognizant Technology Solutions - Teaneck, NJ August 2018 to Present Consultant at Celgene Pharmaceuticals Summit NJ. Technical lead and PowerShell script developer on Celgene Threat Armament Program (TAP) which is designed to mitigate and control the lateral spread of malicious malware like WannaCry and Not-Pet-Ya by leveraging Microsoft Windows SMB/RPC protocol vulnerability.  • Performing assessment and reviewing security controls following the RMF NIST 800-37 rev 1 methodology and other NIST 800 special publications  • Assessed information systems to make sure the controls are implemented correctly and performing their assigned functions following NIST 800 special publications especially NIST 800-53 and Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS).  • Performing assessment information system controls on various platforms and devices to include Windows, Linux, UNIX operating systems, Databases and Networks devices.  • Performing categorization, selection, and implementation security controls per NIST and FIPS requirements.  • Experience in time planning, prioritizing tasks, and managing resources to ensure effective delivery of resources.  • Experience reviewing security artifacts including, but not limited to, System Security Plans, inventories, screenshots of technical files, Scan data, requirement traceability matrices, control allocation tables, and security assessment reports.  • Teamed up with ISSO's to create and manage POA&Ms for identified system vulnerabilities and track findings to ensure that they are remediated and closured.  • Experience managing temporary ATO's due to unforeseen contingencies realized during assessments leading to the creation of open POA&M's to track and remediate critical and high vulnerabilities before a 3-year ATO can be granted.  • Thoroughly read and review information system documents like System Security Plans (SSP), Security Assessment Reports (SAR) and Executive Summaries to ensure FISMA compliance.  • Worked as a team with co-workers to ensure that deliverables were completed with the highest quality and submitted on time as required by FISMA002E  • Designing and implementation of host firewall rules on Windows Server 2016/ 2012-R2 and 2008-R2 using Windows PowerShell Script automation.  • Developing of advanced Windows PowerShell functions scripts and modules.  • Coordinating with various towers in strategizing and scheduling the deployment process.  • Documentation of production and postproduction process of the PowerShell scripts.  • Create change request using ServiceNow for implementation approval before script execution on servers.  • Using spunk to analyze inbound and outbound network traffic log to determine firewall port usage.  • Working with oversea counterparts on the best approach for firewall blocking implementation Senior ISSO / Windows/Linux Network Admin Instructional Systems Inc - Hackensack, NJ August 2000 to August 2018 Ensured system administration and a high level of reliability and stability in all integrated systems. Collaborate with cross-functional teams of internal and external stakeholders to define requirements. Identify the requirements of the equipment, software and operating systems. Built and configured servers, messaging systems, backup and recovery plans and network security systems. Created and managed policies and permissions. Development of technical documentation and implementation procedures. Analyzing and solving problems of connectivity, hardware and software included operating systems.  • Serve as the ISSO for the security authorization of the assigned information systems, including implementing the risk management framework, obtaining systems Authority to Operate (ATO), and supporting the continuous monitoring activities.  • Performed security packages validation that ensured completeness on Risk Assessment, (RA), FIPS-199 Security Categorization, PTA, PIA, SORN, and E-authentication.  • Extensive Experience with conducting Risk Assessment (RA) and completing Risk Management Framework (RMF) process to obtain ATO.  • Monitored controls post authorization to ensure continuous compliance with the security requirement.  • Worked with Assessors to ensure documenting and remediating audit findings, security planning and reporting, and mitigation of security vulnerabilities are completed in a timely manner.  • Performed risk assessments for on diverse application systems - including reviewing evidence, interviewed personnel, tests and inspections, produced assessment reports and recommendations.  • Develop and document the Plan of Action & Milestones (POA&Ms) and provide POA&M guidance to the assessor at the end of the security assessment.  • Support change management activities of the information systems including change approval, status reporting, configuration management, and account provisioning, etc.  • Installed, configured and implemented Windows Server 2016/ 2012-2012 R2 / 2008-2001 R2 on 50 locations of ATTAIN computer labs project in NY.  • Continuous evaluation of Microsoft Windows Server 2016 for the next deployment of the server  • Installed Hyper-V for virtual deployment of Windows Server 2008/2008R2/2012/2012 R2  • Installed, configured and deployed of Windows 10/7/XP Operating Systems using Symantec Ghost Solution Suite.  • Installed and configured Active Directory System (AD DS), Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS), Active Directory Certificate Services (AD CS), DNS, DHCP, routing and remote access, terminal services, network address transmission (NAT), TCP/IP  • Responsible for physical and logical Network design diagram of ATTAIN Lab using Visio 2013  • Designed and Implemented CAT 5/5E and CAT 6 cabling of all ATTAIN Lab network.  • Built and terminated UTP cables on patch panels using the EIA / TIA 568B standard.  • Examined available technology and assessed options to meet demands.  • Remote administration of all ATTAIN Windows Servers using RDS and Bomgar.  • Evaluated and acquired various hardware/software devices and systems.  • Responsible for identifying and procuring all the necessary data cabling hardware for a new project.  • Evaluated security assessment documentation and provide written recommendations for security authorization to the AO.  • Implemented, reviewed, maintained and continuous monitoring for control systems in accordance to FISMA guidelines, NIST 800-137  • Conducted Vulnerability scanning and assessment of report using tools such as Tenable Nessus, Qualys, HP WebInspect and HP Fortify.  • Experienced in using centralized security document repository such as MS SharePoint, FACTS, Modulo and DM 36O to manage deliverables. Network Administrator American International Group Data Center (AIGDC) July 1998 to July 2000 • Installed, configured, managed and maintained Windows NT 4.0 servers and workstations.  • Installed and configured DHCP for Dynamic IP Address Assignment to nodes in the network.  • Created and administered user and group accounts.  • Planned and managed network resource sharing.  • Installed and configured NTBackup to backup and restore files and folders.  • Used monitoring resources to obtain key information about network and computer resources.  • Familiar with NIST Publications SP 800-18, SP 800-30, SP 800-37 rev 1, SP 800-53 rev 4, SP 800-53A, SP 800-60 and FIPS 199 and FIPS 200.  • Assisted the system owner with defining security objectives and system performance requirements.  • Worked with the system administrators to examine and test the security posture of the systems and applications  • Conducted Security Assessment via document examination, interviews and manual assessments.  • Created reviewed and updated POA&M documents  ? Provided timely status updates/reporting on assessments and assigned projects. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Information Systems Empire State College - Saratoga, NY 2018 to Present National Diploma in Fine And Applied Arts Federal Polytechnic Auchi Nigeria 1996 University of Washington Skills NIST (7 years), FIPS (7 years), Tenable Nessus (5 years), Linux (6 years), Windows Server 2016 (2 years), Windows Server 2012 (5 years), VMware vSphere (3 years), Windows PowerShell (5 years), TCP (10+ years), Microsoft Hyper-V (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Information Systems security Plan Security Assessment Report Plan of Action & Milestone [POA&M] Vulnerability Scanning and Assessments Privacy Impact Assessment Project Management & Support Business Impact Analysis Systems Risk Assessment Kali Linux Windows Server 2016, 2008/2008 R 2012/2012 R2 Windows XP/10 Remote Access Remote Desktop Services File and Storage Services Print Services Windows PowerShell Desired State Configuration Windows Power Shell script automation Sysprep Image X VMware Server/ Workstations Cisco IOS Windows Advanced Firewall ZyXEL Firewall Sophos Endpoint Security Anti-Virus.    SOFTWARE  Tenable Nessus Qualys ServiceNow OpenVAS Keystone Edge AWS Microsoft Azure MS SharePoint CyberArk PowerShell Studio 2019 Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2 Office 365/2013 RHEL 7.5 Oracle VM VirtualBox Sophos Enterprise Console 5.3.1 Ghost Solution Suite 2.5 Acronis True Image 2014 Photoshop CC Dreamweaver CC After Effect CC Animate CC HTML5 CSS3 WordPress 4.0 Google Chrome Internet Explorer MS Edge.    LAN/WAN  Windows Hyper-V Manager, TCP/IP V4 and V6, RIP 1/2, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP, Frame Relay, T1, IGRP, Wired/Wireless LAN, VLAN, Fast & Gigabit Ethernet, DSL, PPP, VPN, X.25, CDU\DCS and T1. Cat6, Cat5e, Fiber Optics, Fluke 4100 Cable Analyzer, SANS/NAS/FreeNAS, Fluke OptiView    ***U. S Citizen and authorized to work for any employer