Senior technical engineer Senior technical engineer Database and networking analyst Louisville, KY I have extensive experience in QA, database management , networking services, as well as desktop and customer support. Working with clients, project managers and development teams as the primary contact for escalated issues. Work Experience Senior technical engineer Creative Strategies - Louisville, KY 2010 to Present Responsible for researching escalated issues from project managers and support staff. I research and QA issues before giving to the development team for coding changes.  I work directly with the customers in hospitals, pharmacies, and other health care establishments, reviewing HL7 interface documents utilizing SQL management studio to troubleshoot database issues with medical interface software and run customized reports.  I setup Windows servers and SQL database applications for clients; as well as managing the databases and network issues in the client infrastructure. Senior technical analyst KPMG - Louisville, KY 1998 to 2009 and Charlotte, NC)  1. I performed installation, configuration, and troubleshooting for 450 local users utilizing Windows Active Directory and Netware- Administrator.  • I maintained Windows and Novell groups, permissions, login scripts and file structures.  • Managed LAN/WAN environment, with Cisco switches and routers and Windows NT servers.  • I performed regular backups, maintenance, and offsite storage of server data using Symantec backup software.  • I provided remote and onsite assistance to fellow technicians in area offices.  • Often worked off site at client and corporate conferences to provide escalated support to our partners and employees. Network Administrator/Client Consultant McCauley Nicolas & Co - Jeffersonville, IN 1988 to 1998 • Managed Novell office server communications and GroupWise email between 3 local area offices.  • Performed installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of accounting software and hardware issue.  • Provided computer and consulting services for new and existing McCauley Nicolas and company clients.  • Worked with our accountants to present financial statements at fiscal YE meetings to clients at offsite locations.  • Developed and maintained custom Access databases for inventory per client requests.  • Supervised and trained associate technicians and delegated responsibilities  • Setup network operations in Louisville office; installed racks, wiring, servers, and worked with multiple vendors during the planning and deployment stages. Education AS in Business Administration Indiana University Southeast Skills SQL (8 years), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (8 years), MS SQL SERVER (5 years), Excel (10+ years), Word (10+ years), Novell (5 years) Certifications/Licenses CNE Present MCP Present Network+ Present Additional Information Skills  Microsoft Windows and Office Applications; Network Hardware and Software; MS SQL Server