SITE RELIABILITY / WAN ENGINEER SITE RELIABILITY / WAN ENGINEER SITE RELIABILITY / WAN ENGINEER Plano, TX Work Experience SITE RELIABILITY / WAN ENGINEER CAPITAL ONE BANK - Plano, TX May 2017 to April 2019 REMOTE)    The primary focus of our team was to upgrade the Capital One's entire footprint of over 600+ bank branches located throughout the country to a cutting-edge SD-WAN solution using Versa Secure SD-WAN. We are leveraging the latest and most advanced technology features Versa's SD-WAN offers with class leading analytics, enhanced, next-generation security as well as intelligent, real time routing decisions. This approach has allowed Capital One to reach an overall 99.99% uptime while increasing overall bandwidth, site redundancy and a lower TCO, all while dramatically improving associate and customer satisfaction. The WAN engineer is ultimately responsible for the successful migration of each branch and begins with an in-depth, detailed evaluation of the branch as many were added as a result of a merger and no two are alike. The hardware lists are built, site requirements finalized and additional resources (DNS / DHCP / VoIP / Firewall / Monitoring etc.) leveraged to ensure a smooth, successful migration of the branch to the new SD-WAN architecture. In addition to the tasks above, each engineer is responsible for the building of all new device configs, creating detailed network Visio diagrams, upgrading all of the hardware to the latest approved code (Versa Flex FWA-1320's , Cisco 2960X-48 PoE Switches, Lantronix 882's OOB switches) running pythons scripts , entering device bind data for each Flex(s) into the Versa director as well configure and ship everything to the branch. (( 3 ) Branch Migrations / Week / Engineer)).  MPLS / T-1's , Multilink T-1 / BGP / Static Route's / Frame Relay / Aruba Wireless (Local Controllers) Cisco Meraki Wireless (Cloud Based Management) / TACACS / PingID / InfoBlox / ServiceNOW / GSuite , NAC, Etc. SENIOR NETWORK ENGINEER HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE - Plano, TX November 2015 to October 2016 The position was working remote with a team of exceptionally skilled / highly motivated engineers that supported the Food & Drug Administration / Health & Human Services network infrastructure. The responsibilities of our team could range from designing & implementing new data centers, supporting our current data center environments ( Dev / Test / Production) as well as other technology teams infrastructure requirements and needs. We also participated in providing the FDA technology recommendations and design recommendations to support any current and / or future initiatives they might have been considering. The day-to-day activities included but were not limited to supporting the F5 Load Balancers / Checkpoint Firewalls / ASA Firewalls, Cisco Wireless Environment, Cisco ASR's, Cisco 6800 (VSS) / 6500, 2900 / 3750's / 3850 series switches, Cisco 2800 / 3800 /4000 series routers as well as many others. Our team also supported the hundreds of remote sites located around the world as well as their emerging cloud initiatives which are continuing to evolve as do the needs and requirements of the FDA / HHS. SENIOR NETWORK ENGINEER / ARCHITECT O'NEIL DIGITAL SOLUTIONS, LLC - Plano, TX December 2014 to August 2015 The main focus since I started had been facilitating the separation of ODS from its parent company William O'Neil. The (2) businesses shared an aging network infrastructure located in Los Angeles, CA which includes everything from servers to core switches / routers / Wireless LAN controllers. I had been mainly focusing on standing up all of the new hardware purchased along with proving out a flexible design that will scale well, work well in (CA, NC) and be nearly identical to the location in Plano, TX. The site in Plano, TX now includes its own Checkpoint FWs, Cisco Nexus 7010s, and Cisco FEX 2248s (Fabric Extenders) Catalyst 2960s, 3750s, 3850s, 6500s and ASR 1001-X Routers. The technologies used here but are not limited to BGP, OSPF, Static, vPCs, IOS / IOS-XE / NX-OS just to name a few. The design was implemented in a similar fashion in Los Angeles, CA as well as a new site located in North Carolina. PRINCIPAL ARCHITECT CSS CORPORATION - Richardson, TX September 2014 to December 2014 The main focus of this short term contract was to develop an entirely new, scalable architecture built upon SDN (Software Defined Networking) / NFV ( Network Function Virtualization). This new architecture will support the next generation internet protocols such as Open Flow, Open Stack etc. as well as the latest API's  (Application Programmer Interfaces). The designs also had to take into account and scale well with legacy infrastructure and protocols commonly found and currently running in today's data centers. SENIOR NETWORK ARCHITECT FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS - Allen, TX December 2013 to July 2014 The roles and responsibilities vary from day to day but focus mainly on the design and implementation of Frontiers data centers and remote offices. This can include designing, reviewing and approving data center network architecture or suggesting alternative designs submitted by peer engineers. The main platforms that I focus on include but are not limited to are the ASR's, Nexus Platform, VSS L2 / L3, 4500s / 3750s, 3900s / 2900. Voice, QoS, BGP, OSPF and security continue to be my main focus in regards to optimizing the platform, stability, and following Cisco's current best practices. NETWORK ENGINEER FEDERAL RESERVE BANK - Dallas, TX May 2013 to October 2013 I was brought on as a remote level III engineer to assist in resolving complex issues / tickets that arose during the migration of additional site's to be managed by the FED LAN group. The issues ranged from simple to complex, internal to external but all were resolved within the SLA. The hardware that I was working on included the entire Cisco Nexus platform, Cisco 6500 / 4500 / 3750 series switches all the way up to Cisco ASR Routers, 7600s, 7206s, 3900s. NETWORK ENGINEER / ARCHITECT CAPITAL ONE BANK - Plano, TX March 2012 to April 2013 I was working as a network architect / engineer supporting Capital Ones Global Solutions Design & Engineering initiatives. The responsibilities that come with this position were vast, challenging and rewarding all at the same time. A typical engineer would be assigned anywhere between 5 - 10 concurrent projects at a time and remain the point of contact for that project until its completion. On any given day I would be a project manager, purchasing agent, network architect or working as a network engineer that's implementing the design. A brief overview of the hardware that I encountered would include the entire Cisco Nexus platform, Cisco 6500 / 4500 / 3750 etc series switches all the way up to Cisco ASR Routers , 7600s, 7206s, 3900s and even legacy VPN 3000 / CSM modules. NETWORK ENGINEER / ARCHITECT HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES - Plano, TX October 2011 to March 2012 I was working as a network architect for a short term contract with HP Enterprise Services. This was a very dynamic role in which I am spending the majority of my time in the lab but, this is no ordinary lab and neither is the work I was doing. My main focus was building data centers from the ground up, configuring them, documenting what was done and recommending modifications to the architecture. They are highly redundant designs that are used throughout the world as a basis for the sales team to tailor a solution for our enterprise customers. I was responsible for the majority of the BGP / MPLS / OSPF configuration and facilitating connectivity for the employees that use the lab remotely to test their hardware / configurations. Other things I got to do is assist with HP's global IPv6 initiative, security and interoperability testing with Cisco. When I was not doing that I am working directly with the team that writes the code for the device's recommending features, testing code and reporting any bugs that need to be addressed. NETWORK ENGINEER / ARCHITECT GENBAND - Plano, TX March 2011 to June 2011 I was offered the opportunity to redesign some of Genbands core infrastructure to facilitate the purchase of Nortel. The main focus was to bring their Cisco Nexus 7018 online and begin the transition to a unified fabric in there data center. In addition to the migration to the Nexus platform, the network needed to support the addition of 10 Gigabit links, OSPFv2 / v3 & IPv6. To fully utilize the capabilities of the unified fabric, the recommendation was to upgrade / install a pair of 6509-E switches with VSS Supervisors (Virtual Switching System) which allowed multi-chassis ether-channel, link redundancy and port density for devices that wont support 10G speeds. I was also tasked with working with the affected departments and updating the project manager with the current status of the project's. I needed to recommend a solution that would support (5) BGP links, (4) will be peering as a private AS and (1) will be a publicly routable AS. The design was an integration of VRFs to facilitate the RFC 1918 overlapping IPs that came with the purchase of Nortel, OER / PfR, HSRP and EEM to facilitate any features that are lacking in support of the desired redundancy Genband is looking to provide its customers. Additional tasks are automatic backup of the network devices, ACS support v5, IOS upgrades and Palo Alto Firewalls. NETWORK ENGINEER / ARCHITECT HEARTLAND PAYMENT SYSTEMS - Plano, TX November 2010 to February 2011 I was tasked with helping design, maintain and implement some of Cisco's latest technology. The projects that I was engaged in were as follows and not strictly limited to these activities. I was participating in the redesign of the current MPLS / BGP WAN in order to provide the redundancy needed and implement some of the newer technologies available. I was also given the task of designing, building and implement the new Nexus 7000s, Nexus 5000s, Nexus 1000v's and 10 Gigabit fabric-extenders as needed into several of their data-centers. Some of the daily tasks include but are not limited to are working to optimize their 6500s (VSS) located throughout the country, work on the feasibility of concurrently implementing IPv6 into the network, ASR 1000 configurations, OC-3s, T1 / T3s, WLCs, wire-shark, working with the assigned project manager's in regards to the status of the project's and the security team to ensure that configuration changes on the network side adhere to the security policies currently in place. NETWORK ARCHITECT MITSUBISHI POLYESTER FILM - Greer, SC March 2010 to May 2010 I was brought on to evaluate the current production network and come up with a solution that would allow them to take full advantage of the new Cisco hardware that they had purchased. This involved migrating over 1500 devices from their current subnet to smaller, more manageable ones. The new design took used L3 routing with Cisco 3560 switches they had purchased and the integration of EIGRP into the LAN. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR LAURENS COUNTY HOSPITAL - Clinton, SC June 2008 to June 2009 I was the network administrator responsible for securing, maintaining, upgrading and the overall health of the hospital's LAN / WAN (10 Meg Metro Ethernet). Duties included but not limited to overseeing and delegation of project needs to (2) lower level network analysts. The configuration of Cisco ASA 5520 Firewalls (Implementing Security Policy, Site-to-Site and remote access VPN Tunnels, Group Policy, NATing and port forwarding), Cisco 4402 Wireless Controllers, Configuration and installation of Cisco Catalyst layer 2-3 switches (3524's, 3550's, 3560's and 3750's). LCHCS is currently running a physical / Virtual environment, VMWare Virtual Infrastructure 3 (ESX 3.5 VMware with Virtual Center). I was in charge of all aspects of installation, adding new host servers, adding virtual machines, Physical to Virtual (P2V) migrations and an 8TB Dell Equal logic SAN. I was also responsible for upgrading and implementing policy for Websense, NETWORK ENGINEER BI-LO - Greenville, SC August 2007 to June 2008 I assisted with a companywide PCI Security upgrade that includes upgrading routers, switches and remote offices over to VoIP. I was in charge of building the new routers and setting up new stores on Cisco Call Manager (version 4.x and 5.x), upgrading and configuration of AIM-CUE (Cisco Unity Express) modules for use as an auto-attendant. Also included is the upgrading and configuration of Cisco Wireless AP's. SENIOR NETWORK SUPPORT ENGINEER - CHINA, MI IPEXPERT INC October 2005 to March 2007 I managed two employees and reported directly to the owner. My duties include but are not limited to maintaining, upgrading and troubleshooting over 400 Cisco networking devices, Routers (2600's, 2800's, 3800's and 7206's) Switches (3524's, 3550's, 3560's and 6513's) , Cisco Call Manager and Unity (Setting up user accounts) and IP Telephones (7940's and 7960's) . Also I was in charge of implementing back-up strategies for Win2k and Win2k3 Servers such as RAID 1 and external off-site back-ups. I was also the person in charge of installing win2k3 servers and installing Active Directory as well as Windows IIS. I was the Senior Technical support engineer tasked with satisfying all customer issues with rack time, Cisco VPN issues, Cisco PIX (Firewall) issues and Cisco IDS. I was also the person in charge of purchasing all the equipment necessary to maintain our technical advantages over our competition. CAD DESIGNER SEQUOIA TOOL INC - Clinton Township, MI May 2000 to June 2005 DESIGNER INSITE INDUSTRIES INC - Sterling Heights, MI August 1998 to May 2000 TOOL MAKER APPRENTICE METRO TECHNOLOGIES - Troy, MI September 1996 to August 1998 Skills Bgp, Border gateway protocol, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Ipv6, Layer 3, Mpls, Multiprotocol label switching, Ospf, Peering, Router, Rsvp, Resource reservation protocol, Switching, Tacacs, Virtual routing and forwarding, Vlan, Vmware, Vpn Links http://adrian-brayton.blogspot.com