Group Controller Group Controller Group Controller Wauwatosa, WI Work Experience Group Controller Lucas Milhaupt Global Brazing Solutions (LMGBS) 2008 to 2019 Recognized as Subject Matter Expert for new and relevant accounting regulations, reporting to CFO. Directed preparation of monthly, quarterly, and annual financial statements, conditions and results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and SEC requirements for all LMGBS locations. Acted as immediate contact with LMGBS independent auditors on accounting matters. Administered general accounting, property accounting, internal auditing, forms control and record retention programs for all LMGBS locations, as well as company-wide capital expenditure policies and procedures. Supervised appropriate personnel in LMGBS Accounting function and assisted in overseeing accounting functions at all LMGBS locations. Served as R&D Tax Credit Coordinator and Intercompany Transfer Pricing Coordinator. Managed the United States IT departments. Directed entire Sarbanes-Oxley 404 process for all LMGBS locations, as well as all required Anti-Money Laundering (AML) initiatives. Supported sales, marketing, and manufacturing functions of all LMGBS locations and group with financial analysis and recommendations to support business plan. Recruited, trained, and developed financial staff of all LMGBS locations as needed. Prepared monthly operating report for monthly review with Corporate.  • Developed technical accounting policies for all LMGBS locations in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles locally and globally, tax requirements, SEC requirements, and management reporting requirements.  • Interpreted operating results as they affected financial aspects of organization and made specific recommendations, which resulted in cost reduction and profit improvement at all LMGBS locations and at the group level.  • Designed initiatives and actions that delivered stated goals through overseeing annual budgeting process and participation in strategic planning process.  • Recommended IT systems throughout LMGBS after thorough evaluation, providing guidance to Project Leader and Project Team on any recommended upgrades and/or changes to the ERP system.  • Implemented and administered Section 352 of the USA Patriot ACT while acting as Compliance Officer. Also served as Compliance Officer for FINTRAC, the Canadian equivalent of the USA Patriot ACT. Consultant Titus and Robert Half 2006 to 2008 Manager Dover Diversified, Inc - New York, NY 2000 to 2006 Accounting Manager and Network Administrator Sybron International Corporation - Milwaukee, WI 1988 to 2000 Education MBA University of Wisconsin - Whitewater, WI Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee, WI Skills Hyperion, Solomon, Crm, Microsoft dynamics, Dynamics, Dynamics crm, Microsoft dynamics crm, Microsoft office Additional Information Technical Skills: Personal Computers and various software packages (including Hyperion, Khalix, Comshare FDC, Solomon, Microsoft Office Suite and Microsoft Dynamics CRM).