Economic Development Specialist Economic Development Specialist Professional Independent Business Service Manager Saint Albans, NY Professional seeks to manage, motivate and support an effective administrative, logistics, humanitarian, social, or financial functions ensuring that they are efficiently run across the board. Also seeks to oversee and promote the establishment and management of good working processes across teams and projects to ensure the development and implementation of high quality programs and services as a way to reach organizational goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Economic Development Specialist HAWCHES, Inc - New York, NY April 2008 to Present Built partnership with local organizations to maintain the efforts that help bring resources to various rural Haitian communities. Developed strategy for community economic growth based on the locality, its resources, its social and political stability as well as its people. Interacted with local and international stakeholders through programs promoting and sustaining growth through capacity building. Promoted agricultural activities based on modern technologies via interaction with international experts and firms on site. Fostered economic growth through small loans and training and through networking and cooperatives. Coordinated appropriate activities to provide direct or indirect assistance to local farmers encouraging business activities and commercial exchange when and where applicable. Consulted with the entire team via observations, reports and analysis of local activities that need to be addressed for the success of the program. Coordinated Community Economic Development via Micro credit, seminars and field work. Statistical Information Analyst Georgia Department of Human Resources December 2005 to March 2010 Performed data analysis and prepared presentations and publications of findings for the operation of a complex projects for the agency or its federal counterparts. Conducted organizational studies and evaluations. Carried out work simplifications and measurement studies, and designed and administered surveys. Identified barriers to quality services, compliance, or ineffective work processes, and created plans, policies or regulations to assist management in operating more efficiently and effectively. Served as the SME in my assigned area providing technical and decision support to related groups. Provided assistance in the development of data quality tests to improve the accuracy of the survey data collected. Collected daily, evaluated monthly the statistical data and prepared quarterly reports to identify program performance trends. Conducted research studies and analysis on county reports to forecast any statewide impact. Used various skills and techniques to apply different statistical tools such as spreadsheets, statistical tables, charts and graphs for reports and data publication via web sites and intranet. Constantly sought new models and provided consultation and technical assistance on statistical and program issues. Network Administrator Georgia Department of Human Resources August 1998 to December 2005 Team leader for Information Technology 24x7x365 service delivery at the largest state agency in Georgia with an IT budget of more than $80 million. Directly lead a staff of 20+ IT professionals supporting 65 applications (Medicaid, Health Information Network, Child Welfare, etc.), 1,390 networks, workstations and laptop devices, and 20,000 users across the state of GA. Resolved technical failures in a timely manner, automating application monitoring tools, and providing technical expertise for application upgrades. Verified applications push through ZenWorks application distributor and provided follow up assistance. Prepared technical training manuals and process documentations for day-to-day support issues. Built and maintained knowledgebase from the troubleshooting processes to help with similar problems. Administered FTP servers that provide Mainframe document transfer via SQL query for reporting purposes. Worked with Novell ZenWorks, Windows XP, Vista and Windows 2003 Server - Linux: Red Hat Ubuntu & Fedora Administration - MS Office 2003 and other third party applications. Education Graduate Certificate in Information Systems Security American Military University 2012 MBA in Information Technology Project Management Capella University - Minneapolis, MN 2010 Certificate in Lean Management Business Process Improvement Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA 2004 to 2006 Skills TRAINING (10+ years), BUDGET (7 years), CREDIT (5 years), ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (5 years), FIELD WORK (5 years), Business Development, Community Development Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS    Humanitarian Training Experience & Achievements    ? Provided appropriate assistance to help meet a client's immediate disaster-caused needs.  ? Coordinated effort to supply relief and long term assistance to disaster stricken areas  ? Coordinated Community Economic Development via Micro credit, seminars and field work  ? Managed shelter operations effectively as a team to meet the needs of displaced people  ? Identified urgent needs and provided assistance within and through partners' resources  ? Developed and reviewed disaster planning and preparedness project goals, budget/funding requirements  ? Recommended technical assistance and evaluation strategies and contribute to service improvement  ? Promoted cooperation between the operating and participating national societies as well as other partners.