IT Administrator IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Administrator Los Banos, CA Work Experience IT Administrator Ingomar Packing Company - Los Banos, CA May 2014 to May 2019 Product: Rebuild an aging network infrastructure. Improve network reliability and improve application performance to end users. Replace under performing wireless with new robust Ruckus Wireless  Contributions:  Replace aging server hardware with new virtual servers.  Assist in migrating from an on prem exchange to Office 365  Assist in setup of new payroll/accounting system  Trouble shoot and fix problem Cat5 wiring. Network Administrator Salter Labs - Arvin, CA December 2013 to May 2014 Product: Manage network servers and workstations at locations all over the US and Mexico. IT Manager Well-Pict Berries - Watsonville, CA 2012 to October 2013 Product: Upgrade and maintain Windows network environment with an IBM AS400 database system at multiple locations.  Contributions:  Replace aging server hardware with new virtual servers.  Assist in migrating from an old accounting system to a newer accounting system.  Setup and configure a face recognition time keeping software  Trouble shoot and fix problem Cat5 wiring. Sr Network Administrator Chieftain Harvesting - Salinas, CA 2004 to 2012 Sr. Network Administrator Chieftain Harvesting 2004 to 2009 Product: Administrating a Windows network environment with multiple sites connected via VPN tunneling, from Salinas, CA to Mexico.  Contributions:  • Support remote networks in Mexico, Salinas CA, Monterey CA, and Brawley CA.  • Maintain Windows network environment with 110+ client PC's.  • Upgrade 15+ Windows Servers to a 2003 Active Directory environment.  • Replace aging servers with new current server technology.  • Migrate to systems to a new Ag Industry Software Sr. Engineer/Field Manager IT Solutions - Salinas, CA 2001 to 2004 Product: Network management and outsourced IT consulting. Also support, install and trouble shoot telephone systems from various vendors.  Contributions:  • Develop and implement configuration and installation standards for servers and workstations at different client locations.  • Setup and configure multiple WAN connections with VPN and IPSEC tunneling.  • Train new employees on the server and workstation standards and configurations.  • Install and trouble shoot Cat5 wiring and Cat3 wiring.  • Install and configure DVR networked camera security systems.  • Manage three-five field engineer's daily work schedule. Network Specialist American River Health Pro CU - Rancho Cordova, CA 1999 to 2001 Product: Support and maintain a Windows NT/2000 network with 60+ users.  Contributions:  • Designed and Implemented instant issue credit card system.  • Installed and implemented and network wide Citrix Meta frame solution.  • Went from a 2 server environment to a 5 server environment.  • Implemented an IP based printing solution using HP Jetdirect. Field Engineer Datatree Corp 1997 to 1998 Product: Install and maintain a multi T1 wide area network infrastructure. Install Ascend Pipeline T1 routers and configure and maintain routing tables.  Contributions:  • Setup new clients and configure systems to retrieve data from a central database.  • Trouble shoot system problems and remotely (PC Anywhere)support all database clients.  • Implemented an updated switched network infrastructure to reduce network traffic.  • Assisted in design and implementation of a new data center. Customer Engineer/Special Projects Extex Information Systems - Folsom, CA 1996 to 1997 Product: Support Toshiba laptop's hardware and software configurations. Repair and replace laptop components. Software validation testing and documentation.  Contributions:  • Trouble shoot and replace warranty parts on Toshiba laptops.  • Trouble shoot and replace warranty parts on IBM computer systems.  • Testing software and OS configurations on multiple laptop systems.  • Yearly system wide maintenance and updates of enterprise network. Education Associate degree Heald Institute of Technology - Sacramento, CA 1996 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/eknorr