Data Center Network Engineer Data Center <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Data Center Network Engineer - Kaiser Permanente Palo Alto, CA • CCNA Certification Cisco L2, L3, VLAN, , IP Network, Switching, Routing, configure, manage VMware NSX for vSphere, Logical Switch, Distributed Logical Router, and Edge Services Gateway Install and configure.  • Experience with Cisco ACI Data Center Technologies, Installed, deployed and completed Data Center  Migration from NXOS Data Center to Cisco ACI Network Centric Configurations.  • Install and Configure Cisco Layer3, Layer2 switches and routers, including VLANS, OSFP, EIGRP, BGP  • Extensive Experience with Converting from Cisco NAC to Cisco ISE Identity Service Engine.  • Experience in each of the following: Cisco 6800/6500 / 4500/4510/ 3850 / 3560 / 3750/ Nexus 3K,5k.6K,7K, 9K configuration, LAN Configuration (LACP, pagp, Port-channel, VPC, Virtual Domains, VLAN, trunks, ports), basic network security, MDF/ IDF closet build-out and physical installation.  • Wireless maintenance and troubleshooting to include LWAP and IOS-based access points Cisco Prime to manage wireless controllers.  • Hands on Expertise on the Network devices like Switches, Wireless LAN and their components.  • Mainly installing 3560G/3750G/3850/4510R/6509E switches.  • Coordinate with vendors to install ASE circuits (AT&T), IP SLA  • Install new Cisco IP phones alongside UIT. Helped troubleshooting Routing.  • Install and troubleshoot Cisco 7941 IP phones, Polycoms, Cisco Analog ATA's  • Data Center support consists of Racking and un-Racking Servers, Routers, Switches.  • Used network tools Solar Winds and Cisco NAC for Monitoring and Provisioning. Work Experience Data Center Network Engineer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA April 2019 to Present Top Daily Responsibilities:  • Working transactional tasks in ServiceNow and helping with project implementation as needed.  • Transactional work is port turnups, switch adds, decoms, VLAN/EPG adds, etc.  • Cisco Nexus NX-OS 2K,3K, 5K, 6K, 7K ,9K and Catalyst 3500,4500, 6500, 6800 switches and ASR  1006/ 9K routers experience.  • Cisco ACI experience. Python/Postman scripting Implementation.  • Use HPNA for Network changes and Implementations. Supporting HP7K and IBM Chassis Provisioning.  • Update and maintain DNS Records using BlueCat DNS Manager  • Ability to work without high level of supervision, good collaboration ability and communication skills.  • Work off normal business to accommodate maintenance window 9pm-5am  • Supporting National Data Centers with Routing and switching Fabric and Tiered Environments  • Evaluate and recommend new or upgraded products to enhance the performance of the LAN/ WAN.  • Provide L2 Connectivity to Palo Alto Firewalls, Riverbed and Netscout devices.  • Configured New SVI in Teir Network and ACI Fabic OSPF Lead Network Engineer Stanford Children's Hospital - Palo Alto, CA November 2017 to April 2019 NTT Data Managed Services (Full-time) Febuary 2017 - November 2017 Collabera Inc August 2016 to February 2017 • Installed and configured ACI New Data Center TOR Nexus 9504/9372/93180 MulitCast enabled. 40Gb and 10gb enabled  • Interconnected New Fabric for ACI Infrastructure and configured VPC, Back to Back VPC, HSRP, L3-Out, and Core Routing. Cisco ISE Configuration and Deployment Enterprise wide and all remote locations.  • Project based - Implemented the network topology for the New Hospital DataCenter site in Palo Alto, which included configuring separate routing VRFs, VLANs, VSS IOS configuration and installing Cisco Catalyst 4507s, 4510s, 6807s and Cisco 3850s Cisco Nexus NX-OS 2K,3K, 5K, 6K, 7K ,9K, Cisco NAC, ISE  • Palo Alto new Stanford Children's Hospital - Configured Wireless Access Points, Cisco Catalyst 4510s, 3850s, Cisco ASR 1002 & 1006 edge router.  • Implemented new IOS standards on new Cisco 4510s, Nexus 5000s, and Cisco Catalyst 6807-XL Chassis for new hospital 2.0 building extension in Palo Alto, Ca.  • Used Solarwinds, Voyence to monitor and troubleshoot all devices on current network.  • Implemented and configured Cisco ISRs 3945 & 2921 routers and new Catalyst switches throughout various remote clinics and cut-over new circuits installed and to remove the existing AT&T OPT-E-MAN equipment.  • Install and configure APC and TripLite UPS for backup power.  • Project based - Design network topology with specific virtual forwarding routing (VRFs) within the existing Stanford Children's Hospital to implement various monitoring systems. Implemented and IPTV/Multicast within the new project based and configured various Cisco Nexus 9k/5k/3k ACI in the Data Center and 4510s within the infrastructure.  • Configured 50 Cisco UPOE+ 48-port line modules within the existing IDFs and configured several hundred SVIs, VLANs, Trunks and Port-Channels. Configure EIGRP, OSFP, BGP routing protocols.  • Deployed all Cisco AV Telepresence gear, Q-Sys Overhead paging systems and GetWell IPTV at New Children's Hospital all controlled with Cisco ISE Dot1x Custom Policies that I wrote and implemented. Network Engineer BAE Systems Inc - San Jose, CA January 2014 to July 2016 • CCNA Certification Cisco L2, L3, VLAN, , IP Network, Switching, Routing, configure, manage VMware NSX for vSphere, Logical Switch, Distributed Logical Router, and Edge Services Gateway Install and configure.  • Install and Configure Cisco Layer3, Layer2 switches and routers, including VLANS,  • IP interfaces Troubleshooting of networking issues, including packet loss, performance, and switching issues.  • Architecture of virtualized network environment using both physical (Cisco) and virtual (VMware NSX) components/Load balancing.  • Experience in each of the following: Cisco 6500 / 4500/ 3850 / 3560 / 3750/ Nexus 3K, 9K configuration, LAN Configuration (Etherchannel, Port-channel, HA, VPC, VLAN, trunks, ports), basic network security, MDF/ IDF closet build-out and physical installation.  • Ability to effectively troubleshoot layers 1 - 3 on a large scale network. Experience troubleshooting general connectivity issues across enterprise organization.  • Wireless maintenance and troubleshooting to include LWAP and IOS-based access points Cisco Prime to manage wireless controllers.  • Provide documentation as required including: Asset Management, RMA processing, IP management, Visio network topology. Familiar with Unix/Linux environments. Nexus (3k, 9k) were supported in Dell Compellent Storage Array.  • Working with Third Party vendors to resolve product or link issues.  • Remote Installation and Configuring of network devices.  • Hands on Expertise on the Network devices like Switches, Wireless LAN and their components.  • Strong Networking Troubleshooting skills. Communication and documentation skills.  • Strong Knowledge of ITIL framework. Good Project Management Skills Demonstrate ability to manage multiple projects in an efficient manner.  • Proficient in planning and designing network environment. Commitment to quality results. Experience in Monitoring tools, Solarwinds and NetBrain, Cisco Network registrar  • Ability to work in a professional manner, be flexible, and handle interactions with all levels of the organization and with external clients. Self-directed, organized, and motivated. IT Analyst Network Infrastructure Support (LAN) August 2008 to January 2014 • Cisco - Install configure and troubleshoot campus Switches.  • Mainly installing 3560G/3750G/3850/4510R/6509E switches.  • Install and Configure Cisco Layer3, Layer2 switches and routers, including VLANS,  • Coordinate with vendors to install Serial circuits (AT&T)  • Install new Cisco IP phones via Call Manager  • Install and troubleshoot Cisco 7941 IP phones, Polycoms, Cisco Analog ATA's  • Support Cisco Video Conference rooms (Cisco Tele-presents)  • Data Center support consists of Racking and un-Racking Servers, Routers, Switches.  • Install new servers with corporate images ESX Host support  • Hands on Expertise on the Network devices like Switches, Wireless LAN and their components.  Linux Support:  • Build new systems up using Kickstart Server.Help users troubleshoot issues when they arise.  • Currently working on migrating users from Linux 6.2 (Santiago) to Linux 6.4  • Help Linux admins troubleshoot local Network issues.  • Upgrade Linux boxes from SunUltra to Intel based Hardware.  • Build up ESX Server VMware, Use vSphere Client to setup VM's test bed software and maintain DNS entries for Linux Workstations.  Software: Microsoft Window XP, 7 32/64, Office 2010, Microsoft System Center 2012, Adobe X 10, ProEngineer, Creo, Juniper VPN, McAfee Antivirus, McAfee Endpoint Encryption, McAfee HIPS, Active Directory, Microsoft SharePoint, Dameware, Linux Workstation 6.4/ 7.0, BartePE, WIM images. New Hire process, Asset management, System deployment and Recovery. Senior Desktop Support Electronic Arts - Redwood City, CA July 2007 to July 2008 • Problem resolution, configuration, and installation of PC hardware and peripherals, to include, but not limited to desktop PCs, laptops, printers, modems, and wireless email devices.  • Install, support, and trouble-shoot a variety of software packages, including, but not limited to Windows 95/98, Windows NT/2000/XP/VISTA, Macintosh OS, Linux, MS Office Suite, Internet Browsers, Outlook/Exchange, McAfee, Task zip, LANDesk, Oracle, and various other financial database applications.  • Evaluate and recommend PC, Macintosh, and Linux hardware and software solutions.  • On-call support and overtime as required.  • Provide responsive service for end-user problems, inquiries and requests.  • Work with hardware and software vendors to order replacements parts and resolve significant issues.  • All system were imaged Symantec Ghost Suite 2.01 and BartPE Senior Desktop Administrator Flextronics International - San Jose, CA January 2000 to February 2007 • On-site analysis, Diagnosis, and resolution of desktop/Laptop problems for end-user, and recommend and implement corrective solutions while being sensitive to VIP Daily schedule.  • Corporate Groups that got VIP support were direct report to CEO, CTO, CIO and VP of Legal group.  • Develop and maintain a good working relationship with executives and executive admins Install, configure, test, maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot end user workstations and related hardware and software in order to deliver required desktop service levels.  • All system were imaged Symantec Ghost Suite 2.01 and BartPE Assess the needs for and implement performance upgrades to laptops and workstations, including the installation of CPUs, I/O and NIC cards, hard disks, RAM, CD drives.  • Collaborate with LAN Technicians/ network administrators to ensure efficient operation of the company's PC computing environment.  • Ensure that physical desktop/laptop connections (i.e. RJ-45 Ethernet jacks, RJ-11 telephone modem jacks, Connections between PCs and servers, etc.) are working.  • Prepare tests and applications for monitoring Desktop performance, and then provide performance statistics and reports.  • Evaluate long-term strategies and capacity planning for meeting future laptop hardware needs.  • Assist in preparing, maintaining and upholding procedures for logging, reporting and statistically monitoring desktop operations.  • Develop and maintain an inventory of all monitors, keyboards, hard drives, modems, network cards and other components and equipment.  • Conduct research on desktop products in support of PC procurement and developments efforts. Write technical specifications for purchase of PCs, desktop hardware and related products. Provide feedback and input into the stand laptop/desktop ghost image.  • Provide support for offsite trainings and executive conferences.  • Manage and provide guidance to junior members of the team. PC Technician KLA - Tencor - Milpitas, CA June 1999 to July 2000 • PC deployment technician provided assistance to new hire users.  • Configure and deploy new users PCs.  • Maintain trouble ticket system and track user issues.  • Report on common problems and complaints, escalating network-wide troubles to Lead Technician.  • Collected frequently asked questions and wrote formal answers to ensure accuracy of responses and consistency with other PC Technician.  • Analyze frequent problems and consulted with Training Coordinator to design and offer training sessions in order to address the problems.  • Report system upgrades to identify potential problems and learned to operate and troubleshoot new systems.  • All system were imaged Symantec Ghost Suite 2.01, BartPE. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science National Hispanic University - San Jose, CA Canada College - Redwood City, CA Skills LINUX (9 years), CISCO (8 years), DNS (7 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (5 years), ANALOG (5 years), MICROSOFT OFFICE (5 years), VPN (5 years), NEXUS (3 years), UNIX (2 years), UNIX/LINUX (2 years), MS OFFICE (1 year), ACI (Less than 1 year), MAC (Less than 1 year), MAC OS (Less than 1 year), TCP (Less than 1 year), TCP/IP (Less than 1 year), WINDOWS XP (Less than 1 year), Security, firewalls, Vmware Additional Information Skills:  • CISCO ACI  • CISCO ISE  • Cisco Routers and Switches: 3560G/3750G/3850/4510R/6509E/6807 installation and Cisco 6500 / 4500/ 3850 / 3560 / 3750/ Nexus 3K, 9K configuration VPC/ACI  • Cisco IP phone, 7941 IP phones, Polycoms, Cisco Analog ATA's,Call Manager  • Windows XP, 7, Mac OS X, Unix/Linux (RedHat, Ubuntu)  • Microsoft Office 2007/2010, Active Directory  • VPN, TCP/IP, DNS