IT PROJECT MANAGER (Healthcare/Financial/Legal) IT PROJECT MANAGER (Healthcare/Financial/Legal) IT Project Manager Elk River, MN Project Manager with demonstrated success in managing project/engineering teams to oversee the design, development, and execution of IT projects from initial planning through completion.  Proactively serves as a key catalyst for change and leader in process improvement to support the attainment of client goals and operational success. Work Experience IT PROJECT MANAGER (Healthcare/Financial/Legal) Netgain 2015 to Present ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Consistently completes projects on time, under budget, and within scope.  • Managed the MS Azure migration pilot program (now fully launched).  • Increased project time to revenue by 30% by improving efficiencies.  • Skilled at navigating complex client environments, and often called upon to provide direction.  • Integrated two new verticals to the PMO (Financial IT, Legal IT) while maintaining standards.  • Helped create the Project Management Office (PMO) and Project Management processes.  • Introduced Kanban, and Lean methodologies and improved efficiencies by 45%.  • Consistently tackles complex and high value (over $35,000/mo) projects.  • Promoted to Project Manager, from L2 Server Analyst.    JOB DUTIES  • Manage several multi-member technical teams through the life of a project.  • Validate technical solutions for financial and technical viability and effectiveness.  • Perform all client technical liaison responsibilities.  • Ensure proper technical resource allocation for each project.  • Work hand in hand with third-party vendors and clients to perform software migrations.  • Coordinate with internal SMEs to ensure project issue resolution.  • Increase process efficiency through continuous improvement. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR 2010 to 2015 Duet Internet & Phone (WISP)  ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Directly responsible for over $100,000 in IT assets.  • Reduced IT op-ex costs by $24,000/yr by renegotiating service contracts.  • Reduced IT cap-ex costs by $10,000 by repurposing current equipment/licensing.  • Introduced new service features and functionality leading to a 30% increase in client base.  • Researched and negotiated contracts with vendors for a year over year savings.  • Performed numerous client-facing educational seminars on IT Security.    JOB DUTIES  • Maintain local workstations and server environment for a staff of 20.  • Manage internal network (routers, switches, firewalls, VPNs) for integrity and security.  • Perform day-to-day operational duties on local area network  (error reports, issue logs, performance monitoring, etc.)  • Maintain network security standards (PCI-DSS) and data privacy.  • Client SME, providing exceptional customer service to support voice and internet services. NETWORK ENGINEER-Northern PCS SPRINT 2000 to 2010 ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Managed a team of four Central Office employees.  • Designed, and implemented a statewide wireless phone network (over 400 sites).  • Designed and implemented first Midwest US EvDO high-speed data network.  • Designed and implemented a full VoIP phone network from ground up for local city use.  • Provided on-call and 24X7 support while maintaining 99.99% uptime of network.    JOB DUTIES  • Coordinate, install, test, and troubleshoot transmission facilities (OC48, T3, T1, and DSO).  • Troubleshoot, upgrade, and administer multiple vendor communication systems.  • Maintain system integrity, quality customer service, and provide escalated support.  • Update daily logs with site-specific information and compose clear and concise reports.  • Participate in cross-functional projects with other departments/organizations  • Respond to system alarms and outages as required to maintain uptime.  • Analyze data and generate Operational Measurement reports to identify problems early.  • Provide support to the National Network Operations Center (NNOC), Information Systems (IS), and Field Services teams. Education Bachelor's SAINT CLOUD STATE UNIVERSITY 1997 to July 2001 Skills PM, Information Technology, Waterfall Links http://www.rukshan.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/rukshanw