Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network engineer with a passion for security. New York, NY I aim to get in to the Information security, since it is one of the aspects of I.T. that truly excites me. I am a big team player and believe in synergy within IT departments and strong communication with the clients. I am looking for a position to expand my skill set and expertise. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer DENTSU AEGIS MEDIA - New York, NY 2012 to Present • Worked with a team in managing our global network and in configuring on site equipment per client.  • Implementing NPS authentication for all Cisco switches currently in production.  • Configured either local Layer 3 switches (Juniper/Cisco) or firewalls for either an MPLS build out or DIA to our VPN concentrator for remote access.   • Designed and maintained detailed Visio network diagrams for our global inventory, outlining routing protocols, IP schemas and local CPE.  • Implemented multiple WAN optimization appliances in conjunction with Riverbed and SteelHead products.  • Helped manage site-to-site AP’s and Wireless via Cisco Wireless LAN Controller, which connected multiple networks throughout the U.S., Canada and Brazil.   • Assisted in global “Major Incidents”, that required the Americas’ Tier 3 support.   • Per site configuration of either SSL VPN or IPSEC remote connectivity for clients.  • Mapped out MPLS network or DIA connectivity with Tier 3 carriers (Level 3, XO) and Global Project Manager in ensuring timely delivery and optimal configuration.  • Configured Layer 2 switch connectivity via VPN concentrator back to core data center, if Layer 3 MPLS was unavailable.  • Working with Junos Pulse 4610 SSL MAG box for companywide remote access.   • Worked with fellow network admin in support between collaborative video conferencing devices through Oblong and Polycom HDX units for the US. Network Administrator DENTSU AEGIS MEDIA - New York, NY 2011 to 2012 • Diagnosed and resolved end-user network or local printer problems, PC hardware problems and mainframe, e-mail, Internet, dial-in, and local-area network access problems. Worked with senior tech in creating various scripts/bat files to help cut down on time-sensitive projects and create a more stream-lined process.   • Resolved technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other systems.  • Managed PC setup and deployment for new employees using standard hardware, images and software  • Monitored Service Desk for tickets assigned to the queue and process first-in first-out based on priority  • Helped install local area network cabling systems and equipment such as network interface cards, hubs and switches Education Bachelors in Business Administration City University of New York, Baruch College - New York, NY 2012 Skills Windows XP (7 years), Windows 7 (4 years), Windows 8 (4 years), spanish (10+ years), Firewalls (4 years), Switches (5 years), Microsoft office (7 years), Troubleshooting (8 years), Mac OS X (4 years), Operations, Customer Service, Disaster Recovery (3 years), Risk Management, Change Management Certifications/Licenses Junos (JNCIA-Junos) Present Juniper Networks Certified Associate JNCIS-SEC Juniper Networks Certified Specialist Security CCNA Routing and Switching Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) ( Expected October 2016) CCNA Security Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA-SEC) ( Expected December 2016) CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Security+( Expected September 2016) Junper JNCIA-Junos June 2018 Juniper JNCIS-SEC June 2018 Additional Information Skills  Strong interpersonal skills    Strong ability in streamlining of processes    Strong desire to learn