Network Instructor <span class="hl">Network</span> Instructor IT Supervisor - E-Learning Center - October 6 University Fullerton, CA Eager to contribute in a challenging and rewarding position in a progressive organization / program offering the opportunity to fully apply my skills and interest through utilizing my education and work experience. Work Experience Network Instructor October 6 University January 2015 to February 2019 Responsible for teaching "advanced network training courses" for faculty staff and faculty students. IT Supervisor E-Learning Center - October 6 University September 2013 to January 2019 Acting as the head of IT in the E Learning Center. Responsible for all planned upgrades of the department, maintaining a flawless and secured systems & network infrastructure as well as securing the Intranet website. Account Manager EMS - Egyptian Micro Solutions November 2012 to July 2013 Acting as one of the Senior Sales Mangers working on Cisco Account for selling video conference solutions and all other Cisco technologies as EMS was one of leading Authorized Technology Providers certified by Cisco. Sony Account Manager Quality Egypt November 2011 to October 2012 Acting as the Sony Account Manager Pre Sales Engineer working and handling all issues and responsibilities between Sony Dubai & Quality Egypt as an exclusive partner. Conducted a market survey with a small team and was able to maintain the target range of Sony Dubai. Senior System Administrator Novartis Pharmaceuticals January 2011 to November 2011 Novartis Pharma Egypt is the Egyptian affiliate of Swiss based Novartis AG - one of the largest and most widely respected pharmaceutical companies in the world. I was in charge of some Windows Servers connected to Switzerland using the latest fiber optics technology, ensuring and maintaining all replicas severs are up-to-date and connected all the time. IT Specialist AXON December 2009 to 2011 AXON is a well-known training center in Egypt with over 200 branches, and as a family business we took the franchise of opening the branch of 6 October City. In charge of all maintenance to the system installed and the network infrastructure. IT Network Administrator E-Finance - Raya Holdings Building January 2009 to November 2009 E-Finance is one of the leading companies in Egypt specialized in electronic finance with the cooperation of the Ministry of Finance. Was in charge of monitoring/troubleshooting "stage 1" project which included over 500 ATM machines & 1000 POS machines using all the latest Cisco Routers & Switches. IT Consultant MEPA - Meteorological & Environmental Protection Agency January 2008 to October 2008 MEPA is one of the largest governmental agencies in Saudi Arabia & as a consultant there I participated in upgrading the whole infrastructure of the IT Department & was lucky enough to finish all the upgrades including a new IT help desk support with all ITIL standards to finally earning an ISO for IT department. Data & Network Support Agent Vodafone Australia June 2007 to November 2007 Vodafone Australian campaign was one of the leading invest hosted by Vodafone Egypt to host the Data & Network Support Department serving Australian customers with support for the latest Vodafone devices such as USB Modems & Blackberries. IT Specialist & Network Support EEAA January 2006 to February 2007 Egyptian Hazardous Substances Information and Management System is a project funded by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, working within the Egyptian Environmental Affair Agency. Responsible for maintaining the management system in regards to connectivity and availability. Training Pc Link November 2005 to December 2005 One Month training in Network Support, Administrating Network, Configuring Cisco Routers. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Modern Academy in Maadi September 2000 to August 2005 Skills Customer Service Skills, Microsoft Office (10+ years), Teaching, Account Management, Networking (6 years), Network Administration (6 years), System Administration, Windows 7, Windows 10, problem solving, Public Speaking, Organizational Skills Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional September 2001 to Present CCNA Routing and Switching October 2005 to October 2008