IT Operations Analyst IT Operations Analyst IT Operations Analyst - COSTCO WHOLESALE Sammamish, WA • Successfully implemented process improvements for various companies, increasing productivity and efficiency.  • Extensive technical training including ITIL certification for Foundations, CompTIA Cloud Essentials certification, and Six  Sigma training.  • Collaborated on special projects for validation and data integrity in preparation for tax season at Intuit.  • Effectively monitored and managed 80-100 technicians ranging from Tier 1 through Tier 3, with utilization of RTA,  metrics tracking and email response monitoring software. Work Experience IT Operations Analyst COSTCO WHOLESALE - Issaquah, WA November 2018 to Present Provide critical 24-hour IT Operations Center support utilizing OMi, ServiceNow, Nagios, xMatters, DynaTrace, FireEye, Splunk, Tivoli, VMWare, SiteScope and WebEx. Oversee incident management and first level response to monitoring alarms and escalation to on-call resources, ensuring rapid issue resolution.  • Team Communication: Working with the top 2 departments that the ITOC works with on how to speed up  communication and the escalation of current issues.  • Process Improvement: Developing and implementing department processes and documentation for new staff training  to drive cohesive workflow. Network Operations Administrator SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT - San Diego, CA May 2015 to 2018 Provided critical 24-hour Network Operations Center support utilizing JIRA, ServiceNow, Nagios, xMatters and WebEx.  Oversaw incident management and first level response to monitoring alarms and escalation to on-call resources, ensuring  rapid issue resolution.  • Staff Development: Created and managed secondary team one stop shop for whitelisting issues for the convenience  of users, enabling speedy access to relevant applications.  • Process Improvement: Developed and implemented department processes and documentation for new staff training  to drive cohesive workflow.  • Career Progression (Cont.) Senior Network Systems Analyst INTUIT - San Diego, CA April 2007 to June 2015 Helped lead high-performing NOC team which assessed, escalated, and resolved issues based on defined runbooks.  Communicated with key stakeholders as needed for incident management and reported results and recommendations to executive management. Acted as interim NOC Lead of five people per shift for over a year and coordinated transfer of  information between shifts. Helped create Problem Management team from the beginning.  • Network Security: Helped monitor and detect possible threats with SIEM, ran Symantec Endpoint to check users'  systems for possible Malware/Adware and cleaned systems nightly.  • Systems Administration: Maintained operations center SharePoint portal and migrated content from SharePoint 2010  to 2013. Technical Support Lead COX COMMUNICATIONS - San Diego, CA March 2004 to April 2007 Advised tech agents on method and procedure issues while monitoring performance using RTA. Assisted Team Operations  Managers with staff training and mentoring for achievement of strategic vision. Aided Resources department with staffing  needs and analysis of RTA metrics.  • Customer Service: Trained new hires on properly assisting customers and obtaining first call resolution as often as possible without regard to the length of call time.  • Quality Assurance: Evaluated employee work tickets to ensure accuracy and provided prompt coaching when necessary so reps could learn while call was still fresh. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology WESTERN GOVERNORS UNIVERSITY December 2019 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Nagios, Network administration, Citrix, Microsoft Office, training, Security, Cisco Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mgreenus Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 October 2014 No expiration. Currently reviewing v4 information to update certification. Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/z16wppyexnd8gdq7 Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5d2o9eyec7d8tfal Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5lcs317mew15rvxt Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/m8g5ilhgzu-rzuua Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.