Network / Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> / Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network / Systems Administrator - McCormick County School District Columbia, SC Result-driven IT Specialist with a proven record of increasing productivity, reliability, and efficiency. Recognized for developing cost-effective help desk software which minimized company downtime, improved customer service, and streamlined production.  A detailed understanding of computer hardware and software, including installation, configuration, infrastructures, troubleshooting, and support. Work Experience Network / Systems Administrator McCormick County School District - McCormick, SC August 2018 to Present • Plans and implements a Districtwide program for the use of computers in the management of the District, schools, and instructional programs. This includes local area networks, wide area, networks, and telecommunications.  • Plans and implements security procedures for computing hardware and data files.  • Authorizes the installation of all software onto computer networks within the District.  • Supervises the purchase of computing hardware, software, and other computing resources in the District.  • Responsible for all network security, installation, upgrades, patches and email systems within the District.  • Directs video system installation in collaboration with the district Maintenance Department.  • Monitors the district network.  • Designs appropriate technical training materials or workshops the purpose of training school district employees in the use of computer applications.  • Manages the development of the school district's local area networks for the purpose of ensuring the efficient growth and development of productivity.  • Engages in trouble-shooting and problem solving to diagnosis problems with the school district's computer network systems, hardware, software, and takes corrective action as needed.  • Researches computer hardware and software applications, vendors, consultants and current technology for the purpose of being knowledgeable on trends, ensuring availability of instructional materials, and recommending applications and purchases.  • Handles all questions from employees regarding the use of the school district's computer network systems for the purpose of resolving issues and implementing corrective measures.  • Maintains and ensures the reliability of key operating data and databases.  • Maintains records relating to inventory, repair and use of school district computer equipment.  • Recommends policies, procedures and/or actions for the purpose of providing direction for the school district's IT function and to ensure the computer network system is meeting school district needs.  • Continues to acquire professional knowledge and learn of current developments related to the position by attending seminars, workshops or professional meetings, or by conducting research. IT Facilitator McCormick County School District - McCormick, SC August 2017 to Present Provide instruction to students on internet safety, appropriate computer usage, and research skills  ? Collaborate with teachers in the utilization of technology as a tool to support instruction, providing lessons for students  ? Develop standards-based lesson plans (modules) that model the use of computers, the Internet and other technologies to deliver instruction  ? Plan and implement a variety of school-based and district-wide staff development activities to facilitate the use of technology in the classroom  ? Collaborate with principals to develop a school-based staff development plan to increase the technology skills of all staff  ? Organize an instructional technology advisory group to help determine areas of need, strategies for meeting those needs, and develop action plans Sr. Technical Consultant NPNG Consulting - Bradley, SC March 2008 to Present Launched a consultant company which provided consulting and technical support to clients. Identified client's needs through technical assessment. Installed and confi77gured computer hardware and software. Diagnosed and resolved computer issues including viruses, malwares, and slow performances.  ? File server installs and administration. POS replace/repair. Desktop support for MS Office Suite and Windows 7. Network device administration (switches, APs, etc). CCTV installation and administration Network/System Administrator Greenwood Metropolitan District - Greenwood, SC April 2011 to June 2013 Key Accomplishments:  ? Responsible for developing security programs which addressed network security issues.  ? Implemented Microsoft Windows Updates services, Symantec Endpoint Protection, and Microsoft Exchange Services.  ? Improved efficiency by moving all IT related services internal and training junior administrators on the procedures for maintenance and support.  ? Application and file server installation and administration (Backup Exec., Microsoft Exchange 2010, DC (DHCP, DNS), Widows Server 2K8 R2, SQL 2005, Group Policy, Active Directory, Dell and HP servers. Network device installation and administration (ASA 5500, Cisco 6500 series router, Cisco 3850 switches, NetApp, Cisco 2500 Wireless Controller, Cisco 1700 series APs). CCTV installation and administration. Desktop support for MS Office Suite and Windows 7 Quality Manager Sykes Enterprises Inc - Greenwood, SC March 2009 to September 2009 Project Challenge: Integrate Blackberry technologies within Sykes Call Center and bring the company's Quality Systems and Policies into Compliances within 6 months.  Action: Developed training manuals and implemented policies and procedures that enabled 45 technical support technicians and 4 team leaders to meet the company's quality and compliance expectations. Completed project one month ahead of schedule.  ? Blackberry Enterprise Server and Blackberry Mobile devices Information Technology Manager Builders Wholesale Carpet - Columbia, SC March 2006 to March 2008 Managed the IT department for 5 facilities. Supervised 2 technicians and trained them on PC maintenance, virus removal, and basic troubleshooting techniques.  ? Application and file server installation and administration (Microsoft Exchange 2008, DC (DHCP, DNS), Widows Server 2K3 R2 / 2K8. Group Policy, Active Directory, Dell. Network device installation and administration (ASA 5500, Dell router, switches, and APs). Desktop support for MS Office Suite and Windows XP Network/System Administrator Piedmont Technical College - Greenwood, SC July 2001 to March 2006 Upgraded and configured all network equipment for the college. Migrated email system from exchange 5.5 to exchange 2003. Network modification upgrades.  ? Application and file server installation and administration (Data Protector, Microsoft Exchange 5.5 / 2K3, DC (DHCP, DNS), Widows Server 2K, 2K3 R2, Group Policy, Active Directory, Dell and HP servers. Network device installation and administration (PIX 525, ASA 5500, Cisco 6500 series router, Cisco 3850 switches, HP Storageworks, Cisco Wireless Controller, Cisco APs). Desktop support for MS Office Suite and Windows XP Education B.S. in Business Administration Cal State Northridge - Northridge, CA 1996 to 2001 A.A. in Liberal Arts and Sciences Los Angeles Valley College - Van Nuys, CA 1993 to 1996 Skills Javascript, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Active Directory, Customer Service, Security, Vmware, Windows 7, Sales, MAC, access, Microsoft Office