Senior Network Analyst Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst Senior Network Analyst - Florida State Government Versatile and highly motivated IT professional with extensive experience in personnel management, operations,  VMware, and customer support. Experience in Windows and Linux environments, Python and Bash scripting, and IT  System Security, and Training. Currently, developing skills across the cybersecurity sector and VMware - including areas  like penetration testing, compliance and application security. Work Experience Senior Network Analyst Florida State Government - Tallahassee, FL 2018 to Present • Analyzing and resolving the technical problems that arises in established system networks.  • Maintain network security, collect and analyze the data to find issues with efficiency.  • Maintain 100 servers and its update, security patch, and backup system.  • Coordinate complex personnel and IT operations in a fast-paced.  • Maintain Active Directory users and computers on a daily basis. Network Administrator Mitchell County School System - Camilla, GA 2007 to 2018 • Designed, implemented and maintained VMware vSphere Infrastructure.  • Deployed virtual desktop infrastructure environments VMware Horizon 7.  • Applied patches, updated and upgraded servers, workstations and stored images.  • Performed migration of servers P2V and V2V by using VMware Converter Tool.  • Deployed DRS to deliver optimized performance for hosts and virtual machines.  • Using VMware Platform Services Controller for Single Sign-On, licensing certificate management.  • Deployed HA (High Availability) in the event of a failure, the virtual machines on a failed host are restarted on alternate hosts.  • Worked with User Environment Manager (UEM) to enhance the Horizon Enterprise offering by enabling  customers to take advantage of user and application management for Horizon virtual desktops.  • Managed VMware infrastructure using vRealize Operations Manager.  • Configured VMware HA, VMware DRS, FT in acquiring higher efficiency for VMware Infrastructure.  • Created Active directory group policies (GPOs) based on Domain, Site and OU structures to apply restriction to users, workstations and Servers.  • Worked with Power CLI and Shell Scripting.  • Deployed virtual desktop 7,8.1 and 10 OS. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity in Vulnerability Management University of Maryland University College Largo 2019 Associate of Science in Networking Specialist in PC Repair and Network Technician Albany Technical College - Albany, GA 2015 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA SECURITY + SYO-501 June 2019 to Present VMware Certified Professional 7 Desktop and Mobility November 2018 to November 2020 Vmware Certified Professional 6.5 Data Center October 2018 to November 2020 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  VMware: STIG, Operations Manager, VMware Horizon View, VMWare Replication  Networking: TCP/IP/OSI, Router Config, Wireshark, VPN  Scripting: PowerCLI, Windows PowerShell, Python  Operating Systems: Windows 7/8/10, Windows Server 2012, Linux OS  Security: Penetration Testing, Cryptography, Vulnerability Scan