Network Implementation Engineer/ Network Architect <span class="hl">Network</span> Implementation Engineer/<span class="hl">Network</span> Architect Network Implementation Engineer/ Network Architect Lewisville, TX A highly professional Network Engineer with 19 years of experience overall in designing, troubleshooting, network configuration and reconfiguration and Network administration. Work Experience Network Implementation Engineer/ Network Architect IBM - Coppell, TX April 2013 to September 2019 • Provisioning new customers to the e-cloud using Cisco and Juniper hardware.  • Deploying Cisco Nexus 2000, 5000 and 7000 in a data center environment.  • Creating Cisco Context virtual firewalls on multiple Cisco ASA platforms.  • Familiarity with next generation firewalls Cisco Firepower Threat Defense.  • Familiarity with Software Defined Network VMware NSX 6.4  • Scripted and submitted all changes to Management before execution.  • Troubleshooting switching and routing issues related to customer implementations.  • Attended Global Knowledge Cisco Viptela SD-WAN hands-on training.  • Advance Knowledge of IPv4 addressing and subnetting.  • Familiarity with Cisco ACI Spine and Leaf Technology.  • Good knowledge of WLAN Technology.  • Good knowledge of Cisco ISE.  • Well versed in routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP. Network Engineer III US Department of the Interior/Interior Business Center - Reston, VA July 2007 to March 2013 • Supporting a large LAN & WAN comprise of Cisco switches and routers.  • Troubleshooting applications issues using Citrix application firewalls.  • Configuring Citrix NETSCALER NS9.1 for SSL Offload and Load Balancing.  • Using River Bed Steal Head for WAN Optimization.  • Designing and maintaining security networks with Cisco PIX 525,535, and Cisco ASA appliances and Cisco MARS  • Troubleshooting BGP, OSPF, and EIGRP routing issues.  • Implementing and supporting Cisco VPN using Cisco VPN Concentrator 3030 Network Engineer II Micron Technology Virginia - Manassas, VA July 2006 to July 2007 • Supported and maintained Micron Campus LAN Switching comprise of 600 Catalyst switches in one VTP domain  • Troubleshot STP loop issues.  • Supported and maintained DS3 circuit to the Corporate Office in Boise, ID.  • Troubleshot EIGRP issues across the WAN Link.  • Supported the Corporate VPN comprise of Cisco 7206, Nortel Contivity, and Cisco PIX 525.  • Worked on a new network design to implement routing at the distribution switches. Network Design Engineer II Unisys Corporation - Reston, VA August 2005 to July 2006 • Assisted in TSA, HHS, and ITSC projects by keeping track of all hardware ordered  • Racked, Cabled, and Networked all hardware related to the TSA, HHS, and ITSC projects from the ground to the standpoint by configuring routing and switches as well.  • Coordinated with the SOC and NOC team to get the TSA, HHS, and ITSC projects completed.  • Managed a data center comprise of Cisco, Dell, IBM, Sun, Lucent, Crossbeams and Net scout hardware.  • Troubleshot VOIP issues in the Security and Network Operations Center.  • Proficiency in VLAN, VTP, and Spanning-tree protocols both 802.1Q and ISL Enterprise Network Engineer America Online, Inc - Dulles, VA November 2002 to July 2005 • Break/Fix World Wide AOL WAN Network comprise of all models of Cisco Routers and Switches, Juniper Routers and Foundry Switches Routers.  • Investigated and troubleshot all issues using ping, tracery and Cisco Routers commands tools and document all issues using Remedy System Tracking.  • Designed and configured remote sites using Frame-Relay, T1 and T3 Technology.  • Troubleshot OSPF multi area and BGP networks.  • Troubleshot VOIP network, domestic and international.  • Escalated to the Senior Engineer if unresolved within a certain time frame.  • Upgraded Call Managers from 3.1 to 4.1(2) and Unity Voice Messaging from 3.1 to 4.0(4) to accommodate over 500 IP phones.  • Supported Call Managers 4.1(2) and Unity Voice Messaging 4.0(4) in a central deployment. Network Engineer / Network Administrator Cunningham Lindsey - Dallas, TX September 2000 to April 2002 • Configured Nortel VPN devices, Instant Internet 100 and 400, using 3Des encryption, static and dynamic addresses.  • Designed VPN Networks for over 100 sites across the nation and Canada.  • Reconfiguration of existing 3Com and Cisco routers and switches in remote locations to complete VPN installations.  • Reconfiguration of NT 4.0 Workstations to utilize secure VPN tunnel and internet access.  • Troubleshot provider equipment which consists of Cable and DSL modem or router using ATM, ISDN, and Frame Relay technology.  • Troubleshot Frame Relay Networking configured on Cisco 7500 series Routers. Education CCI Technical Institute - Arlington, TX April 2019 Associate Degree in Mathematics in Mathematics Benin University - Arlington, VA July 1986