Senior Information Security Engineer Senior Information Security Engineer Senior Information Security Engineer/Architect/Manager Round Rock, TX Summary  Senior Information Security Engineer versed in architecting Risk Management, Security Assessments and Operations, Identity and Access Management, SDLC/SecDevOps, and Secure Cloud Adoption for multi-billion dollar verticals.    Key Career Achievements  Information Security Program  ? Worked to devise key elements and implement an Enterprise Information Security Program   to bring the agency into the Cyber-Age.  ? Built log aggregators, Architected and matured a SIEM, directed developers on log   development.  ? Constructed secure paths in the adoption of cloud technologies to get the agency to 'Work   from Anywhere (securely)'  Network Load Balancing Environment  ? Moved NCSoft from outdated and unsupported F5 Environment that was unstable, lacked   global redundancy, and was severely vulnerable to malicious exploits. I was able to re-   engineer the entire environment to scale globally with no downtime, when previous attempts   by F5 professional services, left the US environment down for 2 days.  Network Firewall Redesign and MPLS implementation  ? Redesigned and implemented each business office and datacenter's firewalls to encompass   newer secure technology, greater hardware and connection redundancy.  ? While upgrading to new hardware, I implemented site to MPLS over BGP to allow corporate   data to traverse between offices and data centers, as well as redundant routes to the   internet and corporate resources based on availability of circuits.  Data Storage  ? Designed, implemented, and directed new enterprise storage solution quintupling the   previous implementations data storage capabilities at half the price of the previous system.  Enterprise Backup Solution  ? Migrated the college from tape backups to disk backups using redundant backup nodes  ? TCO dropped by $100k a year due to support changes, tapeless backup and use of existing   fiber connections to DR site located miles away.  Virtual Desktop Infrastructure Rollout  ? Being only the second community college in the state to attempt a VDI rollout, we were able   to produce a fully functional and superb model for others to follow.  ? Reduction in PC purchases led to a 1.7 million dollar cost savings over a period of four   years. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Information Security Engineer Teachers Retirement System of Texas - Austin, TX 2016 to Present ? Maintain secure and compliant environments, that hold HIPAA, Investment, and Pension data for an agency with a global footprint, dealing in global markets.  ? Architect secure migrations and utilization of all IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS adoptions.  ? Manage and mentor a team of 6 analysts through all aspects of information security.  ? Work with Development teams to design secure applications and secure coding best practices.  ? Develop and mature the CSIRT program by building out policies and procedures for incidents, designing use cases for fraud and malicious behaviours, create and provide training to analysts.  ? Design and lead table top exercises with all parts of the business including C-Level participants.  ? Construct service integrations and automate tasks to reduce workload and human error, as well as increase the speed of resolution with security events and incidents.  ? Create and give training to global audiences over all aspects of Information Security and Privacy.  ? Perform vulnerability and threat analysis of systems and devise roadmaps to correct critical threats and vulnerabilities and place compensating controls until patches can be implemented.  ? With the move to the cloud, implemented secure IAM technologies, including MFA, User behavioural analysis, password management, and SSO. ISC2 Member Austin Chapter 2017 to 2017 OWASP Member Austin Chapter 2016 to 2016 Senior Network Engineer NCSoft (NCInteractive) 2012 to 2016 Design, implementation, and administration of global Corporate and Gaming networks.  ? Mentor Network and Systems Engineers and help develop their potential.  ? Troubleshoot and locate root causes of network incidents.  ? Management of all VPN tunnel and client VPN connectivity with global partners.  ? Management of secure access via ACLs, firewalls, IPS, and DDoS protection.  ? Hardware Load Balancing design, administration, and troubleshooting.  ? Cisco VoIP, Audio/Video Conferencing, and Wireless design and administration.  ? BGP peer management via Internap devices and Juniper Edge Routers.  ? PCI Environment management and auditing. Network Engineer College of the Mainland 2010 to 2012 Design and administration of the campus network, network devices, servers, and applications.  ? Management of Core Infrastructure, Telecommunications, and End User Support Sub-departments.  ? Project Lead on all new enterprise implementations.  ? Lead architect over enterprise and campus network and server implementations.  ? Supported existing and drafted new security policies and procedures, based on NIST framework.  ? Disaster Recovery policy and procedure development and periodic testing. Systems Administrator College of the Mainland 2008 to 2010 Network management of all campus sites, encompassing all layers of the OSI.  ? Domain administration over Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange Servers.  ? Server and SAN administration of multiple education applications running various OS platforms.  ? Patch and version control on all servers and network applications.  ? Monitor the enterprise network via Palo Alto Networks and Nagios and MRTG.  ? Migration from PBX to Cisco VOIP including implementation, configuration, and administration.  ? Administered Enterprise Backup Systems, SQL DBA duties, and SAN Architect. Instructional Technology Systems Administrator College of the Mainland 2007 to 2008 Management of personnel, servers, network equipment, and computers in lab environments.  ? Design, implementation, and administration of the Technical Education Network.  ? Administration over: UNIX, Linux, and Windows Servers and clients, BSD Packet Filter Firewalls.  ? Administration of HTTP, DNS, DHCP, SMTP, list serves, FTP, and packet-filtering on *NIX servers.  ? Instruct and aid the student body in the fields of Network Administration, Network Security, Computer Forensics, PC Maintenance, Web Management, and Server Management. Field Network Technician Business Solutions International 2005 to 2007 Design and Implement Networks for small scale businesses.  ? Tech Support for end users: hardware and software related issues.  ? Manage Active Directory: users and Computers; Sites and Services; Domains and Trusts.  ? Security policy creation and management: Domain Security Policy and Firewall.  ? Server management: Server 2003, Redhat Linux, and SCO Unix.  ? Database management of SCO UNIX Servers and Sales Force Automation Software. Education Associate in Network Administration College of the Mainland - Texas City, TX September 2002 to May 2005 High school or equivalent Texas City High School - Texas City, TX January 1998 to May 2001 Skills SIEM, EDR, SDLC, SecDevOps/Pipelining, DLP, Risk Management Frameworks, CSIRT, SAST/DAST, secure APIs, SSO, MFA, OWASP Top 10, CIS/STIG, Phishing, Red Team, Blue Team, HIPAA, PII, MNPI, PCI, GDPR, Singapore CyberSec Law, Cloud Security Alliance, NIST, ISO, SOX, FISMA, NIST Privacy Framework ratification, Burp, ZAP, MSF, Arachni, Nikto, Wfuzz, Nessus, Nexpose/InsightVM, OpenVas, Splunk, LogRhythm, Nagios, Solar Winds, MRTG, CACTI, TCPDUMP, NMAP, and Wireshark, Cisco Routers/Switches/Firewalls/IPS; Juniper Routers/Switches/Firewalls/VPN; Palo Alto; Forti*, F5 Load Balancers, Riverbed CMC/Steelhead, PacketShaper traffic optimizers, UNIX/Linux based Operating Systems: Red Hat, Debian, Arch and SuSE, Windows Client and Server Operating Systems and core Services, Apache Web Server, IIS, MySQL, PHP, Mailman, and Postfix, Sendmail, VSFTPD, Exchange 2000-2010, MSSQL, RRAS, DHCP, DNS/Bind, FTP, SSH, Active Directory, Aruba, Cisco, Maraki and BlueSocket, EMC/IBM/Dell SANs, IBM/Dell/HP.CIscoUCM Blade Centers and Rack Servers Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) August 2018 to Present https://www.isc2.org/MemberVerification 600851 Certified Cloud Security Professional (CCSP) December 2018 to Present https://www.isc2.org/MemberVerification 600851 CompTIA Network+ January 2006 to Present CCNA June 2012 to June 2014 CCNA Security July 2012 to July 2014 Groups ISC2 Member August 2018 to Present CISO Executive Network January 2017 to Present Standing Member and Active in the Austin Chapter. OWASP October 2017 to Present Standing Member and Active in the Austin Chapter.