Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator at United States Navy Everett, WA Two years military experience and exposure to a myriad of information systems and technologies on a US Aircraft Carrier's Integrated Shipboard Network System (ISNS). Highly motivated IT with extensive technical knowledge, methodical troubleshooting skills, and an aptitude for accelerated learning with exemplary performance in a mission and time critical Enterprise environment seeking an IT position. Work Experience Network Administrator United States Navy - Everett, WA December 2009 to Present Led 5 personnel in providing technical support to over 5,000 users and documented trouble call resolutions to increase help desk productivity. Oversaw account creation and management within Active Directory.  • Successfully worked to completion over 300 trouble calls.  • Executed installation and updating of workstation software.  • AS a top performer, consistently maintained highest monthly number of trouble calls completed with zero rework.  • In-depth knowledge of the security aspects of various operating systems and government-owned security tools and firewalls.  • Provided basic and in-depth levels of instruction in local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) with focus on system administration.  • Installed network media and software components, primary storage devices, operating system software, remote access server, and intrusion detection systems.  • Configured computer applications and operating system software, computer and network system equipment, external peripherals, network connectivity, print services, system policy for domains, and virus scanners. Education Information Systems Technician School, Center for Information Dominance - Pensacola, FL January 2010 to January 2010 Skills COMPTIA Security+, Windows 2000/XP Professional, Microsoft Server 2003, Microsoft Office 2007 Suite, Microsoft Exchange 2007, Acronis True Image, LAN/WAN/VLAN, Active Directory, DHCP/DNS/TCP/IP Additional Information CLEARANCE: DoD Top Secret/SCI    • Led 5 sailors throughout 2010-2011 deployment contributing to a 90% completion rate of daily trouble calls and directly minimizing the average completion time from 8 hours to 45 minutes.   • Developed a switch matrix mapping out the location of 1700 workstations on our LAN and the switch they were connected to.  • Established a separate LAN comprised of 500 laptops and 3 virtual servers to support 1800 users in a 3 weeks time span.   • Constructed an additional classified network in less than 24 hours after being informed of its necessity at a moment’s notice.   • Trained and led new personnel during a shipboard firefighting evaluation resulting in unit achieving a score of 97.6%.