Owner Owner Owner - Prestal Solutions, LLC Greensboro, NC Work Experience Owner Prestal Solutions, LLC March 2014 to Present E-commerce business. Sales via online channels of wholesale products. Selling items on Amazon, Ebay, other 3rd party sites. IT Officer / Vice President Carolina Bank - Greensboro, NC March 2004 to August 2017 • Managed the bank's IT department including the Systems Administrator, IT Helpdesk, IT  Security Specialist, Application Support Specialist(s), and Interns (as needed). Managed IT  growth needs from 45 to 190+ employees, including expansion from four locations to nine  locations with multiple satellite workers, and a large mortgage division.  • Managed many projects in regards to implementations of new technology. These ranged  from hardware / software implementations to hardware / software upgrades. In addition  these included setting up new branches, a new headquarters location with a new data  center, and disaster recovery replicated site.  • Developed and maintained documentation of IT company policies, disaster recovery  planning, incident response planning, strategic planning, as well as documentation for auditors (internal, state, FDIC), questionnaires, checklists, and summaries.  • Worked closely with the Audit and Compliance departments on various levels of risk  management, audits, security, and documentation. This also required reporting to the Audit  Committee annually and presenting to the Board of Directors. Worked along with the CFO to maintain the annual IT Strategic Plan and annual IT budget.  • Worked closely with the bank's core vendor, Fiserv. While working in a service bureau  environment, the bank was dependent on Fiserv to maintain the core system. However,  there was communication and maintenance required on the bank's systems.  • Responsible for all of technology ranging from servers, phone system, telecom contracts,  workstations, disaster recovery, copiers/printers (contracts and vendor management), to ATM hardware. Responsibility included choosing vendors, obtaining multiple quotes and  demonstrations, and due diligence on the hardware, software, and vendors. Built and maintained great working relationships with many vendors.  • Maintained security to protect customer data. This involved ensuring all systems were  maintained with patches, updates, and monitoring. Responsible for the relationship with SecureWorks and managed the Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) / Intrusion Prevention  Systems (IPS). It also included vetting vendors and applications for security concerns and mitigating risks when needed.  • Work with various software and hardware platforms. Some examples are:  Software - Various Fiserv applications, VMWare, Citrix XenApp, Microsoft Exchange  2010, Microsoft SharePoint, Mimecast filtering services, Bit9, Sophos, Shoretel, LaserPro,  EZTeller, Fiserv Director  Hardware - Cisco switches & routers, Cisco Meraki, EMC SAN, NetApp SAN, Shoretel  • Maintain licensing for many software applications and IT hardware. These included large  vendors such as Microsoft Enterprise Agreement, VMWare, Cisco, EMC, NetApp, Shoretel, among others. Network Administrator DIMON Inc - Danville, VA July 2001 to February 2004 Technology Coordinator American National Bank - Danville, VA October 1995 to July 2001 U.S. Marine Corps / Administrative Clerk / April 1991 - June 1997  - Active Duty and Reserve. Honorably discharged. Education AAS in Information Systems Technology Danville Community College - Danville, VA Skills Vmware, Exchange, Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Network Administration Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4