Information Technology Manager Information Technology Manager Information Technology Manager Upland, CA To provide exceptional computer Networking and Administration support; extending to servers, workstations, diagnostics, security and backups. My goal is to provide excellent and proven Network Administration and End User Support.    TECHNICAL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology Manager Pacific Coast Security Inc - Tacoma, WA February 2014 to July 2019 IT Manager for Pacific Coast Security Inc  Responsible for day to day IT operations and managing other IT Staff and Contractors. Managed Red Hat Linux 7 Server, Mac OS X Server, Fortinet Firewall and VPN's. Helped design and administer a new WordPress corporate website. Personally designed an Online Time Card system for employees, saving time and paper costs, as well as a Security Report online submission form, saving thousands of dollars a year in third party App costs. Installed FortiCameras internally and externally at Headquarters. Using online tools, developed an iPhone/Android App that takes employees to our Staffing page.    Network/IT Technician Network Technician 374th Medical Support Squadron - Yokota Air Base November 2012 to November 2013 Responsible for networking, cabling, printers, new users and computers as well as managing special projects. Configured and maintained ALTA, Essentris, CHCS, and DMLSS software as well as VPN users and laptops. Personally set up a CAC reader system in the IT office as well as free customer Wireless throughout the Yokota Hospital. Provided expertise on new and ongoing projects and supervised other IT staff to make sure assignments were completed on time and successfully. When big issues were called into the office, I was the go-to-guy and was consulted first to have the problem fixed quickly and professionally.    Systems Administrator Systems Administrator Toysmith Inc, Toy Investments DBA - Sumner, WA June 2008 to January 2011 30 per hour, FT  Systems Administrator for Toysmith, a Wholesaler of children's toys with profits exceeding 90 million a year. Managed 11 Windows Servers including a Macintosh Server and Apple users. I also helped design and program Toysmith's new website - www.Toysmith.com. I was directly responsible for 100+ users and implemented Virtual Servers via XenHost software. I personally upgraded all the users and managers computer's from Windows XP to Windows 7 and was responsible for monitoring and verifying Sales Orders from e-mail, faxes, and requests through the website (which I also designed). Network Administrator Dieringer School District #343 - Lake Tapps, WA September 2007 to June 2008 22.50 per hour, Full Time  Network Administrator for Dieringer School District, Lake Tapps, WA.  Supported 500+ students and 100+ Certified and Classified Staff. Managed 12 Servers including: Exchange 2003, three Domain Controllers, three 2003 File Servers, SQL Server, Web and ISA Servers, Macintosh PC's, and a Multimedia content streaming server (Safari). Personally installed and maintained an Internet Filter appliance (8e6) and WSUS server. Worked with District Staff and Accounting to set up an E-commerce site for parents and the community to buy School items and supplies. Installed SSL Certificates on both the Exchange and Web Servers. Connected Office Staff and Principal's Windows Mobile phones to receive Exchange Outlook emails wirelessly. Set up VPN users through the Juniper Firewall. Worked closely with Staff, Teachers and students to promote and provide an IT friendly environment. System Administrator Fire Department - East Pierce Fire and Rescue February 2007 to September 2007 Contractor, Full Time  Supported 100+ Firefighters, Chiefs and VPN users. Setup file shares, permissions and rights, Active Directory. Managed Exchange Server 2007 and connected wireless phones to email, calendar, and tasks. Desktop support for Office products and Firefighter software. Setup daily, weekly and end of the month tape backups. Multitasked various projects at once with a "can do" attitude while providing excellent customer service and support. Set up VPN users through the WatchGuard Firewall. Can work effectively with a team or independently. PC Technician Vision Computing - Puyallup, WA November 2006 to January 2007 10.00 per hr, Full Time  Installation of Windows operating systems including 2003 Small Business server and Exchange Server. Installed Office and related customer business software and backed-up customer data for OS installation and data transfer. Configured and installed workstations and servers. Troubleshooted XP hardware and software problems, including drivers for older workstations. Computer Technician Clover Park School District, IT Department - Bonney Lake, WA June 2006 to August 2006 10 per hr, Full Time  Installation of Windows Operating Systems over the network (PXE) or Ghosting. Installation of Linux on 500 machines. End User Software support, installations, configurations and updates. Also fixed problems related to both hardware and software issues. Installed Network Printers using MAC addresses from IP tables. Education High school or equivalent Cascade High School - Everett, WA September 1990 to June 1994 Skills IT Management, Network Administration, Vmware, Customer Service, Exchange, Excel, Active Directory, Citrix Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Present CompTIA A+ Present