IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - First Alarm Ben Lomond, CA Work Experience IT Manager First Alarm - Aptos, CA May 2011 to Present • Supervise and manage IT Department for First Alarm Company  • Responsible for designing the technological infrastructure needed for the company to succeed in a growing technological world  • Provided security documentation to ensure the smooth experience for First Alarm's customers  • Accountable for the up-time of the networks (routers and switches), computers (hardware and software), databases (MS Great Plains and MS CRM), mobile devices (Droid and Apple), telecommunications (ShoreTel), VPN, websites (locally hosted sites), peripherals (scanners and printers).  • Support Active Directory, Exchange 2010 and CRM 2011, Virtual Machine (VMware) environment.  • Manage mobile devices balancing newer technologies versus cost and always hunting for best plan.  • Project manager for implementation of CRM 2011 server, client software, and CRM for mobile devices.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and resolving all IT issues using tracking software (Spiceworks).  • Duties include server back-ups, create and update documentation, software repositories, group policies. Network Engineer/Web Manager Handley Computer Services - Capitola, CA 2002 to 2013 • Provided computer and networking support to small businesses and individuals.  • Troubleshot and successfully repaired more than 100 computers with hardware and/or software issues.  • Designed, implemented, and maintained websites. IT Administrator/Sales Associate The Vault Gallery - Santa Cruz, CA May 2009 to November 2009 • Provided computer and network support as well as website administration.  • Sales of fine jewelry in downtown Santa Cruz retail store. Computer Technician/Sales Concierge Lussori, Inc - Sunnyvale, CA 2005 to 2009 • Furnished computer support to company through computer repair, maintenance and troubleshooting.  • Online and in-store retail sales of high-end watches and jewelry. IT Engineer Lighthouse Information Services - Santa Cruz, CA 2003 to 2005 • Designed, implemented and supported client networks.  • Furnished on-site and in-house support and for x86 computer systems.  • Set-up and maintained MS Exchange servers and Outlook clients with CRM software. Network Administrator Dorado Products - Broomfield, CO 1998 to 2002 • Provided computer and networking support for engineers and sales staff in a Microsoft environment.  • Trained on-site and in-house Dorado Product's NT/2000 based access control system.  • Responsible for IT budget including network, website, and telecommunications. Education A.A. in Computer Network Engineering in Public Relations Chairman Westwood College of Technology - Denver, CO 1998 to 2000 Skills Customer Service, Exchange, Network Administration, Excel, IT Management, Vendor Management, Vmware, Strategic Planning, Networking, Technical Support, Active Directory, Windows 7, Windows, Active Directory, Networking, Security, Windows, Microsoft Office, Sales, Technical Support, Windows 7