Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer/Adminitrator/IT/Security Specialist Woodbridge, VA I am a Sr. IT professional with a broad range of corporate/government IT experience in areas of systems administration, network engineering, and network security to include improving technological efficiency and O&M processes; modernizing enterprise IT environments; testing, design, and deployment/build-out of enterprise LAN/WAN networks/technologies ( network build-out of HQ buildings and mid-size data centers including SDN (Amazon/VXLAN) technologies and environments; off-site building locations); providing maintenance, technical, logistics, and life cycle support for government IT technologies in highly secure infrastructures (Cisco, Brocade, Juniper and security environments to include Cisco ASA, Bordergaurd, TACLANE and AIS Secure View environments); the planning, analysis and implementation of IT solutions including SDN technology infrastructures, improvements, modernization, applications, etc. in direct support of government and/or business objectives (Cisco Data Center Network Manager, Solar Winds, etc.). I am seeking a cleared TS position utilizing my skill sets. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer GDIT / CSRA January 2019 to Present ·        Provided networking engineering support to include duties for all Cisco ASA Firewall (Firepower/FMC) and Palo Alto 3060 IDS/IPS engineering/admin security related duties to include: improving support and efficiency by documentation, consolidation of non-applicable configurations, and best practice configuration implementations; assisting other IT support teams with troubleshooting connections traversing the ASAs to include IPSEC remote network connections; the gathering and analysis of deep packet inspection via ASA, Qradar, and sniffer applications such as Wireshark in regards to the troubleshooting of TCP communication and network server, host, or and/or any network device or node communication issues; change configuration deployments and upgrades; managing the security related rules to include the removal/addition of approved agency network connections; managing all STIG and CCIR related tasks; completing Ports, Protocols, and Services (PPS) actions in regards to configuration and rule implementation requests submitted by agency internal and external partner entities.  ·        Provided network engineering support to include the everyday daily admin duties managing entire enterprise network infrastructure for large agency which spans the globe to include the following: Cisco ASA Firepower security devices, ASR Routers, Nexus Fabric, Catalyst; Brocade and Juniper Data Center environment.  ·        Provided tier 3 support ranging from user workstation and VTC network issues to remote site outages all across the world.   ·        Monitored and configured networks via Solarwinds and QRadar applications which include the management of QRadar VM.  ·        Worked closely in regards to network engineering related duties and/or issues to include network outages with other OGA (Other Government Agency) engineers to include CONUS and OCCUNUS travel.  ·        Provided all around O&M network support for customer to include on-call 24/7 rotation duties. Network Engineer GDIT / CSRA September 2018 to January 2019 • Responsible for the support and monitoring of extremely critical and robust LAN and WAN networks (servers, switches, routers, firewalls, TACLANES, etc.) to include one of the largest networks in the world (ISP size and architecture) in the world utilizing terminal software, HP and Nueralstar monitoring software, and other tools/applications, in a 24/7 Enterprise Maintenance and Operations Center for a very large IC Agency.  • Utilized the ITILv3 processes and additional Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for event, incident, and configuration management on Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) and Internet Protocol/Multi-Protocol Label Switching (IP/MPLS) technologies.  • Monitored and investigated Network Management System (NMS) Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) trap data and Syslog messages, troubleshot network incidents, documented findings, remotely restored services/recommended fix actions, and dispatched maintenance to appropriate organizations if remote restoration is possible.  • Coordinated and implemented network changes in accordance with established communications maintenance activity (CMA) processes and procedures.  • Performed traffic engineering (TE) by intelligently manipulating Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) metrics to temporarily alt-route Label Switched Path (LSP) traffic in the event of an incident or CMA.  • Collected relevant information required for vendor Technical Assistance Cases (TACs) and provides engineered solutions where a temporary work around is feasible until failed hardware is processed via Return Maintenance Authorization (RMA).  • Reported Situational Awareness (SA) information to the customer and works to identify business impact in conjunction with technical trouble ticketing documentation.  • Maintained Job Qualification Standard (JQS) requirements and job certification with an implemented Annual Plan of Instruction (APOI) per customer direction in conjunction with DoD 8570 Requirements  • Assisted other tier engineers/admins with investigating/t-shooting of network issues and outages, configurations, and maintenance of network devices.  • Advised and oversaw other tier admins/engineers maintenance tasks and/or actions.  • Member of team that acted as final oversight and approving authority of change maintenance actions of very large ISP size networks; worked with and provided daily briefings to Ops bridge management in regards to daily status of networks (issues, devices, outages, tasks, CR/CMAs, etc.)  • Supervised lower tier network admins who supported other network layers of infrastructure to include guidance and training/teaching.  • Troubleshot and resolved minor to critical network issues to include major outages. Network Engineer Engility - Vienna, VA May 2017 to September 2018 • Provided network engineering support to include new site build-out/HQ design and implementation - includes: Data Center Spine Leaf BGP EVPN architecture ( deployed via DCNM v11) and vPC Nexus Fabric environment; responsible for complete hardware/ network deployment phases (vendor equipment acquisition, Visio diagram and documentation development, hardware rack & stack, image upgrades, cable install/mgmt., etc.); began redesign and modernization of current existing networks to include 100+ Remote/ROBO sites (VPN/GRE/IPSEC) - implementation of network infrastructure to support SDN/virtual environment to include Nuxtanix, Netscaler, etc.), implantation, maintenance, and configuration of enterprise LAN and WAN networks/circuits to include: DISA STIG and IAVA compliance; building and troubleshooting highly robust VPN environment; installing, patching, and configuration of switches, routers, firewalls, and security equipment to include TACLANES and Bordergaurds utilizing different networking tools such as Putty, Tera Term, Solar Winds, Wire Shark, FTTP software, etc.; troubleshot and resolved network issues to include utilizing Fluke and T-Berd testers (SONET/circuit testing); Responsible for all network operations and maintenance related responsibilities.  • Supported entire VTC and VOIP infrastructure at all layers to include configuration of Cisco Unified Call Manager, Cisco Unity, and Cisco Telepresence Management Suite.  • Monitored and configured networks via Solarwinds.  • Installed (rack and stack), configured, and uplinked hardware in data center and IDFs to include: Cisco hardware, Dell and Nutanix Servers enclosure racks, rails, and cabling to best practice standards; deployed and developed cable management standards; trained other team members on common best practices for deploying and up-linking servers and the installation of CAT and fiber cables  • Lead for hardware refresh and infrastructure consolidation and upgrades pertaining to network equipment.  • Worked closely and collaborated with systems engineers to provide requested deliverables by customer.  • Created Visio diagrams of network architecture and systems of LAN networks in addition to other network related diagrams (flow, site to site, VPN, HA, etc.)  • Developed all accountability and processes in support of network engineering to include managing ALL IP addresses for all network nodes on site to include Data Center hardware; created and updated spreadsheets in regards to SOPs of network related duties, equipment/hardware info, asset location and/or management, How TO SOPs, etc.  • Patched user workstations, servers and switches in the data center - from IDF/MDF to data center.  • Installed and tested cable backbones and runs utilizing flukes.  • Setup and built Cisco VOIP phones and applicable VOIP switch configurations.  • Worked closely in regards to network engineering related duties and/or issues to include network outages with other OGA (Other Government Agency) engineers to include CONUS and OCCUNUS travel.  • Provided all around O&M network support for customer to include troubleshooting complex network outages. Network Control Specialist Insight Global - Chantilly, VA May 2017 to July 2017 • Responsible for the support and monitoring of extremely critical and robust LAN and WAN networks (servers, switches, routers, firewalls, TACLANES, etc.) to include one of the largest networks in the world (ISP size and architecture) in the world utilizing terminal software, HP and Nueralstar monitoring software, and other tools/applications, in a 24/7 Enterprise Maintenance and Operations Center for a very large IC Agency.  • Utilized the ITILv3 processes and additional Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for event, incident, and configuration management on Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) and Internet Protocol/Multi-Protocol Label Switching (IP/MPLS) technologies.  • Monitored and investigated Network Management System (NMS) Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) trap data and Syslog messages, troubleshot network incidents, documented findings, remotely restored services/recommended fix actions, and dispatched maintenance to appropriate organizations if remote restoration is possible.  • Coordinated and implemented network changes in accordance with established communications maintenance activity (CMA) processes and procedures.  • Performed traffic engineering (TE) by intelligently manipulating Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) metrics to temporarily alt-route Label Switched Path (LSP) traffic in the event of an incident or CMA.  • Collected relevant information required for vendor Technical Assistance Cases (TACs) and provides engineered solutions where a temporary work around is feasible until failed hardware is processed via Return Maintenance Authorization (RMA).  • Reported Situational Awareness (SA) information to the customer and works to identify business impact in conjunction with technical trouble ticketing documentation.  • Maintained Job Qualification Standard (JQS) requirements and job certification with an implemented Annual Plan of Instruction (APOI) per customer direction in conjunction with DoD 8570 Requirements  • Assisted other tier engineers/admins with investigating/t-shooting of network issues and outages, configurations, and maintenance of network devices.  • Advised and oversaw other tier admins/engineers maintenance tasks and/or actions.  • Member of team that acted as final oversight and approving authority of change maintenance actions of very large ISP size networks; worked with and provided daily briefings to Ops bridge management in regards to daily status of networks (issues, devices, outages, tasks, CR/CMAs, etc.)  • Supervised lower tier network admins who supported other network layers of infrastructure to include guidance and training/teaching.  • Troubleshot and resolved minor to critical network issues to include major outages Network Engineer Sotera Defense Solutions May 2016 to May 2017 • Worked independently as lead network engineer in support of the design (designed and built 2x local smaller sized LANs to include extension to multiple sites to meet DoD customer requirements), implantation, maintenance, and configuration of enterprise LAN and SONET circuit network systems to include: DISA STIG and IAVA compliance; installing, patching, and configuration of switches and routers utilizing different networking tools such as Putty, Tera Term, Solar Winds, Wire Shark, FTTP software, etc.; troubleshot and resolved network issues to include utilizing Fluke and T-Berd testers (SONET/circuit testing); Responsible for all network related responsibilities.  • Implemented and maintained IDS/IPS security solutions (Solarwinds LEM/Threat Intelligence) on network to meet customer security requirements.  • Installed (rack and stack), configured, and uplinked hardware in data center and IDFs to include: Cisco hardware, Dell Servers, enclosure racks and rails to standards; deployed and developed cable management standards; trained other team members on common best practices for deploying and up-linking servers and the installation of CAT and fiber cables  • Initiated contacts and relationships with vendors (Cisco, McAfee, Dell, etc.) in support of hardware acquisition, refresh, and/or upgrades to provide solution pricing and costs for customer.  • Lead hardware refresh and infrastructure consolidation and upgrades pertaining to network equipment  • Worked closely and collaborated with systems engineers to provide requested deliverables by customer.  • Provided basic systems administration to include building and configuring VMs within Microsoft Vcenter.  • Created Visio diagrams of network architecture and systems of LAN networks in addition to other network related diagrams (flow, site to site, VPN, HA, etc.)  • Developed all accountability and processes in support of network engineering to include managing ALL IP addresses for all network nodes on site to include Data Center hardware; created and updated spreadsheets in regards to SOPs of network related duties, equipment/hardware info, asset location and/or management, How TO SOPs, etc.  • Patched user workstations, servers and switches in the data center - from IDF/MDF to data center.  • Installed and tested cable backbones and runs utilizing flukes; responsible for new major physical network deployments for hundreds of new workstations.  • Setup configurations for VOIP phones and VOIP switch configurations.  • Deployed switches and configured to connect to KG encryptors.  • Worked closely in regards to network engineering related duties with other Agency engineers. Network Engineer Sotera Defense Solutions May 2013 to May 2016 • Worked closely with Sr. Network Architect in support of the implantation, maintenance, design, and configuration of enterprise LAN/WAN network systems (production, pre-prod, and development) to include: installing, patching, and configuration of switches, routers, and firewalls utilizing Avocent, Wire Shark, SSH and/or Putty; troubleshot and resolved network issues; monitored networks via EM7/Science Logic network monitoring software system.  • Installed (rack and stack), configured, and uplinked hardware in data center/IDFs to include: Cisco hardware, Dell Servers, Big Data hardware (HADOOP, Cloudera), enclosure racks and rails to standards.  • Responsible for ensuring the integrity of access, environment, and operational functionality of data center and networks from MDF to workstation to include managing ALL IP addresses for all network nodes on site to include Data Center hardware; cable management and installation; updated and maintained Netzoom Application, spreadsheets, and Cisco Prime in regards to equipment/hardware/ network device info and asset location and/or management.  • Worked with other departments and external partners to include troubleshooting agency mission critical deliverables (partner channels, physical and logical circuits for facility).  • Managed records/accountability to include creating/updating Visio network diagrams and SOPs for certain job functions and asset management; Allocation and administration of IP addresses.  • Cabled/ patched user workstations, servers and switches in the data center to include supporting external partners - from workstation to IDF/MDF to data center.  • Installed and tested cable backbones and runs utilizing flukes; responsible for new major physical network deployments for hundreds of new workstations.  • Assisted Service Desk and Tier 3+ with related technical issues with applications and network  • Performed all of the above in support of project development and deployment. Network Adminitrator/Systems Support Sotera Defense Solutions December 2011 to May 2013 DOJ/FBI  Department of Justice/ Network and Systems Administration  • Provided support to network engineers to include: installing, patching, and configuring switches and routers utilizing IOS interface, Wire Shark, SSH, and Putty; troubleshoot and resolve network issues; monitor networks via EM7/Science Logic network monitoring software system.  • Monitored networks and channels via EM7 Science Logic monitoring systems in the Network Operations Center.  • Provided technical applications and systems support for hundreds of classified/unclassified network computer users for the FBI (Windows 7 Enterprise, XP, 2000).  • Utilized remote access support via Microsoft Remote Desktop Connection.  • Performed systems administration tasks on Windows Server 2008 R2, MS Exchange, MS Shell, Secure Shell, and Active Directory.  • Troubleshot/Break Fix and resolved user's technical issues related to workstation, hardware, printers, applications, and all other office computer type components to include Smart Board VTC's.  • Assisted and instructed users with "I do not know how to", challenges; password resets, MS Exchange/Outlook issues, etc.  • Assisted Tier 2 and Tier 3 with related technical issues with applications and network.  • Performed other IT related duties such as software installs, file/drive wiping, drive imaging via Windows Deployment Services, workstation deployments, etc.  • Managed and resolved trouble tickets providing customer service for classified/unclassified network computer users via ticketing system, emails, and phone; log trouble calls using EM7 ticketing system.  • Provided customer service for clients using classified/unclassified networks via telephone, email, and EM7 ticketing system.  • Operated and functioned in an independent capacity in a highly sensitive environment (assist high ranking users).  • Escalated issues when necessary. Systems Administrator CKA, LLC November 2011 to December 2011 DoD  Department of Defense - USA Central Command Support Agency- Pentagon/Tier 2 Systems/ Network Administration  • Provide technical applications support for hundreds of classified/unclassified network computer users for the CCSA (Windows 7 Enterprise, XP, 2000).  • Utilize remote access support via Dameware.  • Troubleshot/Break Fix and resolve user's technical issues related to workstation, hardware, printers, applications, and all other office computer type components to include VTC's.  • Assisted and instructed users with "I do not know how to", challenges; password resets, MS Exchange/Outlook issues, etc.  • Administered and configured accounts via MS Exchange and Active Directory.  • Performed other IT related duties such as software installs, file/drive wiping, drive imaging via Acronis, laptop/workstation deployments, etc.  • Managed and resolved trouble tickets providing customer service for classified/unclassified network computer users via ticketing system, emails, and phone; log trouble calls using EM7 ticketing system.  • Provided customer service for clients using classified/unclassified networks via telephone, email, and Remedy ticketing system.  • Operated and functioned in an independent capacity in a highly sensitive environment (assist high ranking users).  • Escalated issues when necessary. Applications Network Support Analyst Evolve Technology Systems, Inc August 2010 to November 2011 IC  Department of Defense - Defense Intelligence Agency/Applications Support  • Provided technical network support for thousands of classified/unclassified network computer users Intelligence Community wide (e.g. DIA, CIA, NSA, FBI, EOP, DOD, DOJ, DEA, etc.) including DOD commands (e.g. PACOM, SOUTHCOM, NORTHCOM, EUCOM, AFRICOM, CENTCOM) and the general public using DIAjobs website.  • Managed and resolved 100+ trouble calls in a 40 hour work week by providing customer service for classified/unclassified network computer users via ticketing system, emails, and phone/voip; log trouble calls using Sieble ticketing system (e-Requestor/Support Web).  • Assisted Tier 3 Operations team with troubleshooting network issues.  • Assisted Tier 3 Data Base team with entering data into applications to be entered into data base systems.  • Monitor networks and channels via Solar Winds.  • Provided IT customer service for clients using classified/unclassified networks via VOIP, telephone, email, and/or Support Web/e-Requestor ticketing system.  • Operate and function in an independent capacity in a highly sensitive environment (assist high ranking users).  • Escalate issues when necessary IT Dispatcher Department of Justice June 2008 to July 2010 Frontier Integrated Systems, DOJ/FBI  Department of Justice -SOC Operations  • Provided technical assistance to users with general operational security issues.  • Provided customer service for clients using classified/unclassified networks via VOIP, telephone, email, and/or ticketing system.  • Assisted with basic user account issues.  • Escalated issues when necessary for further assistance. IT Support and Hardware Technician Jenkins Security Consultants January 2005 to June 2009 • Provided technical applications support for users (Windows 7, MS Office, Excel, Access and other office related software) in office environment.  • Troubleshot/Break Fix and resolved user's technical issues related to workstation, hardware, printers, applications, and all other office computer type components to include VTC's.  • Assisted and instructed users with "I do not know how to", challenges; password resets, MS Exchange/Outlook issues, etc.  • Administered accounts via MS Exchange and Active Directory  • Performed other IT related duties such as software installs, file/drive wiping, drive imaging via Acronis, laptop/workstation deployments, etc.    Prior non-IT related employment history from 1999-2005 available upon request. Education A.S in Information Technology Northern Virginia Community College 2008 to Present Skills Networking (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Technical Support, Active Directory, Windows, Vmware, Customer Service Awards Sotera Defense Kudos Award (INSCOM/1st IO) 2017-04 Customer Service Excellence Award 2010-01 FBI Service Recognition Award 2014-01 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ January 2015 to January 2021 CompTIA Network+ May 2018 to January 2021 CompTIA Security+ May 2018 to January 2021 Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) August 2018 to August 2019 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) January 2019 to January 2022 Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) January 2019 to January 2022 Additional Information CompTIA CSIS, CIOS