Senior Network/Security Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span>/Security Engineer Senior Network/Security Engineer - KMA Business Solutions, Inc Ashburn, VA Wol Kim has networking experience in the architecture, design, and deployment of complex information systems. He has a extensive datacenter design expertise with the Internet, WAN/LAN, and security systems throughout the commercial and federal governments in deploying secure, highly available IP networks with detailed technical knowledge and leadership. Work Experience Senior Network/Security Engineer KMA Business Solutions, Inc August 2016 to Present Performing extensive network support with network firewall security, LAN/WAN, Internet, wireless, and VoIP technologies. Recognized expertise in the design, integration, development, and testing of networking solutions for various entities covering a diverse range of applications. Detailed knowledge of multiple routing protocols, technologies and best practice design to provide seamless transition services for Government, Enterprise customers. Demonstrated ability to take system architecture conceptual models and translate them into detailed designs of the system. Performs technical leadership in the creation and deployment of solutions to build & protect networks, systems and information assets for diverse companies and organizations.    08/2016 - Present KMA Business Solutions, Inc.  Senior Network/Security Engineer    Serve as a network engineer working in the areas of IT architecture design, problem solving, network upgrades and system modifications, including assessing the risk associated with network changes, and assuring compliance with external and internal requirements. Coordinate project activities in order to ensure that efforts are initiated and completed on schedule and within budget. Ensure uninterrupted availability and government policies, maintaining security, analyzing performance statistics, and proactively identifying and correcting malfunctions. Share responsibility for all data centers, networking and telecommunications and associated system support for the entire agency network infrastructure.    Enterprise Disaster Recovery Project  In building fully functional Disaster Recovery Site based on the eDR scope and requirements. Technical role converting design requirements into support services. Project Planning for engineering, installation, configuration, and testing Tier 0 Network Infrastructure.    Network Partitioning Project  Designed and deployed the Network Partitioning Systems on the data-center to create more secure network from cyber-attacks. Deployed the ASA Cluster Systems and VRFs to segment the data-center edge from core to control entire network traffic and protect the resources. Partitioned and segmented the $MART Production and Staging environments from the GSS applications network environment to reduce the risk of information-security attacks.    MTIPS Internet Design Project  Designed and implemented the inter-agency and external Internet networks with the Trusted Internet Connections(TIC) Initiative to optimize and standardize the security of the external network connections. Supports multiple Gig based fully redundant Internet connections including Disaster Recovery site.    Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Project  Designed IPv6 network to meet OMB mandate of IPv6 accessible Government Public Website presence by deploying the static translation of IPv6 to IPv4. Continuing to plan and expand with dual-stack/Native IPv6 deployment for internal core access for next level OMB Mandate requirements. Senior Network Engineer Jorge Scientific Corporations June 2012 to July 2016 Datacenter Support  Assisted agency with best practice related to the network transition and integration for planning, designing, and configuring new network infrastructure systems including Internet, Security, MPLS/WAN, VoIP and Cisco NEXUS technologies. Supported the Data center network infrastructure consisted of multiple Nexus 7Ks, 5Ks, 2Ks, FWs, Security systems, F5, and VMware environment by maintaining and deploying new technologies.    Voice over IP Network Support  Designed and implemented Cisco Unified Communication (UC) systems consisted of 5 CUCMs and Unity Connection cluster on the UCS(ESXi) platform through multiple locations to support the OCC agency wide users. Planned and deployed SIP integration between the CUCM and Unity connection voice systems for the 5000 internal users.    Wide Area Network & Local Area Network Support  Supported the agency datacenter for the LAN/WAN Infrastructure by planning and executing installation of networking components to fulfill business requirements. Provided operation and maintenance support for all WAN routers and LAN switches as the part of Telecom team members. Supported the MPLS/DMVPN configured WAN Infrastructure by designing, configuring, and implementing new systems using complex multiprotocol technologies; EIGRP, BGP, MPLS, and SIP. Supported daily operation for Wireless network consisted of WLAN(wireless lan controllers) and APs through wide network.    Internet Service Support/TNET  Performed architecture work for the agency Internet OC3/DS3, OC3/OC3 design, and configured and implemented multi-homing BGP enabled Internet network with AT&T and Sprint providing full redundancy failover connection. Responsible for the reliable and secure Internet service through monitoring and application of new configurations. Completed TCS/TNET migration which was required a full re-design to provide a complete redundant network between the multiple sites through AT&T DMVPN WAN service.    Security Network Support  Supported the enterprise security network by designing and configuring Cisco ASAs, Palo Alto, IDS/IPS, Forescout ACT systems. Performed firewall hardware/software upgrades. Reviewed and updated firewall rules to comply with security policies and requirements as well as additional user requests. Coordinated with the CIRC to detect and protect from security vulnerability and attacks by applying block list and configurations.  Provided VPN infrastructure design and deployment solutions as well as VPN migration from legacy concentrator and PIX to ASA IPSec site-to-site, remote, and Anyconnect environment.    ETL Network Support  Performed daily Support the Enterprise Test Lab(ETL) that consists of multiple mirror copies of the production network infrastructure. The support tasks included managing firewalls, routers, and switches configured VRFs and IPSec MPLS technologies. Successful TNET and ETL network connection projects expanding ETL network testing capability with multi-context security zone for each ETL environment. Senior Network Engineer Jorge Scientific Corporations January 2012 to May 2012 National Afghan Trucking IT Support    Architecture Support  Designed and configured trusted LAN/WAN connection through DMVPN between the multiple NAT sites in Afghan and the Disaster Recovery(DR) sites located in the United States which supports application level activity and communications. Designed and configured the VPN configurations for Cisco IPsec/AnyConnect SSL VPN solutions. Performed continued security support to protect the network system from a variety of threats. Senior Network Engineer Jorge Scientific Corporations April 2011 to May 2011 EPA(Environmental Protection Agency)    Network Transition Support  Led the WAN portion of the Network Operations Team during the transition phase of Jorge winning the EPA contract. During the transition, I was responsible for the review, recommendation, and documentation of the existing EPA network as baseline. Made recommendations to improve the overall network environment and the security posture of the network. Led the WAN transition team during knowledge transfer to the permanent Jorge team responsible for support of the EPA network. Public Trust 2009 to December 2009 US Citizen Senior Network Consultant/Engineer Federal Concepts October 2005 to December 2009 Department of Transportation    As a senior systems Consultant role, designed and configured a new MARAD datacenter Infrastructure at the Stennis facility consisting of multi level routers, switches, firewalls, IPS/IDS systems, and VMware environment with multi routing protocols deployed. Supported various MARAD network projects including network management, security updates, and the Regional MPLS network migration. Designed and implemented network Infrastructure for MARAD Disaster Recovery Network (COOP) at Piney Point. Deployed Cisco Wireless network on the Regional offices including wireless 4402 LAN controllers and APs with 802.1x AD authentication. Performed MARAD SIPRNET support by designing wide area network and security network systems. Clearnance September 2009 to September 2009 Senior Network Engineer Federal Concepts September 2008 to February 2009 PTT(Presidential Transition Team)    Member of the 2008 Presidential Transition Team performing network engineering projects to support over 1,000 user networks. Designed and executed the network configuration including detail technical supports. Detailed technical work performed: full redundant L2/L3 routing and switching network supports. Performed full security network supports through ASA5500, IPS/IDS, and security systems deployed multiple VPN network locations. NAC deployed full network security control and support. Designed and configured wireless network mitigating Rogue APs with security policy. Deployed EFAX for the user unified messaging fax support integrated with PBX to PSTN. NOC Engineer Fannie Mae October 2007 to August 2008 Network Management  Evaluated and implemented network changes to support the core network on multiple Fannie Mae Data Center. Implemented customer and network change activities as prescribed by Network Engineering to include managing change documentation to ensure network and customer information current. Monitored all core enterprise services and customer connections for any potential performance problems and responded in a timely manner.  • Provided remote day to day firewall/VPN support including Cisco PIX/ASA, Juniper Netscreen  • Performed Cisco/Juniper firmware upgrade, L2/L3 configuration changes  • Performed Cisco/Juniper troubleshoot routing platform, protocols and functionalities    Network/Customer Trouble/Change Resolution  Performed troubleshoot and resolved problems at all layers of the OSI Model. Worked trouble and change tickets effectively and efficiently. Acted as escalation point for Service Desk and Network and Systems Administrators to ensure quick and effective resolutions. Monitored and managed network devices such as Cisco/Juniper routers, firewalls and switches utilizing multiple monitoring tools, such as, CiscoWorks, SolarWinds, HPopenView, and Tivoli. Network Consultant Technical Documentation January 2005 to September 2005 Documented network designs to include the entire OSI model. Developed and improved the Service Management Process and NOC standard operating procedures. Documented bugs and issues related to network performance and liaise with Engineering to resolve outstanding issues and incidents.    Jan. 2005 - Sept. 2005 Vericom System, Inc.  Network Consultant    Provided professional consulting and engineering services to a variety of clients specializing IP Telephony in Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia areas. Designed, configured, and implemented clients' LAN and WAN infrastructure with L2 & L3 technologies such as, T1, T3, Atm, Frame-Relay, and MPLS. Implemented completed VOIP system with Cisco Call Manager and Unity for many customer networks. Provided Cisco security solutions including IPSec VPN, FW, and Wireless technologies; Installing, configuring and troubleshooting Cisco networks with multi-routing protocols for a variety of client networks. Senior Network Engineer XM Satellite Radio, Inc February 2004 to December 2004 Designed, configured, installed, and provided ongoing maintenance support for the XM enterprise network. Supported XM WAN for remote offices based on PPP, Frame Relay, and ATM. Configured and installed Cisco routers and switches for the XM network infrastructure based on multi-protocols on the enterprise network. Defined and deployed configurations required to support the XM network security policy of Remote Access IPSec VPN and Dial-in connection to the XM corporate networks. Optimized firewall rule-set to control access to the Internet and the network Infrastructure. Supported Security network configured VPN Concentrator, PIX, and Cisco ACS to maintain secure the XM network. Utilized monitoring tools and analyzed performance of the LAN/WAN including traffic and utilization trends to maintain networks. Deployed SNMP based management applications for monitoring bandwidth utilization. Network Engineer Bureau of Labor Statistics June 1999 to February 2004 Supported the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) nationwide LAN/WAN for 53 state offices. Maintained the Bureau network deployed with PPP, FR, and ISDN technologies. Implemented multi protocols such as OSPF, BGP, and EIGRP technologies supporting over 2000 internal state users. Supported the Bureau web casting network-video and audio steaming through QoS and multicasting configured on the core network. Identified security issues and deployed solutions for the state user connections. Installed and created Checkpoint security system and defined security rule-sets. Implemented secure network authentication access with Radius protocols through ACS. Deployed network management tool sets and monitored traffic performance with throughput rate, utilization, and data analysis. Performed diagnostics and troubleshoot with network analyzer tools. Network Administrator Meridian International Center March 1997 to June 1998 Performed network administrator role for 300 user based internal network systems. Configured and installed Novell Netware and Microsoft NT networks. Performed technical and user support for internal network requirements. Maintained and supported the Novell and NT networks with extensive troubleshoot. Education BS in Management Information System George Mason University 1997