Desktop Support Specialist Desktop Support Specialist Desktop Support Specialist - University Of Mary Washington Fredericksburg, VA Seeking a career as a System Administrator. Work Experience Desktop Support Specialist University Of Mary Washington - Fredericksburg, VA January 2019 to Present • Work with KACE helpdesk system to monitor, respond and close trouble tickets  • Provide remote assistance to client server and workstations  • Manage over users.  • Setup and administer MacBook's and IMacs  • Manage network updates and patches.  • Managed accountability for all Mary Washington locations Assets  • Manage security and VPN of laptops and network  • Configure New Computers and Users In Active Directory  • Setup New Computers For Users  • Work with user's in troubleshooting Outlook  • User and Computer Configuration In Active Directory  • Setup backups for clients as well as restores when necessary  • Image User PCs  • Troubleshoot user computer and peripheral issues Help Desk/System Administrator Quarles Petroleum, Inc - Fredericksburg, VA July 2015 to March 2018 • Work with Track-IT helpdesk system to monitor, respond and close trouble tickets  • Provide remote assistance to client server and workstations  • Manage over 200 users.  • Manage network updates and patches.  • Managed accountability for all Quarles locations Assets  • Manage security and VPN of laptops and network  • Configure New Computers and Users In Active Directory  • Setup New Computers For Users  • Work with user's in troubleshooting Outlook  • User and Computer Configuration In Active Directory  • Setup backups for clients as well as restores when necessary  • Configure Firewall Settings On Networks  • Administrate ADDs users  • Administrate PDI users Help Desk/System Administrator Businets Inc - Fredericksburg, VA August 2012 to July 2015 • Work with Atrex helpdesk system to monitor, respond and close trouble tickets  • Utilize GFI Max Management Console To Monitor Client Servers And Workstations  • Prepare users and network for the future Windows 7 upgrade of all machines  • Provide remote assistance to client server and workstations  • Manage over 500 users for different clients.  • Manage network updates and patches.  • Managed accountability for all Rappahannock Community Services Board IT Assets  • Manage security and VPN of laptops and network  • Configure New Computers and Users In Active Directory  • Setup New Computers For Users  • Do virus scans and removal on client machines  • Work with user's in troubleshooting Outlook  • User and Computer Configuration In Active Directory  • Setup backups for clients as well as restores when necessary  • Configure Firewall Settings On Networks  • Work With GFI Management Suite to monitor Client Machine and Servers Help Desk/System Administrator The Computer Merchant - Alexandria, VA November 2010 to July 2012 Department Of Veterans Affairs    • Work with Unicenter helpdesk system to monitor and respond to trouble tickets  • Prepare users and network for the future Windows 7 upgrade of all machines  • Manage over 3000 users.  • Manage network updates and patches.  • Manage accountability for all Veterans Affairs Assets  • Manage security and VPN of laptops for telecommute workers  • Configure New Computers and Users In Active Directory  • Image New Computers For Users  • Manage 5 Technicians in Daily Tasks  • Work with user's in troubleshooting Outlook  • Mac imaging, set up and user support  • Send out daily status reports on outstanding tickets  • User and Computer Configuration In Active Directory Help Desk Administrator Tek-Systems - Silver Spring, MD July 2010 to September 2010 National Quality Forum    • Work with KBOX helpdesk system to monitor and respond to trouble tickets  • Prepare users and network for the future Windows 7 upgrade of all machines  • Manage over 120 users.  • Manage network updates and patches.  • Manage accountability for all NQF IT Assets  • Manage security of laptops for telecommute workers Defense Message System Administrator & Server Administrator U.S. Marine Corps - Quantico, VA August 2008 to July 2010 G-6, MCCDC    • Administered servers utilizing Windows 2003 with Active Directory and Exchange for 2 1/2 years on secret and non-secret networks  • Maintained over 200 servers.  • Managed over 1100 users.  • Managed over 1900 users on Defense Messaging System  • Delegated assignments and responsibilities to junior Marines  • Updated ACC Quantico with system upgrades and patches.  • Monitored the progress of ACC Quantico network on a daily basis.  • Tested and implemented Automate Message Handling System on a Marine Corps Administrator level. Network Administrator/Help Desk U.S. Marine Corps - Cherry Point, NC July 2005 to August 2008 • Operated Help desk as Net Admin in Iraq from January 2006-September 2006 also from July 2007-January 2008.  • Administered servers utilizing Windows 2003 with Active Directory and Exchange for 3 years.  • Displayed ability to work well under pressure and great problem solving skills.  • Exhibited superior performance on completing daily tasks.  • Installed user software on over 200 user workstation while providing help desk support in Iraq.  • Maintained Global Broadcasting System, VOIP Phones, Defense Message Disseminating System.  • Motivated fellow workers while under times of stress.  • Supervised over 20 junior Marines. Education High school or equivalent Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E4 Additional Information • Obtained Government Secret clearance that was valid through 2015  • 5 1/2 years of honorable service in United States Marine Corps  • 14 years on the job training with superior performance  • Work well under pressure  • Willing to travel and relocate.