Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Systems Administrator Oro Valley, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator Tucson Medical Center - Tucson, AZ January 2014 to Present • Responsible for deployment and maintenance of Windows (occasionally Linux) servers and related technologies, including monitoring, backups, software deployments, Group Policy, etc.  • Utilized Powershell to automate various administrative tasks, including server builds, server decommissioning, server maintenance, and more.  • Implemented and maintained SCCM for the desktop team. Reduced workload on the desktop team with software deployments and deployments to automatically fix frequently encountered problems.  • Manage and maintain Epic EHR client systems, including Citrix XenApp infrastructure. Systems Administrator Computer Dimensions - Tucson, AZ April 2013 to December 2013 • Supported and maintained servers, workstations, and network equipment for small–medium businesses around Tucson.  • Contributed to development of websites and applications for clients. Technical Support Mister Car Wash - Tucson, AZ January 2013 to April 2013 • Supported and deployed systems used for point-of-sale and control of machinery for car wash locations. Network Security Engineer DataComm Networks - Tampa, FL April 2008 to April 2012 • Firewall support, intrusion detection/prevention, penetration testing, and security remediations.  • Supported and deployed routers, switches, firewalls, cabling, and servers (Windows & FreeBSD), along with Active Directory, Exchange, IIS, SQL Server, and other technologies.  • Developed a PHP web-based firewall management and change tracking system with notifications for firewall configuration changes and monthly summaries for clients. Education High school or equivalent Skills Powershell (6 years), System Center Configuration Manager (6 years), System Center Operations Manager (4 years), System Center SMA (4 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Microsoft SQL Server (6 years), Exchange Server (10+ years), IIS (10+ years), Citrix (6 years), Epic ECSA (6 years), Vmware (6 years), Linux (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), System Administrator, System Admin, SCCM Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2005 to Present CompTIA Network+ December 2008 to Present Epic Client Systems Administrator (ECSA) October 2018 to Present