Principal client/server ops analyst Principal client/server ops analyst Principal client/server ops analyst Lewisville, TX Work Experience Principal client/server ops analyst Liberty Mutual - Plano, TX April 2016 to Present • Automate the end to end build and run activities of our data platforms such as SAS and Informatica.  • Develop integration capabilities across various data tools and technologies.  • Help development teams to instrument their products and services to produce quality data.  • Develop queries to process raw data into insightful data models.  • Design and build scalable solution to handle billions of data records and terabytes of data.  • Foster external vendor and peer relationships external to Liberty Mutual to help develop innovative new services and products within Data Services platform.  • Serve as a passionate advocate for our data services capabilities with our internal customers. Network Administrator CSC December 2011 to June 2017 Tests, monitors, and troubleshoots a variety of complex platforms, operating systems, networks and applications using established procedures.  • Uses monitoring tools and other sources to matters of significance.  • Provides problem resolution support to Service Desk and other appropriate parties; resolves matters of significance or escalates as necessary.  • Documents and tracks complex reported matters of significance where assigned; ensures matters have been resolved as appropriate and in accordance with established service agreements or procedures.  • Analyzes, prepares and provides updates to internal and external customers during service failures in accordance with established service agreements.  • Works in conjunction with service providers to resolve failure or escalates as necessary to reduce downtime and maximize system availability.  • Maintains knowledge of new and enhanced applications being developed and the respective platforms; monitors, analyzes and understands change management environment to enhance problem resolution capabilities.  • Initiates and oversees complex service restoration processes to expedite problem resolution; monitors process and resolves any matters of significance in order to ensure completion in accordance with established service agreements.  • Oversees and conducts the implementation of complex application, system or network changes; conducts testing to ensure installation meets appropriate standards and procedures.  • Provides technical assistance and training to less experienced personnel on assigned shift; answers inquiries and provides assistance in determining appropriate approach to issue. Maintains training matrix and ensures appropriate staff are trained in accordance with established service agreements. May act as supervisor in his/her absence.  • Oversee projects to ensure shift or team adheres to established timeframes; identifies matters of significance and resolves as appropriate.  • Participates in the planning process to develop goals and objectives for the department. Provides input and feedback to create established goals Essential Job Functions  • Analyzes, logs, tracks and resolves complex software/hardware matters of significance pertaining to • Networking connectivity issues, printer, servers, and applications to meet business needs.  • Coordinates hardware/software installations and upgrades to ensure work is properly performed in accordance with company policy. Recommends resolution to complex matters of significance and coordinates the implementation of the approved course of action.  • Coordinates and monitors troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common system problems; documents system events to ensure continuous functioning. Recommends course of action and implements as approved.  • Oversees the installation of client department-specific applications and systems. Ensures installations are in accordance with appropriate operating procedures; determines revisions or updates to installation as needed.  • Coordinates testing, upgrades and configuration of system files and services. Ensures changes are in accordance with appropriate operating procedures; recommends revisions or changes based upon results. Prepares for and prescribes approaches to possible downstream implications.  • Utilizes standard corporate tools to record change and problem activities for tracking purposes.  • Proven analytical and problem solving skills to troubleshoot systems problems  • Excellent communication skills to communicate with support personnel, customers, and managers    CSC 12/2011- 6/2012  HELPDESK SUPPORT  • Performs or guides customers through the installation of hardware/software and networking components on their personal computer to meet computer needs.  • Diagnoses and troubleshoots problems with individual or multiple computer systems in order to maintain proper functioning; resolves issues of complexity including contacting and assisting vendors.  • Performs computer studies and projects relative to area of assignment; implements change in policies and/or procedures as approved.  • Assists in the design and development of standardized operational management reports in order to identify issues or monitor computers.  • Provides expertise to various parties' vendors, customers, etc. regarding personal computers in area of assignment; supports personal computer changes and problem resolutions.  • Researches, analyzes, and provides hardware/software quotations, ordering information, and other purchasing information to users to assist in purchasing necessary equipment. System Control Facility -Shift Supervisor U.S. AIR FORCE - Andrews AFB, MD February 2009 to September 2011 Responsible for scheduling and training of personnel.  • Establish training objectives, and Standard operating procedures.  • Completed 9 month on-the-job training course in 5 months.  • Shift supervisor of 6. Scheduled and held training sessions personally.  • Increased training course progression by 25%.  • Decreased outage time average by 15%.  • Identified 80% military telephone outage situation.  • Located faulty multiplexing equipment.  • Installed systems and restored connectivity to 1152 telephones in 6 hours. Automated Alarm and Monitoring System installation team member.  • Installed networked alarm systems for 4 remote unmanned communications sites.  • Provided real-time security to over 300 different sensors.  • Saved USAF $150K annually in security patrol contract. Network Administrator U.S. AIR FORCE - Arlington, VA May 2009 to August 2011 Network Support  • Interpret security requirements into technical solutions and analyze system configurations to determine the security posture.  • End-to end network support; to include but not limited to routine network analysis, scalability solutions; creation of recommended scope changes.  • Provide support to end-users and service providers originating from unresolved escalated case issues received via telephone and written correspondence.  • Integrating and deploying new and existing Cisco wireless networking systems; Revamping wireless policy documentation; implementing and monitoring the technical operation.  • Creating and administering client images. Network Infrastructure Technician U.S. AIR FORCE - Hickam AFB, HI January 2006 to January 2009 Manager& Lead technician for the communications focal point handled all level 1-3 Issues.  • Engineered critical voice/data path;  • Responsible for scheduling and training of personnel. Migrated 1K+ users to PACAF Cisco telephone switch--saved $400K annually.  • Expertly resolved 100+ requirements/site surveys; $1M in contracts/ network assets.  • Redesigned NIPR architecture--installed/configured Cisco switch/router--decreased packet loss by 95%.  • Engineered and designed NIPR & SIPR architecture--installed/configured Cisco switch/router-ensuring network availability for 300 users. Network Infrastructure Technician &Helpdesk Manager U.S. AIR FORCE - Keesler AFB, MS May 2003 to January 2006 Managed Team of 5 helpdesk Technicians.  • Resolved 130 technical problems quarterly within the first response to user.  • Installed benchmark work center for inspectors coming into Keesler AFB to analyze daily processes of Air Force members.  • Installed 100 local area connections, 38 computers with XP, 20 Hp printers, and 25 mobile computers.  • Installed first wireless network connectivity to Keesler's MAN.  • Created policy and security methods using Virtual Private Network (VPN) to secure wireless connectivity.  • Lauded by the Air Force Information Warfare Center.  • Cisco Wireless solution saved base $50K in physical cable burying to digital marquees located at every gate's entry/exit point. Education Associate Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Ssgt Additional Information Core Competencies  • Cisco  • Microsoft XP  • Client Relations  • Microsoft Office  • Fluke  • HP Monitoring Tools  • Team Leadership  • Solarwinds  • Remedy    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Equipment: Operating System Applications:  General Dynamics TACLANE Windows 2000 Cisco Works  General Dynamics KIV-7 Windows XP What's Up Gold  Cisco 2950 - 6500Switches Windows95/98 SolarWinds  Cisco 1760 - 8850 Routers Windows 2003 MS OFFICE Suite  Fluke Network Analyst Sniffer Windows Vista MS Visio  Cisco 3330 - 3380 VPN Concentrator Cisco ACS  Cisco DSLAM & DSL Routers Protocols: Cisco Call Manager/ VoIP  OSPF Remedy Ticketing System  Cisco Aeronet Wireless Networking BGP Facit Ticketing System  Entarasys "Roamabout" Wireless TCP /IP  Harris Dataprobe Analyzer SNMP  Promina Smart Multiplexer EIGRP  Desktop Virtualization  Fluke One Touch Network Assistant  Fluke Omni Scanner