Senior Datacenter Network Engineer - Data Center Senior Datacenter <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer - Data Center Senior Datacenter Network Engineer - Data Center - BNY Mellon Somerset, NJ Work Experience Senior Datacenter Network Engineer - Data Center BNY Mellon - Somerset, NJ December 2018 to Present contract to hire 6 months)  ? I have experience with fiber/copper cabling and technical expertise to design and lead complex projects with numerous cross-functional teams and be responsible for oversight for all of the Data Center cabling/deployment related projects from initiation to delivery.  ? I have Managed Structured Cabling Project from planning phase to closeout including operations and maintenance. Experience with Data Center space planning, infrastructure (cabling), migration, relocation, and consolidation.  ? I deployed network infrastructure cabling for large scale projects including data centers is a key factor in selection. I have also used the following tools Quick Base, Asset Track, Nlyte and SharePoint.  ? I managed and delivered on small to mid-size projects from various internal customers with knowledge of deploying network infrastructure cabling copper/fiber runs. Power support for power supply replacements, PDUs and PDU Whips connected under raised floor. Used crash carts and works carts in the Datacenter.  ? I have an Expert understanding on all cabling media (Ethernet Cat 5/6/7, Fiber Optic MM, SM) including limitations and usage. Patch panel design; cable management systems use, labeling and design.  ? I have replaced/repaired a variety of Datacenter devices such as routers, switches, firewalls, standalone Servers and Blade Servers DIMMs, HBAs, NICs, Cache Battery, Hard drives, System Boards, chassis, modules, QSFPs, SFPs, cards and cabling,  ? I have designed data center floor space, to include Server & Network Placements as well as Rack & Network Infrastructure builds, augments, future growth planning. experience in developing requests for proposal (RFPs), scheduling projects, cost engineering, budgeting and forecasting costs, reporting project status and costs, procurement and in negotiating with contractors and vendors.  ? I have performed point-to-point cabling documentation between servers, equipment, storage and network switches (HP Blade Servers (c7000 and c3000 enclosures with Admin support for the Onboard Administrator, Virtual Connect and iLO), Cisco MDS 6200/6300 and UCS Blade Servers (B/C Series used UCS Manager to identify and resolve issues and learning UCS Director currently), Hitachi, EMC, Dell (DL-380s multiple DL Servers with various Gen 2-10), IBM (Mainframes), NetApp, Data Blue and PURE) and multiple Vendor switches, routers firewalls (Cisco (ACI technology Spine and Leaf), Juniper Palo Alto), Load Balancers (F5, NetScaler). Design structured cable layouts (fiber/copper) for large scale data centers. In-depth knowledge of fiber optic testing standards and equipment.  ? I have demonstrated skills in requirements gathering, resource organization, task prioritization, scheduling and achieving objectives on schedule within budget.  ? I have knowledge and understanding of the Datacenter safe times, safety and procedures and change management using REMEDY.  ? I have a ton of experience in developing requests for proposal (RFPs), scheduling projects, cost engineering, budgeting and forecasting costs, reporting project status and costs, procurement and in negotiating with contractors and vendors. Senior Network Operations Engineer - Team Lead CME Group - Parsippany, NJ November 2015 to January 2019 Data Center - (PERM end Lay-off)  ? Comprehensive Enterprise-level Systems Administration experience with Windows Server 2008/2012/R2. This includes daily administration, loading operating systems, updating firmware and BIOS, installing latest patches and anti-virus, proactively monitoring of servers and storage, tape back-ups/failover, routine maintenance, change management and regular documented reporting of system maintenance.  ? Ability to oversee all aspects of datacenter operations including but not limited to replacement of equipment, cable management, ensuring proper cooling and power, maintenance of schematics, inventory management, and future planning.  ? Data Center responsibilities to Manage primary and Disaster Recovery (DR) data center facilities, network equipment, cabling, racking and building of server and network infrastructure.  ? Network Ops Center (NOC) responsibilities to Manage the network operation center - monitoring, first level support on all network infrastructure (firewalls, switches, routers, wireless, load balancers, core voice infrastructure all data and telecom services for WAN, LAN and the Trans-Atlantic circuits in real time operations, Global, Enterprise and Services client.  ? Tier 2, Tier 3 and Field Services responsibilities to Manage Tier 2, 3 and field services support on all network infrastructure (firewalls, switches, routers, wireless, load balancers, core voice infrastructure and all data and telecom services for Financials in real time operations, Global, Enterprise and Services clients.  ? Firewall responsibilities to Manage firewall & cyber security for Data Centers and the Global Corporate Enterprise and Services clients.  ? Authorize and maintain control of high level, administrative access to tools and the Data Center.  ? Facilities responsibilities to Manage primary and Disaster Recovery (DR) data center, facilities, manage all IT LAN room facilities, manage UPS systems, generators, ATS', AC units, power schemes and cabling.  ? Budget responsibilities to Manage the budget for Network Operations, Facilities & Radio and develop initiatives geared toward managing and reducing costs. Also manage the budget for all Midrange Systems (Windows, Unix/Linux), Storage and Databases and develop initiatives geared toward managing and reducing costs.  ? Databases, Storage and Windows responsibilities to Manage all databases on all servers; manage Storage, SAN & replication services (hardware & software); and manage all Windows, Unix & Linux hardware, software and operating systems.  ? Critical Services responsibilities to Manage critical services such as e-mail, external website, active directory, real time operations. Senior Network Engineer - Team Lead / Data Center ARUP - Edison, NJ March 2015 to January 2019 PERM end Lay-off)  ? Comprehensive Enterprise-level Systems Administration experience with Windows Server 2008/2012/R2. This includes daily administration, loading operating systems, updating firmware and BIOS, installing latest patches and anti-virus, proactively monitoring of servers and storage, tape back-ups/failover, routine maintenance, change management and regular documented reporting of system maintenance.  ? Ability to oversee all aspects of datacenter operations including but not limited to replacement of equipment, cable management, ensuring proper cooling and power, maintenance of schematics, inventory management, and future planning.  ? Responsible for the integration of Core Competencies into daily functions, including: commitment to integrity, knowledge/quality of work, supporting financial goals of the company, initiative/motivation, cooperation/relationships, problem analysis/discretion, accomplishing goals through organization, positive oral/written communication skills, leadership abilities, commitment to Affirmative Action, reliability/dependability, flexibility and ownership/accountability of actions taken.  ? Installs, configures, monitors and administers all data center systems and servers in support of customer business and technical requirements.  ? Designs, develops, engineers, and implements solutions that meet customer requirements.  ? Using software and hardware tools, monitors, tests, troubleshoots, and provides support on performance and access problems with network, software applications, and server systems, recommending repairs and changes as necessary.  ? Develops and maintains documentation of server configuration and data center infrastructure.  ? Bases solutions on a firm understanding of Financial and industry policy, best practices, procedures, customer requirements, and emerging technologies and future trends in support of the customer.  ? Coordinates and schedules and or assignment of work order out to Junior Technical Staff, for Rack and Stack jobs as well as break fix jobs..  ? Provides primary interface with vendor support service groups.  ? Provides internal analysis and support to ensure appropriate notification during outages or periods of degraded system performance.  ? Implements server security policies and procedures, and protects against unauthorized access, modification, or destruction.  ? Provides customer support in solving all aspects of complex technical problems.  ? Provides leadership and guidance in the development, design and application of solutions implemented by more junior staff members.  ? Management responsibilities for junior datacenter technicians during night shift.  ? Responsible for aiding in own self-development by being available and receptive to all training made available by the company.  ? Plans daily activities within the guidelines of company policy, job description and supervisor's instruction in such a way as to maximize personal output.  ? Responsible for keeping own immediate work area in a neat and orderly condition to ensure safety of self and co-workers. Will report any unsafe conditions and/or practices to the appropriate supervisor and human resources. Will immediately correct any unsafe conditions as the best of own ability.  ? Configures test beds and conducts testing, records and analyzes results, and provides recommendations for improvements for the products and systems under test. Senior Network Engineer - Team Lead / Data Center Bank of America - Levittown, PA June 2013 to March 2015 contract end Lay-off)  ? The initial role is to support the Bank of America/Meryl Lynch Global Data Center Networks, which supports business in the US, APAC and EMEA regions as well.  ? Responsible for the day to day operational task to manage the Banks high availability PA Data Center for the Night Shift from 9pm-7am est. Tuesday thru Friday 4days a week.  ? Provided CLI network support for Data Center infrastructure such as Cisco ASRs, Cisco 6513|6509s, Cisco Nexus 5k|7k|9ks and IBM and Dell servers.  ? Responsible for fault isolation, incident resolution, asset management, logistics and replacement (RMA) for all Data Center infrastructures.  ? Responsibilities for the Banks routers and switches from Rack/ Stack, Patch work, Cabling, Cable management in raised floor, Fiber module replacements, SUP and Line card replacements as well as Port Level testing using tools such as Fluke Networks test sets. (Opti View Series II Integrated Network Analyzer & OptiView XG Tablet)  ? Data Center Firewalls were managed by Dell Secure Works and the F5 Load Balancers, Cisco Waas devices were managed by the Banks internal team and the Bank Servers were managed by Maintech for all server hardware replacements.  ? Tools used in the isolation of network issues where Netcool, Cacti, Remedy, nGenius Infiniti Stream, Apcon, Wireshark and Flukes.  ? Perform CLI trouble shooting and resolve tickets from the Banks Tier 2 Help Desk as well as complete change request for overnight change windows and assist with resolving network issues such as routing protocol raised tickets for BGP, OSPF, MPLS, Layer 2 and Application issues such as Multicast or Proxy issues.  ? Perform upgrades, configuration maintenance, server decommissions and repairs of system hardware/software and manage third-party Vendors in the data center for any site access.  ? Manage multiple third-party vendors in the Data Center such as Blackbox, Maintech, AT&T and on-site Electricians to test or replace faulty or failed network equipment. Administrator for Cisco Unified Communications Manager Verizon - Edison, NJ May 2007 to December 2014 Edison, NJ 05/07 - 12/14  Pre/Post Sales Eng./PMP/Product Specialist - (PERM end Lay-off)  ? Partner with Verizon Business Sales Team as well as Project Managers to deliver multi-layer Network Solutions. (IP, EPL, SONET/SDH, DWDM, VoIP, Wireless, MPLS L2/L3, Metro-Ethernet, etc.)  ? Service delivery to Enterprise accounts providing customer facing presentations to CIO levels, RFPs and network architect designs as required per SOW or contracts.  ? Responsibilities included but not limited to multi-tasking assignments, meeting deadlines on deliverables, product and project management support through project completion.  ? Configure Juniper Enterprise devices via Junos s/w CLI or J-Web GUI, such as M-series, MX-series, T-series routers and EX-3200 & EX-4200 switches and the SRX5800 security appliance.  ? Configured and Installed Cisco routers 1800, 2800s, 3500, 4500s, 6500s, 7200s as well as Cisco switches 2900s, 3700s 5000 and Hybrid/IOS/Cat 6500s.  ? Configured and installed Cisco Firewalls ASA models 5505 Base/Security Plus, 5510 Base/Security Plus 5520, 5540, 5550 and PIX 501, 506E, 515E, 525 & 535 models.  ? Provide Network designs and power points for various customer projects per SOW.  ? Collaboration deployments, integrations and support for Cisco Call Manager VoIP solutions enterprise level customers and VM Ware used to virtualize CCM appliances.  ? Administrator for Cisco Unified Communications Manager 8.X along with MS Exchange 2007 integration for TelePresence.  ? Cisco TelePresence installations performed for models CTS-3000, CTS-3010, CTS-3200 and CTS-3210.  ? Cisco TelePresence Prequalification site visits performed, RRA's, NPA's and CTX's performed.  ? Cisco TelePresence room validation testing performed with light test kit & sound test meters per room.  ? Cisco TelePresence network validation performed to validate the network is capable of delivering the required bandwidth to efficiently deliver Voice/Video services on demand.  ? Cisco TelePresence delivered via the Verizon Global IP Network and or Ethernet WAN services (Enterprise MPLS) applying QOS settings on the customer's edge router.  ? Configure and install Cisco TelePresence CTS Manager, CTMS, CUCM, Cisco IP Phone and the Cisco Codec (Tandberg). Global Network Operations Senior Engineer Goldman Sachs - New York, NY June 2007 to November 2008 Data Center- (contract end Lay-off)  ? The initial role is to support the Goldman Sachs Financial Global Network, which supports business in the HK, TK regions as well as Europe and Asia regions via 24x7.  ? Night shift 7pm-7am rotating 4 days on 3 days off shift.  ? Provided network support for Enterprise Cisco router and switches, supporting circuits as high as OC192 in a high-pressure results oriented environment.  ? Tools used in the isolation of network issues where Netcool, Cisco Works, HP Open-View, VitalSuite, DWDM ring managers, R65 Smart View Tracker for Nokia Checkpoint R65 firewalls supported.  ? Support Optical WANs, MANs, LANs, BGP MPLS VPN connections, SES circuits, VoIP support, BT-Turrets, Cisco PIX and ASA model firewalls, Nokia Checkpoint R65 firewall support, Foundry and Juniper routers as well as various VPNs supported.  ? Provide network investigation via Niksun Network probes primarily used to track latency between hosts/servers and or packet delivery investigation.  ? Support Cisco IGX/BPX models, Cisco 12000s models, Cisco Enterprise 6500 switches, Nortel Optera 5200 and support of multiple client T1/E1/T3/DS3 and private DWDM network.  ? Work with multiple vendors, different Goldman support teams, DBAs, Managers and dispatched electricians to repair, test or replace faulty or failed network equipment. Team Lead MPLS Network Provisioning Engineer BT America - Nutley, NJ August 2006 to May 2007 contract end Lay-off)  ? Responsible for the execution of core PE and CE router and switch configurations, and troubleshooting activities demanded by the project to the approved standard, timescale and quality necessary for the Reuters KEYSTONE project.  ? Communicate effectively with the project team on technical matters.  ? Produce outcomes that meet the project plans and programs.  ? Work with local administration to deliver timely reporting.  ? To interact effectively with local administration, Global Technical Leader, Central Support Team and other regional Configuration Teams.  ? To supervise subordinate activity where appropriate.  ? Working knowledge of operating systems (MS; UNIX): required for accessing and editing router configuration. Both operating systems are in use.  ? Working knowledge of MS mail, Excel, and MS Word. All are required for general day-to-day working.  ? High level knowledge of Cisco LAN and WAN products  ? Working knowledge of LAN and WAN transport media (Ethernet; Frame-Relay; SDH, SONET, ATM; TDM (E1, T1, etc).  ? Working knowledge on MPLS environment  ? Working knowledge on QoS and CoS architecture for configuration and troubleshooting.  ? Working knowledge of Cisco IOS and routing protocols. We operate an IP MPLS environment and Reuters services are delivered over this network, using a combination of transport media, routing protocols and other relevant IOS features.  ? Demonstrated experience in troubleshooting complex LAN/WAN environments, including routers, switches, and circuits. Global Network Operations Senior Engineer Morgan Stanley - White Plains, NY June 2006 to January 2007 contract end Lay-off)  ? Perform Pre& Post scrub analysis for Engineering department on Core, Distribution & Access Cisco routers & switches, Niksun probes, integration of client peering changes as well as BGP, OSPF & RIPv2 routing changes within the network to ensure 99.99% uptime between Asian & US markets.  ? Global Support for 20,000 devices via Spectrum and Netcool to ensure the Network Operations Center a successful response time to network outages or changes to the network topology.  ? Identifies and evaluates problems such as, BGP flaps, transatlantic links via SONET, Metro Area fiber related issues with Fujitisu & Adva Sonet Muxes, OSPF issues, T3/DS3/T1 circuit issues, switchport changes and 6509 Sup 720 RMA's and code burning.  ? Support BGP MPLS VPN connections, SES circuits, VoIP support, Cisco Firewalls and 5540 ASA model support as well as various router and switch Carrier class support.  ? Provide network investigation via Niksun Network probes primarily used to track latency between hosts/servers and or packet delivery investigation.  ? Support of multiple US Datacenters for scheduled powerdowns and off-hours support via remote access and blackberry.  ? MPLS VPN support for Retail Clients circuits and Sonet line switch, db level changes and alarm history performed on all devices.  ? Work with multiple vendors, such as RCN, C&W and Cisco TAC to report issues out quickly to get RFO for all major outages. Senior Network Engineer/ Network Administrator Dechert LLP - Philadelphia, PA January 2006 to June 2006 contract end Lay-off)  ? Network Admin daily duties supporting the Help Desk troubles calls, DHCP scopes, DNS name space, Mail/File restores, Permissions, SBR with Vasco and Blackberry tokens, Patches, AD, Exchange System Mgt., TLS, ACL's and daily backup support using HP DL380 server with ADIC and Symantec Backup Exec v10.0.  ? Assigned duties such as building HP servers, Windows 2003 Servers and Blade Servers with lights out ports for access to Servers stuck at F1 prompt.  ? Assigned task turn up new Firm location, which involved the use of MS Project, Planning and Design of Network Infrastructure, SNMP planning, VoIP planning, cabling and HVAC  ? Configured the following cpe - Adtran, Cisco 3725, 3845, 4507, 4510, 7206 & 6509 used in non-hybrid mode, KVM switches for Mgt., and Liebert UPS.  ? Supported Camera Probes, Symantec Firewall, VoIP Cisco Call Manager & Unity, EMF, Commtouch (Email SPAM product), Clustering of Exchange 2003 Servers, Blackberry services and daily maintenance of Transaction and Syslogs.  ? Management tools used Change Management server, AD, Exchange System Manager, What's Up Platinum 06, Orion, EMF (Tumbleweed product) and HP Insight Manager.  ? Test and Turn up T3, DS3, T1 and E1 for voice services ISDN PRI/BRI/PBX, video and data US and Europe. Test with Service Providers during scheduled maintenance windows.  ? Configure and adjust OSPF cost for traffic management of Multi-Links between hubs. Manage ISP routers Cisco 3725's for BGP global table routes and Internet access.  ? Manage adds, moves and changes to LAN switches Cisco 6509, 4510, 4507 and 3750 port speed adjustments, assigning static IP address and troubleshooting VoIP reported issues. NOC Integration Engineer Sanofi-Aventis - Bridgewater, NJ July 2005 to December 2005 contract end Project completed)  ? Traffic engineering analysis performed to determine the capacity for SLO's (SLA's), disaster recovery, redundancy, load balancing and VPN access to the corporate joint Global Networks.  ? Assist with the planning and design of the Network Management Center in France.  ? Develop methodologies and procedural functions for all Technical Support personnel to follow as Company policy for handling all Wide Area Network, VPN, Firewall and Server alerts.  ? Traffic engineering tools used were Info Vista, RT a trouble ticket database program and Spectrum.  ? Respond proactively to all alarms and work with vendors and internal customers to troubleshoot and restore service issues involving OSPF, MPLS, BGPv4 session resets, peering issues and well as link and protocol issues.  ? Monitoring CORE routers 7206 & 7507's and switches 6500 & 3500's, for the Global AT&T, IBM and Infonet networks via SNMP tool Spectrum.  ? Project Management skills used to coordinate the merging of separate networks and to meet deadlines for having all services up and operational in the France Data Center. Senior Network Engineer Lucent Technologies - Murray Hill, NJ August 2000 to June 2005 PERM end Position Outsourced)  ? Perform Root Cause Analysis in a lab environment by recreating customers known issues in lab and having those issues corrected by Development with either a patch or s/w upgrade.  ? Perform Interoperability and Mobility testing on trial solutions for future contract offerings.  ? Perform Traffic Analysis testing for QOS related issues Voice, Video or Data.  ? Configure Juniper router T-640 for CORE transport of ATMoMPLS. On the EDGE Juniper routers T-320 and M-320 for supporting VOIP.  ? VoIP readiness solution training received for Lucent's joint venture with Telica to offer VoIP services.  ? Team responsibility for roll out of Wireless support services with multiple Enterprise Wireless vendors.  ? Voice Engineering support for circuit emulation traffic in carriers' class solutions such as xDSL, DSP2 (A-F) echo cancellation algorithms, gateway services to PBX's, SPVC's and (H.323) Video Over ATM services supported as well for specific clients.  ? In-depth understanding of network monitoring and management systems, such as Spectrum, HP Open-View, NavisEMS, VxWorks and Vital Suite bandwidth monitoring application.  ? Maintenance Engineering performed on Cisco router models 2500, 2600, 3600 and 3800 series for ATM, Frame-relay and Point-to-Point serial links.  ? RF Engineering interoperability carrier class solution testing and support for back-haul and MSC aggregation of multiple links.  ? Carrier class support for Voice and Data network solutions such as IMS and E911 service.  ? SONET Engineering support and configuration for DWDM, SM and MM on OC3 up to OC192. Pre-Sales Global Design Engineer MCI WorldCom - Piscataway, NJ February 2000 to August 2000 contract end Project completed)  ? Provide Senior Level technical support to Sales Support Teams and internal & external customers regarding feasibility, vendors, capacity and network monitoring capabilities.  ? Multiple vendors' equipment selection capabilities to customize a solution to fit the customers' specific application or security needs and or QOS requirements.  ? Design Engineering performed on each RFP. The Cisco.com web tool was used to accurately select the correct router or switch model along with all of the components needed for that router or switch such as, the RAM, DRAM, IOS version, cards and cabling.  ? Designs incorporated high-end routers using Cisco 12000 series and Juniper T&M series routers.  ? Tape Backups Drives, Tapes, NAS and SAN designs by vendors HP, IBM and EMC for Disaster Recovery and Network Back-ups in small, medium, large and enterprise networks. Education BS in Telecommunications Management DEVRY UNIVERSITY - Lombard, IL Skills Dwdm, Gsm, Linux, Sonet, Wireless, Sensor, Cisco, Data center, Firewalls, Netcool, Remedy, Cmts, Eigrp, Juniper, Mpls, Netscout, Ospf, Pnni, Sdm, Tacacs Additional Information Technical/Computer Skills    Managed Hardware:  • Routers: Cisco 2921|2951|3945E|ISR4000|ASR1002-X.  • Routers: Juniper M320|MX80|MX240|MX480 MX960|T640|T1600.  • Routers: Riverbed, Samsung Enterprise Ubigate and Foundry routers.  • Data Center: Cisco Nexus 5k|7k|9k. Cisco 6504-E|6509|6513|7609|XR12410.  • Switches: Cisco 2960|3560|3750|4948 STACK(3850s,9300). Juniper EX4200|EX4600|EX8200.  • Firewalls: Cisco PIX 501|506|515|525|535 Cisco ASA 5510|5520|5540|5550. Juniper SRX 550|650. SonicWALL. Cisco IDS 4215 Sensor, Cisco VPN Concentrators and Nokia Check Point 1 Firewall (R65 - supported).  • Collaboration: Cisco UC products Call Manager 8X and higher, Cisco Telepresence CTS/TMS etc.  Applications:  • UNIX, LINUX, Windows XP|7|8, JUNOS OS 12.0 and up, Cisco CAT OS|IOS|NX-OS, Netapp, Netfiler, Clarify, Remedy, MS-Office 365,Veritas Back-up s/w, Lotus Notes, Sametime, CYREN-Commtouch (email s/w), Commvault Galaxy, Symantec Anti-virus/Backup Exec v.10/Firewall, Visio 2007 Pro & VPN client s/w.  Network Management Tools:  • Netcool, HP Open-View, What's Up Gold, What's Up Platinum, Info Vista, Spectrum , Remedy, Service Center, nGenius, Netscout, Wireshark, WinPcap, Cisco ACSSE, CSACS Server v3.2-3.3, ASDM, PDM, SDM, Cisco TACACS+, RADIUS, SSH, Navis AqueView EMS and RTMT.  Protocols:  • BGPv4, MPLS VPNs, EIGRP, OSPF, DMVPN, PPP, HDLC, RIPv1/2, IGRP, EIGRP, TCP-IP, IPSEC, IS-IS, NAT, Multicast, DWDM and SONET.  UC Protocols/Signaling & Wireless Protocols:  • SIP, H.323, H.245, H225, MGCP, SCCP, RTP, ISDN PRI/BRI, ESXi 6.0, CMTS, PNNI, GSM, UMTS, 1xEvDO, 802.11ac(a,b,g,n).