Senior Field Engineer/Senior Project Supervisor Senior Field Engineer/Senior Project Supervisor Senior Field Engineer/Senior Project Supervisor Seffner, FL To develop a position as a Field Services\Implementation or Network Operations Manager with a stable and  rewarding company.    Software:  Microsoft Windows Client, and Multiple Server platforms. Microsoft Office, Macintosh OS platforms. Linux Client  and Server (various Debian, Red Hat, GNU Project Distributions); OpenOffice, LibreOffice, UNIX. AS400 mainframe and  emulators, VTAM, Extra, Mochasoft, IBM Client Access. Novell Netware. QS1, Frameworks, HBS Healthcare  Pharmaceutical Dispensing Systems. Solarwinds,    Hardware:  Cisco Routers, Switches. Cisco, Juniper, and Bluecat Firewalls. Linux/Unix and Windows Based Workstations and  Servers, Thin Clients, Apple Mac, Netbooks and Laptops. Sales Kiosks, Telxon/Motorola/Symbol handhelds and scanners.  Various Printers, Faxes, and Multifunction devices. Impact and Thermal Label and Report printers. Local, Network, and  IP/IPDS printers. Document Scanners and IP Imaging cameras. Ethernet and Twinax. LAN and WAN cabling, architecture,  and configuration. 3COM and Avaya VoIP phone systems. Closed Circuit Security Systems. Work Experience Senior Field Engineer/Senior Project Supervisor PharMerica Corporation - Tampa, FL August 2007 to May 2019 As the senior engineer of the department, I was hired to assist with the hiring and training of my departmental  coworkers. We began concurrently at an acquisition to consolidate/convert all pharmacy sites (98 pharmacies) to existing  standards. We now continue this for additional acquisitions and organic growth/restructuring. I'm responsible for cabling, WAN Circuit and CPE equipment configuration (Visual CSU/DSU's, Cisco routers and switches) and LAN Equipment (PC's,  thin clients, Servers, BOS controllers and peripherals).  I'm also the Project Supervisor for platform implementation, and change management. Coordinate a team of 3-6  Implementation Integrators to accomplish these tasks. Assisted in leading the conversion from Nortel phone systems to Avaya VoIP/Cisco telephony system. Lead and participated in data center installations, auditing, and Vendor Coordination. Director of Network Operations/ Partner Home Front Services - Salt Lake City, UT August 2004 to June 2007 Architected and Implemented WAN between our two Wasatch front locations (SLC and Orem). Built and managed  two VoIP call centers for wholesale mortgage company. Installed and supported Win2000 Server running Financial  Mission Critical Applications as well as 50 Client PC's and three Canon multifunction devices and all analog faxes (12  lines), LAN-WAN circuits, T1, Cable, Voice T1 and SINA circuitry.  I was a 1/3rd partner at this firm. Chief of Network Operations Center Echopass Corporation - Salt Lake City, UT September 2002 to May 2004 Began as help desk associate and was promoted to Help Desk Manager, the Chief of Network Operations.  Maintained server farm, resolved all issues beyond scope of help desk. I managed all technical monitoring, maintenance, and support of Network utilizing OC-198, DS3 clusters and T1 clusters to provide connectivity and function of hosted call  center products. We integrated telephony support for Switch to Genesys backbone VoIP network. Senior Network Engineer Teleperformance USA - Salt Lake City, UT July 1999 to July 2002 Federated Support Group Network Administrator Tampa, FL December 1997 to July 1999 Vacation Club Network Consultant Marriott - Lakeland, FL August 1996 to December 1997 Education BS in Software Engineering in Computer Science Brigham Young University-Idaho - Rexburg, ID August 2017 to Present Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uuemgnuplow3hlds Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Non-smoker, non-drinker  Eagle Scout  Speaks Spanish and Cantonese