IT Manager IT Manager IT Director West Sayville, NY Solutions architect and team leader with 18+ years experience. Managed a team supporting over 30 individual companies encompassing over 5,000 users.  Lead a team in successfully resolving over 2500 trouble tickets per year, ranging from infrastructure level to end user support.  Collaborate with business owners to proactively identify technology needs and deliver solutions that elevate their operations.    KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE   • VMware ESXi 6.5/Microsoft Hyper V5.0 Servers • Microsoft Exchange 2013/2016 servers • Microsoft Azure public cloud services • Microsoft Windows 2012/2016 servers • Veeam Backup and Replication • Cisco Router and Switches • Project Management professional • Microsoft SQL 2012/2014 servers • Cyber Security risk assessment and management • Microsoft Office 2016 / 365 • Sophos Endpoint Protection Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager TGM Associates - New York, NY February 2019 to Present • Maintains enterprise wide software, including anti-virus, patch management.  • Provide technical support for onsite users.  • Tier 1 support and maintenance to escalate to 3rd party IT company.  • Maintain proper documentation and procedures for the network.  • Research and troubleshoot information technology issues as required.  • Active Directory, Office 365, DNS, DHCP.  • Strong technical knowledge of Windows 7, Windows 10 and Mac OS. IT Director CONSOLIDATED DATA SERVICES (CDS) - New York, NY 2009 to Present CDS is a provider of world-class IT services and strategic consulting servicing DAS, a division of Omnicom that encompasses over 200 boutique agencies all over the globe   • Architect and implement infrastructure migrations to AWS offerings including S3, Glacier and Storage Gateways • Lead a six-person team in providing broad technology support, from infrastructure- to end user-level, for over 30 companies • Drive infrastructure improvements for 30 DAS companies in the Greater New York area • Collaborate with agency technical leads and department heads to identify business technology needs and create solutions • Establish and enforce workflows for all IT projects, including setting priorities, assigning tasks, and driving schedules • Ensure data security across all levels, from folder-level all the way to enterprise storage • Set and implement IT standards in partnership with senior IT counterparts from three other regions across the US • Monitor new developments in technology, forecast needs, and budget for future implementation • Key accomplishments: ? Successfully drive hundreds of projects per year, ranging all the way up to major strategic infrastructure upgrades ? Introduced new technologies for data life cycle management that reduced data loss and storage overextension ? Improved data security by integrating deep-level measures such as granular folder permissions, proper server and workstation antivirus administration, and hardening servers against external malicious threats ? Ensured maximum network security and infrastructure uptime across the entire agency network Sr. Enterprise Engineer New York, NY March 2008 to May 2009 Responsible for monitoring and managing the IT services and infrastructure, collaborating with both business and technology groups to understand technical requirements and ensuring the IT services are aligned with the company's overall objectives. Responsibilities include the core network infrastructure, including communication closets, network firewalls & switches, network security appliances, fiber connectivity, server & storage infrastructure, server operating systems, data backup protection & disaster recovery, desktop office automation, mobility & telephone, procurement of IT hardware and software. Network Administrator DDB - New York, NY April 2001 to March 2008 Managed Check Point Firewall, implemented backups for 5 separate Windows domains. Education High school Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Architecture (6 years), Backup Exec (5 years), DFS (2 years), encryption (Less than 1 year), Information Technology Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/thomasrenzulli/ Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Backup Suites  • Symantec/Veritas Backup Exec  • Legato  • Retrospect    Architecture + Administration  • Microsoft Windows Server 2k8 R2  • Microsoft Windows Server 2k12 R2  • Apple OSX 10.11 and previous  • WebHelpDesk Ticketing system  • DoubleTake Replication  • Acronis Extreme ZIP/Access Connect  • Microsoft Threat Management Gateway 2010  • Microsoft Active Directory  • Microsoft DFS Namespaces & Replication    Enterprise Hardware Skills/Storage Architecture + Administration  • HP 3Par SANs  • HP MSA Storage Systems  • Nexsan Beast Storage systems  • Promise Technology Storage Systems  • Quantum StoreNext  • Backup Architecture Design  • Implementing Schemas and Rotation Schedules  • Quantum and HP Backup Libraries  • LTO4, LTO5, LTO6 with encryption