Contractor/Telecommunications/ Network Engineer Specialist Contractor/Telecommunications/<span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Specialist Contractor/Telecommunications/ Network Engineer Specialist - Standard Communications, Inc. / James A. Haley Veterans Hospital Tampa, FL An accomplished IT Manager and Network Engineer resourceful in integrating cost-effective communication solutions, improving efficiency, accessibility, scalability, and workflow, streamlining operations, and minimizing costs. An "out-of-the-box" producer, successful in developing "win-win" solutions, improving customer satisfaction, and improving processes. Bilingual in English and Portuguese. Work Experience Contractor/Telecommunications/ Network Engineer Specialist Standard Communications, Inc. / James A. Haley Veterans Hospital - Tampa, FL 2013 to Present Responsible for Telephony based computer maintenance within the Telecommunications department. Provide backup support for the preparation, connection and troubleshooting of Tandberg Teleconferencing equipment for all Station 28 locations. Also Provide PBX maintenance, troubleshooting and repair, as well as programming. Provide programming and support for Cisco data switches as it relates to the functioning and operation of SIP/IP PBX endpoints for Station 28 locations. Work closely with other VA IRMS Telecommunication employees to assist in the installation, repair and maintenance of the VA Hospital Telecommunications equipment. Work closely with VA Telecommunication Management to implement, program and troubleshoot new technologies. Telecommunications Technician Coastal Telecommunications, Inc - Clearwater, FL 2012 to 2013 Designed voice and data communication system based on the requirements of clients. Monitored and supervised the installation of data/telecommunication systems, as well as educated clients on the proper usage and maintenance of the systems. Performed the tasks of processing and auditing telecommunication invoices of the company. Performed moves, additions and changes of telecommunications/data services and equipment. Diagnosed trouble on T-1 circuits, ISDN/PRI/BRI, E&M TIE Lines, DID; troubleshot IP telephony issues. Troubleshot VOIP and other converged technologies issues. Coordinated with vendors to provide guidance and suggestions on negotiations. Computer Network Consultant MFM Computer Network, LLC - Tampa, FL 2011 to 2012 Responsible for: site-to-site IP Sec VPNs, ACLs on corporate and client firewalls, new server deployment, routine backups, SAN management and maintenance, server performance and up time monitoring, VoIP administration, system upgrades including OS patches and virus definition updates, failed hardware replacement, and power monitoring and allocation. LAN and WAN installation, configuration, and support and IOS updates (Cisco routers, switches, firewalls, concentrators). Configured routers between sites, IP Sec LAN-to-LAN VPN tunnels. Completed VMware installs, implemented and administer VOIP Systems Unified Voice mail Server. Implemented Symantec Endpoint protection and network monitoring solution for offices to ensure 99% network up time. Managed Active Directory, Blackberry Enterprise Server, MS Exchange, Sonicwall, Cisco firewall and routers. Created images for laptops and desktops with company applications using Symantec Ghost Suite for standardization and quick deployment. Responsible for network documentation and weekly reports. Regularly provided on-site and remote support to end-users. Network Engineer/ Administrator Interglobal Constructors, LLC - West Chester, OH 2009 to 2011 Managed a technical support team, comprising help desk and network solution specialists and all aspects of LAN, WAN, Internet, intranet and various data and voice communications. Analyzed data networking and storage needs, developed specifications; designed and implemented cost effective technical solutions. Directed design and implementation of network and disaster recovery infrastructures. Network Engineer/ Administrator Joseph P McCabe, Inc - Boston, MA 2007 to 2009 Installed and maintained all the data and voice communication systems for two companies. Assessed company requirements, developed specifications and designed network infrastructure. Engineered VOIP and VPN systems. Provided end-user technical support. Assisted in daily administrative tasks. Network/Systems Engineer Enterprise Network Solutions - Tampa, FL 2005 to 2007 Consulted with a myriad of companies and industries on voice and data communication services, which included, design, installation, implementation, and providing on-going support. Clients included ADS Telecom, Commercial Duct Systems, Summers Title, and Battaglia and Ross Law Firm. IT Manager ADS Telecom, Inc - Tampa, FL 1992 to 2005 Directed daily IT operations for a multimillion-dollar telecommunications company. Programmed and configured PBX and voice mail, call accounting, and CTI integration systems. Developed and implemented WAN/LAN configuration to network central offices and subscribers. Provided equipment and program diagnostics for statewide client base. Provided service to over 3,000 clients. Closed over 60% of sales in CTI demonstrations (120 annually). Supervised 12 to 15 communication and network technicians. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Information Science in Computer Information Science Florida Metropolitan University Diploma in Electronics Technology in Electronics Technology Technical Careers Institute Skills Operations management, Vendor sourcing, Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Disaster recovery, Data migration, Sql, Technical support, Microsoft windows, Windows 10, Operations, Contract negotiation, Purchasing, Team building, Personnel management Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Computer engineering/networking/installation  Requirement assessment/detailed specification design  Data migration and system conversion  Network/server and security operations management  Voice Over internet protocol specialist  Level 1, 2 and 3 technical support  Personnel management and team building  Purchasing/vendor sourcing and contract negotiation    SKILLS    Cisco routers/switches  Disaster recovery and antivirus  Firewalls and security  Microsoft Windows Operating Systems: Servers 2008, 2012, 2016, Exchange, SQL, Windows 10, 7  Sonic Wall Appliances