Sr. Systems Engineer/ Administrator Sr. Systems Engineer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Systems Engineer/ Administrator - Squar Milner LLC Irvine, CA MCSE, MCITP, MCTS, MCSA, CCNA R&S and CCNA Voice, CompTIA A+, HP APS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Systems Engineer/ Administrator Squar Milner LLC - Irvine, CA December 2016 to July 2019 Areas of responsibility to include:  • Microsoft Active Directory administration/Group Policy Management.  • Microsoft Network Services including DHCP, DNS, Certificate Authority.  • DFS, Data Replications. Shared folders' NTFS Permissions.  • Microsoft Exchange (On-Prem Exchange 2016, Office 365 with Exchange online).  • ConnectWise ITIL ticketing system  • Router/ Switch/Firewall/VPN installation, management and configuration.  • Umbrella/OpenDNS management and configuration.  • SAN/Cloud Storage solutions.  • VMWare and Hyper-V clustering virtualization technologies.  • Veeam backup, backup copy, replication solutions. Veeam One Suite monitoring.  • Carbon Black protection, Carbon Black Defense Anti-Virus software configuration and management.  • Barracuda email security appliance management and configuration.  • Servers/workstations system imaging deployment process including physical and virtual machines.  • Co-Locations/DataCenter support, equipment installation, configuration and management.  • Provide multiple offices support throughout northern and southern California.  • Project management, new equipment planning and implementation, MSP/Vendors communication.    Specific Duties:  • Install and support LANs, WANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Install and maintain network hardware and software.  • Analyze and isolate servers and networking issues.  • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.  • Evaluate and modifies system's performance.  • Identify user performance needs.  • Determine network and system requirements.  • Maintaining integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.  • Manage and ensure effectiveness of security solutions, including firewalls, routers, switches, VPN, and Intrusion Detection Systems.  • Assign routing protocols and routing table configuration and perform network address assignment.  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Maintain production and virtual network servers, VPN gateways, Intrusion Detection Systems.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  • Create and maintain documentation as it relates to network configuration, network mapping, processes, and service records.  • Develop, implement, maintain policies, procedures, and associated training plans for servers, network administration, usage, and disaster recovery.  • Configuring, implementing and supporting company's Dell/EMC SAN and cloud storage server.  • Build out, provision new virtual machines, configuring, supporting and monitoring all virtual machines in company's VMware and Hyper-V virtual servers and hosts environment.  • Adding, removing or changing internal share resources and application authorities for users.  • Manage, maintain and administer Microsoft Exchange (On-Prem Exchange 2016, Office 365 with Exchange online), Skype for Business  • Maintaining, configuring and documenting company wide servers and data backup processes utilizing Veeam Backup & Replication 9.5 and Veeam One suite.  • Diligently monitors all networking devices and generate all appropriate alerts, notify and escalate with urgency.  • Provide assistance and guidance to all IT Help Desk Specialists.  • Respond to Help Desk requests from the Help Desk team for any IT related escalation via phone, remote control tools, and in person if required.  • Provide a level of escalation and problem resolution for all Help Desk members with network, software and applications problems. Resolve as many reported problems as expertise permits using available tools and following procedures and policies for the handling of support cases.  • Use advanced troubleshooting skills.  • Courteously obtain and convey concise problem information for external and internal service personnel.  • Provide accurate and timely logging of problems and resolution for problems in the ticketing system database.  • Utilize superior customer service skills.  • Utilize and maintain the Help Desk tracking software.  • Coordinate problem resolution with vendors.  • Maintain communications with vendors and IT Staff during the problem resolution process.  • Receive, process, and prioritize escalation support calls from team requests depending on the severity level and assign it to the appropriate resource.  • Travel to multiple locations in Irvine, Los Angeles, Encino, San Francisco and San Diego as needed. System/ Network Administrator FSSI - Financial Statement Services Inc - Santa Ana, CA May 2015 to November 2016 Areas of responsibility to include:  • Microsoft Active Directory Services/Group Policy/Data Replication.  • Microsoft Network Services including DHCP, DNS, Certificate Authority.  • DFS, Data Replications. NTFS Permissions.  • Microsoft Exchange (Office 365 with Exchange online).  • Linux Server and host administration.  • Router/ Switch/Firewall/VPN management and configuration.  • NAS/SAN/Cloud Storage solutions.  • VMWare and Hyper-V virtualization technologies.  • Symantec Backup Exec solutions.  • Anti-Virus software configuration and management.    Specific Duties:  • Managing and maintaining Active Directory Sties and Services, Domain Services, users/groups /roles/permissions, DHCP Server, DNS Server, Certificate Authority.  • Configuring, implementing and supporting company's EMC SAN and cloud storage server.  • Build out, provision new virtual machines, configuring, supporting and monitoring all virtual machines in company's VMware and Hyper-V virtual servers and hosts environment.  • Build out, provision new Linux server or host virtual machines, supporting and monitoring Linux hosts.  • Performing Site Disaster recovery to recover critical production servers including Physical or Virtual machines from daily backups.  • Managing and maintaining Exchange Online platform.  • Monitoring and supporting firewalls, and implement new access rules and policies.  • Maintaining, configuring and documenting company wide servers and data backup processes utilizing Symantec Backup Exec 2015.  • Maintaining, configuring and documenting companywide data backup and replications, performing data and servers or workstations recovery.  • Adding, removing or changing internal application authorities for users.  • Resolving problems reported by end users for local and wide area networks, personal computers, networking equipment (routers, switches, firewall, etc.)  • Responding to the needs and questions of network users concerning their access to resources on the network and the operation of various software programs.  • Responding to assigned help desk support tickets through ITIL ticketing software  • Creating, Updating and documenting all related policies and procedures  • Removal of Viruses/Trojans/Malware/Adware from infected systems. Anti-Virus software configuration and management includes software installation of servers and client workstations joined to the domain. System/ Network Administrator Corinthian Colleges, Inc. / Everest College - Santa Ana, CA October 2010 to May 2015 Santa Ana  Areas of responsibility to include:  • Microsoft Active Directory Services/Group Policy/Data Replication.  • Microsoft Network Services including DHCP, DNS, Certificate Authority.  • DFS, Data Replications. NTFS Permissions.  • Staff, Faculty Support & Student Support - all IT related issues. Responsible for resolving IT issues affecting IT functions in the campus.  • Infrastructure Management - Responsible for all IT equipment moves, add changes. Also responsible for maintaining current inventory of all equipment and capacity at site.  • Capacity - Responsible for maintaining accurate records regarding campus infrastructure capacity.  • Monitoring & Reporting - Responsible for delivery of Campus IT reporting to include both Admin and student network.  • Incident Management - Responsible for managing all service interruptions related to the delivery of IT functionality affecting the campus.  • Desktop Patch Management - Responsible for ensuring all desktops have all approved Microsoft (OS and Office) patches installed.  • Virus Management - Responsible for ensuring virus protection is in place and functioning across all PC devices in the campus environment.  • Curriculum Software - Responsible for installation and support of all curriculum software in use at the campus.  • Governance - Enforcing unauthorized usage of the system and making unauthorized copies of data, software, reports, and documents.    Specific duties:  • Provide technical support for multiple locations of campus IT infrastructure.  • Managing and maintaining Active Directory Sties and Services, Domain Services, users/groups /roles/permissions, DHCP Server, DNS Server, Certificate Authority for admin and student networks.  • Manage and maintain the Service-Now incident management queues for the Team & VOIP Telecom incidents or service requests to be ultimately resolved.  • Service-Now remediation ticketing system - creates, modifies and logs remediation tickets. Responsible for incidents and requests, solve day to day tickets at campus or designated locations.  • Support local area network technologies, to include wireless, switches and routers.  • Troubleshooting and resolving hardware and software for servers, workstations, printers and peripheral equipment.  • This includes installing, diagnosing, maintaining, data migration and upgrading servers' Operating System, Desktops, laptops' Operating System and applications, Hardware including printers, scanners, smart boards and other equipment.  • Responsible for analysis/reporting/troubleshooting, system monitoring, moves, add changes and day to day maintenance and support of Cisco IP telephony communication as required.  • Administer and troubleshoot network and infrastructure issues related to the network.  • Assists in general IT support functions and works with Technical Services staff managing day to day operations of network.  • Help troubleshoot and escalate issues beyond the network, including applications.  • Manage student and faculty computers by adding new computers to network, repairing and/or replacing hardware, and repairing and/or reinstalling software.  • Maintain professional competence in current IT technologies.  • Technical liaison between campus administration and corporate IT teams.  • Adhere to and enforce corporate policies regarding network security, IT standards and corporate resources.  • Work with Corporate IT on projects and initiatives.  • Answer questions, trains and assists users on software packages used at campus.  • Responsible for coordination of manage service provider and vendor activities.  • Handle demanding deadlines proficiently, manage time effectively and prioritize appropriately.  • Implement LDAP to identify 'Stale' computer accounts, share network drives and network printers' automatic discovery scripts.  • Implement scripts to perform systems, users' documents and settings backup, data migrations for systems location change.  • Removal of Viruses/Trojans/Malware/Adware from infected systems. Anti-Virus software configuration and management includes software installation of client workstations joined to the domain.  • Smart Board, laptop or workstation connected and peripherals - Software/hardware Install, configure, maintenance and troubleshoot issues. System/ Network Administrator - Campus IT Support Professional Career Institute - Gardena, CA October 2007 to October 2010 Areas of responsibility to include:  • Microsoft Active Directory Services/Group Policy/Replication.  • Microsoft Network Services including DHCP, DNS, Certificate Authority.  • Microsoft Exchange Server administration.  • Managing and maintaining Active Directory Sties and Services, Domain Services, users/groups /roles/permissions, DHCP Server, DNS Server, Certificate Authority.  • Provide technical support for campus IT infrastructure. Install, configure and set-up Server, workstations, printers, telephones, fax machines and other network devices on-site.  • Areas of responsibility to include personal computers, printers, servers, network and telecom technologies.  • Support local area network technologies, to include wireless, switches and routers.  • Troubleshooting and resolving hardware and software issues for personal computers, printers and peripheral equipment, installing, diagnosing, maintaining, and upgrading PC hardware, printers and other equipment.  • Manage and maintain the incident/issue management queues for the Team & VOIP Telecom incidents or service requests to be ultimately resolved.  • Student virtualization lab support. Manage student and faculty computers by adding new computers to network, repairing and/or replacing hardware, repairing and/or reinstalling software.  • Responsible for analysis / troubleshooting, system monitoring, moves, adds changes, day to day maintenance and support of Cisco IP telephony communication systems when required.  • Administer and troubleshoot network and infrastructure issues related to the network. Assists in IT support functions and works with Technical Services staff, managing day to day operations of network. Responsible for incidents and requests, solve day to day tickets at campus. Maintain professional competence in current IT technologies.  • Technical liaison between campus administration and corporate IT teams. Adhere to and enforce corporate policies regarding network security, IT standards and corporate resources.  • Work with Corporate IT on projects and initiatives. Answer questions, trains and assists users on software packages used at campus. Responsible for coordination of manage service provider and vendor activities.  • Perform other duties and responsibilities as assigned.  • Initiates and assists the education director in developing, planning, implementing, and administering goals and objectives related to the assigned area including course and program curriculum planning.  • Models effective teaching techniques for other faculty. Instruct classes as assigned, and fill in for absent instructors within the academic program if needed.  • Assists the education director with scheduling of classes; inputs class schedule into the computer, assigns part-time teaching schedules, coordinates full-time instructor schedules; recommends to division director on class cancellations; coordinates room scheduling; proofreads the schedule.  • Coordinates the updating of syllabi/course objectives; coordinates textbook selection, supplementary instructional materials, and changes in curriculum; determine prerequisite equivalence.  • Design, implement, and configure student computer virtual labs.  • Supervises computer lab facilities, for proper use, safety, security and maintenance.  • Reviews need for equipment, supplies and instructional materials and recommends purchase; verifies equipment inventories.  • Helps to ensure quality teaching within the assigned area; arranges for class coverage when appropriate.  • Provides staff assistance to the education director. For example, develops, prepares and presents recommendations and reports as requested.  • Coordinates the preparation of class records regarding attendance and grades.  • Perform other duties and responsibilities as assigned. Lead IT Engineer/Corporate Technical Trainer HP - Los Angeles, CA April 1999 to October 2008 • Perform system refreshment for 4 Bank of America Banking Centers each week throughout Southern California.  • By leading a team of installation technicians performing all banking center computer equipment refreshment on Bank of America sites including Complete system backup, Server rack management, Network Router and switches, hubs, modems, UPS, cable panels, blade Server installation and configuration.  • Includes installing, diagnosing, maintaining, data migration and upgrading server hardware/OS, workstations, laptops hardware/OS, printers, scanners, and/or other equipment.  • Windows server 2003/2003R2/2008/2008R2 OS, Workstations Windows XP/7 OS implementation and configuration, providing on-site desktop and network support, banking center management and end-user support via phones and LAN remote management tools.  • Implementation of Network MFP printers with fax functionality, Network Dot Matrix check printers, QST, MICR, UPS and peripherals refreshment, perform Server, Workstations system upgrade, patches, installation and custom software package implementation.  • Communicating with HP control room to report and raise issues by utilizing HP ITIL Remedy system to log and track calls received as to nature of problem and how it was ultimately resolved.  • Banking center software installation and configuration including Merlin, Coin, and Banking center online and Microsoft office suites.  • Post installation equipment package deployment reporting and verification of all equipment functionality by banking center and Bank of America management. Perform hardware / software troubleshooting and maintenance activities on network Server, workstations, network printers, and other associated devices on sites. Leading installation team to perform Old 2U blade server, workstations and associated peripherals removal, repack, direct deployment packages to HP designated disposal center.  • To handle and meet demanding deadlines, manage time effectively and prioritize appropriately. Provide technical leadership and guidance to other field technicians. Ensure that the customer receives world class support and service.  • Provide support and train users as scheduled or when requested by the customer. Perform other duties and responsibilities as assigned.  • Operations Manager, System/ Network Administrator  • ProActive Business Solution - June 1995 to April 1999  • Install, configure, and troubleshoot Server, desktop, laptops and associated peripherals for internal end- users.  • Install, configure and set-up Server, workstations, printers, telephones, fax machines and other network devices on-site.  • Support LAN/WAN technologies, to include wireless, switches and routers. Assists in general IT support functions and works with Technical Services staff, managing day to day operations of network. Responsible for incidents and requests, solve day to day tickets to report how it was resolved.  • High level of proficiency in computer skills with a passion for technology. A commitment to continuing education to strengthen skills and broaden expertise. Strong problem solving and troubleshooting capabilities. Ability to learn new skills quickly with minimal guidance. Dedicated to achieving project schedules and milestones.  • Coordinated and accomplished computer hardware, system and network configuration, e-commerce with shopping cart environment, implemented new sales and marketing strategies to initiate company website including electronic catalog for more than 15,000 items, online shopping and ordering system with 25% increase in sales within 6 months.  • Communicated and negotiated with vendors and service provider for more than 15,000 products, implemented new purchasing policy with cost effective buying strategies among vendors.  • Reorganized warehouse operations; implemented new services, procedures and policies, resulting in improved delivery of quality products and services, staff scheduling while significantly reducing 20% of operating expenses annually. Education Diploma in Computer Networking and System Management in Computer Networking and System Management PCI College Bachelor of Science in Electronic Engineering in Electronic Engineering Lee Ming Institute of Technology