Security Engineer Security Engineer West Richland, WA Highly qualified security and network administrator with over 13 years of experience ranging from military IT security to corporate security engineer all while using my leadership and technical knowledge to train and work with fellow IT. Work Experience Security Engineer Lamb Weston November 2015 to Present * Primary role of developing a security program for a $6B public company as we spun off from our parent company ConAgra Brands.  * Evaluate the impact to the organization of current security trends, advisories, publications, and academic research. Coordinate responses as necessary across affected teams to do the right thing for our organization.  * Develop processes and implement tools and techniques to perform ongoing security assessments of the environment. Central tracking and management of enterprise vulnerabilities.  * Oversee security of the cloud infrastructure, serving as the main point of contact for investigating and resolving security-related issues. Develop threat and vulnerability management policies and managed the MSSP that monitored and configured our SIEM (security information event management) system.  * Independently leads incident response efforts. Utilized the SANS incident response process to drive to the root cause and then recovery.  * Worked directly with the legal department for all matters involving the company by preserving and providing evidence for potential legal actions.  * Align security strategies with organizational business objectives, technology goals and IT applications.  * Worked with managed security service provider to stand up SOC that closely integrated with network provider to provide seamless end to end visibility over the network. Develop incident response plan.  * Developed and tailored an information security policy and acceptable use policy.  * Aligned with network provider to develop an Asia Pacific and Mexico network security policy that met business requirements.  * Develop, implement and maintain a multi-year enterprise security awareness program covering topics across all of IT, HR and other departments. Provide regular reporting to management on the current state of the program throughout its life cycle. The program successfully moved our security awareness posture to industry standard. Plant System and Network Administrator ConAgra Foods October 2014 to November 2015 * Project lead for 700k Enterprise Aruba Wireless rollout. Working directly with solution architect to develop an international wireless project that also included a security solution for access to the network.  * Working with a team developed a network for a 300million dollar expansion plant on the Richland Campus. Primarily dealt with network topology and security implementation.  * Our team led an $800,000 FY14/15 server, switch and desktop refresh across all facilities. This project involved a total plant infrastructure refresh, multiple IDFs, 50 plus laptops/desktop, 20 cisco switches and 2 HP ProLiant clusters.  * Monitored, maintained and troubleshot network switches for all manufacturing facilities. Utilizing SNMPc Management Console actively monitored all plant networks up to the router, provided expertise to other members to help troubleshoot or makes changes to the switch environment. Created and maintained infrastructure diagrams and site documentation for plants assigned.  * Project lead for a $65,000 server room upgrade to the Quincy WA facility. Coordinated with plant management and vendors to have project done while not affecting plant production. Brought server room up to corporate standards and replaced an ageing main core stack to allow for future infrastructure work and a more stable environment.  * Team lead for Windows Server 2003 upgrade. Point of contact for our team in a corporate wide initiative to migrate all Windows 2003 servers to Windows Server 2012 R2 and any physical server left in the environment to the virtual environment. Successfully decommissioned over 24 2003 servers clearing up CPU and storage capacity. Migrated over 15 virtual servers and 2 physical server to Windows Server 2012 to meet the security requirements and business needs. Information System Technician U.S. Navy December 2006 to August 2014 * Conducted over 500 hours of investigation and evidence gathering resulting in 74 resolutions to Navy Cyber Defense Incidents Reports.  * Performed the administration and security for NIPRnet and SIPRnet Compose networks consisting of 3000+ accounts, 1300 workstations, and 16 servers utilizing Active Directory Users and Computers keeping compliance with DOD directive 8570.1 (Information Assurance Program).  * Familiarized with U.S NRC Regulation 10CFR 73.54; Protection of digital computer and communication systems and networks.  * Trained and qualified 10 information assurance sailors, ensuring in-depth comprehension of safeguarding, management and operations techniques enhancing the network security awareness and minimizing network vulnerabilities across all levels.  * Working directly with the Pacific Fleet Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation lead, developed and implemented the ships first site accreditation utilizing the DOD DIACAP process.  * As part of the Cyber Security Work Force the team established, implemented, and maintain a cyber-security program. By reviewing and updating local instructions, implementing security technical implementation guides, patching and training 1000 of users.  * Conducted vulnerability scans on network system utilizing Retina vulnerability scanner, uploading them to vulnerability management system keeping 100 percent compliance with all IAVA/IAVM security patches and Security Technical Installation Guides. Education Masters of Science in Information Security in Information Security City University of Seattle Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration Washington State University Skills Cyber Security, Information Security, Nessus, Rapid7, Incident Response, Computer Forensics, Cloud Security