Owner Owner Network Administrator / IT Support Calhoun, GA I am seeking a position that fulfills not only my ambitions, but the ambitions of the employer.  Availability Present Time Work Experience Owner Parts Galore Online, LLC - Calhoun, GA July 2018 to Present Amazon Company that I run from home selling DIY goods for Consumers.  Manage Financial aspect of the company along with all customer service. Network Administrator / IT Support Oakley Ross Technology January 2015 to July 2018 Standard End User Support,  ? I.T. Projects Management  ? Systems Analysis and Server Maintenance  ? Weekly Database Center Maintenance  ? Project Consultant  ? Security advisor  ? Backup implementation and maintenance  ? Firewall setup and maintenance Network Administrator / Internal IT Support Retail Data Systems September 2013 to December 2014 Standard End User Support,  ? I.T. Projects Management  ? Systems Analysis and Server Maintenance  ? Weekly Database Center Maintenance  ? Client Support when needed  ? 50% delegated to Corps Entity Along With Marietta office For a 100% Nationwide Support Person Technology Specialist Floyd County Board of Education August 2012 to September 2013 Overseen 5 separate education facilities,  ? Standard Help Desk reporting software was used to track and carryout all technology issues  ? Maintained multiple servers at each facility  ? Troubleshooting of network and equipment from print servers to domain controllers  ? Configuration and reconfiguration of such equipment  ? Responsible for all task carried out and reported weekly on all open issues and completed issues I.T. Assistant Heritage First Bank - Rome, GA April 2011 to August 2012 Designed and maintained company intranet site, providing useful resources ex: Automated forms, company directory and help desk;  ? Handled all technical solutions for implementing the new online banking interface;  ? Maintained ATM's; Daily, Weekly, Monthly backups; Nightly updates; and all task related to the network infrastructure in order to keep business operable day to day;  ? Worked closely with auditors for yearly audit as well as helping rewrite the I.T. Policy to stay in the guidelines for everyday activity;  ? Created scripts and other useful tools in order to keep repetitive task accurate and efficient ;  ? Worked closely with the bank coordinator to help employees perform their jobs at the best of their abilities without technical interference; I.T. Manager V.T.I. Transport - Dayton, TN August 2007 to April 2010 Conduct weekly meetings on improvements and future implementations for the company;  ? Review and sign off on all paperwork regarding technology, evaluating and redistributing cash flow for future upgrades;  ? Redesigned the network infrastructure due to old technology. Better serving the company and saving of over $200,000 a year in spending;  ? Maintained all offices locations, Calhoun, GA, Springboro, OH and Louisville, KY.; Education Bachelors of Computer Science in Computer Science Kennesaw State University Skills Strategic Planning (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), exchange (10+ years), Vmware (6 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Cisco Technologies (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Exchange Server (10+ years), Network Security (10+ years), VP (10+ years), Account Management (10+ years), IIS (10+ years), Dhcp (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Switches (10+ years), TCP/IP (10+ years), Database Management (10+ years), Routers (10+ years), Group Policy (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (10+ years), As400 (10+ years), Domain Management (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Cisco IOS (8 years), Cisco, SQL, Citrix, Excel, ITIL, IT Management, VoIP, HTML Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified December 1999 to Present MCSE December 1999 to Present MCSA December 1999 to Present MCTS December 1999 to Present MCITP December 1999 to Present