Network Manager MSP <span class="hl">Network</span> Manager MSP Network Manager MSP New Milford, CT Hands-On Network Engineer with demonstrated success in clients operation of both the local and wide area network infrastructure. Am proficient in coordinating change control management processes and project-based upgrades supporting Windows ADS Services, Exchange, and Network technology. Including administration of, VMware data centers, MS Exchange, group policies, and systems security. Responsible for the management of routers, switches, and firewalls. Afterhours and on-demand rank and file management of administrators and technicians including reviews, performance and action plans. Recognized as a team player with the initiative to take appropriate action to ensure customer satisfaction. Work Experience Network Manager MSP INTEGRATION PARTNERS INC - Lexington, MA 2012 to 2019 • Worked extensively with Active Directory, group policies, DFS/FSR replication, and site-to-site services.  • Responsible for MS Exchange migration to Office 365, including MS UC communications and Lync.  • Managed the local and wide area network, the wireless access points, and all network hardware.  • Setup and maintained Windows Server 2016 infrastructure at the corporate office and remote locations.  • Administrated the network infrastructure, Cisco, Juniper, routers/ASA, Switch Stacks, F5 load balancing.  • Handled all storage and data archiving using NAS and SAN technology across multiple platforms.  • Managed a NOC environment 24/7 call center for Network and UC issues of clients and customers.  • Project managed and directed a team of administrators in various upgrades of the organization.  • Handled all network requests for routing changes, firewall access rules, FTP and filter modifications  • Setup and administrated multiple data-centers in a virtualized VMware 6.5 environment,  • Direct supervision of IT engineers and administrators including reviews and performance plans Network Engineer (Consulting) HARTFORD STEAM BOILER - Hartford, CT 2006 to 2012 • Management and support of all networking devices, including Servers, firewalls, routers and switches.  • Responsible for network and data security, VPN and firewall access rules and configuration.  • Direct administration of VMware, Hyper -V, Virtualization, including load-balancing and replication services  • Responsible for administration of the Active Directory server infrastructure including Microsoft Exchange.  • Setup and managed storage strategy using NAS/SAN technology and off-site storage of data.  • Directly managed a team of technicians supporting a help-desk environment and data call center.  • Accountable for data/user security, group policies, file/folder and share level permissions.  • Project manager on various upgrades of Windows Server and Exchange 2008/10 to current revisions.  • Maintained all telecommunication and voice services, VOIP, Avaya phone system and services. Network Systems Administrator CARECORE NATIONAL (Consulting), Wappinger's - Falls, NY, US 2005 to 2006 • Handled the management and administration of both the local and wide area network.  • Responsible for network and data security, VPN and firewall access rules and configuration.  • Administration and management of a Windows Forest and numerous Domains in multiple locations  • Direct supervision of IT engineers and administrators including reviews and performance plans.  • Responsible for the functionally of the Active Directory server infrastructure including Microsoft Exchange.  • Setup and managed storage strategy using NAS/SAN technology and off-site storage of data.  • Administration and support of SMS, software distribution, and patch management.  • Accountable for data/user security, group policies, file/folder and share level permissions.  • Project leader on server consolidation, the upgrade to native Windows 2003 Directory Services and the upgrade from Exchange 2000 to 2003. Senior Network Administrator UST INC - Greenwich, CT 2001 to 2005 • Complete working knowledge of WINS, DNS, and DHCP in the Windows Active Directory/Exchange environment servicing over 5000 users in multiple locations  • Setup/administration of anti-virus protection on both servers and desktops  • Handled numerous consolidations of servers, file/print shares, data migration.  • Accountable for patch management/software upgrades of both servers and desktops.  • Responsible for the setup administration of an extensive Wan tiered across multiple sites and locations Systems Engineer Motts North America (Consulting) - Stamford, CT 2000 to 2001 Network Operations Manager Oxford Health Plans - Trumbull, CT 1998 to 2000 Network Engineer Rye, NY 1993 to 1998 Computer Operator International Business Machines - White Plains, NY 1988 to 1993 Education Bachelor's/Master's Degree in MIS Computer Science Iona College - New Rochelle, NY Skills Cisco, Dns, Dhcp, Juniper, Network monitoring, Vmware, Vpn, Wins, Firewall, Ssl, Veritas, Ads, Replication, Hyper-v, Cisco asa, Smtp, Ios, Websense, Checkpoint, Nexus Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Hardware:  • HP Proliant /Dell PowerEdge Servers, Cisco Nexus Switches, F5 Big IP Cisco ASA/Netscaler, Juniper Routers/Screens.  Network Protocol:  • Microsoft Enterprise ADS (DNS, WINS, DHCP), Protocol (SMTP, PPTP, TCPIP), Checkpoint/Websense Firewall, F5 Load Balancer/FirePass SSL VPN, Cisco IOS Firewall, Juniper JNCIA-Junos, Palo Alto Pa-X  Network Monitoring/Applications:  • Servicenow ticketing platform, Cisco Works/LSM, VMware ESXI, /MS Hyper-V, Juniper JNCIS-ENT PRTG Network Monitor, , Veeam/Veritas backup/replication, Microsoft UC communication services.