Systems and Network Engineer / Administrator Systems and <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer / <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Colorado Springs, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems and Network Engineer / Administrator Echo 6 Technologies - Colorado Springs, CO May 2012 to Present Echo 6 Technologies is my own company. I develop VoIP based predictive dialing systems for telemarketing company's based on ViciDial. I also provide support for those systems on both ends of the network. I oversaw the entire set up process from it's inception to completion.   This job required working knowledge of:  • Networking  • VoIP (SIP/IAX2)  • Asterisk / FreeSwitch (FusionPBX)  • MySQL 5/8, MariaDB 10. MS SQL Ver. 8 -14  • Linux (Centos7, Debain, Fedora, Ubuntu, RedHat)  • Windows (7/810 ) Server (2000,2003,2008, 2012, 2016)    I used cloud services for network infractructure and resources.   I would also provide remote support using ScreenConnect. This job also often required me to use web development skills such as:  • PHP  • Javascript/ jQuery / Angular.js  • AJAX  • Apache / Nginx  I often use the project management skills learned while studying at Colorado Technical university, where I will graduate with a Bachelor's Degree next year. I.T. Manager Graven Austin & Drake - Colorado Springs, CO March 2011 to April 2014 • I managed the I.T. staff by assigning their daily duties and following up with them to check on their status.   • I maintained their telecommunication devices. and systems to the external DMARC. At the DMARCH I worked with the T1 SMart Jacks through basic troubleshooting, along with replacement. There were 21 Voice T1's and 2 Data T1's.   • While I was employed at GAD, I rewireded both of thier server rooms, creating a much safer environment that made it easier to diagnose specific problems. Help Desk / Network Operations Center U.S. Wireless Data - Palmer Lake, CO October 2000 to March 2004 • My daily tasks involved supporting individuals who operated wireless Point of Sale Devices (POS). Which was a small part of my daily job.   • I worked along in the building and was solely responsible for monitoring a nationwide credit card processing network.   • If there was an outage, I would contact the appropriate individuals at MCI or ATT, along with internal staff, such as Network Administrator, system Administrator. Help Desk Gateway Computers - Colorado Springs, CO June 1999 to September 2000 • I provided technical support over the phone for Gateway Computer customers who were having technical issues.   • I consistently led my team in metrixs (call time, call resolution). Education Bachelor's in B.S.I.T - Data Management Colorado Technical University-Online - Colorado Springs, CO April 2016 to Present Skills Active Directory (5 years), Networking (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Vmware (1 year), Windows 7 (10+ years), Microsoft Office, Javascript (2 years), access (8 years), Security (5 years)