Network Operations Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Operations Engineer Information Systems Specialist Springfield, VT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Operations Engineer Systems Plus - Hanover, NH October 2014 to November 2016 Provided end user support, server support for businesses using remote access tools, such as Remote Desktop, Solarwinds, and Teamviewer. Monitored critical systems to ensure proper operation, remotely monitored backup processes.Tracked software compliance, and upgrades. Monitored systems for malware, security threats, and recovery. Information Systems Specialist Vermont Circuits, Inc - Brattleboro, VT October 2001 to February 2015 Diagnosed and troubleshooting Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency. Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades, ensuring that all software licencing was current and compliant. Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.Aligned office departments and increased inter-department communication and data sharing.Recommended network security standards to management.Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site.Designed and implemented new server standards for core business services. Network Administrator Mailrite, Inc - Putney, VT March 1996 to April 1998 Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.Translated technical specifications into detailed product requirements.Delivered on-site IT and AV technical support for 25 staff.Maintained and monitored the server room, the wireless network and other serverinfrastructure.Set up staff workstations with PCs, Macs, phones and laptops.  Lead Service Technician PC Support Technician PC Plus - Brattleboro, VT August 1991 to February 1995 Responsible for all customer service, repair, and installations.  Built custom designed PC's for businesses, planned and implemented networked based solutions.  Custom designed Point of Sale systems for local businesses. Education Some college Skills Desktop Support, Information Technology, Help Desk, It Specialist, Network Support, Computer Repair Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dbemiebc4tujw8xf Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ka-xvso0sn-uabm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.