Infrastructure Support Specialist Infrastructure Support Specialist Infrastructure Support Specialist - Computronix USA Inc Littleton, CO Work Experience Infrastructure Support Specialist Computronix USA Inc - Lakewood, CO August 2016 to Present * Technical lead for networking including firewalls, load balancers, and switches.  * Applying well developed knowledge and experience in planning, development and implementation of complex projects for complex server and network infrastructure project across datacenters and the Azure Cloud.  * Research and implement process improvements and upgrades to current server and network infrastructure.  * Support and maintain local and remote datacenters with over 500 virtual servers.  * Work with other senior team members to build a technology roadmap based on the Corporate Business Plan. Network Engineer New Trier High School District 203 - Winnetka, IL April 2015 to August 2016 * Provide third level support for 500 staff and 2000 students across two campuses.  * Support and maintain VCE Vblock converged infrastructure including yearly matrix upgrades.  * Maintain, configure, and install network hardware including firewall, 100+ switches, VOIP system, servers, wireless controller and 200+ access points. IT Manager By The Hand Club for Kids - Chicago, IL June 2014 to April 2015 * Provide first-response technical support to all issues reported via phone and on-site visits. Technical support includes fault isolation, troubleshooting computer software and hardware, replacement/upgrades, data migration and archival, and distribution list management.  * Lead the planning and design of the technology infrastructure so that information resources are continually available to meet the needs of the sites. Systems/ Network Administrator Itasca, IL February 2010 to June 2014 Installed and maintained all server and network infrastructure across all datacenters and remote locations. Helpdesk Engineer NNR Global Logistics USA Inc - Itasca, IL April 2007 to February 2010 * First point of contact for company helpdesk.  * Assist and maintain Windows Server environment. Education Bachelor of Liberal Arts in Sociology University of Illinois - Champaign, IL May 2004 Skills Active directory, Firewalls, Network administration, System administration, Virtualization, Vmware, Vpn, Hyper-v Additional Information SKILLS & INTERESTS    * Skills: Virtualization, Hyper-V, VMWare, Windows Server, Active Directory, System Administration, Network Administration, Firewalls, Switches, Virtual Private Network (VPN), Microsoft Azure, Cloud Computing  * Interests: Hiking, weight lifting, board games, obstacle course races.