I.T. Manager I.T. Manager Information Systems Administrator Escondido, CA Work Experience I.T. Manager Certified Folder June 2015 to July 2019 Managed and performed all IT operations in support of 200 users in 22 remote sales and distribution offices west of the Mississippi. Administered the VMware virtual server environment, Active Directory Exchange, Spam systems, MDM system, backups and DRP, VPN, Citrix environment, Digital Signage System in the US and Canada. Managed procurement and support of hardware of phones, desktops, MF printers, laptops, and tablets. Managed reporting, handled helpdesk and support issues, software upgrades etc.  • Upgraded the Digital Signage environment on the Washington State Ferry system and Canada.  • Successfully preformed 3 company cellphone replacement cycles including two carrier changes  • Actively pursued the best cost performance internet service for all our remote offices  • Moved crucial services to the cloud  • Standardized wireless networks throughout the company's remote offices  • Created a hardware inventory system  • Built and managed a company helpdesk system System Administrator / Network Engineer Ground Service Technology - Escondido, CA October 2014 to June 2015 professional services)  Professional Managed Services Consultant supporting SMB clients throughout San Diego County  Accomplishments included:  • Performing Windows Server 2003 to 2012 upgrades, Exchange Migrations, SQL Server Migrations  • Designed, deployed and managed virtualization environments using VMware and Hyper-V  • Designing, deploying and managing backup strategies for clients  • Provide Helpdesk service for Managed Services Clients  • Travelled to remote locations to support users System Administrator Fixtures Living - San Diego, CA January 2013 to October 2014 Managed IT needs of 160 users in 5 remote retail and distribution outlets across the country. Built virtual servers, installed wireless networks, VPNS, managed procurement of phones, desktops, laptops and tablets. Handled helpdesk and level 1/2/3 support issues  Accomplishments included:  • Built and implemented online Helpdesk solution to manage all support requests across the organization.  • Created New hire onboarding procedure and a SharePoint site to help HR manage onboarding, this made provisioning much easier.  • Travelled to remote locations to support users.  • Support corporate users.  • Administer users via Active Directory.  • Created mechanism to manage and deploy desktop and laptop images using Acronis. Network / Systems Administrator Remote Ocean Systems - San Diego, CA July 2009 to November 2012 Responsible for creating innovative and cost-effective technical solutions to the business challenges of a $10,000,000+ company. Reported directly to the CEO. The position required CIO level vision for infrastructure planning. Roles performed included Desktop Support, complete Network Administration, IT Manager, MS Exchange Administration, Active Directory Administration, SQL DBA, Report Writing, Software Developer, Sharepoint Administration.  Accomplishments included:  • Standardized hardware platforms per department, worked out leasing arrangements with Dell, saving the company money on computer replacement.  • Redesigned the backup strategy of all company data, replacing the old tape backup system with a local/cloud solution which insured the recovery, protection and archiving of critical information.  • Built a robust, redundant server environment by consolidating servers with Hyper-V, saving money on cooling and electricity costs.  • Made the Sales Team more efficient by deploying Sales Force.com as the company's Customer Relationship Management solution and integrating it with our SQL Server and Exchange Server.  • Optimized knowledge share between the Mechanical and Electrical Engineers by building a Share Point Wiki page to track projects and bugs.  • Created a Helpdesk webpage to manage support calls, delivered weekly reports to all department managers  • Deployed SQL Server Reporting Services to capture business performance information from the ERP and CRM systems. Built an executive Portal/dashboard page to display current trends. Senior Network Engineer/System Administrator Horizon Computer Resources - San Diego, CA June 2008 to July 2009 Contract)  Solely responsible for providing highest levels of reactive, proactive and consultative support for Managed Services, and on call clients throughout the county.  Accomplishments included:  • Maintained the networks of 6 businesses, handled all walk-in repairs, all residential service calls, performed Network audits, Sub-contracted to other VAR IT firms to meet their staffing needs.  • Designed and implemented a secure computing infrastructure for a defense contractor that overcame the restrictions of a military network, incorporating Citrix Servers, SQL 2005, Exchange RPC over HTTPS, Microsoft Small Business Server, and Share Point Services.  • Used Ingram Micro's Help Desk solution, Level Platforms server monitoring, and several WMI based reporting tools to singly support over 70 users.  • Administered corporate Active Directory Environment and Exchange Server  • Saved the department after several bad hires, preventing the loss of at least three clients by exceeding their support expectations. Brought on three new clients. System Administrator/ Network Engineer All Covered - San Diego, CA June 2007 to June 2008 Contract)  Member of a national team of professional IT consultants, dedicated to providing proactive technical guidance, preventive maintenance, and reactive support to 35 clients throughout San Diego County. Clients included Architecture firms, Health care providers, Real estate agencies, financial institutes, law firms, software development firms.  Accomplishments included:  • Maintained and managed client networks, performed technical assessments, wrote, managed, and implemented technical project plans.  • Promoted to the Traveling team, traveled to offices around the country to help understaffed/overloaded markets. Projects included: 3 Exchange 2003 to 2007 upgrades, Data center builds, VMware builds. Technical Director/Senior IT Consultant Information Systems Experts - Indianapolis, IN April 2005 to June 2007 Provided Managed Information Services for Small, and medium-sized businesses in and around Indianapolis, IN. Reported to the CEO, managed two consultants  Accomplishments included:  • Instrumental in creating a successful IT Consulting Department designed to bring small and medium business clients professional, practical, and cost efficient solutions. This included hiring  • training, and mentoring consultants, developing policies, procedures, creating an internet based help desk, writing and implementing customer and corporate service level agreements, creating network management SOPs, account management, account sales, and presales/sales support.  • Cross sold several projects for the development side of the house; brought in 3 IT accounts while playing a vital role in the acquisition of 3 more.  • Responsible for the day to day reactive and proactive administration of 10 Companies and their networks in fields such as Law Firms, Construction, Real Estate, Marketing, Insurance, Trades, and Finance.  • Managed Windows Active Directory Domains, MS Exchange Servers, SQL Servers, Small Business Servers, etc. I accomplished this with a mixture of on-site visits and proactive solutions; remote monitoring via VPNs and monitoring tools such as Kaseya, Servers alive, and Spice works. Technical Support Engineer ST. BERNARD SOFTWARE - Rancho Bernardo, CA June 2004 to April 2005 left for more challenging position)  Provided Level II support via email and phones to network and systems administrators using St. Bernard's Patching tool - Update Expert, and the Backup utility - Open File Manager.  Accomplishments included:  • Acted as a client liaison to resolve high-level application issues with vendors such as Symantec /VERITAS, Microsoft, CA, Sunbelt Software and others.  • Maintained a high call/email volume while achieving low issue resolution times.  • Replicated user environments using VMware to better troubleshoot issues. Senior System Administrator/Support Engineer CARDIONOW - San Diego, CA January 2001 to June 2004 Provided systems administration and technical support to a distributed network of Windows Active Directory Domains installed in Major Hospitals across the country.  Accomplishments included:  • Administrated 25 remote NT domains installed in Cardiac Cath Labs across the country.  • Analyzed, resolved LAN and WAN issues, optimized Gigabit networks and security configured and administrated Intel and Cisco switches and routers.  • Used scripting tools and batch files to automate admin functions and streamline build processes.  • Ensured Cardio now systems integrity and quality by developing hardware benchmarking system using NT's performance monitor.  • Delivered in-depth technical support for Internet data warehousing customers in the medical industry; documented procedures and policies, supported corporate desktop users.  • Helped cut 4-6 hour production build process to 30 minutes through extensive tools research.  • Enabled the notification and repair or critical server issues in minutes without customer awareness by installing and configuring monitoring programs to track environment and report problems via email/pager.  • Helped improve sales productivity by incorporating Goldmine, allowing the entire sales staff to synchronize through the investor relations/customer support database.  • Traveled across the country to customer sites to install, configure and troubleshoot systems and networks; worked with Cardiologists and technicians to resolve issues via phone, VPN, PCAnywhere and WebEx.  • Installed, maintained NetScreen Firewalls; administrated RAS, DNS, Active Directory, WINS, DHCP, VPN, Microsoft Web Access.  • Managed corporate NT 4.0 and Windows Server 2000 Active Directory, File Servers, Application Servers, Backup Servers, and Exchange 5.5 Servers. Systems Administrator KEYLIME SOFTWARE - San Diego, CA October 2000 to December 2001 Administrated multi-domain environment of 20 Windows and NT servers, and over 100 Windows, NT, and Macintosh clients for a company that specialized in Web-site monitoring software.    • Managed Help Desk and administered a broad range of network applications, systems, and protocols, including VPN, DNS, WINS, DHCP, RAS, print servers, MS Exchange 5.5, and VERITAS backups.  • Monitored and administrated remote systems and services, using Active Directory, Ghost, Norton Antivirus Corporate, IIS 5.0, Netsupport and Microsoft MMCs.  • Successfully passed IBM's Corporate Security Audit.  • Created technical solutions and computer processes to automate work functions throughout the company; purchased hardware and software; documented all processes.  • Collaborated with HR to develop a new procurement system, streamlining the new-hire process. Network Design and Implementation Engineer SPRINT-PARANET - Oakland, CA March 1999 to September 2000 Professional Managed Services Consultant supporting SMB clients through-out Northern California  • Part of team that developed and implemented a global roll-out of NT Workstation to 80,000 users around the world for Chevron.  • The rollout included centrally redeploying productivity apps using scripting to resolve compatibility issues with the new OS/Hardware Systems Administrator CYBERGOLD - Berkeley, CA February 1997 to March 1999 In-house Systems Administrator for 25 Windows and Mac users.  • Built an NT 4 domain and moving the company over from a workgroup type environment.  • Moved users to Exchange 5.0, and then migrated to Exchange 5.5  • Supported the technical needs of developers and Sales staff Desktop Support Analyst SYBASE - Emeryville, CA July 1996 to February 1997 • Responsible for end-user support of 5,000 Macintosh desktops across 7 buildings.  • Maintained excellent helpdesk response and solution times and high client satisfaction rating. Education Associate Skills Cisco, Mitel, training, Scheduling, Inventory Additional Information Technology Skills    Hardware  HP, Dell, IBM, Apple, Intel, Cisco, 3Com, Compaq, SonicWall, RUCKUS, Barracuda, Ubiquiti, Bluesocket, WatchGuard, ShoreTel, Mitel, Cradlepoint,