Systems Administrator, Information Security Analyst Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Information Security Analyst Systems Administrator, Information Security Analyst Atlanta, GA IT professional with demonstrated success in implementing tactical IT initiatives that improve business functionality with positive impacts on the business. Skilled team player, with proven ability to lead and motivate co workers to maximize productivity. Technology savoir-faire self-starter, adapt to new environments and extrapolate from existing experience to quickly adjust to new technologies confidently. Possess great communication and collaboration skills to lead and work in concert with various groups effectively. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator, Information Security Analyst NEWBRIDGE BANK - Lexington, NC July 2014 to April 2017 Lexington, NC acquired by Yadkin Bank and recently by FNB  A 12-billion-dollar bank serving the mid counties and coastal regions of North Carolina  Systems Administrator, Information Security Analyst-- Lexington, NC July 2014 - April 2017  • Top Level Security support to protect and prevent Data breaches using various tools including  Dell Secureworks, Alien Vault, Websense, Central ops, etc.  • Team member on Telecom migration from Nortel to Cisco Call Manager ( IP telephony)  • Team member on MDM and BYOD implementation (Air Watch Platform)  • Technical Team member, LAN/WAN  • Technical lead on Windows Sever 2012 migration from Windows Server 2003  • Keep the Servers and related peripherals running without interruption  • Install new and maintain existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements  • Setup, install and configure Servers, network appliances and PCs per the Banks standards  • Provide support to IT systems including day-to-day operations, monitoring and problem resolution for all the client/Server/Storage/ Network Devices.  • Implement approved security policies based on industry best practices and direction from leadership.  • Managing Active Directory, Exchange, SCCM and the Emc Networker, NetApp appliance for Database backup, VMWARE Server.  • Ensuring Windows based systems comply with Policies, Standards, Licensing agreements, configuration guideline and best-practices for maintaining regulatory compliance. Technical vendor Liaison.  • Assist with design and testing of failovers and Business Continuity plans  • Assist with tasks outside of my primary responsibilities as assigned per the manager to ensure Business continuity.  • Apply OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis and upgrade administrative tools and utilities. Configure and add new services as necessary NETWORK/DESKTOP ADMINISTRATOR LINKS INTEGRATION - Atlanta, GA June 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities and duties Include    • Installation, Configuration of Cisco Routers and Switches  • Network/VPN/ Firewall Admin/Security support  • Assist IT Specialist with weekly database Backups  • Implement approved security policies based on industry best practices and direction from leadership.  • Develop product documentation including system reports, technical and operational documentation and status reports  • Installing /Configuring of Windows, 7, 8, Windows 2003, 2008, 2012 Servers and MS EXCHANGE 2010  • Wireless networks setup and configuration, Firewall setup and configuration  • Install and perform minor repairs to Desktop and Laptop Computer hardware, software, printers, fax machines, and peripheral equipment  • Strong and consistent communication with customers  • Documenting work performed and other technical information for our clients  • Experience installing and troubleshooting problems on Windows7/8, Win2003/2008 Server, Active Directory, Exchange, DNS, End-User and Help Desk experience in MS Office Suite and other common desktop applications Experience in troubleshooting network related issues that can be related to network infrastructure  • Lead IP Telephony implementation for Clients PC/ NETWORK SUPPORT ANALYST CSC/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -CDC - Atlanta, GA June 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities and duties Include:  • Technical Lead Windows 7 migration.  • Microsoft Windows Server Administration environment supporting 600+ users  • Configuration of TCP/IP settings on network and troubleshooting TCP/IP issues  • Using Active Directory for the connectivity and maintenance of Mobile devices to the CDC Domain.  • Adding new Users and Devices per Active directory to the CDC Domain  • Migrated all windows XP based Os to windows 7 operating system.  • Backup clients data using Norton Ghost  • Installation and configuration of Custom software for the various laboratories and departments.  • Assisting end users with various software/hardware and network connectivity Problems.  • Repairing and replacing components of PCs and laptops to ensure Connectivity.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of Microsoft Windows 2003/2008/2012 Server Software.  • Training end Users in basic Windows 7 Os and Microsoft Outlook usage.  • Installing Financial and Scientific applications such as, Analyst 1.6, Xculibar, SAS 9.3, Sudaan, IRIS Suite, Endnote, Adobe Premium suite, SPSS. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR/ DSL TECHNICIAN/SPECIALIST AT&T - Atlanta, GA March 2006 to November 2011 Responsibilities and duties Include  • Set up and install servers, network appliances, and PCs PER ACTIVE DIRECTORY/TCP-IP  • Provides support for implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance of Information Technology (IT) systems.  • Manages IT system infrastructure and any processes related to these systems.  • Provides support to IT systems including day-to-day operations, monitoring and problem resolution for all of the client/server/storage/ network devices, etc.  • Assisted AT&T clients in Setting up and configuring SECURED Wireless Networking.  • Assisted AT&T Business Customers integrate LAN to WAN Using STATIC IP configuration with the AT&T CISCO ROUTERS.  • Provides support for the system and hardware problems and remains involved in the resolution process.  • Configures and manages Windows systems and installs/loads operating system software, troubleshoots, maintains integrity and configures network components along with implementing operating systems enhancements to improve reliability and performance  • Ensure Windows-based systems comply with policies, standards, licensing agreements, configuration guidelines, and best-practices for maintaining regulatory compliance. Installed, troubleshoot and repaired FILE SERVERS, laptop and desktop PCs, printers, and other PC hardware and peripherals Technical Support Analyst Computer Generated Solutions/IBM - Atlanta, GA March 2005 to April 2006 Responsibilities and duties Include    • Troubleshoot, diagnosed, documented and resolved technical issues surrounding IBM/ LENOVO THINKPADs, LENOVO THINKCENTER PCs in terms of hardware and software using LENOVO THINKVANTAGE TECHNOLOGY for IBM Clients. Education CITY&GUILDS in LONDON INSTITUTE CITY&GUILDS Associate Degree in Electrical Engineering in Electrical/Electronic Engineering Technology Institute - Greensboro, NC Certificate Cisco Academy Skills Security, Active Directory Additional Information .Migration/Upgrades /Disaster Recovery .Networking Engineering and Administration. .Computer Support