IT Consultant IT Consultant Portsmouth, VA IT System Technician / Systems Administrator/ Network Engineer/ IT Consultant Work Experience IT Consultant Advanced Technology Consulting - Portsmouth, VA November 2017 to Present Sole Proprietor an independent engineering services and consulting business providing IT infrastructure upgrades, configurations and repairs throughout Virginia and North Carolina. Responsible for site surveys, installations, and outage response for retail, shipping, and restaurant organizations such as McDonald’s, TGIFridays, Big Lots, Sysco and Aldi plus more. Responsible for test and turn up of MPLS circuits and Ethernet handoffs which include restoring BGP, EIGRP, OSPF routing services.  Member Apex Systems October 2017 to Present for Regent University  Responsible for the major system upgrade of a large scale Solarwinds Network Monitoring Platform. The upgrade process included reconfiguration of hardware, OS and database on 3 seperates machines involved. Also provided support for backbone fiber plant and Cisco network Core to edge. Responbile for supporting DNS, DHCP, Active Directory, AWS, and many other systems. Member of a 3 person team administering a 5 host VMWare cluster running on ESX 6.1 supporting over 120 virtual machines. Freelance Advanced Technology Consulting - Portsmouth, VA March 2017 to September 2017 IT Consultant  Provided Network Topology Concept for Western Branch Diesel to interconnect 13 locations to leverage existing IP Voice equipment to enable offices to communicate without using long distance rates. Design included creating site to site VPN connections through existing Cisco ASA and PIX devices which also required estimates for upgrading current Internet Circuits from multiple vendors. Telecom Engineer Verigent October 2016 to February 2017 Responsible for supporting regional Veterans Affairs Medical Center phone infratsructure on a NEC SV9500 platform in 2 locations with UG50 appliances connected in other locations.  • Duties include transitioning legacy phones to VOIP by consolidating legacy phone hardware in the system to free up room for VOIP installation.  • Required to monitor and support the system 24/7 Senior Systems Administrator MAP Communications June 2016 to October 2016 Provided system administration support for a nationwide call center.  • Duties included day to day support for hardware, software and network issues including the following:  AT&T OneNet  Avaya Soft and Hard Phones  Lenovo M72 and M73 Desktops (Win 7)  Vcenter VMWare environment for Servers  CentOS 7  Windows 2008 and 2012  • Provided research and pricing for implementation of Nagios XI and Nagios Log Server  Nagios XI primarily to monitor all Windows Based services and Nagios Log Server to stream logs from the Avaya Experience Portal. Systems Administrator BN Media LLc March 2011 to March 2016 Provided system administration support for a major website and small call center.  • Duties included day to day support for hardware, software and network issues including the following:  1. Provided systems support for an IT environment consisting of 40+ servers and 30+ users including all equipment required to operate.  2. Supported all users in a Windows XP through Windows 10 environment. (MACS included)  3. Troubleshooting and setup performed on DHCP, WINS, DNS and Active Directory issues in a Server 2003 and Server 2008 environment.  4. Managed user accounts along with Exchange accounts.  5. Provided troubleshooting and support for Web Development team by administering Barracuda and Cisco ASA appliances for security.  6. Duties also included maintaining and administering MS SQL 2005, 2008, and 2012 databases which support website functionality and also used in accounting. Responsible the maintenance, upgrades and support for Great Plains which included database backups and restores when necessary. Duties included maintaining Print Boss and magnetic printers for checks as well as proprietary applications developed by the company.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and resolving network issues including routers, switches and firewalls using a variety of vendor equipment.  • Provided support for a VOIP based Call Center using mainly Linux based servers for operations.  • Updated DNS records internal and external for domain changes to websites.  • Monitored networks with 100+ devices. Network/Systems Engineer Pomeroy IT Solutions April 2009 to March 2011 Hired as a contracted employee providing support for companies in need of technical support with networks containing 200 to 10,000 users.  • Provides day to day support for hardware, software and network issues including the following:  7. Laptop and Desktop parts replacement in an all Dell environment.  8. Windows 2000 through Windows 7 troubleshooting.  9. Troubleshooting DHCP, WINS, DNS and Active Directory issues.  10. Manages user accounts along with Exchange accounts.  • Responsible for adapting to network and desktop configurations in a very short period of time.  • Provided desktop and network support for networks, which are Windows and Linux based, with various types of routed infrastructures.  • Responsible for deploying up to 45 IBM AS/400 POS and lookup terminals for major retail chains Network/Desktop Support Engineer Advanced Technology Contracting December 2007 to April 2009 • Provided desktop and network support for residential and small business customers.  • Contracts include network connectivity, security, email and desktop applications including integration of PDA's (Blackberry/Treo) with small business networks.  • Responsible for providing end to end network setups to include DHCP and DNS servers for small networks.  • Provided Windows Server installs working with Dell, Toshiba, IBM, and COMPAQ hardware.    Dendrite International  Information Technology Support  • Provided IT Desktop support for large pharmaceutical sales force comprised of 7,000+ users  • Troubleshooting included VPN IP addressing issues using a DHCP server as well as troubleshooting WINS related issues.  • Responsible for supporting VPN connectivity, web based applications, Microsoft Office applications and databases through the network for sales force professionals.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and replacing hardware on various vendors PC's and tablets such as memory upgrades, NIC (wireless and wired) replacement, motherboard swaps and various peripheral issues. Communications Engineer TDS Inc June 1993 to April 2005 • Trained the trainers for the NAVY ATM High Speed Global Ring Marconi training schools.  • Configuration Control Manager for the Tactical Test Integration Center (TTIC) for the Navy.  • The TTIC is responsible for testing and optimization of the backbone configurations to properly provide voice, video and data services.  • Responsible for providing and testing of topology, interfacing and Quality of Service configurations.  • Performs pre installation Test Check Out (PITCO) of all equipment to be delivered in the Global Network    Engineering Technician III, Dataline Inc.  • Responsible for deploying JEMPRS mobile INMARSAT networks for executive military and DOD personnel.  • Provided engineering design and support for extending Voice, IP Data and VTC capabilities for executive clients while on travel.  • All voice and data services utilized bulk encryption devices for secure requirements.  • Responsible for creation and performing test procedures in order to supply customers with required results    Communication Specialist, Texcom Inc.  • Provided Network Engineering for development of High Speed Global Ring Network.  • Selected to be a member of the SPAWAR source selection for Core Backbone ATM switches.  • Provided research, draft test plans and draft white papers for PNNI topology,  • NSAP addressing and network deployment strategies.  • Also, provided training outlines for Tier 2 NAVY and contractor ATM training.  • Member of PITCO team in St. Julien's Creek test labs providing test plans and results for network deployment strategies.  • Provided training for technicians in deployment of network services for the USS Ronald Reagan.    Communications Specialist, Professional Value Added  • Member of MLRNOC providing management for the NCTAMS LANT operated Hampton Roads Enterprise Network and the Piers BLII Network.  • Responsible for configuration and support of transport services on the IP over ATM backbone comprised of 40+ switches, including Marconi ASX-1200, Cisco Catalyst 5500, Catalyst 2924, KG-75, KG-175, KG-194 and HP Openview based management stations.  • Provided training for NCTAMSLANT personnel and Piers BLII technicians on all ATM Equipment.  • Configured, tested and deployed the pier side Battle Force Tactical Trainer Network as well as provided training to all support personnel involved.  Information Technology Specialists II,  Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc.  • Provided user support for COMNAVLANT Norfolk, VA as IT Specialists.  • Responsible for configuring and maintaining local and web based data services through the use of Microsoft Systems Management Server 2.0.  • Selected to aid Network Engineers in managing an IP over ATM network, which serviced 3,000+ users.  • Member of the NMCI Information Strike Force Team responsible for the rollout of systems and applications from Widows NT to Windows 2000.  • Provided Desktop support configuration for making all images loads with Norton Ghost and for automated network deployment of systems.  • Installed fiber optic cabling, CAT 6E cabling, and bulk data cabling for major network installation at Naval facilities. Also responsible for terminations as well as cable management systems. Education Woodrow Wilson High School - Portsmouth, VA Certification in ODU Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA Skills access, HTML, Security, Active Directory, testing