Backup and Recovery Administrator, Senior Backup and Recovery <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Senior Manager of Information Technology Operations Jacksonville, FL Former role as IT Infrastructure Manager, responsible for the IT Operations under  the Chief Information Officer (CIO). Supervised Network Engineer Team which  comprised the Network Security and Infrastructure Group, Application Support  Group and Server and Storage Group. Managed the Computer Support  Supervisor whose duties are to supervise the Help Desk Team and Computer  Technician Team. Managed the IT Asset Manager whose duties included directing  the team to receive, record hardware assets and software license and surplus end  of lifecycle assets.    • Provide custom reports and metrics to command staff and executive  personnel.  • Write and review employee evaluations  • Employee career development, including training (onsite and offsite)  • Leadership and mentoring college level interns  • Designed and Architected New Infrastructure Requirements    Work in partnership and supported the Application Development Manager (direct  report to the CIO) as his teams rolled out or updated applications. Designed and  maintained the Microsoft SQL hardware environment for the Database  Administrator (DBA) Supervisor.    Directly responsible for all IT Security the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office, with North  American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection  experience.    • Held the position of Local Agency Security Officer FBI Criminal Justice  Information Services (CJIS)  • Ensured agency-maintained compliance with the CJIS Security Policies  by implementing IT Best Practices and writing corporate policies  • Interface with other Law Enforcement and Governmental Agencies  RANDEL J. BENNETT    Assisted the CIO with all aspects of IT Operational Financial management. Most  recently authored the justification, purchasing and deployment of the Jacksonville  City Council award of a 2.7 million-dollar infrastructure upgrade.    • Participated in IT Strategic and Personnel planning  • Planning 5-year IT budgetary forecast  • Product research, evaluation and review  • Draft technical specification of bid requirements for hardware and IT  services  • Reviewed and approved contractors and vendors scope of work  including request for proposal (RFP) responses  • Reviewed and approved product annual support and maintenance  agreements Work Experience Backup and Recovery Administrator, Senior Jacksonville Electric Authority - Jacksonville, FL 2018 to 2019 • Backup and recovery of customer billing and payment systems  • Backup and recovery of security access systems for the Bulk Electric  System (BES) Cyber System Information  • NERC CIP (North American Electric Reliability Corporation critical  infrastructure protection) Certified Infrastructure Manager Jacksonville Sheriff's Office - Jacksonville, FL 2015 to 2018 Project managed the deployment of Exchange Journaling, providing  compliance under State Statues for Public Records Requests.  • Developed the strategy and oversee the implementation of the server  consolidation project, physical to virtual reducing hardware and power  consumption costs.  • Project Managing the migration of the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office  WAN Sites from Metro-E to ASE.  • A member of the Duval County / City of Jacksonville Unified  Emergency Call Center Committee. Network Manager 2014 to 2015 • Responsible for approval of network designs and solutions  • Managed Network Groups implementations as well as enterprise  network management  • Provided the deciding factor for prioritization of teams Level Three  Support issues  • Facilitated the leadership for a successful transition from the dual  authentication software called 2FA to Dell's called Defender.    • Designated the Local Agency Security Officer (LASO) under the CJIS  Compliance Policy of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the Federal Bureau of Investigations.  • Lead the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office to a 99% compliance audit from both FDLE and the FBI. Network Engineer 2010 to 2014 Network Manager 2006 to 2010 Network Engineer 1998 to 2006 System Engineer Level 1 Pomeroy Computer Resource - Jacksonville, FL 1997 to 1998 Petty Officer Retired 1982 to 1997 • Persian Gulf War Veteran  • Managed small teams in logistical and tactical movements nationally  and international.  • 24-hour support to emergency calls with as low as 30-minute  response time.  • Developed PC deployment images in a Novell NetWare 3.11  environment. Links http://WWW.LINKEDIN.COM/IN/RANDEL-BENNETT-35806879