Computer Network Contractor Computer <span class="hl">Network</span> Contractor Computer Network Contractor - Dorr Business Management Systems Tampa, FL Effectively demonstrates skills in PC hardware, Windows O.S., Office Suite. Proven solving experience with pc, network design and demonstrated working knowledge in different environments.    Knowledge Work Experience Computer Network Contractor Dorr Business Management Systems - Miami, FL October 2012 to Present Desktop Support Analyst Insight Global LLC - Miami, FL November 2013 to November 2013 Computer Network Contractor Best Tek Support LLC - Matthews, NC April 2008 to September 2012 • Provide remote technical support using LogMeIn, Teamviewer, Dameware to access clients' network workstations and resolve computer related issues more promptly and efficiently.  • Determine and analyzes the source of computer and network problems (hardware, software, etc)  • Provide support on desktops, laptops, printers, blackberry devices, and Microsoft servers.  • Working with a team of administrators to implement and support all aspects of infrastructure resources like deployment and installation of new servers, switches, routers and computers.  • Configuring, monitoring, maintaining and supporting servers, data, networks, and all software installed on the development and production servers.  • Recommending, scheduling, and performing software improvements and upgrades.  • Contributing to a disaster recovery plan and testing.  • Monitoring, implementing and determining functionality of the backups for 50+ different customers.  • Participating in an on-call support schedule for a 24-hour support structure IT Administrator The Kidney Treatment Center of South Florida - Miami, FL February 2007 to March 2008 • Responsibilities include installation, configurations and deployment of new equipment and applications. Administration of Client/Server network (Windows 2000-2003 server), VPN, Active Directory.  • Reconfigured network design installing network printer, implementing GPO policies, upgrading backup system to Acronis 9.1 and creating a backup schedule system for disaster recovery.  • Support of Acronis Server 9.1, McAfee Total Protection for Small Business, GAIA, Soft aid, Time Clock Plus 5.0, Medicare Easy Print. Technology Support Specialist John S. and James L. Knight Foundation - Miami, FL April 2005 to June 2006 • Technical support and assistance of remote clients throughout the United States based on a Citrix environment.  • Setup, install and support computer applications, hardware troubleshooting on PC's and laptops.  • Installation and support of Blackberry and Treo communication devices.  • Responsible for organization and support of teleconference system.  • Maintenance assistance of Trend Micro Server Protect 5.58, and Office Scan 7.0, Veritas Backup Server 10.0, Nortel Server Meridian 1 option 11 and Webroot Spy Sweeper 2.5.1, Exchange 2003, Citrix Server 4.0 server site and users site, Intellisync 5.2, Blackberry Enterprise 4.0 and Netsupport DNA 2.5 Network Specialist I Medical Information Technology, University of Miami - Miami, FL January 2001 to March 2005 • Conducting telephone technical support covering a host enterprise clinical, business and administrative applications as well as Microsoft Windows and Apple operating systems for a 9000+ node network with a mix approximately 5800 networked PC's 300 apple computers, laptops, peripherals and printers.  • Part of a 200+ technical team that provides 24/7 centralized support of 5 hospitals and remote clinics throughout South Florida.  • Provide Technical Support and troubleshooting for users with network, desktop, and system hardware and software remotely. Computer Specialist Systems Quality Control Division, Premio Computer, Inc February 1999 to December 2000 • PC technical support and troubleshooting of hardware and software for local and international clients.  • Installs, operates, and maintains new and existing computer hardware and software on LAN.  • Conducts PC quality control in Windows 95, 98 and NT platforms. Network Specialist Volunteer The English Center, Miami Dade Public Schools October 1998 to January 1999 • Installation of LAN and WAN including the cabling, software and managing the different topologies and clients.  • Networking and computer troubleshooting. Education The Academy of South Florida 2007 Skills Blackberry, Vmware, Backup exec, Symantec Additional Information Operating Systems: Microsoft 95, 98, NT, 2000, XP, Vista, 7, Windows Server 2000-2003-2008-2011.    Software Applications: Trend Micro & Symantec Endpoint Products, Dameware, Teamviewer, Logmein, Acronis Backup, Backup Exec 10-11-12-12.5 Shadow Protect, Viper Enterprise- Business, VMware ESXI 4-5, Esoft, Blackberry Server.    Hardware Skills: Assembling desktop computers, Servers and network infrastructure.