Sr. IT Network Systems Engineer Sr. IT <span class="hl">Network</span> Systems Engineer Sr. IT Network Systems Engineer Dallas, TX Over 15+ years as IT Network Professional with proven success in Network and Security Support, Design, Configuring, Troubleshooting, Maintaining, Enterprise Data Center, Edge, DMZ, WAN, LAN Environments.  • Specialized in day-to-day Network and Security Operations in Enterprise Data Centre, Edge, DMZ, WAN, LAN Environments.  • Architect, Design, Re-design, document, lead the team, prepare network infrastructure project report and perform technical coordination between Management and other IT technical engineering groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Maintained high level of Service Level Agreement on production systems and anticipating future requirements, current trends, industry best practices to assure current and future needs within budget.  • Demonstrated ability to satisfy users through analysis and quick problem resolution. Recognized as the "go-to-person" for immediate resolution for Layer 2/3 loop network related issues. Work Experience Sr. IT Network Systems Engineer Atos - Disney Account - Dallas, TX, US July 2016 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Part of major network infrastructure re-design project team for Disney Orlando Data Center, technical coordination between different teams, Management, Vendors and other IT technical groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Configure Data center cores with Cisco advanced protocols, prepare method of procedure MOP, and configure Nexus 7000 with vPC, Fabricpath, FCoE, VDC, OTV, VoiP.  • Configure routing protocols BGP, OSPF, EIGRP for the Backbone and WAN.  • Configure Nexus 5000 as access layer data center switches, associate and configure fabric extender Nexus 2000 for server access port connections.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshot F5 load balancers 1600, Viprion and thus enable Load Balancing between cluster servers. Sr. IT Network Systems Engineer NationStar Mortgage - Dallas, TX, US December 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 5 members, Design, prepare network infrastructure project report and perform technical coordination between Management, Vendors and other IT technical groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Design DR DMZ with zoning concepts with Cisco ASA 5500-X Firewalls. Configure Intrusion Prevention System best practices. Follow best practices for defense, IPS policies. Review old firewall rules and put in triage and remove outdated rules.  • Design DR Data center cores with Cisco advanced protocols, prepare method of procedure MOP, and configure Nexus 7000 with vPC, Fabricpath, FCoE, VDC, OTV, Voip.  • Configure routing protocols BGP, OSPF, EIGRP for the Backbone and WAN.  • Configure Nexus 5000 as access layer data center switches, associate and configure fabric extender Nexus 2000 for server access port connections.  • Re-design Internet policy for IT users, configure Bluecoat url content filter and proxy server, Create best practices corporate Internet filtering policies.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshot Citrix Netscalar and thus enable Load Balancing between cluster servers.  • Prepare DR proposed network diagram using Visio and co-ordinate with customer and other technical groups to get approval for the new DR design. Cisco Re-seller & Professional Services General Datatech - GDT - Dallas, TX, US February 2013 to November 2014 Sr. IT Network Systems Engineer  Pacific Union Financial, Dallas, TX    Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 6 members, Design, prepare network infrastructure project report and perform technical coordination between Management, Vendors and other IT technical groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Re-design DMZ with zoning concepts with Cisco ASA 5500-X Firewalls. Configure Intrusion Prevention System best practices. Follow best practices for defense, IPS policies. Review old firewall rules and put in triage and remove outdated rules.  • Re-Design with customer for hardware refresh project for PUF Dallas data center with new Nexus 7000, 5000, 2000 data center switches and ASR 1000, 9000 routers.  • Re-design Data center cores with Cisco advanced protocols, prepare method of procedure MOP, and configure Nexus 7000 with vPC, Fabricpath, FCoE, VDC, OTV.  • Configure routing protocols BGP, OSPF, EIGRP for the Backbone and WAN.  • Configure Nexus 5000 as access layer data center switches, associate and configure fabric extender Nexus 2000 for server access port connections.  • Refresh old End Of Service 7600 routers with new ASR 1000 series for the edge WAN routers, prepare method of procedure MOP, implement through change management.  • Re-design Internet policy for IT users, configure Bluecoat url content filter and proxy server, Create best practices corporate Internet filtering policies.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshot Citrix Netscalar and thus enable Load Balancing between cluster servers.  • Prepare proposed network diagram using Visio and co-ordinate with customer and other technical groups to get approval for the re-design project.    T-Mobile, Frisco, TX  Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 5 members, Design, prepare network infrastructure project report and perform technical coordination between Management, Vendors and other IT technical groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Re-design DMZ with zoning concepts with Cisco ASA 5500-X Firewalls. Configure Intrusion Prevention System best practices. Follow best practices for defense, IPS policies. Review old firewall rules and put in triage and remove outdated rules.  • Co-Design with customer for hardware refresh project for T-Mobile Frisco Titan data center with new Nexus 7000, 5000, 2000 data center switches and ASR 1000, 9000 routers.  • Re-design Data center cores with Cisco advanced protocols, prepare method of procedure MOP, configure Nexus 7000 with vPC, Fabricpath, FCoE, VDC, OTV  • Refresh old End Of Service 7600 routers with new ASR 1000 series for the edge WAN routers, prepare method of procedure MOP, implement through change management.  • Configure routing protocols BGP, OSPF, EIGRP for the Backbone and WAN.  • Configure and convert OSPF routing protocol to BGP routing protocol, prepare method of procedure MOP, implement through change management.    Santander Consumer USA, Dallas, TX  Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 6 members, Design, prepare network infrastructure project report and perform technical coordination between Management, Vendors and other IT technical groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Re-design DMZ with zoning concepts with Cisco ASA 5500-X Firewalls. Configure Intrusion Prevention System best practices. Follow best practices for defense, intrusion prevention policies.  • Re-Design with customer for hardware refresh project for SCU Dallas data center with new Nexus 7000, 5000, 2000 data center switches and ASR 1000, 9000 routers.  • Re-design Data center cores with Cisco advanced protocols, prepare method of procedure MOP, configure Nexus 7000 with vPC, Fabricpath, FCoE, VDC, OTV.  • Configure Nexus 5000 as access layer data center switches, associate and configure fabric extender Nexus 2000 for server access port connections.  • Refresh old End of Service 7600 routers with new ASR 1000 series for the edge WAN routers, prepare method of procedure MOP, implement through change management.  • Re-design Brach office networks with ISR 3800 series routers for core deployment and configure OSPF as routing protocol with ASR, ABR, and ASBR.  • Re-design Internet policy for IT users, configure Bluecoat url content filter and proxy server, Create best practices corporate Internet filtering policies.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshot Citrix Netscalar and thus enable Load Balancing between cluster servers.  • Re-design LAN environment with Core - Distribution - Access Layer switches best practices and thus enable VSS on all the distribution layer LAN switches on Cisco 4500 Series Switches.  • Prepare proposed network diagram using Visio and co-ordinate with customer and other technical groups to get approval for the re-design project.    Digital Insight, Los Angeles, CA  Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 4 members, Design, prepare network infrastructure project report and perform technical coordination between Management, Vendors and other IT technical groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Re-design DMZ with zoning concepts with Cisco ASA 5500-X Firewalls. Configure Intrusion Prevention System best practices. Follow best practices for defense, intrusion prevention policies.  • Re-Design with customer for hardware refresh project for SCU Dallas data center with new Nexus 7000, 5000, 2000 data center switches and ASR 1000, 9000 routers.  • Re-design Data center cores with Cisco advanced protocols, prepare method of procedure MOP, and configure Nexus 7000 with vPC, Fabricpath, FCoE, VDC.  • Configure Nexus 5000 as access layer data center switches, associate and configure fabric extender Nexus 2000 for server access port connections.  • Refresh old End Of Service 7600 routers with new ASR 1000 series for the edge WAN routers, prepare method of procedure MOP, implement through change management.  • Configure routing protocols BGP, OSPF, EIGRP for the Backbone and WAN.  • Re-design Internet policy for IT users, configure Bluecoat url content filter and proxy server, Create best practices corporate Internet filtering policies.  • Re-design LAN environment with Core - Distribution - Access Layer switches best practices and thus enable VSS on all the distribution layer LAN switches on Cisco 4500 Series Switches.  • Prepare proposed network diagram using Visio and co-ordinate with customer and other technical groups to get approval for the re-design project. IT Network Systems Engineer Droisys Inc - Fremont, CA, US October 2007 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 8 members, Design, prepare network infrastructure project report and perform technical coordination between Management, Vendors and other IT technical groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Prepare proposed network diagram using Visio and co-ordinate with customer and other technical groups to get approval for the re-design project.  • Re-design, prepare project plan for Hospital Environment Data Center upgrade project. Follow best practices to avoid Layer 2/3 loops. Implement VSS / VPC for the distribution switches.  • Re-design DMZ with zoning concepts with Cisco ASA Firewall and Juniper SSG, SSL VPN. Configure Intrusion Prevention System best practices. Follow best practices for defense, intrusion prevention policies.  • Replaced old cores and Deployed Nexus 7000 as the core routers for the environment and applied VPC best practices, Configure VDC, FabricPath.  • Re-design Internet policy for IT users, configure Bluecoat url content filter and proxy server, Create best practices corporate Internet filtering policies.  • Re-design LAN, Wireless LAN environment with Core - Distribution - Access Layer switches best practices and thus enable VSS on all the distribution layer LAN switches.    Ryder - Miami, FL  Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 5 members, Design, prepare network infrastructure project report and perform technical coordination between Management, Vendors and other IT technical groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Design, prepare project plan for DMZ upgrade project from old Nokia devices to Checkpoint hardware. Re-architect DMZ with Palo Alto Intrusion Prevention System best practices, Juniper Firewalls and Juniper SSG, SSL VPN.  • Co-ordinated with McAfee - Foundstone ethical hacking/penetration risk assessment test project for understanding present corporate security risks from external and internal threats perspective. Prepare project plan to remediate risks identified from the Foundstone report.  • Design, configure Bluecoat url content filter, Create corporate Internet filtering policies.  • Analyzed Risk Assessment for VMWare servers to be deployed in DMZ and prepared best practices for the Server, Network configurations.    NBC - Orlando, FL  Responsibilities:  • Lead a team of 5 members, Design, prepare network infrastructure project report and perform technical coordination between Management, vendors and other IT technical engineering groups, supporting new project proposals, installation, and modification through change management.  • Configure firewall rules for the DMZ using Checkpoint Firewall, Juniper SSG VPN.  • Monitored new built infrastructure for LAN and Data Center expansion and transition projects.  • Re-design Internet policy for IT users, configure Bluecoat url content filter and proxy server, Create best practices corporate Internet filtering policies.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshoot Cisco 6500 series routers and switches. Provide switching and routing support for the Data Center LAN using VLAN, STP, VTP, HSRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshoot Cisco 11500 Series CSS and Big-IP and thus enable Load Balancing between cluster servers.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshoot advanced Cisco NEXUS 7000, 5000 series switches and thus associate Cisco NEXUS 2000 Series Fabric Extenders for Server switch port connections.  • Provide data analysis and advanced network support for Server Administrators to solve high end application issues by capturing traces for the traffic between the servers using Sniffer traces.    AT&T / Disney Orlando Data Center, FL  Responsibilities:  • Maintained high level of network infrastructure SLA on production systems and anticipating future requirements, current trends, industry best practices to assure current and future satisfaction.  • Provide Level 3 support and troubleshoot Cisco 6500 series routers and switches. Provide switching and routing support for the Data Center LAN using STP, HSRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP.  • Provide switch port support for Server's production, cbi, rilo interfaces and assign them appropriate VLAN, VMWare server's trunk switch ports, CBI server's port channels.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshoot Cisco 11500 Series CSS, F5 Big-IP and thus enable Load Balancing between cluster servers.  • Provide support to DMZ Checkpoint Firewall and PCI servers using Cisco ASA 5500, Cisco FWSM.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshoot advanced Cisco NEXUS 5000 series switches and thus associate Cisco NEXUS 2000 Series Fabric Extenders for Server switch port connections.  • Provide analysis and advanced network support for Server Administrators to solve high end server issues by capturing Sniffer Traces for the network traffic between the servers. Network Specialist IBM April 2007 to September 2007 Responsibilities:  • Maintained high level of network infrastructure SLA on production systems and anticipating future requirements, current trends, industry best practices to assure current and future satisfaction.  • Provide Level 3 support and troubleshoot Cisco 6500 series routers and switches. Provide switching and routing support for the Data Center LAN using STP, HSRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP.  • Provide switch port support for Server's production, cbi, rilo interfaces and assign them appropriate VLAN, VMWare server's trunk switch ports, CBI server's port channels.  • Configure, maintain and troubleshoot Cisco 11500 Series CSS, F5 Big-IP and thus enable Load Balancing between cluster servers.  • Provide support to DMZ Checkpoint Firewall and PCI servers using Cisco ASA 5500, Cisco FWSM.  • Provide analysis and advanced network support for Server Administrators to solve high end server issues by capturing Sniffer Traces for the network traffic between the servers. Network Administrator MonGue, LLC - Marcus Hook, PA, US August 2005 to December 2006 Responsibilities:  • Implementation maintenance and troubleshoot Cisco 2800, 3800, 7600 Series Routers and Cisco 2900, 4500, 6500 Series Switches, Cisco PIX Firewall.  • Configured OSPF and static routes at backbone routers for servers to communicate with other WAN location with Route redistribution.  • Implementation and maintenance of Cisco PIX Firewall, Juniper Firewall, creating policies.  • Configuration and Maintenance of multi-location IPSec Virtual Private Network (VPN) connectivity.  • Install, troubleshoot, and monitor core services such as IIS, Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, group policy, SQL Server.  • 24/7 support to the servers Using the Monitor-IT tool to monitor the servers and services and if any service or server fails then it is automated to alert me by sms. Network Projects Engineer MonGue, LLC - Annapolis, MD, US December 2004 to August 2005 Responsibilities:  • Installation and Configuring Cisco Routers, Cisco Firewalls, Juniper Firewalls and Modems for Leased Line, Wireless Broadband and ISDN connectivity at corporate customer premises.  • Installation and configuring Dax VOIP hardware gateway to share Voice over Internet connection and hence enabling International calls and CUG related calls.  • Configure and install Netscreen, Juniper Firewall, create policies for DMZ.  • Installation and Configuring SU (Subscriber Unit) terrestrial interface for Wireless Broadband Connectivity, enabling VPN for Corporate.  • 24/7 support to the servers Using the Monitor-IT tool to monitor the servers and services and if any service or server fails then it is automated to alert me by sms. Network Operations Engineer USA Technologies/PSCI - Malvern, PA, US February 2004 to December 2004 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the day-to-day Network operations of Data Center, which consist Cisco 2800, 3800, 7600, 12000 Series Routers, Cisci Firewall and host of other network equipments.  • Installation and Configuring Cisco Routers and Modems for Leased Line, Wireless Broadband and ISDN connectivity at corporate customer premises.  • Installation and Configuring SU (Subscriber Unit) terrestrial interface for Wireless Broadband Connectivity.  • Configure and enable IPSec VPN tunnel for remote sites and corporate office.  • 24/7 support to the servers Using the Monitor-IT tool to monitor the servers and services and if any service or server fails then it is automated to alert me by sms. Network Engineer NextGen Healthcare Information Systems - Horsham, PA, US April 2003 to February 2004 Responsibilities:  • Provide Level 2 support and configuring Cisco Routers, Switches, Firewalls.  • Configuring and maintenance of Cisco 1900, 2900 Series Switches, Stack.  • Configure and enable GRE and IPSec VPN tunnel for remote sites and corporate office.  • Support and maintenance of production networks and systems, including the design and implementation of tools to assist with such maintenance. Education Bachelor's Central Piedmont Community College Additional Information Internetworking Equipment  Cisco Nexus 7000, 5000, 4000, 2000,1000v series platforms  Cisco Catalyst 6500, 4500, 3500 series platforms  Cisco ASR 1000, 9000 series platforms  Cisco ISR 1800, 2800, 3800 series platforms  Cisco CSS, ACE, Citrix Netscalar Load Balancers,  F5 Load Balancers, 1600, Viprion load balancers,  Cisco Secure Access Control Server (ACS)  Cisco ASA 5500 Series  Checkpoint SG12000, Juniper SSG, SRX firewalls, Palo Alto PA-3000  Cisco Wireless product solution  Cisco VOIP  Cisco UCS Fabric Interconnects, C-Series, B-Series Servers    Network Operating Systems Cisco Systems IOS, IOS XR, Catalyst OS, Nexus OS Microsoft XP, 2000.  Network Management Solar Winds Cisco Works Cisco DCNM  Network Test Equipment WireShark, Infinistream Sniffer, Cisco NAM  Network Protocols  BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, IS-IS,  VSS, vPC  VDC, OTV, Fabricpath,  HSRP, GLBP, DMVPN,  STP 802.1Q  VLAN Trunking Protocol  SNMP, Syslog, NTP, ICMP  ACS, Tacacs, Radius  Multicast, Broadcast,  IDS, IPS, ACL, FW Rule Base