Accounting Paraprofessional / Director of IT Accounting Paraprofessional / Director of IT IT Manager Abingdon, VA Over the years I have gained a unique ability to troubleshoot networking and hardware issues involving Microsoft, Unix, Apple & Android products. I have taught myself to program in PHP, ASP, JAVA, HTML, and VB.Net. Additionally, I owned a company that built and sold computer systems and managing networks for Dental offices. My company was Office Computer Professionals, LLC, which I sold in 2011 to have time to spend with my grandchildren. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Accounting Paraprofessional / Director of IT Lopez Wealth Management Group, LLC November 2014 to Present As the Accounting Paraprofessional on staff at Lopez Wealth Management, my central role is to maintain financial records for the company, abiding by SEC and FINRA regulations. I also process company payroll, 401k contributions, and HSA contributions.    As the Director of Information Systems at Lopez Wealth Management, my central role is to provide day to day technical support of all hardware and networking devices and troubleshoot end-user issues and questions. Acquisition Specialist Stevenson Automotive Group February 2014 to September 2014 I am responsible for mining data in our CMS system for current service clients with the objective of converting them to a new car sale. I profile their current auto loan information to see if they are in an equity situation, and then approach them upon arrival at the dealership to see if they would be interested in trading or selling their current automobile. Network Administrator / Chief Information Officer Home Nursing Service of SWVA December 2011 to January 2014 My primary responsibilities where to manage the day-to-day operation of all computer systems. Including comprehensive database management and migration from SQL to Oracle. As well as Comprehensive software management and migration from QuickBooks to QS1. As Network  Administrator I created the companies Wide-area network (WAN) connecting all 13 locations. I also built an infrastructure for the company wide Avaya IP Phone system. Principal Owner Office Computer Professionals July 2004 to November 2011 As Owner of Office Computer Professionals, I managed day to day operations, appointments, sales and installations. Network Engineer PIM, Inc October 1997 to June 2004 I helped to create and install Medical Records and Billing software on Microsoft and UNIX based networks. During this job I learned to manager Oracle Databases as part of my role in the software development and implementation. Education Bachelor's in Information technology Western Governors University February 2016 to Present Associate in Drafting Virginia Highlands Community College - Abingdon, VA September 1989 to May 1992 High school or equivalent in General Studies Holston High School - Damascus, VA September 1982 to May 1987 Skills Customer Service (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Exchange (7 years), Network Administration, Sales (10+ years), Office Administration, Vendor Management, IT Management (10+ years), Strategic Planning, Installation (10+ years), Maintenance (10+ years), VoIP, Disaster Recovery, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified June 2016 to July 2019 Certified Public Bookkeeper Present Accounting Paraprofessional June 2016 to July 2019