Network Administrator/Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Technician Network Administrator/Technician - German International School Silver Spring, MD Work Experience Network Administrator/Technician German International School - Washington, DC March 2019 to Present • Installation, maintenance and upgrade of IT systems, equipment, hardware, software  • Make minor repairs (preventive maintenance)  • Build/installation of workstations, printers, scanners, smart boards, projectors  • Establish and maintain email accounts  • Manage IT assets (hardware, software and equipment) maintains inventory  • Provide helpdesk and technical support services Systems Administrator Embassy of India - Washington, DC 2016 to 2018 • Installed network and machines, identified and resolved total networking problems involving variety of peripherals; Ordered IT related equipment and accessories.  • Tracked IT inventory, processed various contacts and invoices.  • Rectified PC, printer, and scanner related calls.  • Computer hardware, architecture, repair, and troubleshooting procedures.  • Follow-up with various contractors related to telephone system, fax, alarm system, and security related equipment. Computer Operator (LAN) Dept. of State U.S. Embassy - Delhi, Delhi 1997 to 2016 • Provide IT support for more than 800 LAN/WAN users involving about 19 federal agencies in a complex network as per compliance and standards mandated.  • Hardware and network troubleshooting.  • Windows desktop operating systems and file systems to include Active Directory.  • Configured user accounts/permissions, knowledge of Active Directory, troubleshoot desktops, application installation from source and good understanding of application dependencies and pre-requisite installations, familiar with TCP/IP.  • Installed Data Cables of new workstations and Security Patches on workstations; support with provision and setup of computer hardware and related accessories during VIP visits and provide logistical support.  • Suggested procurements, and maintain systems hardware inventory with focused accuracy. Ability to ensure proper recording, documentation, routing and closure of incidents. Working experience with Web pass based ticketing system. Education Microsoft Certified Professional University of Delhi - Delhi, Delhi 2012 to 2016 Diploma in Information Technology Jetking School of Electronic Technology - Delhi, Delhi Skills INVENTORY, NETWORKING, EXCEL, ARCHITECTURE, CRIMPING, Cabling Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS / SKILLS    A highly motivated Computer Networking professional with more than 10 years of networking experience utilizing effective and looking for an industry opening to help a team excel and advance, and protect its data assets. Qualifications include:    ? Replace Hardware ? Resolve end-user issues ? Desktop/Laptops Install printer/scanners Manage IT Inventory Support, Customer Service support    ? Windows operating ? Laying/Troubleshoot Cat- ? Computer Hardware & File system 5, 6 cables (crimping/punching) architecture repair and troubleshooting