Telecommunications Engineer III Telecommunications Engineer III Telecommunications Engineer III Lanham, MD Work Experience Telecommunications Engineer III The University of Maryland Medical System May 2017 to April 2019 Manage, maintenance, upgrades & Migration of Unified Communications infrastructure, Administrative support of UCCX across a multiple campus network consisting of numerous CSQs serving the University of Maryland's hospital network throughout the state. Maintain and troubleshoot VoIP networks Provide admin and user training for all aspects of Cisco VoIP systems; including UCCX agent, supervisor & general end user training. Document network layout and design, create training and tutorial documents. Work with various vendors to install, configure systems and administrate same. Assist team members with projects as needed. Sr. UC Engineer, Consultant Federal Trade Commission June 2014 to 2017 • Assist with upgrade from 7.1 to 9.x.  • Migration from Adomo to Unity Connection.  • Provide Day2Day Operational & Engineering support to a 3000 + user / 2000+ device enterprise.  • Manage VG224s.  • Administrator for Cisco Call Manager v.7xv.9.x  • Administrator for Cisco's Unity Server v.9.x  • Manage UCS, VMs through ESXi  • Interface with customers to provide training and resolve trouble issues. Track & update  • trouble tickets using "BMC Remedy"  • Manage escalation of incidents, opening TAC incidents with Cisco and vendors.  • Vendor management/relations  • Managed projects; phone deployments, upgrades  • Manage 35xx & 37xx series switches Network Engineer, VoIP Sibley Memorial Hospital February 2012 to June 2014 • Provide Day2Day Operational & Engineering support to a 2000 + user / 3000+ device enterprise.  • Administrator for UCCX; create accounts, configure service queues, update settings, troubleshoot, & resolve issue, escalate to vendor or Cisco TAC.  • Administrator for RightFax (OpenText); creating accounts, configuring SIP Trunks in CUCM as required, troubleshoot, & resolve issue, escalate to OpenText.  • Manage VG224s, 37XX series switches, 39XX series routers, 7845 MGCP servers.  • Administrator for Cisco Call Manager v.7xv.8.x  • Administrator for Cisco's Unity Server v.7xv.8.x  • Interface with customers to provide training and resolve trouble issues. Track & update trouble tickets using "BMC Remedy"  • Manage escalation of incidents, opening TAC incidents with Cisco and vendors.  • Vendor management/relations  • Managed projects; phone deployments, upgrades  • Trained IT staff in tier 1 - tier 2 support. Network Engineer, VoIP USDA, APHIS - Riverdale, MD March 2011 to February 2012 • Provide level I, II & III technical VoIP support to a 4500 + user base organization.  • Supported 20+ remote sites in 15 states  • Manage escalation of incidents, opening TAC incidents with Cisco and vendors  • Assisted in the planning for Call Center &Managed deployment of same.  • Setting up and installation of Cisco IP 7900 series phones which include account creation, modification and deletion. Troubleshooting.  • Cisco Call Manager v.7x  • Cisco Meeting Place version 7.x  • Cisco Meeting Time 7.x  • Cisco's Unity Server v.7.x  • Bulk Administration in CUCM (BAT)  • Installation & administration of Cisco's IP Communicator, Meeting Place  • Full suite of Cisco AVVID technologies  • Interface with customers to provide training and resolve trouble issues. Track & update trouble tickets using "BMC Remedy" Network Engineer, VoIP Latitude, INC December 2009 to January 2012 • Provide level I, II & III technical VoIP support to a 4500 + user base organization.  • Supported 20+ remote sites in 15 states  • Manage escalation of incidents, opening TAC incidents with Cisco and vendors  • Setting up and installation of Cisco IP 7900 series phones which include account creation, modification and deletion. Troubleshooting.  • Administrator for ASCOM WIFI communication system  • Cisco Call Manager v.7x  • Cisco Meeting Place version 7.x  • Cisco Meeting Time 7.x  • Cisco's Unity Server v.7.x  • Bulk Administration in CUCM (BAT)  • Ascom Wireless VoIP Phone system administration  • Cisco 7921- 25 wireless VoIP phone administration  • Installation & administration of Cisco's IP Communicator, Meeting Place  • Full suite of Cisco AVVID technologies  • Interface with customers to provide training and resolve trouble issues. Track & update trouble tickets using "BMC Remedy"  • Administration of ASCOM Wireless Clinical Phones Network Engineer, VoIP Computer Science Corporation - Falls Church, VA November 2010 to March 2011 • Provide level I, II & III technical VoIP support to a 3500 + user base organization.  • Supported 15+ remote sites in 8+ states  • Manage escalation of incidents, opening TAC incidents with Cisco and vendors  • Managed the product acceptance, created documentation and represented my team in meetings with stakeholders.  • Setting up and installation of Cisco IP 7900 series phones which include account creation, modification and deletion. Troubleshooting.  • Cisco Call Manager v.7x  • Cisco Meeting Place version 7.x  • Cisco Meeting Time 7.x  • Cisco's Unity Server v.7.x  • Bulk Administration in CUCM (BAT)  • Installation & administration of Cisco's IP Communicator, Meeting Place  • Full suite of Cisco AVVID technologies  • Interface with customers to provide training and resolve trouble issues. Track & update trouble tickets using "BMC Remedy" Network Engineer, VoIP IRS - Rockville, MD July 2008 to May 2009 Manage and perform the installation and configuration of Cisco VoIP infrastructures, including voice gateways, configure Call Manager; Gateways, Partitions, DPs, etc. (POE) switches, firewalls, Cisco Unity Voicemail (with Failover), 7900 series phones & devices, and on the VoIP network. Maintain and troubleshoot VoIP networks Provide admin and user training for all aspects of Cisco VoIP systems; including telephone training and voicemail features to the end users. Document network layout and design, assist team members with projects as needed; Support; account creation and deletion, troubleshooting, remote support. Soft-Phone; installation, support & Training.  • Voice Gateways, Cisco Series Routers/Switches  • Cisco Call Manager v.4.1. 4.2 6.x CUCM  • Configured & installed Cisco routers, switches, Voice Gateways, Racked UPS, Extended PRI, Analog, Installed & terminated cat5/6 & fiber.  • Cisco Meeting Time 6.0  • Cisco's Unity Server v.4.0.  • Bulk Administration in CUCM (BAT)    Experience: Sr. VoIP Administrator Securities Exchange Commission March 2006 to July 2008 • Provide level I, II & III technical VoIP engineering support to a 5000 + user base organization.  • Setting up and installation of Cisco IP 7900 series phones which include account creation and deletion, handset troubleshooting soft-phone creation and installation  • Voice Gateways, Cisco Series Routers/Switches  • Cisco Call Manager v.4.3. / 6.1/ 7.1  • Cisco Meeting Place version 4.x  • Cisco Meeting Time 6.0  • Cisco's Unity Server v.4.0.  • Embedded Cisco tools for the Call Manager to monitor performance and reporting  • Gateway configuration, route plan, router filter, CSS, translation pattern,  • Unity, Call Manager, (CERA),  • Installation & Configuration of Cisco's IP Communicator, Cisco's Meeting Place, Cisco Personal Assistant  • Cisco IP ICD (ACD/CRA) Installation, end user training.    My LinkedIn Profile  https://www.linkedin.com/in/yasinyahmadvoip Education CCNA Columbia Union College November 2019 University of District of Columbia Washington DC - Columbia, WA Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CCNA, CISCO, REMEDY, VMWARE