Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Derby Supply Chain Solutions Floyds Knobs, IN • Extensive experience designing and implementing complex network and server infrastructure, troubleshooting network, server and application issues and finding creative and cost-effective solutions to meet business needs.  • Skilled at clearly communicating complex ideas to all levels of management and stakeholders.  • Managed implementation teams, helpdesk personnel and contractors  • Strong believer in building relationships and communities around technology. Work Experience Systems Administrator Derby Supply Chain Solutions - Louisville, KY January 2019 to Present • Rebuilt network/server monitoring infrastructure that was removed while I was gone. This included Nagios XI, Cacti and Graylog.  • Implemented OpsGenie for alerting, along with Confluence for KB and Jira for service desk.  • Built dedicated dev and test environments.  • Replaced aging SAN that was at 97% capacity upon my return.  • Redesigned the data center network and VMware infrastructure, including installing new Cumulus switches.  • Deployed new load balancers. Network Engineer Genscape - Louisville, KY January 2018 to January 2019 • Managed WAN connectivity across all our US, Canadian and European offices as well as Azure and AWS.  • Managed data center infrastructure consisting of VMware, Dell PowerEdge MX blade servers, Equallogic and Pure storage, Fortigate firewalls and Cisco Nexus switches.  • Rebuilt the networks in both the Amsterdam and Hamburg offices.  • Replaced the existing wireless infrastructure (FortiAP) across the organization with Ruckus.  • Migrated the organization to OpenVPN from Cisco for remote access.  • Created a separate management network across the organization.  • Implemented a new DDI solution to simplify management of DNS, DHCP and IPAM.  • Implemented NAP using Cisco ISE. Systems Administrator Derby Supply Chain Solutions - Louisville, KY July 2009 to December 2017 • Redesigned the network from the ground up  ? Moved from a single /24 at each site with a point-to-point T1 to the corporate office to a /21 at each site with a commercial ethernet/broadband connection and 4G LTE backup connection. A full IPSEC mesh was implemented to improve inter-site communication. OSPF was employed to simplify routing.  • Virtualized and collocated server infrastructure to Peak 10. This was done by leveraging cost savings by moving away from expensive T1 connections.  • Designed, implemented and manage current infrastructure which is comprised of over 100 VMs, 6 vSphere hosts, 6 Hyper-V hosts, 60+ HP/Aruba Switches, Cisco and Vyatta/VyOS routers, Fortigate firewalls, and 70+ Ruckus Wireless access points in 2.5 million sq ft of warehouse space across 8 sites in 7 states.  • I am responsible for managing and mentoring helpdesk personnel, maintaining and supporting server and network equipment for over 800 users and working with operations, management, customers and vendors to design and create solutions to complex business problems. Technology Business Consultant Absolute Networking Systems - Louisville, KY November 2008 to July 2009 • Involved primarily in projects, providing skills in Microsoft, Cisco and various vendor technologies. My largest project was the sizeable overhaul of network and server infrastructure for a national furniture chain. This included heading a small team to move each store from a network of VPN connections over disparate service providers to an MPLS network, and virtualizing their server environment on Hyper-V.  • Worked on a dispatch basis providing desktop/laptop, server and network support, consulting services and technology solutions to customers. Systems Administrator Muhammad Ali Center - Louisville, KY April 2007 to November 2008 • Managed a small environment of 18 servers, 10 onsite and 8 in an offsite data center, Cisco firewalls, routers, switches, wireless and voice.  • Managed 40+ exhibit servers, numerous exhibit projectors and A/V equipment.  • Provided end user support for desktops, laptops, mobile devices and POS devices.  • Worked with charitable 3rd parties to procure hardware donations. Support Engineer MaximumASP - Louisville, KY April 2006 to April 2007 • Worked 3rd shift as a support engineer of a Windows Server 2000/2003 datacenter environment, supporting both physical and virtual servers - in total, over 400 servers.  • Responsibilities included monitoring server health, maintaining weekly server backups, monitoring mail servers, analyzing nightly SMTP logs, monitoring LAN and WAN network health, managing customers' daily, weekly and on-request SQL 2000/2005 backups, performing emergency server repair/replacement as needed, and configuring Juniper NetScreen firewalls for customers if needed. Technical Consultant/Volunteer Muhammad Ali Center - Louisville, KY April 2006 to 2007 During construction of the building and for several months thereafter I volunteered as a technical consultant, connecting the then main office with the new building via point-to-point T1, as well as installing and configuring Cisco 3550 and 3560 switches as needed. Education Cisco Certification Sullivan University - Louisville, KY 2005 Microsoft Certification Sullivan University - Louisville, KY 2002 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS