Sr. Network Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Network Administrator - Cree Nation Government Frankfort, KY • Over 10 years of experience in assembling, upgrading, troubleshooting and designing integrated LAN systems connectivity.  • Expertise in Integrating and optimizing LAN/WAN network in multi-area locations using EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and MPLS.  • Net Devices and Servers support and upgrading IOS, OS, patches, firmware of Cisco, HP, Dell and IBM server.  • Computer hardware/software installation, configuration, implementation, integration, administration, and proven on-site technical support expertise.  • Problem solving, decision making and strong team player with excellent communication skills.  • Demonstrate ability to meet deadlines, and set priorities and trained others in the use of applications and in technical support methods. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Network Administrator Cree Nation Government - Frankfort, KY February 2016 to Present Providing technical support to remote customer sites; Install and configure L3 protocols (EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, HSRP), reconfiguring, testing, troubleshooting network infrastructures and documented all procedures implemented.  ? Implementing traffic filters using Standard & Extended ACLs, Distribute-list and Route Maps.  ? Configuring SNMP trap on network device for monitoring purpose.  ? Plan, install, and manage multiple layer Cisco switch stacks in a large enterprise environment. Creation of multiple trunks and voice and data VLANs.  ? Responsible for site-to-site IPSec VPNs between ASA to ASA, ASA to router and Router to Router.  ? Configureing and implement Remote Access Solution: IPSec VPN, EasyVPN, DMVPN & GET VPN  ? Configureing firewall access lists as per client requirements and audit them routinely.  ? Implementing Cisco SourceFire (NGIPS) using inline VLAN pair, creatin access rules and monitor internal network.  ? Configureing network access servers and routers for AAA security.  ? Implementing wireless architectures (Cisco Aeronet 36xx APs and Cisco 2500 series controllers).  ? Responsible for Maintenance, Support, Trouble Resolution, Root Cause Analysis and SLA maintenance for large, enterprise LAN and WAN environment.  ? Demonstrates excellent customer service and team building skills in order to routinely interact directly with customers and internal network issues.  ? Built and maintain good liaison with internal LOB, clints, strategic partner and external vendors.  ? Provisioning 24×7 support to the end users and sorted their problems related to network. Network Analyst MetroServers - Toronto, ON February 2013 to December 2015 Providing technical support to remote customer sites; Install and configure L3 protocols (EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, BGP, HSRP), reconfiguring, testing, troubleshooting network infrastructures and documented all procedures implemented.  ? Implementing traffic filters using Standard & Extended ACLs, Distribute-list and Route Maps.  ? Configuring SNMP trap on network device for monitoring purpose.  ? Plan, install, and manage multiple layer Cisco switch stacks in a large enterprise environment. Creation of multiple trunks and voice and data VLANs.  ? Responsible for site-to-site IPSec VPNs between ASA to ASA, ASA to router and Router to Router.  ? Configureing and implement Remote Access Solution: IPSec VPN, EasyVPN, DMVPN & GET VPN  ? Configureing firewall access lists as per client requirements and audit them routinely.  ? Configureing network access servers and routers for AAA security.  ? Implementing Cisco IPS 4240 using inline VLAN pair, Interface pair or promiscuous mode.  ? Implementing wireless architectures (Cisco Aeronet 36xx APs and Cisco 2500 series controllers).  ? Implementing Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) for RADIUS.  ? Responsible for Maintenance, Support, Trouble Resolution, Root Cause Analysis and SLA maintenance for large, enterprise LAN and WAN environment.  ? Demonstrates excellent customer service and team building skills in order to routinely interact directly with customers and internal network issues.  ? Hot and Cold cloning of Virtual machines using VMware converter and managing virtual machines.  ? Perform data backup and restoration at a user level, as required. Maintain and enforce internal security policies including software licensing and remote device protection.  ? Provisioning 24×7 support to the end users and sorted their problems related to network. Celestica International Inc - Toronto, ON May 2010 to January 2013 Provided network administration including LAN troubleshooting and resolution and support more than 100 end-users with systems, applications and peripheral devices  ? Assist with account management activities on Active Directory (Win 2003 server) such as account creation, disabled, and password reset.  ? Mounted and configured console monitor for Rack multiple servers stacking in cabinet.  ? Provided basic end-user training on network shared Drive, corporate software, hardware and internal security.  ? Procure, receive, document and track inventory of all computer equipment and software licenses.  ? Provided ongoing system administration, setup, upgrades, troubleshooting and configuration.  ? Configured Rack mount Systems, Rack Mount keyboards and Monitors, KVM, UPS, patch panel & cabling connectivity, wall -mounting wiring panel and close cage Server cabinets.  ? Monitored packet-to-packet level traffic and bandwidth uses for WAN links using Wireshark. Technical Support Xincon Technology Inc - Toronto, ON September 2008 to May 2010 Performed upgrades, installation of software and drivers and essential desktop troubleshooting.  ? Administration of Windows 2003 servers.  ? Build win 2003 servers for production and UAT environment following strict build procedures.  ? Deploying updates, service packs and hot fixes using Windows Update and Group Policies.  ? Maintained and build desktop image file to aid in rapid deployment of hardware using Acronis TrueImage.  ? Provided level2 technical supports over the phone; escalating the critical incident to higher managements.  ? Identified and delivered IT solutions and support for real time business requirements.  ? Maintained the HQ network connectivity and systems; provided Help Desk support for end-user. Education Bachelor Computer Science Southeastern University 2001 Skills CISCO (5 years), EIGRP (5 years), OSPF (5 years), ROUTER (5 years), VLAN (5 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Win 2008/2012 Server, Windows 7, Cisco IOS 12.x/15.x, ASA 8.x /9.x, Cisco Secure Access Control Server(ACS 5.1), ISE 1.1  Telecommunication: Cisco Router (2800, 2600, 2900, 4300), Switch (6500, 3500, 3600, 2950, 3750), ASA5500, F5 BIGIP LTM, IronPort Web Proxy, WLC 25XX, Aeronet AP 36XX, Cisco Meraki MR32.  Network Protocol: EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, ACL, NAT/PAT, 802.1x, AAA, TACAC+, RADIUS, FTP, DHCP, DNS, VPN, VLAN, TCP/IP, SNMP, HSRP/VRRP.  Monitoring/Management Tools: Wireshark, Radmin, Cacti, Nagios, PRTG, What's up Gold.  Troubleshooting Tools: Wireshark, Netscout.  Penetration Test: Network & Web vulnerability and Social Engineering - Nessus Pro / BackTrack.  Trouble Ticket: ServiceDesk Plus, OnTime 2009, Aldon, Remedy