Senior Field Engineer Senior Field Engineer Senior Field Engineer - Argent Software Friendswood, TX Self-motivated IT Manager experienced in supporting network infrastructure for multi-user and remote environments. Adept at communicating with key management staff while excelling in individual attention. Excellent in assessing project needs concerning staff and assets needed to complete small and large projects on time and on budget. Enthusiastic team player with a strong work ethic and advanced complex problem-solving skills. Work Experience Senior Field Engineer Argent Software December 2018 to Present • Showcase Argent's network, systems, and log monitoring capabilities via WebEx and in-person meetings  • Provide tier III technical support for existing clients  • Perform new software implementations, upgrades, and server migrations for existing clients Managed IT vCIO ImageNet Consulting June 2018 to November 2018 • Responsible for deploying customized network infrastructure solutions for onboarded and existing client base. This includes, but is not limited to, physical and virtual server migrations, cloud-based solutions, backup and disaster recovery solutions, and software applications.  • Act as trusted advisor to key partners by matching business strategies with technical solutions and mitigating risk.  • Continually advise clients on technology trends and opportunities within their environments.  • Perform best-practice evaluations and data oversight with market specific compliance in mind.  • Work closely with C-Level stakeholders of managed accounts to develop a deep awareness of their business practices and partner with them to create IT budget roadmaps, technology implementation schedules, and technology vision plans.  • Utilize MSP tools such as ConnectWise Manage and Continuum to drive efficiency and leverage across the client base.  • Ensure customer satisfaction and strong customer service focus with excellent communication skills and a proactive attitude.  • Attend meetings with potential clients to assess IT pain points, analyze environments, and conduct security audits. Formulate customized IT strategy roadmaps to present to potential clients.  • Host potential clients at sporting events, golf outings, dinners, and technology seminars. Director of Technology City of Mont Belvieu October 2001 to June 2018 • Built and maintained the city's computer network utilizing VMware vSphere, Windows Server, Microsoft Exchange Server, Cisco Catalyst switches, Cisco wireless LAN controllers and access points, Dell EqualLogic SAN devices, and Ubiquity Rocket Prism PtP wireless radios.  • Developed departmental IT budgets in cooperation with city staff and monitor expenses.  • Advised senior staff on purchasing on technology-related equipment such as telecommunications service, security systems, process control systems, and monitoring systems.  • Developed and maintained the city's web presence.  • Provided a variety of training programs for users on computer software and system use, and updated users with new information on software use.  • Responsible for virus, spyware, and spam protection.  • Responsible for system backup data integrity and data restores/disaster recovery.  • Developed strategy to meet security requirements to maintain CJIS compliance.  • Regularly attended city council meetings and gave quarterly I.T. reports. Network Administrator Vollmer Public Relations February 2000 to August 2001 • Involved in planning and implementing a Novell 5 to Windows 2000 migration in three locations.  • DNS, DHCP, and site configuration.  • Created and distributed Windows 2000 ghost Images.  • Involved in planning and implementing a GroupWise 5.5 to Exchange 5.5 migration.  • Responsible for Windows 2000 Active Directory structure design and maintenance, including site administration including Southwestern Bell T-1 connections over VPN.  • Responsible for VPN dial-up setup, remote access using RADUIS server.  • Responsible for planning and implementing the company's intranet and installing online time tracking software.  • Responsible for building a test network for profile testing and Exchange 2000 testing.  • Responsible for training employees on new software.  • Perform system backups and restores.  • Responsible for virus, spyware, and spam protection.  • Provide technical support for helpdesk and desktop support personnel. Network Administrator Texas Petroleum Investments Co September 1999 to February 2000 • Provided problem determination and resolution for various types of network productivity issues.  • Implemented security permissions on confidential company documents.  • Coordinated all I.T. aspects of an office expansion.  • Provided computer training.  • Configured new Dell systems for Windows NT 4.0 network communication. Network Administrator Continental Airlines August 1998 to April 1999 • Administer Microsoft Exchange 5.5, including creating mailboxes, migrating mailboxes, creating and modifying distribution lists, changing mailbox size limits, etc.  • Supervise migration of home directories from server to server, including configuring move lists, migrating home directories, creating hidden shares for home directories, setting security permissions on home directories, logging home directory size, and changing home directory path in User Manager for Domains.  • Migrate data from Novell servers to NT servers.  • Build NT Servers.  • Create NT accounts, change passwords, change login scripts, add and remove users from various groups.  • Convert Novell GroupWise to Microsoft Exchange 5.5.  • Configure network printers.  • Configure WINS addresses on remote servers through SMS. System Administrator/NT Rollout Specialist Conoco Inc October 1997 to June 1998 • Performed approximately 450 installations of Windows NT 4.0 Workstation.  • Setup all user specific peripherals, such as sketch tables, dual monitors, Zip Drives, external CD-ROMS, modems, Label Printers and various other items.  • Installed all user applications and custom configured machines to customers' specifications and/or needs.  • Brought users from 16 bits to 32-bit MS Office environment.  • Upgraded Conoco Inc. from MS Mail to Microsoft Exchange.  • Responsible for migrating all users' existing data from original PC to new PC.  • Was responsible for NT Domain and Novell Admin issues for two NT domains (1 user and 1 machine domain).  • Setup all machines to use Conoco / DuPont web proxy and firewall (TCP/IP setup).  • Provided "Next Day" technical support for users unfamiliar with the new operating system and/or software.  • Quality Assurance testing for all new software. PC Technician Fish & Richardson p.c January 1997 to September 1997 • Installed memory and sound cards to personal computers.  • Installed standalone switchboxes and cables to network printers.  • Troubleshot network printer problems.  • Added new users on Novell 3.12 Server.  • First level desktop support.  • Configured Windows 95 client machines for communications on the Novell 3.12 Server.  • Downloaded images on client computers through Winstall. Education San Jacinto College - Houston, TX January 1997 to December 1998 Del Mar College - Corpus Christi, TX August 1996 to December 1996 University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX August 1995 to May 1996