Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Charlotte, NC Looking for a challenging role in a reputable organization to utilize my technical, communication, and management skills for the growth of the organization  as well as to enhance my knowledge about new and emerging trends in the IT sector. I'm an adaptable IT professional with 3+ years of experience and  proven knowledge of intranet infrastructure, IT strategy, and network setup/installation. I'm looking forward to future growth and learning in a new  environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Southwood Realty Co - Gastonia, NC January 2019 to Present • Configuration and maintenance of Dell SonicWall routers, Cisco switches, Kemp load balancer, and other intermediary devices.  • Configuration and maintenance of Cisco Meraki wireless access points with multiple SSIDs configured for specific functions.  • Managed users in Microsoft Active Directory, creation and configuration of user mailboxes in Microsoft Exchange, and allocation of shared folder storage.  • Responsibilities include troubleshooting of intermediary with the use of Cisco IOS, Microsoft CLI commands, and GUIs for investigation of network failures, resolving issues in timely manner, and documentation.  • Developed a proposal for near- term and long-term network enhancements.  • Designed and deployed network infrastructure environments to support current and future business needs.  • Created configuration standards for routers and wireless access points. IT Support Supervisor Southwood Realty Co - Gastonia, NC May 2017 to December 2018 • Managed day to day tasks, provided ongoing training and support, and oversaw projects of interns and part time staff. Organized meetings with employees and vendors to ensure project timelines were met.  •  Supported a network of 90+ VPN connections, made user changes in Windows Active Directory, and assisted in the implementation of networking devices.  • Tier 2 Support Technician. Preformed troubleshooting on issue with phone systems, internet connectivity, and end devices.  • Interacted with vendors to track progress and determine the cause of outages.  • Configuration of modems, routers, firewalls, wireless access points, and managed switches.  • Deployed and managed an IP security camera network including 600+ cameras at 80+ different locations. IT Support Specialist Southwood Realty Co - Gastonia, NC January 2016 to April 2017 • Utilized communication and problem-solving skills by providing technical support to a staff of 500+ via phone, email, remote software, and in person.  • Troubleshoot and configuration of desktop computers, network printers/scanners, Wi-Fi, and tablets.  • Created, installed, and tested patch cables, installed wall jacks, and other network media.  • Projects include implementation of electronic leases and electronic signatures and installation of cloud managed Wi-Fi routers at 80+ locations. Education Bachelor of Science Business Administration in Computer Information Systems Appalachian State University - Boone, NC August 2011 to December 2015 Skills Active Directory (2 years), Technical Support (4 years), Windows (10+ years), Networking (4 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Dhcp (3 years), LAN (4 years), Wan (4 years), CIsco IOS (1 year), Windows (10+ years), Salesforce (1 year), DNS (4 years), Technical Support (4 years), Wireless (4 years), IT Management (2 years), Microsoft Server (1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/christopher-flannigan-0066a386 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) July 2019 to July 2022 CompTIA Network+ August 2018 to August 2021