Network & Server Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> &amp; Server <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network & Server Administrator Baldwin Park, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network & Server Administrator South Coast Computers - Orange, CA September 2018 to January 2019 • Zyxel client reported problem with establishing a VPN client to site connection that was clogging business flow. Approached client in a calm manner, remoted into client's network, and followed protocol and procedures established by Zyxel. With the help of firewall logs, client had a mismatch encryption and authentication. Took 10 minutes to save the company from falling behind deadline.  • Ran a Threat Protection project for over 10 clients with the help of AVG Business Anti-Virus. Scanned client network, updated current machines to latest version, found many vulnerable machines without AVG via IP scanner, brought vulnerabilities to client's attention and clocked 30 + hours of revenue for South Coast Computers.  • Network Engineer accidently changed interface settings for companies' cameras without first downloading the current configuration. After detailed troubleshooting, the fault was due to subnetting. Helped the company stay secure another day.  • Client was having internet interruptions during peak hours due to their customer calls. Helped by implementing two policy routes in their SonicWall TZ with each route having its own ISP. One route for phones and another route for internet. Harmony was restored for the company. Information Technology Administrator Spectra by COMCAST - Pomona, CA August 2017 to September 2018 High volume of customer transaction inflicted bandwidth constraints during NHRA event. Quickly, found a solution by bringing a percentage of Point of Sale tablets offline. The fix allowed for a faster credit card processing, shorter customer lines, and overall happy customers and colleagues. Director Cyber Security Research June 2017 to June 2018 Cal Poly Pomona Forensics and Security Technology club  • Research new computer system exploits and vulnerabilities. Lead a Cyber Security team in creating quarterly presentations and workshops. Orchestrated weekly team meetings for planning and practicing presentations. During presentations, I educated students interest in penetration testing activities with the help of vulnerability tools. Computer Operator/Help Desk Technician Queen of the Valley Hospital - West Covina, CA February 2014 to September 2016 Throughout hospital outages, coordinated an emergency recovery plan with the Vice President of Information Technology, Network Engineer, and key hospital managers. As a result, we were able to continue patient care which is the core of our mission statement    UNIVERSITY ACHIEVEMENTS Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Cyber Security California Polytechnic State University of Pomona Skills Active directory (2 years), Dhcp (2 years), Dns (2 years), Vpn (2 years), Cisco, firewalls, Vmware, Security, LAN, Exchange, SQL, MPLS, Networking Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/oscar-daniel-torres