Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Tallahassee, FL Accomplished and Highly Qualified Network Engineer with 2+ years of experience increasing responsibilities in technical leadership, computer technology, and business-critical management. Expertise in networking concepts, TCP/IP protocol, and network security. Knowledge of firewall setup and administration, VPN, bandwidth management, and quality of service. Proven diagnostic abilities with attention to detail and ability to work effectively in a fast-paced environment with demonstrated abilities to set strategic direction while obtaining results. Work Experience Network Engineer Reliant Solutions - Tallahassee, FL January 2019 to Present Provided line support to the I.T helpdesk for network related issues and outages monitoring LAN/WAN service  availability and utilization; work with service providers for circuit upgrades, activations and troubleshooting.  • Worked with IT teams and stakeholders to provide security, stability, capability, and capacity with DHC network.  • Oversaw the architecture and engineering of wireless networks supporting corporate offices and client locations.  • Managed all network security solutions performing server and security audits, and system backups and recovery.  • Configuration of Network Layer devices (Access Points, Switches, and Firewall) on all networks.  • Monitored and tested network performance and provided network performance statistics and reports.  • Worked closely with the network team which included VoIP, Video/Telepresence, LAN/WAN and Firewalls.  • Installed and configured the Operating Systems for Win 7, 8, and Windows Server 2008.  • Collaborate with management and department leaders to assess near and long-term network capacity needs.  • Configured, monitored and troubleshoot Cisco's PIX firewall, ASA 5500 security appliance Firewall, integrated  firewalls with Gateway Anti-Virus and web filtering applications.  • Configured site IPSec/VPN between 2 branch offices and SSL/VPN users accessing applications and servers.  • Designed ACLs, VLANs, troubleshooting IP addressing issues on switches and routers.  • Monitored Cisco IP phones and VOIP devices and configured Voice VLANs for prioritizing voice on the network.  • Implemented TCP/IP services such as DHCP/DNS configuration to allocate and resolute IP addresses from Subnet.  • Prepared and maintained technical network documentation and backups, escalation procedures and notifications.  • Developed and implemented procedures and training plans for network administration and disaster recovery.  • Ensured network connectivity of all servers, workstations, telephony equipment, and other network appliances.  • Created and implemented network policies to optimize network performance across corporate and client locations.  • Developed operating metrics for all elements and actively managed network vendor and OEM performance.  • Worked with members of the I.T team in the implementation of projects in regards to service and support.  • Maintained documentation related to network configuration, mapping, processes, and service records.  Sjean131sam@gmail.com  2125 Davie Blvd • Fort Lauderdale, FL 33312 Network System Administrator Sheraton Suites - Plantation, FL November 2018 to December 2019 • Managed IT infrastructure, monitoring networking equipment and servers overseeing troubleshooting errors.  • Provided technical service and support, installation, maintenance, and monitoring of network resources.  • Installed, tested, and monitored servers, firewalls, and new software and performed data backups.  • Oversaw all aspects of network engineering policies, and operations, including network programmability.  • Worked with IT teams in the planning and implementation of projects service and support.  • Assisted in the design, configuration and support of Resident Inn's wireless systems and networks.  • Troubleshooted complex LAN/WAN infrastructure, including routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Configured Network Layer devices (Access Points, Switches, and Firewall) on all networks.  • Worked with service providers for circuit upgrades, activations and advanced troubleshooting.  • Designed, configured, managed and supported local and wide area networks and systems for the Residence Inn  supporting both corporate and multiple remote locations monitoring service availability and utilization.  • Monitored network to ensure network availability and security as well as perform necessary maintenance.  • Supervised computer support specialists and administered network security measures.  • Assisted with maintaining, configuring and administering computer networks including hardware, software,  applications and device configurations for Residence Inn's corporate locations and hotel portfolio.  • Configured, monitored and troubleshoot Cisco switches, firewalls, virtual servers and block storage infrastructures.  • Monitored the utilization of networks to detect problems and assisted with necessary prevention measures.  • Provided support for the virtual server infrastructure and virtual server backup infrastructure.  • Assisted with network change controls and supported efforts to ensure network and data integrity.  • Performed hardware and software upgrades for networking devices and maintain change control documentation.  • Evaluated connectivity issues, equipment, and software, modify configurations, utilities, software.  • Installed and configured Window servers 2008/2012, Active Directory, FTP, DNS, DHCP, TFTP.  • Produce and maintain network documentation to ensure compliance with IT standards, policies, and procedures. IT Analyst Residence Inn - Miami, FL January 2017 to November 2018 • Provided helpdesk support for network issues and responded to requests for support and delegate team resources.  • Assisted with troubleshooting TCP/IP issues and worked with Layer 2 and Layer 3 Technology.  • Installed, integrated and maintenance LAN/WAN setup administrating connectivity for client sites.  • Designed and implemented LAN/WAN equipment and designed cost-effective configuration to meet users' needs.  • Identified and resolved hardware and software problems defining user needs and recommended alternatives.  • Configured, tested and troubleshoot static and dynamic routing protocols such as EIGRP, OSPF, BGP.  • Worked on Cisco, 6509, 7600, & ASR1000 series routers; configured spanning tree and VLAN on L2 LAN  switches and created TCP/IP flows for performance measurements.  • Create route-maps to redistribute static routes into EIGRP.  • Troubleshooted issues related to connectivity, STP, VLAN, VTP, Layer 2/3 switching, Inter-VLAN routing, log  messages, high CPU utilization and parameters that can degrade performance of network.  • Design and implementing of the UTP cabling work-node to rack fixing and patch panel termination.  • Assist with updating documentation for network architecture and planning the total network integration.  • Provided network performance and capacity consulting for new application projects.  • Served as a technical consultant to provide the business with recommendations on solutions.  • Monitored network and arranged necessary corrective actions to ensure high quality transmission capability.  • Assisted with the maintenance for network equipment and troubleshooted problems with users and administrators.  • Coordinated administration of the LAN/WAN system as well as microcomputers with IT contractor.  • Provided input to develop technical policies and procedures regarding LAN/WAN activities. Education B.S. in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Florida International University - Miami, FL 2019 Skills Client Service Support (3 years), Network Engineering (3 years), Cisco Routers & Switches (3 years), Wireless Networking (3 years), LAN/WAN Management (3 years), Project Management Skills (3 years), Firewall Installation/Configuration (3 years), Troubleshooting & Analysis (3 years), System Security & Planning (3 years), Business Application Software (3 years), Performance Management Products (3 years), Disaster Recovery Plans (3 years), Cisco (3 years), Security (3 years), DNS (3 years), MPLS (3 years), firewalls, VPN Certifications/Licenses CCNA (Routing & Switching): Cisco ID: CSCO13404615