Job Seeker New York, NY • Network/Computer Systems Administrator and Military Veteran with an inactive Secret Security Clearance offering 5 years of experience in network and computer administration.  • Played instrumental role in life cycling 500 computer systems that eliminated $1.2M of legacy equipment.  • Part of a networking team that supported 1K+ soldiers in creating and maintaining tactical computer networks; resulting in a whole year full of missions to be completed.  • Recipient of multiple awards for outstanding performance and professionalism in the United States Army.  • Other competencies include:  ? Management/Leadership ? Risk Assessment ? Policy Implementation  ? Data Analysis ? Training and Development ? Network/Computer Security Policies Work Experience UNITED STATES ARMY - Fort Campbell, KY 2012 to 2014 LAN Manager  • Provided level II Computer/ Network Administration for 1200 people  • Trained 10 Information Management Officers in troubleshooting and repairing networking and computer systems that improved the Battalion's quality of service by 30%  • Facilitated over 1300 communication related work orders that ranged from classified to unclassified systems with minimal interruption to the users  • Played a key role in the life cycle of over 500 information systems, which helped to eliminate over $1.2M of legacy equipment; resulting in a more effective and productive work environment.  • Managed a team of 4 in the day-to-day operations in completing work orders that results in minimal downtime for the users  • Supervised and made sure all security policies and certifications had been completed prior to computer accounts being made  • Configured groups and permissions for 1000+ people in active directory  • Worked hand in hand with network engineers to resolve issues that would arise Network Administrator UNITED STATES ARMY - Fort Campbell, KY 2009 to 2012 • Created and maintained a campus sized LAN and also provided desktop helpdesk duties.  • Supervisor of Cisco Unified Call Manager, which included setting up and troubleshooting VOIP phones  • Contributed in a 10-man team that implemented and administrated a tactical network under a high stress environment that achieved a 99% communications rating  • Expanded a tactical network from 76 drops to 566 drops with implementing 34 switches at 11 different locations across the campus  • Collaborated in implementing a wireless network using line-of-sight radios saving the Army more than $500,000 in fiber optic cabling  • Provided all helpdesk duties ranging from installing printers and resolving email issues to fixing broken CAT5 cables Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science NYU Tandon School of Engineering - Brooklyn, NY January 2019 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), CISCO (3 years), NETWORKING (3 years), VOIP (3 years), LAN (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Computer Software Skills: Microsoft Office suite, Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, 10, Mac OSX, Active Directory, Remedy ticketing software, and Cisco IOS.  • Programming languages: Python, C, and C++  • Hardware: Cisco catalyst switches (2900 and 3500 series) and Cisco Routers (2600 series).  • Networking Protocols: TCP/IP, OSI model, EIGRP, OSPF, VoIP, DNS, VTP, STP, DHCP, UDP, LAN, and WAN.    JEFF WAGNER PAGE TWO