Computer Network Administrator Assistant Computer <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Assistant Computer Network Administrator Assistant Tacoma, WA Information Technology specialist with demonstrated ability to manage and lead projects in a variety of settings. An analytical and strategic thinker with high standards and personal integrity. Detailed and results-oriented with strong interpersonal and communication skills to work with others towards flawless execution of innovative strategies. Technically savvy and a quick learner in emerging technology. Able to quickly assess and utilize the appropriate response to meet the specific needs of the project or problem at hand. Work Experience Computer Network Administrator Assistant 2019 - Clover Park Technical College 2018 to 2019 Assisted in management and maintenance of the network, as well as working on projects and writing documentation for the network infrastructure and rewriting old documentation for updated versions of software and operating systems. Worked with a small team of peers to complete projects in a timely fashion and provide each other assistance when required. Familiarized with multiple operating systems in a hybrid Linux and Windows environment. President Linux Open Source Users Club 2018 to 2019 As a member and officer of the Linux club I worked on implementing positive changes to the club maximizing the club events and participation. Facilitated projects and club meetings, held presentations demonstrating Linux concepts and projects with the goal of sparking interest and enhancing skills utilizing Linux and other Open Source Technologies. Shift Lead Taco Bell 2017 to 2018 Worked as a variety of roles within the restaurant, including assisting in the counting of money and inventory, as well as training new hires to perform duties. Worked with customers to make transactions as well as resolve complaints and achieve customer satisfaction. Core Team Leader Youth and Young Adult Ministry at St. Charles Borromeo Tacoma 2015 to 2016 A core team member and assistant to the lead Youth Minister, helped facilitate and setup and plan meetings and activities during the weekly meetings and events. Education Associate in Computer Networking & Information Systems Security Clover Park Technical College - Lakewood, WA September 2017 to June 2019 Skills Linux, Active directory, DNS, Networking, Virtualization, Customer Service, Security, Technical Support, Microsoft Office, Vmware, Windows Links http://linkedin.com/in/spencer-adams-a1219717b Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fhzdgeyjhiexe8s Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bs6m-tozhnl-l1dm Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gi4tpxqxc-uj1dh1 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Networking Services: Active Directory, DNS, DHCP  Networking Technologies: Cat5, Cat6, switches & routers, wireless access points  Server Operating Systems: Windows 2012, 2016, Linux Web, Email & File Servers  Desktop Operating Systems: Windows 7, 8, 8.1, 10 and various flavors of Linux including Fedora, Debian, CentOS  Virtualization & Cloud Technologies: Host-based and Bare Metal Hypervisors including Hyper-V, KVM, Xen, Virtualbox, and VMWare  VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol)  LAMP  Microsoft Office  Backup & Recovery