Business Systems Consultant 3 - Patch Implementation Business Systems Consultant 3 - Patch Implementation Business Systems Consultant 3 - Patch Implementation Salt Lake City, UT Hard Worker, who believes in honesty and integrity. Good Social and interpersonal skills. Quick learner who always  looks for opportunities to improve the quality and efficiency of service being provided. Always up for a challenge and  good at handling stressful situations. Excellent troubleshooting and problem solving skills. More than 5 years of  Enterprise IT experience.    Trainings And Certifications  CCNA Routing & Switching Boot-camp - Rivan It Sytems November 2015  Certified Cisco Network Associate (CCNA) - January 2016  Lean Six Sigma - Yellow Belter Work Experience Business Systems Consultant 3 - Patch Implementation Wells Fargo EGS, LLC January 2019 to May 2019 January 2019 - May 2019  • Develops Patching Plan to support monthly vendor patches to all systems.  • Responsible for identifying enhancements, defining requirements, and assisting leadership in the prioritizing,  development, testing, and implementation.  • Supports system patching test lab and tests for unintended consequence of system performance.  • Communicates results, status, and actions effectively.  • Ensures that the end-to-end Patch Management workflow, processes, and procedures adhere to Security policies and standards.  • Implement software patches/upgrades to all servers. Baker Mckenzie Global Services Manila October 2016 to January 2019 • Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting of system issues and resolutions.  • Created, deployed and maintained desktop/laptop imaging using SCCM.  • Performed, maintained and verified backups and restores for local site. Systems used were Symantec Backup Exec and EMC Avamar Backup.  • Provided mobile device support for smart phone and tablet devices. Support included application, wireless and email configurations for Blackberry, iPhone and iPad devices using Mobile Iron.  • Provided personal support via phone and remote access for issues such as network connectivity.  • Managed accounts on the Windows 2003 domain.  • Administered VMM/VSphere, Windows 2003, 2008, 2008 r2, 2012 r2, 2016 servers, EMC avamar, SCCM, SCOM, and  Mobile Iron.  • Developed and implemented disaster recovery procedures.  • Responded to the needs and questions of network users concerning their access to resources on the network and • Responded to the needs and questions of network users concerning their access to resources on the network and the operation of various software packages.  • Supported hands on system Failovers for software upgrades to Monitoring Infrastructure  • Managed team ticketing system (BakerAssyst) to ensure incidents and change requirements are fulfilled following  security guidelines within proper timeframes  • Trained and coach appropriate people and new team members including in application of methodologies and processes.  • Planned and implemented the successful migration of standalone server to virtual machine.  • Administered privileged level security access for Windows servers and file shares,  • Implemented software patches/upgrades to all servers.  • Reset passwords and/or locked user Windows domain accounts with Active Directory when required. JR System Network Administrator GHL Systems Philippines April 2016 to August 2016 • Maintenance of Server's  • Provide Support to clients regarding Network Configuration of the router  • System backups and recovery  • Configure Network Systems  • Evaluate and install patches  • Install hardware and software  • Managing windows server 2003, 2008 r2, 2012 r2  • Configure Avaya Phone  • Maintain user accounts and data files Technical Support Engineer/Associate Network Engineer The Medical City February 2014 to November 2015 February 2014 - November 2015  • Network Configuration  • Printer Configuration/Troubleshoot  • Support User's using SQL  • Troubleshooting PC, Laptop and other Hardware Components  • Support User's in Microsoft Exchange  • Support User's in Office 365  • Investigate technical aspects and root cause of problems  • Installation and configuration of workstations  • Implement best practices in developing technical solutions  • Configure users in a Microsoft Domain Environment  • Retrieve data for analysis of system capabilities.  • Basic technical support at the network level: WAN and LAN connectivity, routers, firewalls, and security • Basic  remote access solution implementation and support: VPN, and Terminal Service  • Analyses existing systems to identify flaws or inefficiencies and use problem-solving skills Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Adamson University October 2013 Skills VIRTUAL MACHINE (3 years), CHANGE MANAGEMENT (3 years), CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT (3 years), MICROSOFT OFFICE (4 years), MS OFFICE (5 years) Links https://badges.wes.org/Evidence?i=636649d7-4651-4c01-9ec0-0a248ba29eca&type=us Additional Information Professional Skills  Server Support Advanced  System Configuration Advanced  Server Configuration Advanced  Microsoft office Advanced  Virtual Server Advanced  Virtual Machine Advanced  Software Configuration Management Intermediate  Vulnerability Assessment Advanced    WES Equivalency  https://badges.wes.org/Evidence?i=636649d7-4651-4c01-9ec0-0a248ba29eca&type=us