Senior Care Network Senior Care <span class="hl">Network</span> Senior Care Network - Huntington Hospital Van Nuys, CA Work Experience Senior Care Network Huntington Hospital August 2018 to Present Assisted Living Waiver program, Care Coordinator  • Conduct bio-psycho-social assessment within interdisciplinary setting.  • Participate in developing Individualized Service Plan (ISP) for each client using ALW ISP form.  • Identify, organize, coordinate, monitor services needed by a client.  • Adhere prescribed schedule of client contact, maintain progress notes using common Medical abbreviations and terminology by Huntington Hospital and Senior Care Network.  • Assess elder abuse and neglect during each visit and report suspicion to APS and the Ombudsman.  • Co-facilitate Dementia and caregiver support groups in Hospital setting (8 week Memory Club program authorized by Alzheimer's Association).  Della Martin Center, Intensive Outpatient Program (intern rotation)  • Services for patients who deal with drug, alcohol, mental health challenges.  • Co-facilitate groups in a supportive, safe, and therapeutic setting. Behavior Therapist LeafWing Center - Sherman Oaks, CA December 2015 to December 2018 • Provide one-on-one in home and school-based behavior intervention services  • Provide applied behavioral analysis (ABA) principles to children with autism and related mental disorders  • Educate parents and teach simple techniques of ABA.  • Monitor and document client's behavior to assist in modifying/improving treatment plan.  • Participate in ongoing training and workshops.  • Discuss challenging and dangerous incidents with supervisor in meetings. Union Station Homeless Services, Adult Center - Pasadena, CA June 2018 to August 2018 MSW Intern Union Station Homeless Services August 2017 to May 2018 • Conduct comprehensive bio-psycho-social assessment for referred clients and walk-in clients to identify their immediate needs and eligibility for agency services. Referrals are primarily from Department of Mental Health (DMH), Los Angeles County Jail, Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority (LAHSA), Los Angeles County Hospital. Provide appropriate referrals or services as needed.  • Assist eligible clients with gathering program eligibility documentation, and complete program intake forms.  • Develop individualized collaborative service plans for clients.  • Participate in Multidisciplinary and Care Coordinator team meetings, complete LAHSA online Clarity training.  • Recognize self-determination in each client and to support the change they strive utilizing motivational interviewing techniques and strength-based perspective.  • Meet with each client on scheduled basis and document on progress notes.  • Assist clients with their physical and mental health needs by providing support and linkage to appropriate services.  • Co-facilitate on-site recreational, art, social and community-building activities with other interns. Basic Life Skills (BLS) 2018 to 2018 Abilities: strong active listening, advocating, critical thinking, communication and time management skills. Student Teacher, Administrator (Internship) Pasadena Christian School - Pasadena, CA September 2015 to December 2015 • Participated and created a financial plan for the school  • Created and implemented lesson plans  • Assisted a teacher in daily activities    Awards/Honors Community Service/Volunteer Dean's 2013 to 2014 Participated in parent education, in planning and implementing lessons (Volunteers of America, Head Start Program).    Skills  Geriatric Social Work Educational Consortium (GSWEC) 2018-2019 training participant, certificate. Education Master of Social Work in Social Work California State University - Los Angeles, CA May 2019 Bachelor of Arts in Child Development California State University - Los Angeles, CA December 2015 Associate of Arts in Child Development Los Angeles City College - Los Angeles, CA June 2013