Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Thoreau, NM Work Experience Network Administrator Gallup-McKinley County Schools - Gallup, NM June 2013 to July 2015 25 years with Gallup-McKinley County Schools  • Network Administrator- 3 years  • Network Analyst/Hardware Specialist - 6 years  • Lab Manager/Technology Support Teacher - 8 years    Goals  • Keep up-to-date in the ever-evolving information technology field.  • Continue to educate colleagues and stakeholders on different aspects of technology.  • Perform Network Supervisor duties during the transition process.  • Create a maintenance regimen through documented network activity.  • Provide better communication with our stakeholders.  • Provide an open door policy for all colleagues where all ideas expressed are valued in working toward effective strategies for solutions.    Management  • Managed OpenDNS and filtering of websites.  • Power Management and emergency procedures for recovery.  • Monitored network for outages.  • Maintained a State website for 5 years.  • Blocked harmful email in Barracuda.  • Collaborated with Lupe Silva - Senior System Engineer, on adjusting settings in Active Directory, switch configuration and router troubleshooting.  • Reset cards in Gateways for Avaya.  • Installed software on servers and brought services back up after a crash.  • Cooperated with vendors on various projects.  • Managed KACE Deployment.  • Managed the district computer lab for 8 years where the lab served the community, staff and students. Records reflect a monthly visit of over 250 per month.  • Managed computer maintenance (updates, software installs, cleaning, and troubleshooting), audio-visual services, and schedules.  • Provided quick and efficient service to 36 district sites, private schools with Title I computers, and imaged hundreds of computers before being shipped to sites.  • Managed a non-profit organization for 12 years; grant writing, budgeting, USDA documentation.    Supervision  • Supervised a diverse crew, some computer literate and some not, with an age range of 16-36. The project was new computer install with Desert Communication, Inc.  • Responsible for planning, organizing, and reporting to the project manager and president of the company on the progress of the team.    Coordination  • Provided responsible and complex administrative support for over 14 years to various levels of the administrative staff.  • Provided quality service in computer repair for Superintendents, Assistant Superintendents, Directors, Coordinators, Teachers, and community.  • Gathered assessment data, analyzed, and presented data for the Director of Technology on Gallup-McKinley County computer assets to determine E-rate and EETT replacement possibilities.  • Respectfully taught Administrative Assistants applicable skills to maximize the use of their computers.  • Coordinated partnerships with City of Gallup, Chapter Houses, University of New Mexico, and private schools on various projects from ID badges to computer repair.  • Provided technical support for the Professional Development Dossier and National Board candidates. Education License Information Tech Coordinator Endorsement 2008 to 2020 Master of Information Systems in Information Systems University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2008 Bachelor of Music in Education Capital University - Columbus, OH 1990 Skills Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years), Windows/OSX (10+ years), Active Directory (3 years), Cabling (3 years), Server Maintenance (3 years), Hardware repair (10+ years), Software Troubleshooting (10+ years), Website Design (8 years), Vmware (3 years), Adobe (8 years), Telecommunications (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Additional Information Software Skills  Microsoft Office Suite and FrontPage, KACE, SharePoint, Windows® XP, Microsoft Windows® Vista, Microsoft Windows® 7, Adobe Professional and PhotoShop, Macromedia Dreamweaver, Windows® Movie Maker, Microsoft Visio, HTML, WinDVD Creator, and C+.    Hardware Skills  KBOX Deployment Box, Virtual Servers, Servers, Switches, Routers, Gateways, Distance Learning Carts, Palm Pilots, Projectors, Video Cameras, Digital Cameras, Scanners, Desktops and Laptops of all brands, tablets, document readers, and interactive white boards.