Administrator &Gym Manager <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp;Gym Manager Las Vegas, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrator &Gym Manager WOF Crossfit - Porirua, Wellington January 2018 to November 2018 Provided excellent customer service in relation to being the first point of contact for potential members at WOF CrossFit.  Actively supported WOF’s sale by contacting interested individuals with relevant information, and assisted in signing clients up for services.  Guest speaker on the importance of self-care, at WOF CrossFit’s Wine, WOD, and Wellness workshop.  Promoted WOF’s services through own weight loss, and health success.  Fostered genuine, and positive relationships with potential and current members in order to encourage participation at WOF CrossFit.  Processed office billing as it related to membership accounts, classes, courses, products sold, and invoices.  Kept strong communication between WOF and its members, through timely, helpful, and solution focused replies to all inquiries. Co-Chair of Peer Support and Diversity Network Peace Corps Botswana - Botswana, Africa January 2016 to September 2017 Selected through a competitive application process based on peers and Peace Corps staff evaluation.  Provided in-person and remote emotional support to Peace Corps Volunteers throughout their service.  Led committee’s efforts to coordinate, engage, and support volunteers more effectively.  Worked to increase Peace Corps staff and volunteer communication.  Facilitated PSDN-related sessions during volunteer in-service training. Local Government and Capacity Building Volunteer Peace Corps Botswana August 2015 to September 2017 Collaborated with Mogobane village Social Welfare and Community Officer to create and implement HIV/AIDs prevention programs, and education workshops.  Designed, implemented, and facilitated a multiple village Parent to Child Communication workshop. Aimed to give caregivers and youth the tools and skills to talk openly and effectively to one another.  Established and coordinated a self-esteem and confidence building program for orphans and vulnerable children in Mogobane village called Miss Bright Future.  Created and facilitated multiple menstruation education and empowerment workshops called R.U.M.Ps (Reusable Menstruation Pads).  Taught weekly public speaking skills at Mogobane Junior Secondary School.  Tutored English literacy at Mogobane Junior Secondary School.  Led the design and implementation of Botswana’s national Girls/Guys Leading our World (GLOW) Camp. Reaching 60 Junior Secondary Students with Life skill, reproductive health, therapeutic communication, and goal setting lessons.  Trained on technical skills such as: computer literacy, office management, organization, and record keeping.  Created a digital data base for S&CD officer’s use in tracking and reporting purposes. Hospital Social Worker St. Mary's Essentia Health - Detroit Lakes, MN July 2014 to July 2015 Responsible for assessing the psychosocial, equipment, educational, and/or financial needs of patients of all ages admitted to the hospital, day clinic, emergency room, or home  health services.  Coordinated and created safe, and relevant patient discharge plans in order to increase patient’s chances of a successful recovery.  Facilitate the patient’s transition from the hospital to home.  Connected patients with available resources as it pertained to their psychosocial assessment, discharge plan, and/or diagnosis.   Provided emotional support to patients’ of all ages, their families, and others significant to the patient’s life.  Assessed or intervened in crisis situations or others issues including but not limited to: vulnerable adult reports, child abuse, domestic abuse, drug and alcohol, mental health, traumas, bereavement, new diagnosis, catastrophic diagnosis, financial matters, and guardianship/commitment.  Maintained through, timely, and appropriate documents and records required for each assessment or admission.  Upheld to the strictest level of confidentiality. Education Bachelor's in Social Work Minnesota State University Moorhead - Moorhead, MN January 2010 to May 2014 Bachelor's in Gerontology Minnesota State University-Moorhead - Moorhead, MN January 2010 to May 2014 Skills Excel (1 year), Microsoft Word (5 years), Xero (1 year), Time Management, Driving Experience, Commercial Driving Experience, Customer Service, Case Management, Documentation Additional Information LANGUAGES  English-First language  Setswana- Immediate Mid competency    New Leadership Development Institute, June 2011