Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Quality Network Solutions Lincoln, IL Experienced IT Network Administrator seeking a position in IT infrastructure/ Network Administration Work Experience Network Administrator Quality Network Solutions - Sullivan, IL 2017 to Present Maintain and support day-to-day operations of distributed networks across 3 school districts consisting of approximately 3000 servers, workstations, and other network nodes  ? Experience with Remote Desktop, Team Viewer, and UltraVNC to remotely resolve computer hardware and software problems  ? Provide prompt and accurate customer service using custom ticketing systems  ? Leverage Fog computer imaging technology to deploy Windows 10 upgrade/update efforts across 12 sites  ? Experience with unmanaged Cisco switches  ? Install and repair network cabling, printers, physical desktop, and laptop computer hardware  ? Install, configure, and support virtual servers and workstations, DVR Systems, and school bus video monitoring software Field Operations Technician Goodman Networks - Bloomington, IL 2015 to 2017 Provided exceptional in-home customer service  ? Installed DirecTV cable service equipment including dish antennas, cabling, and receivers  ? Leveraged problem-solving skills to diagnose and resolve system problems  ? Logged work orders accurately ensuring other technicians have correct information Computer Network Engineer CDS Office Tech - Springfield, IL 2014 to 2015 Worked with customers to resolve hardware and software related computer problems  ? Optimized computer network solutions for customers with varying topologies  ? Worked as part of a support team using a ticket system and operating procedures  ? Supported Microsoft operating systems and office applications  ? Supported Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange servers EasyTech Associate Staples - Springfield, IL 2014 to 2014 Provided excellent customer service on the sales floor and Tech Desk answering questions and solutions to problems  ? Addressed Problems and implement solutions, in store and at customers' home  ? Help Desk team member answering customer questions regarding computer and home electronics technical issues Education High school or equivalent LINCOLN LAND COMMUNITY COLLEGE 2009 to 2010 Skills Active Directory, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Vmware, Customer Service, Networking