System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Plantation, FL Actively seeking new opportunity in the Information Technology field to expand and utilize my skills which will allow me to grow personally and professionally. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator The Pitter Group - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2019 to Present • Liaised with all levels of the organization to ensure that technology and security standards are maintained.  • Managed, repaired, and maintained 80+ systems through ITSM solutions.   • Administered servers, laptop and desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, software deployment, security updates and patches.  • Provided IT support for 10+ Entities and 50+ full time users with varying computer literacy.  • Maintained network, hardware, & software continuity, ensuring end-user experience through troubleshooting.  • Resolved technical malfunctions with a high sense of urgency.  • Implemented technical documentation, manuals and IT policies.  Ensured security through access controls, backups and firewalls Systems Administrator Armchem International - Fort Lauderdale, FL January 2018 to November 2018 • Provided IT support as part of in-house IT department as well as supporting remote sites for 50+ full time users with varying computer literacy in a domain environment.  • Responsible for setting up and managing Email, Domain, and Phone systems accounts  • Maintained network, hardware, & software continuity, ensuring end-user experience through troubleshooting/patching problems   • Managed, repaired, and maintained 80+ systems  • Test, analyze, evaluate, & implemented software and hardware. Jr System Administrator G White Enterprises - Fort Lauderdale, FL December 2016 to October 2017 • Responsible for setting up and managing G Suite, Domain (WS 2012/2016), Sugar CRM, and Asterisk Messaging System user accounts.  • Provided help desk support as part of in-house IT department for 80+ full time users with varying computer literacy in a domain environment.  • Troubleshooting problems pertaining to application conflicts and system bugs.  • Managed, repaired, and maintained 100+ systems (including replacement of components such as hard drives, keyboards, memory, graphics cards, power supplies, etc.) Network Technician- Internship Network Cables & Connectors Inc - Miami, FL December 2015 to May 2016 * Ran Fiber Optic and Low Voltage Cables wherever needed  * Applied proper labeling per connection  * Worked in tandem with coworkers to complete daily goals  * Provided accurate reports to higher management relating to daily production  * Improved leadership and team building skills  (Managed a small team of 3 technicians at the NAP) Education Information Technology Florida Career College - Lauderdale Lakes, FL 2015 to 2016 Skills Information Technology, Network Management, Troubleshooting, Computer Repair, System Administration, Windows Server, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Microsoft Access Additional Information Courses / Additional Skills    Administering Windows & Exchange Servers, Computer Support & Maintenance, Guide to A+ Hardware, Guide to A+ Software, Introduction to UNIX/LINUX, Managing Users in a Network Environment, Networking Essentials, Windows Operating Systems