Application Administrator Application <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Application Administrator Austin, TX A security focused Application Administrator with plenty of years' experience in Information Technology   specializing in network administration, system administration, security integration, software, and active directory configuration. Work Experience Application Administrator Mitratech August 2019 • Install, configure, and maintain web application servers with content switches providing load balancing and fault tolerance.  • Troubleshoot client environments and database (Oracle, MSSQL) issues in order to resolve issues.  • Perform root cause analysis of outages and disruptions.  • Work with clients to provide federated SSO solutions across multiple applications.  • Plan out and implement automation solutions across all systems in Python, Bash, and PowerShell.  • Provide 24/7 on-call support for critical business applications handling millions of transactions per hour  including development, testing, and production.  • Install, deploy, and automate Data Warehouse ETL applications for clients.  • Coordinate and execute major data migrations onto new servers in order to mediate costs, increase security, and standardize procedures. Tri-Hat Information Security Founder UTRGV August 2017 to August 2018 Created a student ran organization to bring a Cyber Security Program to the local university so that students  will have opportunities to gain invaluable experience in the industry.  • Constructed Security workshops based on industry standards to train students and help obtain professional  certifications. (Network+, Security +, Linux+)  • Worked with local cities to provide training to all members of the community to increase job opportunities  for the individuals. Network/I.T Contractor Global Trade Solutions September 2015 to August 2018 • Created a Windows Server to have a centralized domain server.  • Setup Active directory federation services to allow the use of SSO with Office 365 products.  • Built a file transfer-system to allow end-users to create reports in a timely manner.  • Implemented Security Policies and monitored network traffic taking preventative actions against malicious  attacks. Technology Specialist Intern Edinburg Consolidated ISD September 2014 to August 2018 • Test and troubleshoot end-user hardware/software.  • Performed technical installations and support on new projects.  • Maintained inventory on equipment issued out to end-users.  • Resolved customer service issues fast and efficiently. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley - Edinburg, TX Skills SAML, SSO, IIS, SECURITY, TOMCAT Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming: Java, C++, C#, Python, JavaScript, SQL  Network Security and virus detection specialist.  Strong suit in algorithm design and automation solutions.  Operating Systems (Windows, Windows Server, Linux, Kali Linux)  Technical support specialist.  Secure Code analysis  Application Servers (WebLogic, Tomcat, IIS)  Skilled with federated SSO using SAML 1.1/2.0.