Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Minnesota Financial Alliance Maple Grove, MN Extremely passionate computer information and cyber security professional with over 10 years of formal, self-taught, and industry experience using standard industry tools and processes. Devised system configuration for financial services agency resulting in over a 90% cost reduction while ensuring higher level of security over previous platforms. Leader in Linux and impressive team member during CCDC (Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition), developing bulletproof security scripts and helping the team become a finalist in both state and regional completions. Work Experience Network Administrator Minnesota Financial Alliance - Maple Grove, MN 2014 to Present Minnesota Financial Alliance (MFA) is a financial services company which sells Investments, Insurance, and Retirement Plans in the state on Minnesota. Health Benefits Services (HBS) is an independent general agency division of MFA which sells Health, Life, and Disability insurance to individuals and small businesses. MFA and HBS employ on average 3 – 4 employees and has an average sales revenue of about $1.5 million per year.    I have worked for MFA since 2014 as the company’s sole IT person. While working at MFA I built, maintained, and configured all of the workstations, servers, networking equipment, applications, Uninterruptible Power Supplies (UPS), IP phones, and VOIP systems that the company owns. I ensured that all systems where working, secured, patched, configured, and complied with SII and Securities America’s strict security policies (the brokerage firms of MFA) as well as maintaining HIPAA compliance. I also reconfigured the existing network infrastructure. Saving the company over 90% in overhead cost while providing higher levels of security, manageability, and scalability.  In 2015, I facilitated the migration of the companies’ on-premise Microsoft Exchange Server to being hosted by SII. Along with client databases which were being stored on the Exchange server (using an undocumented feature of Microsoft Exchange). In 2017, we changed brokers to Securities America and had to migrate the Exchange server a second time. This time from SII to Securities America.  With every project I undertook while at MFA I worked directly with people both inside and outside of the company. I worked collaboratively with people from various departments, technical skill levels, knowledge sets, and backgrounds. I explained the situation, proposed a solution, and explained what I did to solve the technical issue in such a way that catered to other’s technical skill level and provided a mutual understanding.   My reason for leaving MFA is because I was hired with an understanding that I would leave the company and begin working at a larger-sized company full time after earning both my college degrees. I am very thankful and honored for all the skills, knowledge, and experiences that working at MFA has given me, but now that I have my two degrees, I am now looking to move on to a larger-sized company.  Education Bachelor of Science in Bachelors of Science (B.S.) in Computer Information Technology Metropolitan State University - Saint Paul, MN 2016 to 2019 Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.) in Network Administrator/Analyst Hennepin Technical College - Brooklyn Park, MN 2014 to 2016 Skills Encryption (5 years), Incident response (1 year), System Administration (7 years), TCP/IP (7 years), Python (4 years), Scripting (3 years), Data Recovery (2 years), Information Security (5 years), IPS/IDS Tuning (4 years), Nmap (2 years), SIEM Systems (1 year), Splunk (1 year), Wireshark (3 years), MySQL Server (4 years), SQL (4 years), Firewalls (4 years), Malware Analysis (4 years), Vmware (2 years), Linux (5 years), TCP (7 years), Windows 7 (8 years), Active Directory (4 years), Networking (7 years), Windows (10+ years), Security (6 years), Technical Support (5 years) Links https://linkedin.com/in/james-alex-herzog-18a91b121 https://www.aetacraft.tk https://fadable-recruits.000webhostapp.com/index.php https://github.com/ck2294yp/Hotel-Management-System https://github.com/jaherzog574 Awards Magna Cum Laude 2019-04 Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition (Midwest Regional Competition) 2019-03 Leader in 2019 Metropolitan State University's CCDC team which placed in the 2019 CCDC Midwest Regional Competition (encompassing the winners from the states of Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, and Michigan). During this competition, I was in change of securing, maintaining, and administrating 3 Linux machines, a web server, an email server, and an "IOT" device. In addition to responding to injects, creating Incident Response (IR) reports, and assisting other members on our team do the same on both Windows and Linux machines. I was the go-to "Linux guy" on our team and helped train and prepare everyone on our team for the upcoming competition. I learned an exceptional amount, gained a lot of real-world experience (which I later applied to my own home lab), and made a lot of friends along the way. It was truly a life-changing experience and I wish that I could do it again. Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition (Minnesota State Competition) 2019-02 Leader in the 2019 Metropolitan State University CCDC team which placed 2nd in the state of Minnesota and was able to continue on to the Midwest regional competition. We competed against other 4-year colleges across the state of Minnesota. During this competition, I was in change of securing, maintaining, and administrating 2 Linux machines, an email and a database server. In addition to responding to injects, creating Incident Response (IR) reports, and assisting other members on our team do the same on both Windows and Linux machines. I was the go-to "Linux guy" on our team and helped train and prepare everyone on our team for the upcoming competition. I learned an exceptional amount, gained a lot of real-world experience (which I later applied to my own home lab), and made a lot of friends along the way. It was truly a life-changing experience and I wish that I could do it again. Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition (Midwest Wildcard Competition) 2019-02 Leader in the Metropolitan State University CCDC team which placed 2nd in the 2019 CCDC Midwest "Wildcard" competition (encompassing the states of Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, and Michigan). During this competition, I was in change of securing, maintaining, and administrating two Linux servers, an email and database server. While helping other members on my team do the same on different Linux machines and services. I was the go-to "Linux guy" on our team and helped train and prepare everyone on our team and help prepare them for the upcoming competition. I learned an exceptional amount, gained a lot of real-world experience (which I later applied to my own home lab), and made a lot of friends along the way. It was truly a life-changing experience and I wish that I could do it again. President's List Achievement 2016-04 Phi Theta Kappa 2015-04 Groups Magna Cum Ladue April 2019 to Present Phi Theta Kappa April 2015 to Present 2019 Metropolitan State University CCDC Team September 2018 to April 2019 Leader of the Metropolitan State University's CCDC team in 2019. Which competed in the Minnesota State competition, the Midwest Wildcard competition, and the Midwest Regional competition. These competitions put other 4 year-schools against each other, defending against the "Red Team" group of professional penetration testers, while assessing the team's ability to respond to the "White team's" "inject" requests (requests for new features, changing policy, and other common tasks in the business environment).     I was our teams go-to "Linux Guy" and would help, explain, and teach fellow team members prepare and preform in the high-stress and competitive CCDC environment. Cybersecurity and Forensics Student Organization (CSFCO) April 2017 to April 2019 Publications Aetacraft (Home Lab) https://www.aetacraft.tk 2012-12 Since 2012, I've continued to work on my own private "home lab" computer network. Dubbed the name "Aetacraft" due to the multiple worlds and "ages" that we have on our Minecraft sever. This home lab has been with me since I was still in high school and started when me and my friends wanted to have a way to store and share large files and talk back and forth to each other about video games.     Today, Aetacraft has become so much more then that with the addition of multiple web servers, SQL servers, and even an email server. Aetacraft has grown with me throughout my high school and college career. As I have become more knowledgeable and proficient in computer security, system administration and programming, I have applied what I have learned to my home lab. I know the hardware it runs isn't the best and the subject matter of gaming isn't the most professional. I am still quite proud of it and it has helped give me some context when learning things in the classroom, helped me learn, and helped guide me to what I should learn next in my own self-study. I am quite proud of it for what it is and I hope that pride and excitement translates to the user.    On this website I have everything from a live map of our Minecraft Server (which still runs to this day thanks to a custom BASH script that I wrote which manages it 24/7), to my own personal blog which I use to jot down ideas and discoveries that I've had that I want to share with the world. Like I've said, there is more to this "Aetacraft" project then just the website. I have web servers, database servers, email servers, and others. Twin Cities Inn Website https://fadable-recruits.000webhostapp.com/index.php 2019-01 As part of Metropolitan State University's Computer Information Technology (CIT) and Computer Science programs, all students are to have taken part in an ambitious software engineering project from scratch (from the Inception phase to the start of the deployment phase in the RUP software design process).    This project required us to combine all of the things that we learned in school while facilitating good teamwork, planning, and time management skills. It included gathering all of the requirements, designing the project using proper software modeling methods. Creating a database, beginning software construction, design and implement proper test cases for the software. While presenting our models and existent prototypes in between the various phases of the project.    Our group (made up of Boahen Gyan, Cheng Lor, Colin Joselyn, James Herzog, and Jonathan Tseng). Did our project on an imaginary hotel located in the Twin Cities called "Twin Cities Inn". Our goal was to create a functional website that would, in short, allow users to login book a room, store a credit card on record (and I will admit the site is NOT PCI DSS compliant), pay for the room, and gain fictional "reward points" after booking a room. I will admit, it's not the best by any means, However, I think it was a good step in learning how to design a piece of software from start to finish.    For our project presentations we ran the website locally on our laptops, however, we did also put it on a freely available hosting provided called 000WebHost.com. The website is not guaranteed to work perfectly on the hosting provider's website (there are a few known issues with the website on the hosted server which didn't appear when hosting it locally). But it still gives a good idea of what we created and how it looks.    The full code for the website can be found on our github repository found here:   https://github.com/ck2294yp/Hotel-Management-System Linux Backup Script (Summer Programming Project) https://github.com/jaherzog574/Linux-Backup-Script 2018-12 One of my programming "summer projects" that I've been working on for the past few years was in reference to my Linux servers and my need to keep them all backed up to my ZFS Linux file server that I have also running on my network. I have spent several days on-and-off writing this script and I'll admit it's not the best thing in the world but it does what I wanted it to and it was good exercise in BASH programming. (again, I'm not really focused on computer programming). "IronMC" Server Wrapper (Summer Programming Project) https://github.com/jaherzog574/IronMC 2018-04 Another programming "summer projects" of mine. A major part of my home lab was the Minecraft server (it is after all why I call it "Aetacraft" in the first place). One day I decided to try to make our Java-based Minecraft server stay always running, restarting if/when it crashes while still allowing me to bring it down for maintenance when I needed to. However, In my true "overkill" fashion I couldn't just do that: to go and make something that would speak directly to the Minecraft server, provide me with a separate, persistant server console (so that I could get to the server console locally or just buy SSHing into the machine), something that could take care of scheduled restarts, world backups, and saves, and would handle all of the nuances and issues of the game from a lower level then just a simple "plugin" would reach. A truly "fire and forget" solution that would (almost) make running a Minecraft server effortless.     So I devised this script (which is really a fork of an already existing project) and added what I wanted to it: scheduling world saving, backups, and restarts, automatic crash restarts, and the like. I also wanted it to actually check if the server was up and running and open to traffic and not just sitting at a "server crash" screen. Additional Information Core Skills:    1. Linux Administration  2. Windows Administration  3. Information Security  4. System Security Hardening  5. Wireshark  6. Shell Scripting  7. System Automation  8. TCP/IP/UDP Networks  9. Nmap  10. VMware ESXI   11. eDiscovery   12. Log Collection   13. Log Analysis   14. SIEM Systems   15. Splunk   16. Vulnerability Testing   17. OpenVAS   18. Nikto   19. Vulnerability Management   20. Encryption Technology   21. Compliance Management  22. Report Writing  23. Incident Detection   24. Incident Response (IR)   25. Issue Tracking   26. Firewall Configuration   27. IPS/IDS Tuning   28. WAP Tuning  29. Data Recovery  30. Web Programming   31. Python   32. MySQL Server Administration   33. Malware Analysis   34. Fast-Paced Learning   35. Project Management  36. Time Management   37. Team work  38. Written Communication  39. Oral Communication