Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Billion Automotive Sioux Falls, SD Enthusiastic Network Administrator proudly offering over 4 years' experience in system upgrades, hardware monitoring and performance improvements. An astute employee with knowledge in system repairs and the installation of network components. Skilled in task prioritization and troubleshooting. Work Experience Network Administrator Billion Automotive - Sioux Falls, SD March 2015 to Present ·  Lead point of contact for billion wireless including but not limited to troubleshooting, site surveys, and implementation  ·  Provided a high level of support and maintenance for all network systems, including hardware, software and applications.   ·  Resolved network issues through troubleshooting methods to ensure smooth system operations.   ·  Identified network products and services that would be a great fit for network development.   ·  Handled network configurations late in the evening and on weekends to alleviate downtime and ensure smooth operations.   ·  Streamlined network operations, which resulted in improved delivery times and a higher level of customer service across 26 locations with more than 1500 onsite users.   ·  Provided smooth communications by configuring LAN technology, wireless access points and controllers.  ·  Provided hands-on troubleshooting, routing and switching to resolve issues.  ·  Established and supported access points to provide wireless solutions with streamlined hardware.  ·  Configured and managed Meraki access points, cisco routers, and cisco switches.  ·  Collaborated with a team of 10 to tackle new challenges. Education A.A.S in Network Administrator Southeast Technical Institute - Sioux Falls, SD 2016 A.A.S in System Administrator Southeast Technical Institute - Sioux Falls, SD 2016 A.A.S in Computer and Network Security Southeast Technical Institute - Sioux Falls, SD 2016 Skills Best practices (Less than 1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), cisco (Less than 1 year), deployment (Less than 1 year), problem solving (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching February 2018 to March 2021 Additional Information SKILLS    • Excellent problem solving skills  • Best practices and standards  • Deductive reasoning  • Testing and deployment  • Troubleshooting network issues  • Project implementation  • TCP/IP protocols  • Cisco routers and switches  • Meraki wireless solutions  • Network configuration