Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Specialist/ Network Penetration Tester Oceanside, CA Objective for Employment: To be hired on and apply my skill sets as an IT specialist and penetration tester to help your company thrive. I am proficient with the use of all the most common Microsoft and Apple programs, Linux and FreeBSD and have a background in network penetration testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator PlanetCrypto LLC January 2015 to Present Server Administrator for PlanetCrypto LLC. Administered three separate VPN servers, maintained software packages via Aptitude Package Manager remotely through SSH. Supported customers remotely through Remote Desktop/Helpdesk.    Can build physical or virtual network environments, maintain  machines hardware and software, build server racks, terminate patch panels, switches,  firewalls, and set up IP security camera systems.    Diagnose and maintain TCP/IP problems while maintaining network servers. Repairing and  maintaining software issues with Microsoft OS systems from Windows XP through Windows 10 as well  as Mac OS from Tiger through Mojave. When building servers my preference is Linux or FreeBSD, but  I am able to build with Microsoft Server editions, too.    Proficient with specialized Linux OS distributions Kali, Backbox and Parrot. Know how to properly use  tools like Nmap, Aircrack, Burpsuite, OWASP ZAP, SQLMap, Metasploit Framework. Microsoft Office,  Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Linux, Windows, Mac OS, Android, IOS, C++, BASH, MySQL,  PostGreSQL, Apache, Python, and Powershell.    2013-Current - Planet Crypto LLC - part time server administrator. All VPN servers ran CentOS 6 and all VPN’s were configured with OpenVPN    2014-2017 - IT Specialist with Flantec Network Solutions.    As a hobby I build Raspberry Pi computers, customize various Linux Operating Systems by modifying  themes and shell code, help my friends build cars and buggies, and enjoy playing early access video  games on Steam and Xbox Live. My favorite hobby has always been security research, though. I still  find time to keep learning and testing new tools, exploits and methods of attack. Education Diploma El Camino High School in Oceanside ITT Technical Institute for Networking Skills It Specialist, Information Technology, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Computer Repair, Network Support, Penetration Tester (8 years)