Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Levites International Reinsurance Brokers Ltd 80100,Kenya As a devoted IT professional and degree holder in Telecommunication and Information Technology Engineering from Multimedia University of Kenya, I have acquired strong technical skills from my 4 years' experience working in the IT department at Levites International Reinsurance Brokers Ltd. I also possess comprehensive knowledge in the latest IT software and systems, with certifications from Microsoft and Cisco, all of which are vital in the realization of your company goals. Seeking an ICT Officer position with Richland Properties Ltd, where I can join a dedicated team and develop my skill set further. Work Experience Network Administrator Levites International Reinsurance Brokers Ltd January 2015 to Present Job Responsibilities  • Administrating and troubleshooting 2003 server (workgroup model).  • Managing user accounts and giving share & security level permissions.  • Responsible to install, set up, maintain network and also configure the peripherals, cabling and equipment's accordingly as per the requirement.  • Responsible for maintaining the company strategy like designing, implementing and maintenance of enterprise network components.  • Responsible for maintaining the backup network, hardware, software, files on regular basis accordingly as per the company policies.  • Managing data base of server & creating new users accounts.  • Responsible for configuring& troubleshooting NETGEAR & CISCO ROUTER  • Responsible for configuring & troubleshooting SWITCHES.  • Responsible for configuring & troubleshooting Microsoft outlook accounts.  • Responsible for creating new Microsoft outlook accounts for new users.  Achievements/Contributions  ? Reward by the CEO for the successful completion of new infra-structure configuration in new office premises like cabling, designing used in the organization using CISCO router under pressure.  ? Reward by COO as the employee of the month for process implementation in network systems using new technologies. Education B.Tech in Cisco Certified Multimedia university of Kenya 2014 Additional Information EXPERTISE    • Identifies, diagnoses, and resolves level one problem for users of the mainframe, personal computer software and hardware, Internet and new computer technology.    • Provides one-on-one end-user problem resolution over the phone for user approved personal computer (PC) software.    • Delivers, tags, sets up and assists in the configuration of end-user PC desktop hardware, software and peripherals.    • Diagnoses and resolves end-user network or local printer problems, PC hardware problems and mainframe, e-mail, Internet, WLAN and local-area network access problems.    • Able to provide a full range of support and client relationship services ranging from first through to third line support and customer on-site visits.    • Able to work independently and within a team-spirited environment    Technical Skills:    ? Certification from multimedia university of Kenya in Wireless Networking and Security Tech.    ? Certification from Techno Brain Kenya in Fiber optics Communication.    ? Windows 2000, XP, Server 2003, 2008, 7    ? Ms. Office excel, word, PowerPoint, Hardware &networking etc.    ? Good at presentations & Communication skills.    Assets    ? Hardworking, self-confident, meets deadlines on task entrusted and ample analyzing capacity.    ? Takes Initiative and no additional directions are required once work is explained and assigned.