Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Mulberry, FL Network Administrator and Military Veteran leveraging more than four years of proven ability to interact and collaborate with multiple levels of management and diverse cultural audiences. Consistently achieved exceptional and measurable results while leading teams in dynamic, fast-paced combat environments in both civilian and military capacities. Possesses a comprehensive background in Customer Service and Network Administration, derived from conducting domestic and global operations in the United States and overseas. Managed risk along multiple lines while meeting the expectations of senior leadership. Has extensive knowledge in virtual servers and network security. Recipient of an award for outstanding performance and professionalism in the United States Navy. Career supported by specialized technical military training and working towards his degree in Cyber Security. A few example technical skills that were used to assist each day were: VMware, Microsoft SQL Server, WhatsUp Gold, Microsoft Exchange Server.    • Skilled • Organized • Motivated  • Technical • Multi-Tasker • Dedicated  • Problem Solver • Critical Thinker • Versatile  • Professional • Collaborator • Creative  • Leader • Adaptable • Confident Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator USN - Norfolk, VA June 2013 to June 2017 Oversaw the maintenance and up-keep of over 1600 computers, over 400 printers, 13 virtual servers, LAN equipment, and the daily back-ups of server databases.  • Monitor and correct LAN networks using strong technical skills and networking knowledge  • Perform and monitor back-ups daily for server databases  • Supervise 28 employees in the system up-keep of network  • Manage and update 1600 computers and 400 printers across the network  • Up-keep of LAN equipment consisting of two backbone switches, 12 edge switches, and an offsite data storage  • Manage exchange servers with over 4500 user email accounts  • Conducted and monitored daily and weekly reboots of servers Education Associates in Arts Broward College - Coconut Creek, FL Skills Vmware (4 years), SQL (4 years), WhatsUp Gold (4 years), Exchange Server (4 years), Blackberry Enterprise Server (4 years), Technical Support (4 years), Sharepoint (4 years), Network Administration (4 years), Network Management (4 years), Switches (4 years), Windows Xp (4 years), Windows 7 (4 years), Ethernet (4 years), OmniVista (4 years), NTCSS (4 years), Active Directory (4 years), Symantec Endpoint Protection (4 years) Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 June 2013 to June 2017 Information Technician onboard USS Harry S. Truman for my military career. By end of contract, supervised over 25 other sailors to ensure performance. Commendations: Two Flag Letter of Commendations