Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - United States Air Force Tucson, AZ Work Experience Network Administrator United States Air Force - Tucson, AZ June 2011 to Present Tucson, Arizona June 2011 - Present  Network Administrator  As a Staff Sergeant, lead the daily activities of 10 personnel responsible for the maintenance of classified/unclassified telecommunications and networking equipment; enforce adherence to strict quality standards in order to continuously meet customer requirements and surpass deadlines/performance benchmarks.  • Deploy, sustain, troubleshoot and repair standard network infrastructure systems, IP detection systems and General Dynamics encryption devices.  • Support unit operations by organizing office procedures, maintaining workplace systems, supervising training efforts and managing personnel; plan staff schedules, collect and assign workload and develop and implement metrics used to measure work center performance.  • Assess existing facilities' needs for new or modified telecommunications systems; prepare or evaluate network diagrams, floor plans or site configurations for existing buildings/frameworks, renovations or new systems.  • Provide unparalleled user support by expertly diagnosing network and device problems, resolving computer hardware, networking software or other operating system software and implementing technical or procedural solutions; keep abreast of changes in industry practices and emerging telecommunications technology.  • Consult with users, administrators and engineers to identify business and technical requirements for proposed system modifications/technology purchases.  • Manage the installation of new and/or modified hardware or software; communicate with telecommunications vendors to obtain pricing and technical specifications for available hardware, software or services, prepare purchase orders/requisitions and coordinate with vendors and company personnel to facilitate acquisitions.  • Estimate costs for system or component implementation and operation; gather data pertaining to customer needs, and use the information to recognize, predict, interpret and evaluate system and network requirements.    Professional Experience (Continued)  • Monitor and analyze system performance ( network traffic, security and capacity), evaluate equipment records and test and assess hardware and software to determine efficiency, reliability and compatibility; recommend repairs, replacements or improvements and perform preventive maintenance, backup or recovery procedures.  • Oversee user access to systems and equipment through account management and password administration.  • Conduct routine network startup and shutdown procedures and configure, monitor and maintain email applications and virus protection software.  • Perform, coordinate, integrate and supervise network design, configuration, operation, defense, restoration and improvements; fabricate, terminate and interconnect wiring and associated network devices.  • Produce and process a variety of reports, including system activity and performance reports, and meticulously document system problems, corrective actions and resolution status.  • Train customers/staff in computer system use (voice, video and data communications).  Selected Accomplishments:  • Quickly assimilated into the organizational culture to drive immediate and impactful results; recognized among the staff as a SME on technical issues and repeatedly selected to take on additional duties.  • Demonstrated in-depth subject matter expertise and extensive knowledge of related DoD and USAF governing directives, HR personnel policies and base-level operating procedures.  • Managed competing priorities and multiple responsibilities simultaneously; proven track record in outstanding communication, customer service, ethics, compliance, leadership, mentoring and personal performance.  Selected Training/Professional Development Education Associate of Science in Electronic Systems Technology and Information Systems Community College of the Air Force - Tucson, AZ May 2016 Skills Microsoft Office (5 years), Cisco Hardware, Cisco Hardware (5 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ June 2017 Additional Information A solutions-oriented Network Administrator with substantial experience coordinating, integrating and directing complex, multi-site initiatives across a range of IT-related disciplines; proven ability to establish a cooperative climate across multiple departments and work in unison with a variety of cross-functional business partners. Accomplished facilitator with tactical foresight, keen bottom-line focus and documented success analyzing critical communications requirements, developing innovative solutions for increasing reliability and improving productivity and achieving margins on project delivery. Superior interpersonal, organizational, analytical and problem-solving skills with attention to detail and knowledge and understanding of operating systems, policy and planning techniques and commercial industry standards.    Core Competencies  • System Administration/Service • Departmental Collaborations • Capacity/Requirements Planning  • Project/Personnel Management • Compliance/Quality Control • System Security/Backup/Recovery  • Remote/Multi-Site Assistance • Documentation & Reporting • Operational Reliability/Assurance    Certifications/Designations    * CompTIA Security+ * Top Secret Security Clearance (Sensitive Compartmentalized Information (SCI) Eligible)    Technical Expertise    * Microsoft (Excel, OneNote, Outlook, PowerPoint, Word) * Cisco Hardware Configuration