Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator at HCL INFOSYSTEMS LTD Bastar, US ? IT-Networking Professional with 2 years of experience and proficiency in Windows, Networks & Networking Equipments, including one year in website development.  ? Presently associated with Work Experience Network Administrator HCL INFOSYSTEMS LTD August 2009 to Present An energetic, self-motivated team leader with hands on experience in training, client interaction, requirements gathering, application integration and customization.  Career Features  HCL INFOSYSTEMS LTD as a Network Engineer  August '09 to Present  Skill Set Education B.E. in Information Technology Government College of Engineering - Jagdalpur, Chhattisgarh January 2008 Industrial Training Near Vidhoyodaya School - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 2001 Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows XP, 2003 Server    Web Technologies: .Net 2.0  Database: SQL Server 2005  Networks: Router Installation, LAN, WAN Configuration & Network Troubleshooting, Modem  Configuration.    Areas of Exposure    Project Management    ? Established the connectivity through CDR PROJECT Network in whole District.  ? Coordinating with 800 member-strong team of network engineers at 800 network locations in the state of Chhattisgarh.    Client Relationship Management    ? Interfacing with clients for mapping requirements and delivering need based solutions so as to achieve the total customer satisfaction.  ? Maintaining excellent relations with clients to augment avenues for additional business.    Technical Support    ? Establishment of network connectivity for 800 sites.  ? Initiated network enhancement that reduced network downtime from 30% to 0% nearly.  ? Attending to the faults, analyzing them through root-cause analysis and suggesting technical solutions for overcoming the same.  ? Handling Windows Desktop Support & Remote desktop Management.    Project Details    Title: FMS Support  Client: Bharat Aluminum Company Ltd.  Team Size: 15  Role: Project Member  Scope: Manage all the IT infrastructure of the industry in 24*7 environments by providing solution for hardware and software issues. Instructing all engg. to perform their roles, assigning task to them. Providing several reports to clients like uptime, downtime, root cause evaluation, managing spare stocks interacting with users for their complaints    Title: CDR Project  Client: BHARAT SANCHAR NIGAM Ltd., C.G. State  Role: Network Administrator  Scope: CDR is one of the major Projects to boost IT/ Network infrastructure in the  State. A call detail record (CDR) is the computer record produced by a telephone  exchange containing details of a phone call that passed through it. It is the  automated equivalent of the paper toll tickets that were written and timed by  operators for long-distance calls in a manual telephone exchange.    Academia