Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator To pursue growth oriented challenging career in the field of IT as " Network Engineer" in a progressive organization that supports team work and promoting leadership qualities.  Significant and diverse more than 4 years of IT experience in the areas of Networking, Quality Assurance and hardware, software evaluation end user computing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Expert Automation and Electronic Surveillance January 2009 to January 2013 Manufacturers and exporters of cctv camera, Ip camera, Dvr NVR, Network and Ptz cameras, Access control system, fire extinguishers, fire detectors, alarm system. Supplying and Access Control system, Biometric and face recognition system, Gate Automation, Metal Detectors  Job Responsibilities & Experience Skill Summary on:  • Design and Implement Local Area Network.  • Experience in Implementing and configure Cisco switches and router.  • Configure WAN Interface configuration, port security and wireless LAN.  • Configurations of Static & Dynamic Routing Protocols.  • Experience with configuring Cisco routers and Inter VLAN routing.  • Configuring Network Security by Standard and Extended Access List  • Implement and configure multiple Access points.  • Configuring IP addresses on Routers, Determining IP Routes, and providing connectivity between the different networks in an Inter network.  • Implementing, configuring and troubleshooting ability VLAN in different versions of Cisco Switches in a Campus Network. Configuring VTP and ISL  • Describe and Configure Security features in a Switched network.  • Backup and upgrading of Cisco IOS  • Experience in Composing documentation, project plans, network diagrams and flowcharts.  • Experience in Implementing and configuring Windows servers 2003, 2008.  • Installing Configuring and Administration of RAID Controllers, RAID Array (Level 0, 1, 5).  • Experience in Installing & configuring Microsoft SQL Server, Primavera, and ERP Software's.  • Applying security patches and Software upgrades.  • Experience in configuring and Installing Network printers and local printers.  • Analyzing system logs and identifying potential issues with systems.  • Configuring member server/client and user management.  • Configure Local and Domain Security Policies, Group Policies and create Organization Unit.  • Installing Configuring and Deploying Microsoft Windows 2003, 2008 Domain Controllers., ADC, DHCP, DNS, server & Terminal Services.  • Configuration of Microsoft Exchange Outlook clients.  • Troubleshooting on windows operating system, application software's, hardware's, Internet problems.  • Create Emails and Configure Microsoft outlook clients.  • Installing Microsoft Windows 7, Windows Vista Ultimate/Business Editions, and XP Professional operating systems.  • Experience in performing backups & restoring data.  • Experience in monitoring network performance.  • Experience in Install and configure Data card, security devices and attendance devices.  • Experience in Video wall projectors, image hub, image gateway, indisys software.  • Experience in replacement of Lamps, color wheel, ballast, air filter, projector, screen.  • Experience in configuration of source application, color balancing which reflects on screen  • Preparing and submitting the daily and weekly reports to higher Management as requested.    Organization: Al Futtaim Technologies  Position: Business Development Executive  Al Futtaim Technologies (Toshiba) is the sole Distributors for the Toshiba Products like  (Laptop Photo Copiers Fax Machines and Projectors) in the whole UAE major objective is establishing is Direct Sales for Toshiba products to Corporate Government sectors and all over UAE  Key Responsibilities:  • Going out Door to door sales for the corporate.  • Assist the city sales manager through Area sales manager in developing competitive sales strategy for assigned territory considering a significant external (competition info, customer needs etc., ) & implementation the same through sales associates.  • Responsible for Canvas expansion in the assigned territory and identifying the new Territory for Business expansion.  • Conduct Silent visits and archiving sales target.  • Reporting to the Accountant manager on daily basis.  • Meeting with all the IT Administrators of all the Companies in a given area.  • Developing Business activities, tending to Customers and assisting in the completion of job work and projects.  • Getting Cheques and P.O.  • Maintaining the daily Database in an excel sheet of the customer with the complete.  • Responsible for high-value voice sales to the corporate to meet the revenue targets.    Organization: Emirates Computers  Position: Business Development Executive  Emirates Computers is the Sole Distributors for Dell laptops in the whole of UAE major Objective are Sales of Dell laptops all over the OUTLETS of UAE like Mall Of Emirates, Virgin Mega Stores, Compu Me, Jumbo Electronics, Burjuman Virgin Mega Stores, Deria City Center  Key Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Customer Retention in the assigned territory.  • Reporting to the sales Supervisor on daily bases.  • Promoting a brand of product, service and answer customer queries.  • Strive hard to achieve & exceed profit & growth target as set on monthly basis.  • Provide customer accurate information about product specification, price availability and warranty.  • Arranging Stocks and display on daily basis, Attending trainings for new products and obtaining an update.  • Handling all the sales functions and shouldering the responsibility of the day-to-day smooth functioning of the Sales team.    Diploma in Computer Application and Multilingual  Course: Computer Applications  Software Application: MS Office, MS Word, MS power Point, MS Excel  Corel Draw, Photoshop, MS Access  Internet & Email, Financial Accounting Package  Institution: National Council of Promotion of Languages  Year: October 2002 Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technical University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2007 Skills Network Administration (4 years), Networking (3 years) Additional Information Technical skills:  OPERATING SYSTEMS: Cisco IOS, Windows 2008 Server, Windows 2003 Server, NT.  ROUTING PROTOCOLS: RIP, RIP Ver2, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF  APPLICATION PROTOCOLS: DNS, DHCP, SMTP, Telnet, FTP, HTTP  NETWORK APPLICATIONS: TCP/IP, FTP, Telnet, SSH    Technical Qualification:  Diploma in Computer Application from NCPUL. (from Central Govt of India)  Diploma in computer Accounting (Dec easy, focus, Tally) from Beder Institute of Information Technology.