Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Graduate Student, Telecommunications Engineering Dallas, TX Seeking summer 2016 internship in the field of computer networks and communications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Wipro Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities  Proficient in hot swap - traffic routing, load balancing, failover and end-to-end network testing for successful transmission.  Assisted in turn up of WAN circuits - MPLS, BBB, V-SAT, Frame relay, ISDN and Network devices – Routers and Switches.  Reviewed Access point placement, configured controllers, implemented Wireless LAN using CISCO Unified Manager.  Inspected access lists, firewall policies and staged them on central firewalls and Routers that ensured smooth traffic flow.   Interpreted network drawings to gather missing pieces of information that minimized overall network downtime     Accomplishments  Tutored peers and prepared dashboards for internal audits that helped improve customer deliverables to 99.7% Year to Date.    Skills Used  Multi-tasking, Cisco Networking, Task automation Education Masters of Science in Telecommunications Engineering The University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX May 2017 Bachelors of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2012 Skills SKILLS: Technologies: Ethernet, MPLS, Frame Relay, ATM, VPN, IPSec, ISDN, PPP, AAA, TACACS Protocols: IPv4 & IPv6, DHCP, OSPF, SNMP, STP, EIGRP, BGP, SSH and Wireless - 802.11 a/b/g/ac. Tools: GSM, CISCO Prime, Infoblox IPAM, Checkpoint smart console, Netflow and Wireshark. Environment: CISCO Routers and Switches, HP and IBM servers, Checkpoint Firewall, FireEye. Languages: Java, C, C++ and Python Scripting. (2 years) Awards Best performer in Technical Readiness Program (TRP), Wipro Technologies, Chennai, India. 2013-05 Best new recruit recognition from client for being on top of day to day activities and providing active support. 2014-06 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing & Switching September 2018 CCNA Wireless April 2018 Additional Information High-energy, confident professional with an infectious enthusiasm for technology.Actively seeking summer 2016 Internship. Please reach me at pxk154630@utdallas.edu to discuss further.