Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Symmetric Engineering Group Tampa, FL I am self-motivated and hard-working who is proficient in using technology to enhance data and information management. Proven ability to run successful various work related programs with the ability to grasp new ideas and integrate them into desired results. I have very strong interpersonal skills, a positive work ethic, and can coordinate several tasks simultaneously. I am a very quick learner with extensive skills in various facets of Information Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Symmetric Engineering Group 2012 to Present Responsible for providing support for 20+ MSP clients consisting of small to medium size business's all over the Tampa Bay Area. Handle around 1500 nodes that consist of workstations, laptops, and servers. I provide weekly maintenance applying appropriate security patches and upgrades. Provide Help Desk / End User support for systems, email, and network issues. Provide Network and server support using Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, Firewalls/Security and Terminal Services regularly. Provide backups according to client needs / schedule, provided maximum uptime of networks to 98% and remained highly productive. Configure and implement Group Policy Objects in AD. Administer and maintain Microsoft Exchange Server user accounts. Maintain File server maintenance and network security policy, address server security issues and apply appropriate security patches and upgrades. Maintain system tape backups and disaster recovery plan. Maintain Internet proxy/firewall and email security monitoring.  Recommend, evaluate, purchase and maintain inventory of IT assets. Purchase software licensing and track licensing compliance. Work with vendors to review and recommend service, software, and hardware purchases.  Research networking and application solutions for deployment within the organization. Produce system/ network documentation, SOP's and IT policies. Troubleshooting hardware and software issues and LAN and WAN issues in order to resolve customer repair calls and other problems technicians might incur once onsite.  Taking on average 20-30 troubleshooting calls per day  Replicate issues in computer lab research and Document resolutions/solutions. Order parts through vendors. Education New Horizons Computer Learning Center Present Land O' Lakes High School Additional Information Network Hardware  HP Switches, Netgear Switches, HP Proliant Servers, Linksys Routers and Switches, Sonicwall Firewalls, Allworx VOIP,    LAN / WAN Technologies- Protocols  Ethernet, Frame Relay, T1, TCP/IP, VPN, DSL    OS-Software  Windows SBS Server, Windows 2012\2008\2003\2000 Servers, Windows 8\7\Vista\XP Professional\ Exchange, AD, Terminal Services, RDP, Hyper-v, SQL Server, Labtech, Connectwise, Quickbooks, Mindscope, Autotask, and SQL Server    Email: Office 365 migration