Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - US Army Cape Coral, FL Professional Network Administrator with over three years of telecommunications experience while serving on active duty with the United States Army. Known for my strong work ethic, seasoned troubleshooting skills, and ability to work under extensive amounts of pressure. Enjoys continually learning new systems in the Information Technology field and specializes in installing, operating, and maintaining complex communications systems. Work Experience Network Administrator US Army February 2011 to Present PERSONAL SUMMARY    Professional CCENT and CompTia Network+ Certified Voice and Data Network Administrator with over three years of telecommunications experience while serving on active duty with the United States Army. Known for my strong work ethic, seasoned troubleshooting skills, and ability to work under pressure. Enjoys continually learning new systems in the Information Technology field and specializes in installing, operating and maintaining complex communications systems.    SUMMARY OF SKILLS    Relevant technical experience including but not limited to: Cisco VoIP, Routing/Switching, OSPF, VLAN/VLAN Trunking, RIP, CDP, ARP, DHCP, TCP, UDP, TELNET, SSH, Windows 7/Vista/XP, MS Outlook/PowerPoint/Word, SNMPc, SolarWinds, Remote Desktop, Cisco IOS, TCP/IP, OSI Model, CAT5, Fiber, Coaxial, LOS, IPv4, layered troubleshooting and more.  Extensive experience programming and troubleshooting Cisco Unified Call Manager, versions 8.5 and 3.2, as well as Cisco Unified Call Manager Express.  Hands on experience deploying and troubleshooting Cisco 7940, 7960, 7962, 7970 and 7975 VoIP phones.  Layer 1-3 Troubleshooting and Configuration of Cisco 2800, 3800, 3900 series routers and Cisco Catalyst 2950, 3560, 3750 and 6500 L3 switches.  Ability to effectively communicate in varying environments, prioritizing team needs based upon current assignments for maximum efficiency.  Able to both meet and exceed goals/deadlines in high pressure results-oriented positions.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE    US Army 02/2011 – 09/2014  Network Administrator – Team Chief    Responsible for the set-up, programming, operation and troubleshooting of the Joint Network Node, a Mobile networking platform providing Non-Secret and Secret Voice/Data communications through two to three separate networks via Satellite and Line Of Sight connection, to anywhere between 50 to 500 personnel, whether in the United States or deployed oversees.    Team chief: Supervised team of four other technicians, ensuring safe and proper setup/operation of their equipment.  Responsible for all facets of administration for both of our Cisco Unified Call Managers, to include phone adds/changes/removals, soft key and speed dial changes, trunk modifications, dial plans and more.  Built Cisco Unified Call Manager to replace failing CM: Added to network with 100% operational capability, bringing all 200+ phones back up without issue.  Handled trouble tickets for both Voice and Data issues/requests, completing them quickly and efficiently ensuring end-user satisfaction.  Supported over 25 nodes spread across southern Afghanistan while deployed in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, providing crucial Voice and Data communications to over 500 personnel through 3 separate networks.  Monitored and troubleshot both Wide and Local Area Networks while deployed and at Ft. Bragg.  Maintained accountability of over 750K dollars worth of networking and related equipment.  Instructed over 20 personnel in the basics of networking, switching, various protocols and network monitoring tools as well as basic troubleshooting skills.    CERTIFICATIONS AND EDUCATION    CompTia Network+  CCENT  Active Secret Clearance  CCNA Class, New Horizons, Ft Bragg, NC  Windows 7 Class, New Horizons, Ft Bragg, NC  Joint Network Node Operator/Maintainer school, US Army, Ft Gordon, GA  Mariner High School, Cape Coral, FL    REFERENCES    Available upon request. Additional Information Network+ and CCENT Certified  Secret Clearance