Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Network Specialist Lewisville, TX A U.S Army veteran with four-year experience in IT, highly motivated independent that is capable of working alone or as a member of a team to solve problems and seek challenge. Currently pursuing Bachelor's degree in Networking. Core values are very important to me include: integrity, honesty, respect, dedication, and commitment. Work Experience Network Administrator United States Army - Fort Hood, TX May 2015 to May 2019 • Supervised security for three million dollars of highly sensitive equipment resulting in zero loss over a three-year period.  • Managed a team of six members.  • Network was monitored and troubleshooting 24/7.  • Managed network that provided classified and unclassified communication to approximately 90 users.  • COMSEC custodian responsible for supporting the receipt, issue, safeguarding, accounting for and when necessary, the destruction of COMSEC material.  • Performing Field Tamper Recovery (FTR), upgrading cryptographic device firmware, knowledge of the General Dynamic TACLANE.  • Managed cryptographic COMSEC devices such as KIV-7M, KG-175D (taclane), and encrypted transmission of a non-secure network.  • Installed, configured and maintain Cisco Nexus/Catalyst switches, Cisco Router, Palo Alto firewall.  • Diagnosed and resolved all network related issues.  • SNMPc primary uses for monitoring network activities.  • Telecommunication Phone system such as Cisco Unified Communications (CUCM)  • Configuring Cisco VOIP phones, Jabber and video teleconference.  • Perform monthly backups.  • Extensive experience and knowledge in troubleshooting L1-L7 OSI model.  • Configuration and maintenance of Tactical Wide area network devices consisting of the following hardware and software: CISCO routers and switches, VMware, Firewalls, Intrusion detection System (IDS), Window OS, Brocade Switch, CDP, Frame-relay, PPP, PGP, Access Control List (ACL), Network address Translation (NAT), Port Address Translation (PAT), RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, SNMP, SMTP, ARP, TCP, UDP, Static Routing and VLAN Trunking. Education Information Technology North Lake College - Irving, TX 2019 to Present Signal University - Fort Hood, TX October 2017 to 2021 Purdue University - West Lafayette, IN 2016 to 2017 Signal School - Fort Gordon, GA July 2015 to December 2015 Combat Training Infantry School - Jackson, GA 2015 General Study University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX 2011 to 2013 Skills Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Windows 7, Vmware, Customer Service, security, VOIP, Routers Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist