Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Reno, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Monitor Associate Pvt Ltd - Pakistan April 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Supporting the IT Infrastructure of the company.  • Servers Administration.  • Administering and maintaining end user accounts, permissions, and access rights on the Active Directory infrastructure.  • Maintaining network security, user groups, desktop policies and naming conventions.  • Installing, upgrading and configuring network printing, directory structures, rights, and security and file services.  • Monitoring various hardware and platforms on a regular basis to ensure efficiency and up time.  • Interacting with vendors and evaluating technical Hardware & software quotes.  • Supporting Informobility products.  • Documenting network and systems infrastructure and procedures.  • Working with the Systems and Database Teams to ensure optimal integration of all network changes. Education Saint Paul High School WahCantt Shaheen Intermediate College P.A.C Kamra BSc Punjab University Master Baqai University Karachi Additional Information Technical Knowledge:  CISCO:  Routing:  Configuration of Cisco Router "1800, 2500, 2600, 2800, and 3600"  Configure and Troubleshooting of Routing Protocol: Static Routing Protocol, Default Routing Protocol, RIPV-1, RIPV-2, OSPF, EIGRP, Introductory BGP  Traffic Filtering using "Standard and Extended access-lists"  Creation & modification of access list, prefix-list & distribution lists, Route-map  NAT (Static, Dynamic & PAT)  Policy Based Routing PBR, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization.  Using Tunnel "GRE, IPV6toIPV4  IP Addressing (IPV4 & IPV6), Sub-netting, Implementing VLSM Design Network.  Switching:  Configuration Cisco Switches "2960, 3550, and 3560" & VLAN setup in Cisco switches.  Knowledge of VTP (Dot 1q and ISL) & STP  Using Protocol for Load Balancing in L3 devices- HSRP/VRRP/GLBP  Port Aggregation (Ether Channel)  Protocols Known:  OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, Introductory BGP, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, VTP, STP  MICROSOFT:  Sever Infrastructure:  • Well versed in Implementing, Managing and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server 2008 & 2012 Network Infrastructure including, file replications and logon scripts. Installing and configuring File and Print Servers.  • Active directory management, NTFS security, disk quota management  • Managing technical support team which is responsible for infrastructure services on Microsoft Windows technology  • Troubleshooting Active Directory replication problems.  • Creating standard process for group policy deployment  • Active Directory users and groups management.  • Implementation and administration of DNS, DHCP and WINS  • Distribute packages via Group policy across all the desktops and servers  • Review and remediate software distribution failures and to eliminate the problems that causes those failures.  • Design and implement a mechanism for handing on-off technical issues to other technical teams for resolution.  • Creating standard Net-backup policies and taking back-up of the servers. Restoring the data as per the customer request  • Remote administration of servers for any problem across Fidelity offices related to Microsoft Windows operating system.