Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Department of Defense USAF Honolulu, HI IT professional with industry experience in systems implementations, systems administration, and programming with a focus on enterprise web server administration and database administration. Excellent problem solving skills from approach to resolution using industry best practices. Able to assess current environment and processes to reach best solutions and leverage appropriate technology. Work Experience Network Administrator Department of Defense USAF - Honolulu, HI December 2009 to Present Research, plan, and develop web solutions for the 17th Operational Weather Squadron for external web pages and intranet using ColdFusion 8/9 and Oracle 10g/11g. Create secure database-driven web pages for new operational requirements. Connect to data through web services to output on formatted web pages. Develop and/or leverage existing database architecture to meet data and programming requirements. Train and mentor potential code contributors.    System administration and optimization for Microsoft Server 2003/2008 stand alone servers and blade servers. Maintain hardware and software configuration and backups for 70 application servers. Use proactive measures to maintain systems availability. Analyze network and network systems to identify root cause of network and system outages and/or inefficiencies and mitigate vulnerabilities. Consult with Operations and Leadership to provide impacts for planned or unplanned systems outages.    Manage 20GB of daily data coming from internal and external sources and ensure that data is routed, processed, and delivered to appropriate systems, databases, and web pages. Analyze new data requirements and provide alternatives if current resources are inadequate. Research and provide solutions and solution alternatives to maximize system availability and optimize performance.    Perform system analysis to provide scalable solutions that maintain a technological advantage to meet existing and potential future requirements as technology advances. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ColdFusion 9  ColdFusion 8  ColdFusion MX 7  PHP  PERL  JavaScript  jQuery  Action Script  DOM (Document Object Model)  HTML/DHTML  XML  XSL/XSLT  CSS  Eclipse  Subversion  Oracle 11g Database Administration  Oracle 10g Database Administration  Oracle 9i Database Administration  Informix 9.x Database Administration  Microsoft SQL Enterprise 2003 Administration    CompTIA Security+  CompTIA A+  Microsoft 2008 Server Administration  Microsoft 2003 Server Administration  AIX UNIX Administration  Microsoft IIS 6.0 Administration  Microsoft IIS 5.0 Administration  Sun One Enterprise Webserver 6.0 Administration  Dameware NT Utilities  UNIX command line  DOS command line  Active Directory Administration  Microsoft Windows 8  Microsoft Windows 7  ARCServe  Veritas  F5 Big IP Load Balancing Appliance