Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Professional Naperville, IL Solutions-driven IT professional proficient in MS Enterprise Systems and network engineering. Strategic and analytical with an organized approach and aptitude for project management and product support. Well-versed in conducting critical analyses and problem-solving. Committed to providing high-level solutions that drive revenue. Demonstrated success in recovery planning, project mapping and training. Work Experience Network Administrator IFSWS - Plainfield, IL December 2018 to Present • Rewrote and updated group policy with new domain move and domain level raise.  • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  • Monitored stability of network and wireless services to ensure comprehensive stability.  • Increased domain levels by closely managing windows domain move.  • Maintained network hardware and software and monitored network to ensure network availability to end users. Manager Muller Auto Group - Highland Park, IL September 2016 to Present • Adjusted job assignments and schedules to keep pace with dynamic business needs, factoring in processes, employee knowledge and customer demands.  • Performed annual reviews assessing each employee's performance and developed improvement plans.  • Set, enforced and optimized internal policies to maintain efficiency and responsiveness to demands.  • Raised performance in areas of sales, management and operations by identifying and targeting areas in need of improvement.  • Maintained team efficiency by strategically delegating daily activities, monitoring output and rewarding positive contributions. Education High School Diploma Roosevelt High School - Chicago, IL September 1995 to June 1999 Skills Backups, Excellent communication skills, Maintenance, Windows, Networking, Technical Support, Customer Service, Windows 7, Vmware, Active Directory, DBA, Sql Dba, Sql Server, MYSQL, Oracle Dba Certifications/Licenses Network + System administrator June 2019 to Present Automotive Tech April 2002 to September 2004