Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Westerheide Sheet Metal Inc Collinsville, IL • Network technician seeking full-time employment.  • CCNA, CCNA Security, MTA, and CompTIA Security+ certified.  • Experienced in network administration and a unique variety of hardware and software.  • Proven problem-solving skills in a variety of troubleshooting roles. Work Experience Network Administrator Westerheide Sheet Metal Inc August 2009 to Present Maintaining multiple VLAN switched and wireless network infrastructure.  • Executing all phases of installation and ongoing support for network, PC, and industry- specific specialty equipment such as computerized cutting machines.  • Software installation and support including all time-tracking, productivity (MS Office), and accounting (Quickbooks) applications.  • Supporting small team in a variety of additional responsibilities including payroll, office  administration, and human resources management tasks.    Certifications and Training  • Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)  • CCNA Security  • CompTIA Security+  • Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) (Windows Server Administration Fundamentals) Education A.A.S. in Network Design and Administration Southwestern Illinois College - Belleville, IL Skills CCNA, CCNA Security, CompTIA Secuirty +, MTA (Server Fundamentals), Linux Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/john-schiber/99/a82/a07 Additional Information Knowledge Base/Experience     Cisco Network fundamentals, routing protocols/concepts, LAN switching & wireless, accessing WAN   Data Assurance ( Network security, types of attacks, attacker profiles, hardware, software and operating system defenses solutions)  Linux Operating System (UNIX system concepts, architecture and administration. File system, file processing, editors, basic shell programing and utilities)  TCP/IP (Transmission control protocol/Internet protocol and its implementation with Windows server and client operating systems)  Network Security (Information security practices and techniques. Computer and programing security techniques, local and WAN implementation and network architecture. TCP/IP, operating system best practices, application development best practices, networks and services, communications concepts, hardware and communications media.)  Windows Server (MTA Windows Server Admin) Manage and maintain the Microsoft Server environment. Selecting server and client hardware, installing and configuring a sever, setting up and managing network services, establishing remote access services, interoperating on a network, setting up Internet services, monitoring and tuning server and troubleshooting problems. Understanding administrative tools that are used to implement, manage and maintain Microsoft Windows Server network infrastructure. Implementing routing; implementing, managing and maintaining DHCP, DNS, WINS, securing IP traffic with IPSec and certificates; implementing a network access infrastructure by configuring the connections for remote access clients; and managing and monitoring network access.)  Knowledge of Active Directory infrastructure, function and implementation.   Designed, and implemented all phases of a fully mobile office solution from a qualitative and quantitative perspective taking advantage of cloud resources (i.e. Dropbox and Office 365 cloud storage) and state of the art technology through the use of Microsoft Surfaces and all related equipment.   Strong knowledge base for host based firewalls & a variety of anti-virus applications. (i.e. McAfee, AVG, Viper, Kaspersky, Windows Security Essentials)   VMWare setup and implementation. Choosing hardware and software to best suit the virtualized machine as deemed necessary. Setting up ESXi server and testing its functionality and analyzing its performance.   Implementing and maintaining NAS ( network attached storage)   Experience basic troubleshooting for OS X.