Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> A Shyamala --- Network Engineer Savoy, IL 8+ years of rich and varied experience in providing outstanding IT support in Network Administration/ Network Support in various corporate environments. Highly motivated and organized professional that excels with team environments as well an independent hands on problem solver.  • Technical solutions to meet challenging business needs.  • LAN/WAN network administration and support under Windows XP/NT/2000 and UNIX environment.  • Support and troubleshoot hardware, software and networks.  • Responsible for Active Directory and Group Policy management.  • Install, configure, and troubleshoot Microsoft Clustering Services (MSCS). Clustering experience includes Active/Active, Active/Passive and multiple node configurations.  • Proficient in SQL, Exchange, and file sharing cluster applications across multiple locations and hardware.  • Installation and configuring hardware, troubleshoot Corporate Desktops and laptops  • Update Operating System software on Windows 2003, 2008 servers and XP, Vista and Windows 7.  • Satisfy users through methodical analysis and problem resolution. Renowned as the "go-to person" for immediate resolution to all technical issues.  • Organize, take-charge professional with exceptional follow-through abilities, and detail orientation.  • Plan and oversee projects from conception to successful conclusions  • Outstanding communication skills; interfaces effectively with upper management, vendor, staff, peers and users.  • Strong technical background with a solid history of delivering outstanding customer service. Genuine commitment to quality and customer satisfaction. Implant on create their website. Help the delvopler to see any bugs. Also to check on coworker site issues and computer issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Hitech Sleep Solutions - Houston, TX February 2012 to July 2016 WORK AUTHORIZATION:    U.S CITIZEN Education Bachelors of Science in Information System Management in Hi-tech Sleep Solutions York CUNY College - Jamaica, NY February 2012 to July 2016 Computer systems Lone Star College CY Fair - Cypress, TX September 2009 to September 2011 Helene Fulde College of Nursing - New York, NY May 2007 to August 2009 architecture New York City School October 2006 to April 2007 Skills Backup Exec. (2 years), DHCP. (4 years), DNS (4 years), Ghost (2 years), MS Office (9 years) Additional Information Information technology specialist: Network administrator / Network Administrator / Network support / Helpdesk Analyst    TECHNICAL SUMMARY:    Hardware: Desktops, Laptops, Modems, Network Cards, Mother Boards, Printers, Scanners, Routers, Hubs, Switches, Server 2003 and 2008.  Systems: Windows NT/2000, UNIX, Windows 95/XP, Vista Window 7.  Protocols: TCP/IP, NetBEUI, WINS, DNS, DHCP, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, CCNA  Software: MS Office Suite, Verities, Backup Exec, Symantec Ghost