Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - ITSecUS Denver, CO To obtain a challenging and rewarding position in Network Administration with an organization which recognizes my true potential and provides me sufficient avenues for professional growth through nurturing my technical skills and competencies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator ITSecUS - Centennial, CO March 2014 to Present SECURITY/REMOTE ACCESS  • Install and Configure Checkpoint Provider 1/ Smart Center  • Upgrade Checkpoint Management Platform code from R75 to R77.  • Review and write rules on Checkpoint using Smart dashboard  • Troubleshoot Checkpoint policy and applications using Smart dashboard Monitor  • Install and configure Multi Domain Server (MDS), Customer Management Add-on (CMA) and Customer Logging Module (CLM)  • Configure Multi Domain GUI (MDG)  • Assign Global Policy using P1  • Configure and Upgrade Checkpoint appliances from R65 to R75 operating system  • Configure Checkpoint UTM with Secure XL template and troubleshoot application flow  • Creating rules, policy and permission for customers and users on Checkpoint P1 environment.  • Apply network security policy to allow and deny connections to inside and outside of the network using filtering.    LAN AND WAN  • Design various network using VISIO software for documentation and implementing the proposal after approval.  • Configured Border Gateway Protocol, OSPF and EIGRP  • Redesigned a network by using private addressing for internal network to shield, negotiate with vendor and purchased the equipment used to implement the design  • Set up Peer-to-Peer tunnel between the branch office and the head office to connect in a secure way.  • Manage data infrastructures using Checkpoint and Cisco Routers  • Documents architecture design, data network drawing and asset management for a financial institution.  • Upgrading CISCO IOS, CatOS on switches, routers and firewalls.  • Ensure that the software running on data equipment is reviewed quarterly for bugs and standardization for high uptime.  • Organize quarterly vendor briefing on products updates and releases.  • Perform regular failover testing and ensure high network performance  • Perform network capacity planning and recommend hardware procurement.  • Installed and configured CISCO routers series for WAN connectivity  • Configure and troubleshoot VLANs issues on the switch, setting up of trunk ports and uplinks using GBIC and fiber cable.  • Implementing switch clusters with catalyst 3548 models and upgrading of software.  • Set up STP, Portfast and install switch modular cards into catalyst 6509 with necessary configuration.  • Turn up ports on the switch and setting up redundancy using HSRP on layer 3 for Failover.  • Troubleshoot different LAN related problems arising from the users and network equipment.  • Installation and configuration of router series with setting up of LAN and WAN connectivity.  • Configure and troubleshoot different routing protocols  • Experience with windows, unix/Linux. Additional Information Summary Skills:  Passionate, diligent and focused Engineer, technical knowledge and proficiency in system administration, network maintenance, hardware maintenance. Analytical thinker, consistently resolving ongoing issues, often called upon to consult on problems that have eluded resolution by others.  Hardware experience:  Cisco Routers, Switches and Checkpoint Firewall