Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Contractor/ Network Support Specialist Huntington, WV Talented Network Engineer with over 5 years’ experience seeks position that will utilize exceptional training, certifications, and experience as a network support specialist. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Maroc-Telecom - Casablanca, MA March 2014 to April 2016 • responsible for LAN and WAN network operations, systems  disaster recovery, database and systems backup, and network security. Played key role in management of IT department  • Performed network documentation and created disaster recovery plan.  • Setup Cisco Entercept IDS and Cisco Works for Windows for network monitoring.  • Oversaw migration of WAN links to new service provider, designed full mesh WAN,  set up TFTP server to backup, and restored configuration and IOS image files for the PIX,  Cisco routers, and Catalyst switches.  • Analyzed expanding network, ran fiber, and implemented wireless communication.  • Designed configuration and layout of WAN to include IPT Internet facing VPNs and wireless subnet.  • Migrated network from full mesh frame relay to Point-Point T1, T3 on larger sites, and implemented IPsec VPN on smaller sites.  • Administered multiple PIX firewalls throughout WAN to ensure LAN integrity from external threats.  • Monitored bandwidth and network activity by analyzing information to ensure both efficient and effective network operation.  • Configured and supported multiple remote site installations Junior Network Administrator Maroc-Telecom - Casablanca, MA July 2012 to March 2014 responsible for administration of network comprised of 58  workstations, help desk, hardware inventory, software inventory, network mapping,  equipment purchasing, and software purchasing. Education Bachelor of Science – Information Technology Ecole Superieur d`Infromatique Applique - Casablanca June 2012 Skills CISCO (5 years), FRAME RELAY (2 years), INTERNET PROTOCOL SECURITY (2 years), IPSEC (2 years), LAN (2 years), Ccna, Router, Comptia, CCNP, Office 365, Vmware, NOC, System Administrator, Networking, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Professional • Cisco Certified Network Associate • Red Hat Certified Engineer (RHCE) • Oracle Certified Associate • Certified In JAVA • Certified in SQL CompTIA Network+ Additional Information • Outstanding certifications include Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) and  Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP).  • Proven track record solving IP network issues in timely and cost-efficient manner  while maintaining client Service Level Agreements up-time.  • Exceptional experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments.  • Adept at building strong business relationships with both clients and coworkers.    Possess excellent interpersonal, organizational, and communication skills.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Experience of Cisco LAN switches, including 6500, 3750 and HP 5500 and 5120  switch installation requirements and guidelines  • Installation and setup of routers and switches  • Responsible for troubleshooting of networking equipment across multiple sites • Switching,  Standard Access-list, Extended Access-list and Vlans Configurations.  • Everything of Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS)  • Deep knowledge of OSI 7 Layer Model, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, TFTP.  • Deep Knowledge of LAN technologies, Switches, Cables, Bridges  • Experience of IP addressing, administrating subnets and various routing models  • Deep knowledge of WAN technologies such as PPP, Frame-relay, dedicated T1s,  ISDN  • and Routing Protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, IGRP, RIP and RIPv1/2 BGP, MPLS  • Familiar with the setup and basic configuration of Cisco Access, Distribution and Core  Switches  • Implementation of HSRP, DHCP, DNS, FTP, TFTP, SLA, SNMP  • Experience of configuring and monitoring Cisco Routers  • Responsible for the regular back up and restoration of all critical assets  • Deep Understanding of how to configure WAN Protocols, including HDLC, PPP,  FRAME RELAY MPLS, IPSec.  • Experience of implementing SNMP on various devices, allowing for network  management  • Put in place traffic filters through the use of IP Access Lists, Distribute-Lists, and  Route Maps  • Set up and configuration of remote access solutions including Fractional T1, VPN and  ISDN dial up