Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Chicago, IL Seeking a full-time position in the field of information technology, utilizing my business and technical knowledge along with my leadership, communication, and team collaboration skills. Work Experience Network Administrator COMCAVILA September 2012 to June 2013 Supervise all customer services, maintenance and employee training.  • Administering and maintaining network connectivity, Internet access, email, etc.  • Hardware Maintenance and configuration.  • Troubleshooting network problems and hardware problems. Teacher Ciego de Avila University September 2010 to July 2012 Responsible for teaching Computer Programming to University students aged 18-20.  • Responsible for teaching Computer Introduction to high school students aged 16-18.  • Evaluated students' progress and provided individualized feedback based upon their needs.  • Effectively communicated with students and school administration.  • Worked well on a team with fellow teachers and classroom aides. Network Administrator Ciego de Avila University September 2010 to July 2012 Assisting students with software problems and questions  • Assisting students with use of multimedia equipment such as printers, scanners, and digital video recorders  • Installing and troubleshooting hardware and software for academic and administrative computers  • Updating administrative computers by adding software and hardware  • Installed soft and hardware upgrades  • Solved network connectivity problems Education High School Diploma Instituto Preuniversitario 2000 to 2003 Additional Information QUALIFICATIONS    • Proficient programmer in Pascal, C++, Java, Java Script, SQL, html 4, and XML  • Proficient in use of Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, and Adobe PhotoShop  • Three years experience with Web page design  • Skilled with troubleshooting Windows XP on PC platform  • Three years experience installing hardware and software  • Hard-working, dependable and responsible employee.  • Excellent communication and problem-solving skills.  • Quick-learner and adaptable in foreign environments.