Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Dallas, TX CCNA Certified. Experienced in local and wide area networks (LAN/WAN). A result-oriented professional, with broad experience in technical services and a reliable team worker with excellent communications, interpersonal relations and leadership skills. Seeking a network professional position with a quality organization that can utilize my proven skills in network administration, escalation support, network monitoring and network troubleshooting.    NETWORK TECHNOLOGIES  Cisco routers 1200, 1600, 2500, 3600, and 7200 and 7500 series, Cisco Pix and ASA firewall.  Cisco Catalyst switches 2900, 3500, 3750, 4000, 5000, 6500 and 8500 series.  VLAN management, Trunking, Segmenting and Ether Channeling.  Ethernet, fast-Ethernet, gigabit, 802.1Q, Ethernet, Ten-gigabit Ethernet.  RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, DMZ, TCP/IP, VPN, IPSEC, MPLS and Frame Relay, STP, HSRP, VRRP, Access Control List, NAT, PAT, DHCP, DNS, Access Points and Access Point Controllers (Ruckus, Cisco, Unifi, Aruba), WEP, WPA, WPA2, SIP, VOIP,  QOS, SIEM Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator System - Dallas, TX August 2016 to Present • Provide effective voice and data network support for Resorts and other Service industries using remote technologies like FortiClient VPN, TeamViewer and Microsoft remote Desktop.  • Provide voice and date support with the assistance of on-site personnel including: Engineers, Maintenance, On-site Field Techs and Third Party Vendors.  • Provide support and troubleshooting for Customer and Guest Wi-Fi issues related to connectivity, signal strength, and Captive Portal.  • Provide support and configurations for NEC PBXs (8100, 9100, and 9300), Polycom, NEC, Cisco, Panasonic and Soft IP phones on and off-site.  • Develop thorough understanding of each customers systems and proactively respond to service and connectivity issues  • Assists in troubleshooting network system failures and ensuring appropriate action is taken.  • Assists in installation, configuration, upgrading, maintaining and support of network equipment and software including: Cisco switches, Cisco routers, Audiocodecs IADs, Access Points, Dslams, IP phones, PBXs, UPS, ATAs, and cabling via remotely or with Field Tech  • Respond to network alerts using Proprietary Network Monitoring software, Wireshark and VOIP Monitoring.  • Install, Provision and Monitor Unifi, Ruckus and Aruba Access Points and their respective controllers.  • Installation and configuration of Unifi Backhauls  • Installation and configuration of Minuteman UPS. Also installation of SNMP, Environmental cards and battery replacement.  • Configure Trunking (802.1Q), Switch port security (Dynamic and sticky), VLANs (Native and Management) on Cisco 2960, 3560, 6506 switches.  • Identify and respond to issues related to spanning tree protocol.  • Repond to Voip Fraud alerts using Transnexus and VOIP Monitor  • Assist in troubleshooting issues with Hotel Management Software (Oracle)  • Respond to modification (move, add or changes) request  • Document troubleshooting steps and process using internal ticketing. Mainly RT Ticketing system  • Maintain software/firmware versions and revision control of customer applications  • Maintain the Customer Site Document (CSD) document all moves, add, and changes to the physical and logical elements of a customer's network.  • Maintain IPAM (IP management software) to keep all IP allocations on networks updated. Jr. Network Administrator Fujitsu - Richardson, TX January 2014 to August 2016 • Monitored and surveillanced Network connectivity for over 1300 locations using Wireshark, Supporting the network performance and reliability initiative.  • Responded to tickets using Service Now and troubleshot escalated network issues.  • Used putty to SSH into remote locations.  • Remote access VPN server and client  • Security Policy Implementation on router 2911  • Secured more than 1300 company routers for Administrative access.  • Configured IPS using CLI and CCP  • Remotely accessed switches cisco 2960, 2950 catalyst to configure port to correct VLAN, and port security.  • Moved changed or added devices to the proper port and VLAN on Cisco switches 2960 and 2950  • Handled on-call after business hours troubleshooting network issues with technician via SSH.  • Day-to-day administration of Firewall on client's server using security tools to verify and configure set up via Citrix Xen app (NetScaler Gateway) application.  • Implemented and configured Firewalls ASA using ASDM software  • Created and Respond to ticket opened by routine alarms and network issues.  • Utilized proprietary system tools to evaluate connectivity performance on devices via Citrix (NetScaler Gateway) application.  • Installed and updated software to assigned server (Windows server 2012 R2)  • Configured and troubleshot devices (Self-Serve Printers, Fax, Scanners, PCs) for staples stores (over 1300 companies), accessing devices remotely, setting network time protocol, SNMPv3, setting static IP addresses, IP gateway subnet mask, and DNS's.  • Designed end-to-end solutions to meet the customer needs using the following products (Cisco Router 2811, Cisco Switch 2960, ).  • Installed Virtual machine on thin clients as well as physical machines. Education B.S in Business Administration Nicholls State University - Thibodaux, LA May 2008 Skills Networking (5 years), Troubleshooting (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/josborne0017th Certifications/Licenses CCNA July 2016 to July 2019 [ Routing And Switching License #272922492 ] CWNA [CWNP Wireless – Certified Wireless Network Administrator License #CSCO13019362] A+ Certified [A+ #License COMP001020940956 ]