Job Seeker Fairview Heights, IL Work Experience EMERGENCY ACTION CONTROLLER - JOINT COMMAND 2016 to 2016 - 2020  - Led two-person controller team, provides notification and recall for USSTRATCOM and their assigned tenant units.  - Received/validated/interpreted time-critical USSTRATCOM/CJCS Emergency Action Messages directing WG actions.  - Conducted semi-annual ITECs/PECs/PWCS inventory of IT hardware assets assigned to units AFEMS-AIM accounts. Network/System Administrator USS Bonhomme Richard LHD6 - Sasebo, Nagasaki Prefecture 2013 to 2016 - Managed medium scale network consisting of 3000 customers  - Administered Navy afloat DCGS-N network as well as maintained mission critical sub systems.  - Utilized Active Directory and VMware for day to day activities implementing system maintenance, updates, and corrective measures for system vulnerabilities.  - Safeguarded access and permissions to information systems ensuring access is given only to authorized personnel.  - Developed new project maintenance, training documentation, and trained personnel.  - Assured that all information systems are utilized, upkeep, and dismantling are conducted in accordance to Department of Defense policies, directive, and procedures. Pacific Regional Network Operation Center 2011 to 2013 - Operated, maintained, and administered network connectivity for 300,000 customers.  - Negotiated day to day Customer Trouble tickets, completing 87 tickets on average monthly.  - Provided and supervised local help desk functions, troubleshooting network connectivity issues consisting of Email, DNS, and Web browsing.  - Awarded Meritorious Unit Accommodation medal for providing 98% network connectivity to Customers while transferring $500 million in network infrastructure and satellite communications equipment to a new facility. Education High school or equivalent in General Studies Maize Sr High School - Maize, KS August 2005 to May 2009 Skills Network Administration (9 years), System Administration (10+ years), Solaris (4 years), Linux (7 years), Military (10+ years) Military Service Branch: UNITED STATES NAVY Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 January 2010 to Present Certifications/Licenses Security+ 2011 to 2020