Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator at Digital Edge New York, NY • Working knowledge of L2/L3 protocols like VLANs, STP, VTP, and Trucking protocols.  • Extensive knowledge of configuring protocols like RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, HSRP, VRRP.  • Good knowledge in WAN Technologies like ACL, NAT and PAT, IPsec, and VPNs.  • Knowledge of IP addressing and Subnetting (IPv4/6).  • Performed deep packet analysis to troubleshoot application issues using tools like Wire-shark.  • Hands on experience with Zenoss monitoring tool, Solarwind, Wireshark Network Packet Analyzer.  • Strong knowledge about all layers of the OSI Model.  • High-level knowledge of networking services such as DNS, DHCP, FTP.  • Detailed understanding of the OSI networking model physical, data link, and network layers.  • Experience with Juniper network hardware platforms.  • Ability to perform hands-on work with IDF and MDF.  • Hands on experience working with documentation tool like Visio. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Digital Edge - Staten Island, NY April 2019 to Present ·        Provide 24/7 network support for troubleshooting and resolving network related incidents.  ·        Configured the cisco devices with the TACACS+.   ·        Troubleshooted VPN issues on Cisco ASA and Fortigate devices.   ·        Configured IPSEC VPN (Site-Site to Remote Access) on Cisco ASA 5510, 5515, and 5520.  ·        Configured LDAPS on Palo Alto Firewalls.   ·        Checking the connectivity between the client’s sites and make sure everything is working fine.   ·        Configured Security policies including NAT, PAT, VPN, Route-maps and Access Control Lists, Netflow.  ·        Assisted in Configuration of Cisco Routing protocols BGP, EIGRP, OSPF Installed LANs, WANs and established intranet and internet access.  ·        Updated the tickets with the proper findings and soultions in realtime manner.   ·        Worked on the devices like Cisco 2960, 3560, Nexus 5500, 9000, Fortigate 200B & 200D, Barracuda WAF, Palo Alto Firewalls, Cisco ISE servers.  Network Operations Center (NOC) Specialist ConvergeOne - New York, NY December 2018 to April 2019 ·        Monitored and troubleshoot alerts on monitoring tool like Zenoss.  ·        Performed diagnosis via SSH, TELNET on problems related to network, system, and service failures on client devices.  ·        Configured IPSEC VPN (Site-Site to Remote Access) on SRX series firewalls.  ·        Created tickets with the Internet carriers in case of an issue found on their end.  ·        Created tickets for the internal team to get RCA of the issue.  ·        Hands on experience on failing over the traffic to the secondary link in case of any intrusive test scheduled by the carrier on Primary link.  ·        Worked with off-net providers to troubleshoot connectivity issues with circuits or vendor supplied Customer Premises Equipment (CPE).  ·        Participated in the Maintenance window for Network Engineering team and Carriers.  ·        Provided basic support for PBX and voice mail software programming.  ·        Troubleshooted, implemented, optimized and tested both static and dynamic routing protocols such as EIGRP, OSPF, BGP to interpret and resolve complex route table problems.  ·        Provided Help Desk support over the telephone and through email to clients for voice and data desktop and network solutions.  ·        Making the use of Active Directory for the client to create new & maintain their user and their account information.  ·        Assisted clients through remote desktop support or GoToAssist applications to set up new applications and troubleshoot the issue.  ·        Performed daily checklists for proper functionality of networks, systems, and services.   ·        Configured 2900, 3600 and 4000 series routers with protocols OSPF, EIGRP, and BGP.  ·        Regular configuration and troubleshooting of network devices including Cisco switches, routers, firewalls.   ·        Good knowledge about how to build a network with great efficiency in service from the service provider to the customer.  ·        Experience in designing a new network and modifying the existing network as per customer requirement.    Working Environment: Cisco 1921, 1941, Netgear POE switches, Juniper SRX 240, 340 Firewalls, MX 104, 204 Routers. APC UPS, VLANs, VTP, Frame Relay, EIGRP, RIPv2, OSPF, BGP, HSRP, VRRP, Dot1q, DNS, TCP/IP. MPLS, DHCP, WAN, CLI, VoIP. IT Network Engineer University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT August 2017 to May 2018 • Worked as a student worker as IT Network Engineer at the University of Bridgeport.  • Responsible for providing efficient and effective technical support to staff, faculty, and students in areas such as pc hardware and software packages, printer, along with network troubleshooting/support.  • Responsible for cabling and labeling based on day to day requirement and Racking & Stacking of various network equipment and made sure that there are no connectivity issues using ping and tracert.  • Provided Helpdesk support that involved identifying and escalating the tickets to specific groups.  • Troubleshooting network related issues through daily ticketing system for clients using BlackbeltHelp.  • Troubleshooted complex LAN /WAN infrastructure that included the routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF.  • Performed daily network monitoring task & monitored network traffic using Wireshark.  • Configured VLANs with 802.1Q Tagging according to the Server team’s requirements.  • Configured Ether channels, Trunks, VLAN’s in a LAN environment.  • Responsible for level 2 & level 3 support of existing network technologies /services. Network Operation Center (NOC) Engineer Softcall Cust-O-Care pvt ltd. - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2015 to August 2016 ·        Responsible for maintaining and installing computer networks based around Cisco, Router and switches environment.  ·        Worked as a part of a team and operated in a fast-paced, changing and challenging 24x7 environment.  ·        Maintenance & troubleshooting of LANs, WANs internet networks.  ·        Analyzed & developed key components using methodology prescribed techniques.  ·        Communicating and negotiating with users, specialists, other staff and suppliers.   ·        Investigating, diagnosing and resolve all network problems.   ·        Involved in troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP, and other IP conflict problems  ·        Experienced in implementation and troubleshooting knowledge of protocols and technologies, especially in the following: EIGRP, OSPF, IPv4, and Ethernet.  ·        Utilized Cisco commands to assist in configuring switches.  ·        Served as the Level 1, 2 contacts for the network team, fielding issues and then escalating to L3 based on complexity. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor's of Engineering in Electronics Engineering "K.J. Somaiya College of Engineering and Information Technology" - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2011 to May 2015 Skills BGP., C+, DNS., EIGRP, DHCP, IPv4 & IPv6 Addressing (1 year), LAN Switching (1 year), Network Management (1 year), Network Programmability, Network Topologies (1 year), OSPF, RIPv2, Static & Dynamic Routing, Troubleshooting, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Cisco, Ccna, BGP, NOC, Operation, Ethernet, Active Directory, Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Microsoft Office Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ankit-sompura05301992 https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/8abc92b4-111c-465c-9016-6f49463eaa6c/public_url Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching April 2018 to April 2021 License: CSCO13274932    Verification URL: https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/8abc92b4-111c-465c-9016-6f49463eaa6c/public_url CCNA Routing and Switching: Introduction to Networks. December 2017 to Present Successfully achieved student level credential in “CCNA Routing and Switching: Introduction to Networks” and acquired competencies that includes the following:  • Network technologies  • Local and remote network resources.  • Router hardware.  • How the switching operates in a small to medium-sized business network.  • Design an IP addressing scheme to provide network connectivity for a small to medium-sized business network.  • To configure initial settings on a network device.  • Implement basic network connectivity between devices.  • Configure monitoring tools available for small to medium-sized business network. Additional Information SKILLS    Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP/7/8/10  Programming Languages: Java, C++  MS Office: MS Word, MS PowerPoint.  Software's: MATLAB, Xilinx, LabVIEW.  Tool's: Packet Tracer, Wireshark Network Protocol Analyzer, Solar winds, GSN3.  Protocols: RIP (v1 and v2), EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, NAT, TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, DNS,   TACAS+, RADIUS.  Switching: Cisco 2900, 3560, 3750, 4500, 6500.  Routing: Planning, Designing, Installing, Configuring of Cisco Routers 1700, 2500, 2600, 3600, 3700, 3800, 4500