Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Wilsonville, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Oregon Institute of Technology - Wilsonville, OR June 2014 to December 2015 Responsible for configuring and implementing the new Enterprise Technology Lab at Oregon Tech. Install network switches and servers, and configured Windows Server 2012 R2 with Hyper-V to create the infrastructure to support instructors in the IT and Health Informatics programs. Also, provide continuing support to instructors and students to resolve connectivity and performance issues, as well as adding additional services.  • Managed physical network infrastructure  ? Installed and configured Fortinet firewall, Extreme Networks core and access layer switches, and Cisco routers  ? Setup ETON Power UPS units, racks and other data center infrastructure  ? Installed network cabling and terminated network connections  ? Assigned IP addresses and created VLANs  ? Created firewall rules and VPNs  ? Documented network information and maintained IP/Subnet documentation  • Installed server and storage infrastructure  ? Installed Dell and HP servers (updated BIOS, configured RAID, etc.)  ? Installed and configured Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter  ? Setup a multi-node Hyper-V failover cluster  ? Installed and maintained Active Directory and Certificate Services, DNS, DHCP, SQL Servers, and other various services  ? Installed and configured Microsoft System Center R2 Virtual Machine Manager  ? Setup a pilot Hyper-V VDI implementation with Remote Desktop Services  ? Managed Windows updates and system patches  ? Installed and configured Nimble CS-300 and CS-215 iSCSI storage arrays  ? Configured physical and virtual servers with multi-path access to Nimble storage arrays  • Setup and maintained all lab workstations and network equipment  ? Installed and configured Windows 7, 8.1 and 10 operating systems  ? Installed basic Office applications and specialized software upon request of instructors  ? Provided technical support to instructors and students using lab equipment  ? Setup switches, routers and other equipment needed for student labs Peer Consultant (Tutor) Oregon Tech January 2013 to June 2014 Wilsonville  Help guide students to learn concepts in Information Systems, and how to use software, such as basic office software like Microsoft Office, and technical applications like SQL Server and Visual Studio 2013.  • Communicate with students to understand problem  • Identify key areas for improvement and learning opportunities  • Provide guidance and verify positive outcome Education BS in Information Technology Oregon Institute of Tech - Wilsonville, OR 2015 AA in Information Systems Norco College - Norco, CA 2012 Skills CCNA (1 year), System Administrator (1 year), Cisco, Networking (2 years), Active Directory (1 year), Servers (2 years), Powershell (1 year), IPsec (Less than 1 year), Windows (4 years), Linux (2 years), Troubleshooting (4 years), Project Management (1 year), Hyper-V (2 years), Cloud Computing (1 year), IPv4 (2 years), IPv6 (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Computer Hardware (4 years), Technical Support, Windows 7, security, Customer Service Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching May 2018 to May 2021 CCENT August 2016 to May 2021