Android Developer Intern Android Developer Intern Android Developer - Revision Military Marlborough, MA Experienced Android developer. Skilled in Android, Java and React Native. Developed and released Protonex's first Android App.  Converted their existing app to utilize React Native @ Revision Military. Optimized app performance using Android Profiler. Reduced loading time by one second. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Intern Revision Military - Southborough, MA December 2018 to Present • Converted their existing app to utilize React Native.  • Optimized app performance using Android Profiler. Reduced loading time by one second.  • Researched, reported, and fixed software defects using JIRA.  • Delivered code with testing (Jtest), auto build process (pipelines) and version control (gitlab).  • Two week sprints including sprint planning, daily story grooming, defect review, and sprint retrospectives. Network Systems Administrator Carat Systems - Stoneham, MA December 2015 to December 2018 • Implemented Windows Server 2012 R2 and Remote VPN.  • Planned and setup backup solution utilizing Amazon S3.  • Developed an Android app to be able to manage the systems remotely.  • Created a website for the company utilizing HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used SEO best practices to elevate company's Web presence. Android Developer Intern Protonex - Southborough, MA January 2018 to June 2018 • Created and launched the company's first app into the Google Play Store.  • Converted C# code into Java to implement Android app from existing Windows application.  • Implemented Unit Tests and User Interface testing.  • Worked with our website developers to create an API and provide data to the app via RESTful APIs w/JSON.  • Utilized Android USB Host API to communicate with Protonex's power managers.  • Participated in code reviews, wireframe designs and application performance design discussions in an agile team.  • Used application components such as Activities, Services, and Broadcast Receivers along with their life cycles to define  the application's overall behavior. Education Associate in Science in Computer Science Massachusetts Bay Community College - Wellesley, MA 2016 to 2017 Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management University of Nevada - Las Vegas, NV 2012 to 2015 Skills Android, Java, Android Sdk, Git, Google, Embedded, Agile, Javascript, C++, HTML, CSS3, Framework Links http://linkedin.com/in/rsalguero3 http://github.com/rsalguero3 http://RicardoSalguero.com Assessments Technical Support Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8pjrh-sem3ywzcgb Search Engine Optimization — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mcnkwab5vcfggrwk Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.