Cybersecurity Engineer Cybersecurity Engineer Cybersecurity Engineer Stamford, CT To utilize my experience fulfilling IT service needs in a position which challenges me, allows me to advance my knowledge and use my technical skills to solve business problems through the development of innovative business solutions. Work Experience Cybersecurity Engineer Apex Technology Services - Norwalk, CT March 2017 to June 2019 • Wrote various python script to assist with data analysis of Windows AD login attempts on servers, parse email headers back to origin, change and or report recursive NTFS permissions on shared drives, parse DMARC aggregate reports.  • Wrote a cybersecurity course for training purposes, held training sessions for clients.  • Performing phishing campaigns for compliance purposes.  • Ran port scans and Nessus scans to find holes in network perimeter and remediate.  • Analyzing suspicious emails sent to clients, determine which are phishing or malicious. Configured SPF / DKIM / DMARC for all managed clients.  • Triage and investigation of possible breach incidents, report findings to any registrar or ISP which were involved in the breach.  • Configuring and administered to VMware ESXi and vSphere environments.  • Configuring, managing, deploying SonicWALL appliances in various environments (mixed OS, have supported windows, mac and Linux desktops) allowing for secure VPN access and secure remote management.  • Assisting with network discovery tasks, scanning client networks to obtain a complete topology with system information.  • Creating and reviewing policies for organizational compliance purposes including Acceptable Usage, Employee Onboarding and Offboarding, Backup and Disaster Recovery.  • Created Django freemium application app.phish360.com which allows users to sign up, send phishing emails to employees within the same email domain. The app infrastructure includes 5 virtual servers with various roles to ensure HTTPS transport to all resources, all configured maintained and secured.  • Configured, tuned, and deployed Datto backup devices for 3 large clients with 15+ virtual machines backed up every hour. 10 medium to large devices being managed in total, Datto OS is a type of Linux and takes constant ShadowProtect backups of Windows OS via VSS writers, transports offsite. Allows for launch of backup recovery in the form of a VM of latest backup via QEMU hypervisor, useful for restoring functionality in the case of a physical server experiencing a hardware failure or a virtual server experiencing OS corruption.  • Assisting with help desk. Founder & Systems Administrator Website Savants LLC - Greenwich, CT October 2014 to October 2017 • Started freelance website hosting and application development company  • Developed SavantDigital.net website with Django  • Developed ecommerce application with stripe integration  • Developed using Vagrant and Docker containers for easy application deployment  • Wrote functional python scripts to make log analysis much simpler  • Wrote BASH scripts to assist with configuration of services.  • Gained vast experience with website hosting and management of Linux computer systems.  • Designed Django applications for customers  • Designed dynamic WordPress websites and developed php extensions  • Gained vast experience developing and hosting django applications Network Engineer Circulent LLC - Darien, CT December 2015 to September 2016 • Configured Windows Domain Networks; Hyper-V Host, guests with AD, DNS, DHCP, NTP.  • Utilized Oracle Virtualbox, Windows Hyper-V, and Vmware vSphere to create, modify and configure guest machines  • Used Datto devices to create and deploy backups of workstations, virtual servers and physical servers  • Configured Watchguard Routers and applying managed traffic policies  • Utilized Labtech RMM to assist MSP clients with daily computer problems  • Wrote BATCH-like scripts in Labtech to automate tasks  • Assisted with network discovery tasks, scanning client networks to obtain a complete topology with system information, and creating network diagrams in Microsoft Visio Education Psychology University of Connecticut - Stamford, CT August 2006 to June 2010 Skills Apache (Less than 1 year), application development (3 years), BASH (3 years), Database (Less than 1 year), deployment (3 years), DHCP (Less than 1 year), Django (4 years), DNS (Less than 1 year), Exchange (Less than 1 year), Hyper-V (Less than 1 year), Linux (4 years), maintenance. (Less than 1 year), MS Exchange (Less than 1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year), Network Administration (Less than 1 year), Nginx (Less than 1 year), remediation. (Less than 1 year), Scripting (Less than 1 year), VMware (3 years), VPN (2 years), Information Security, Network Security, Cyber Security, Siem, Nist, It Security, Cybersecurity Links https://github.com/bpinkert/gitportfolio Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) August 2019 to August 2022