Telecommunications Administrator Telecommunications <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Telecommunications Administrator Hampton, VA Enthusiastic Technical Support Specialist with 5 years proven troubleshooting experience and holds an active Top Secret Clearance along with numerous Special Accesses. Enterprise level experience and strong technical troubleshooting skills with the ability to excel at new tasks and adapt to constant changing environments. Effectively works independently or in a team environment to complete tasks efficiently and effectively while ensuring all policies, standards, and procedures are strictly adhered. Work Experience Telecommunications Administrator TQI Solutions, MARMC - Norfolk, VA June 2018 to December 2018 • Drafted 250 Naval Messages. Ensured the correct routing of incoming naval messages using Defense Message Dissemination Systems (DMDS).  • Maintained database applications and data for user accounts in DMDS and Command Office Information Exchange (C2OIX). Reviewed database activity for accuracy and validation of users.  • Developed end user training and documentation for 300 personnel increasing the usage of C2OIX and reducing errors by 30%.  • Implemented Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for all message center daily operations streamlining the creation of user accounts.  • Provided client support for windows 7 workstations for over 3000 users  • Add/Delete user accounts  • Managing and resolving issues affecting Messaging systems including server/client problems, operational issues, business continuity, disaster recovery, etc.  • Proactively identify ways to improve reliability and efficiency of the Messaging operational environment to include monitoring, management, reporting and trending.  • Testing and implementing new software releases, patches, hot fixes in a lab environment to troubleshoot and prevent problems before production implementation, then deploy to production environment following corporate change management processes and procedures.  • Providing key technical data including but not limited to, current requirements, capacity planning, configuration and usage reporting. System/ Network Administrator Installation/Maintenance Lead USS George H W Bush - Norfolk, VA November 2015 to March 2018 • Provided client support for windows 7 workstations for over 3000 users  • Perform all administrative tasks, such as updating websites, status reports, documentation of changes made to systems, and creating special reports as needed  • Supported, troubleshot, and resolved Windows Server 2008 issues on unclassified, secret, and NATO secret network.  • Performed user administration using Active Directory including; adding/deleting users, group policies, and distribution groups.  • Performed Microsoft Exchange administration; Add/delete users, mailbox maintenance, and outlook support.  • Installed windows 10 onto multiple laptops as well as configure them as needed for customer. Helpdesk Supervisor USS George H W Bush - Norfolk, VA November 2015 to March 2018 • Supervised team providing first level help desk and desktop support to over 700 personnel  • Manage local daily and weekly backups  • Supervise severs, switched, computers and printers restores from power outages  • Supervise watch team in restorer efforts due to connectivity outages  • Train technicians OSI troubleshooting.  • Created step by step documentation that enabled user community.  • Reviewed technical documentation and procedures.  • Appropriately documented all pertinent interactions.  • Maintained and updated customer service logs. Helpdesk Technician USS George H W Bush - Norfolk, VA October 2014 to November 2015 • Maintained all shipboard workstations including; hardware, PC imaging, and general support for 1000 devices.  • Provided base level IT support to 3000 non-technical personnel within the business.  • Resolved customer issues in a clear, courteous, and straightforward manner.  • Demonstrated professionalism and courtesy with customers at all times. Communication Specialist Supervisor USS George H W Bush - Norfolk, VA October 2014 to November 2015 • Communicate with receiving operators in order to exchange transmission instructions.  • Operate radio equipment in order to communicate with ships, aircraft, mining crews, offshore oil rigs, logging camps and other remote operations.  • Maintain station logs of messages transmitted and received for activities such as flight testing and fire locations.  • Conduct periodic equipment inspections and routine tests in order to ensure that operations standards are met.  • Set up antennas and mobile communication units during military field exercises.  • Transportation and destruction of Top Secret documents for the entire command/ship.  • Notify supervisor or computer maintenance technicians of equipment malfunctions.  • Answer telephone calls to assist computer users encountering problems.  • Load peripheral equipment with selected materials for operating runs, or oversee loading of peripheral equipment by peripheral equipment operators.  • Supervise and train peripheral equipment operators and computer operator trainees Education Navy High Frequency Radio Group "C" School 2021 High School Diploma "A" School