Network Administrator (Promotion) <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Promotion) Network Administrator (Promotion) Centennial, CO My goal is to acquire a role within an organization as a Senior Network Engineer where I can be instrumental in maintaining and administering our computer networks. With over five years of networking experience, I have honed my skills and mainly focused on the maintenance of computer networks, hardware/software, performing disaster recovery operations, protecting data (software/hardware) from attacks, and replacing faulty network hardware components. I am skilled at implementing, administering, and troubleshooting network devices including WAPs, routers, switches. I hope to bring these attribute to your organization for many years. Work Experience Network Administrator (Promotion) Urban Lending Solutions - Broomfield, CO March 2018 to February 2019 Implement and maintain service for Brocade and Cisco routers and switches for existing and new network environments.  ? Implement VLAN and routing configurations to new or old network configurations.  ? Communicated with ISP providers to resolve network and telephony issues.  ? Administer data center maintenance and server changes.  ? Maintain equipment in a data center environment.  ? Document all changes in the network topology.  ? Monitor network performance via Solarwinds.  ? Assist in 24/7 on-call rotations. Junior Network/Systems Administrator April 2014 to March 2018 Provide network and telephony support to computer system users including remote users.  ? Maintain Brocade routers and switches along with monitoring network performance.  ? Implement VLAN and routing configuration to new or old network equipment.  ? Manage new, current, and retired company user profiles in Active Directory.  ? Maintained server/clients in virtualized environment.  ? Act as an escalation point for technical issues.  ? Mail, File, and SFTP server maintenance.  ? Install and configure VoIP devices. Education CCNA Westwood College - Centennial, CO May 2019 Skills CISCO, BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, ROUTER, Active Directory, Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Microsoft Office Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/anthony-hernandez-89141355