Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Pasadena, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator ClearOne Advantage - Baltimore, MD March 2018 to Present      Managing and monitoring all systems and infrastructure to ensure highest level of availability and reliability       Installing, configuring, testing, and maintaining physical/virtual servers (Microsoft Server 2008, 2012, 2016), application software, etc.       Amazon Web Services - EC2 Instance creation, modification, management, and backup. WorkSpaces image creation, bundle creation, troubleshooting. Route53 DNS host management. Networking changes and maintenance including Security Groups, VPC, Elastic IP's, Gateways, etc.       Maintain inContact call flow scripts for IVR and ACD       Redesign and implementation of infrastructure to accomodate for growth from ~150 employees to ~650       Exchange migration of 720 mailboxes from hybrid exchange to Office 365       Telephony/UCaaS redesign and administration, transitioning ~650 users from third party managed phone system (Spectrum/Brighthouse) to hosted VoIP system (Goto)       Created scripts (Powershell/Batch/Python/VBScript) and implemented various technologies (WSUS/WDS), providing automation to allow administrative scalability to accommodate for rapid company growth, as well as better end user service without increasing department spend on employee capital. SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN SCD INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY May 2015 to February 2018 · Appointed senior technician on T&M contract with property management firm to provide installation and set-up of onsite computers and networks at 200+ sites across the eastern coast of the United States. Interface with security and A/V vendors and integrate their hardware and software into the site setup. Maintain daily contact with the client’s Senior Site Support IT Specialist and the Senior Manager of Information Systems on an as required basis to discuss technical and scheduling issues. Work very closely with client’s internal remote helpdesk staff while onsite to both decrease response and issue resolution time. Increased scope of contract with client to include the management, configuration, and deployment of imaged PC’s via KACE, as well as the configuration and deployment of Meraki security and networking assets to remote sites.  · Perform onsite and remote support to both SMBs and non-profit organizations. Provide administration and troubleshooting in Windows Server 2008 – 2012R2 Active Directory, Exchange 2008-2013, Citrix, and VMware ESXi environments.   · Configure and deploy Dell SonicWALL, Ubiquiti Edgerouter, Cisco Meraki, Sophos UTM, and Barracuda firewalls and network solutions.   · Responsible for assessing and deploying client needs in terms of network, server, and desktop infrastructure.  · Responsible for handling Exchange migrations, from onsite to hybrid/full cloud based solution in o365.  · Responsible for handling various Windows server and domain migrations.   · Responsible for creating and sending out hardware/software quotes to clients.  · Responsible for the migration, deployment, and training of ~160 employees pertaining to the movement of a major Client’s phone system from analogue telephone lines to a hosted VoIP system.  · Regularly troubleshoot issues pertaining to the termination of Cat5e/6, Coaxial, and Fiber Optic cabling.  · Conduct and test research on software/hardware solutions, and present information to middle and upper management. Education A.A.S. in INFORMATION ASSURANCE AND CYBERSECURITY ANNE ARUNDEL COMMUNITY COLLEGE May 2015 Skills Network Security, Windows Server (4 years), Network Administration (3 years), Powershell (2 years), Amazon Web Services (1 year), IIS (1 year), Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, SCCM Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) April 2016 to Present