Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Franklin County Memorial Hospital Wesson, MS Network Administrator talented at resolving highly technical issues efficiently to maintain uptime and increase productivity levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Franklin County Memorial Hospital - Meadville, MS November 2016 to Present • Designed and implemented employee database to improve collection and retrieval of employee documents.  • Actively monitored firewall and AV for possible security issues.  • Maintained and monitored VMware server infrastructure.  • Reviewed logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems.  • Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including switches, routers, and firewalls.  • Communicated with vendors to resolve network outages and periods of reduced performance.  • Documented all server and network problems and other unusual events in detail. Jr. Network Administrator Franklin County Memorial Hospital - Meadville, MS August 2014 to November 2016 • Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  • Provided base level IT support to non-technical personnel within the business.  • Create and maintained network accounts and programs for specific department needs.  • Set up staff workstations with PCs, Macs, phones and laptops. Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Management of Information Systems Mississippi University for Women - Columbus, MS December 2018 Associate of Applied Science in Computer Networking Lincoln Community College - Wesson, MS May 2013 Skills Electronic health records (3 years), LAN (3 years), VMware (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • Remote access support  • LAN and WAN expertise  • Desktop and laptop repair  • VMware server setup and management  • Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, and 10  • OS X and Linux  • Familiar with all Microsoft Office products  • Electronic health records experience  • Windows Server 2008 R2 and 2012  • Flexible, adaptable, and reliable