Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Network Administrator RIBENKS CORPORATION - Los Angeles, CA 2011 to 2012 Instrumental in maintaining the uninterrupted operation of the network for this wholesale import/export company.  Performed a variety of hardware and software upgrades to ensure the continuing quality of the user experience.  Leveraged superior technical and organizational skill to ensure security and data integrity across all servers. Coordinated the upgrade and migration of servers, installation of VMWare, deployment of Cisco routers, printers, and more. Fulfilled a key role in the performance of daily backups across all systems. Installed and managed Exchange 2010, CheckPoint Network Administrator XMPIE, Netanya, Israel 2007 to 2008 Information Technology  Leveraged strong analytical skills and problem solving expertise to identify and promptly resolve technical support issues for this leader in integrated cross-media solutions for print, web, and email. Provided critical support to a user base of varying technical experience, including addressing issues with hardware, software, critical data backup, and network  access affecting 150 Mac workstations, PCs, and 25 network servers. Ensured the continuous operability of all LAN  components and physical wiring configurations while coordinating full and incremental backup of critical data.  Seamlessly administered all support for VPN connectivity, Windows Vista, Adobe Creative Suite, Windows Server, and more. Independent Independent 2003 to 2004 Pioneered the launch and management of this consultancy focusing on the provision of computing services to a  roster of private business clients. Effectively managed a full complement of services that included graphic design, data  backup/recovery and security, web development, hardware repair, and video file editing. Trend-Micro AV 1990 to 1990 90 Sage, and UPS  WorldShip. Education Bachelor of Arts in Network Communication Management DEVRY UNIVERSITY Diploma in Biology and Geography ELDAD NETANYA HIGH SCHOOL Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Desktop Management, Data Security and Backup, CheckPoint Firewall  Windows Server 2000/2003, Win 9x, XP, Vista, Windows 7, Microsoft Exchange,  Cisco B - Class Routers, Adobe Creative Suite, Quickbooks, UPS WorldShip  Remote Management Tools, VPN Connectivity  Backup Exec  Symantec Enterprise Antivirus, Trend Micro