Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Sonic Healthcare USA Bartlett, TN Experienced in installing and troubleshooting Layer 3 and 2 devices. Manage MPLS network between multiple sites. Configure routing protocols such as OSPF, EIGRP, BGP to ensure data is moving continuously and securely over the network. Experience with configuring NAT, Site-to-Site VPNs, and remote VPNs on a Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance. Experience in designing and migrating IP schemes on the Internet Edge and internal devices. Ensure all networking devices are in compliance by installing the latest recommended patches released by network vendors. Work with Telecom vendors to resolve area outages. Audit all network connections to ensure that they are valid and are being utilized by an authorize client and purge all underutilized connections to mitigate risk. Document and backup all network changes and releases. Design and lead all network upgrades, and configuration changes. Provide networking support to the development team and company affiliates. Work Experience Network Engineer Sonic Healthcare USA August 2018 to Present Provide tier 3 support to all Sonic Healthcare Business units.  Assist team members in resolving Network/Telecom issues.  Work with project managers to meet expectations for Network tasks that needs to be completed for other business units  Work with other Infrastructure teams to provide the best support possible to each business unit.  Develop Python scripts to take advantage of network appliance API's  Coordinate with other engineers and architects for configuration cleanup.  Work with team member to help with standardizing on devices, configurations, design and naming conventions  Installs, configures, optimizes and maintains LAN / WAN solutions along with other networking equipment  Monitor network outages and alerts using Orion Solarwinds and respond using the data that is listed in the report.  Troubleshoots system failures related to network configurations, network switching/routing, and datacenter equipment.  Supports and implements network standards, processes and security to maintain company IT standards. Network Administrator Landau Uniforms February 2016 to August 2018 Coordinated with developers in the network design planning stage to ensure all business goals were met  Tested and deployed network designs that were approved by both the Infrastructure and development departments  Ensured all services were operational and documented any incidents that occurred during deployment  Documented solution to incidents and requests to improve service operation for infrastructure and developers  Managed and documented incidents and solutions in tracking system.  Optimized layer 3 devices by using network summarization and designing IP Schema  Deployed network monitoring solutions that empowers the business to be proactive in mitigating threats by using SNMP  Audited network firewall rules to ensure that the network was granting access to authorize clients  Created strategies to secure legacy devices with access control list and Virtual Local Area Networks  Installed digital Certificates on networking devices such as Firewalls, routers, Wireless controller for security  Implemented security, routing, and internet configuration on Layer 3 and Layer 2 devices for connecting systems  Configured and troubleshooted routing protocols i.e. OSPF, and EIGRP  Troubleshooted and resolved external connectivity for users accessing the main office remotely  Troubleshooted and resolved network connectivity between main office and local stores (Site-to-Site VPN)  Setup Site-to-Site VPNs to external clients/vendors and local stores  Managed and troubleshooted wireless access points through Cisco WLC  Installed, managed and troubleshooted VOIP phone system.  Troubleshooted and resolved connectivity issues in custom built and third-party network application  Managed users and endpoints using Window Server 2012 R2 and 2016 Active Directory  Managed clients external mail using Office 365 cloud in a hybrid environment.  Managed and assigned all user licenses through the Office 365 portal  Migrated user from 2010 on-premise exchange server to Office 365 using the ADMT  Troubleshooted Office 365 synchronization between on-premise active directory and Office 365  Managed Window Server environment using VMWare and Hyper-V Network Administrator Worldwide Label and Packaging July 2014 to July 2014 Maintain standard network designs for each SLA classification.  Work with vendors to provide support required to meet internal SLA's  Work closely with Network Vendors to keep up to date on new products and EOL products.  Develop, document and implement standard processes and procedures.  Create road map recommendations to support each business unit.  Research and implement new technology solutions so the company can meet their business objectives  Maintain standard router configurations  Lead and assist in resolving Network/Telecom issues.  Monitor network to ensure universal availability.  Provide 24-hour infrastructure support to the business to ensure all users are productive  Maintain Windows Server 2012 R2 environment: including upgrades, patches, installs  Manage clients external mail using Office 365 cloud in a non-hybrid environment.  Manage and assigned all user licenses through the Office 365 portal  Install, and configure the network equipment: routers, switches, firewalls and wireless access points  Provide support and ensure security is running on each client station connected to the network Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Memphis - Memphis, TN