Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - USMC San Diego, CA Network engineer recently transitioning out of the Marine Corps with an Honorable Discharge, seeking full-time employment as a Network Engineer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer USMC - Miramar, CA November 2015 to Present • Designed and installed a classified persistent network, to include Cisco 39XX series routers and 37XX / 38XX series switches, which will be in constant use as operations continue with the Marine Wing Communication Squadron, providing constant web, voice, and email services without causing delay to operations.  • Configured a redundant network to support laterally connecting units through eBGP in cooperation with route-maps and ACLs, allowing for a highly redundant tactical network to connect through multiple points of several step sites, all while filtering specific traffic pertaining to individual agencies, primarily using Cisco ASA and 3800 series routers.  • Applied EIGRP as well as BGP into the same network using redistribution to minimize advertised network to smaller sites via VRF based tunnels.  • Taught several dozen junior coworkers basic to advanced network and general IT knowledge to allow for a more competent and proficient team of IT professionals, continuing on a tradition of superb level of customer service. Network Engineer / Administrator USMC - Miramar, CA May 2015 to October 2015 • While planning for a large scale network, spanning across most of the South-West United States, identified problems regarding the use of DMVPN and layer 3 switches and their inability to terminate IP NHRP on Cisco devices, allowing for successful traffic monitoring services to be applied seamlessly.  • Led the main site network design and troubleshooting operations center, located in Yuma AZ, providing services to over 1500 clients spanning across multiple branches of service, to support several multi-service operations and coordination.  • Incorporated several network architectures into a pre-existing network, running various forms of WAN protocols over a secure transport network to allow for optimal network expansion at minimal hardware requirements.  • Designed, installed, and maintained one of the largest LANs to incorporate several agencies of air traffic control, redundant radio transmissions, and weather services that have never been applied to the network architect.  • Implemented Multicasting into the greater network architecture to allow surveillance and reports generated in real time to be viewed by appropriate agencies. Network Administrator USMC - KW September 2014 to April 2015 Special Purpose Marine Air Ground Task Force 15-1, Al Jabar, Kuwait  • Designed and maintained a remote network for use of 500 aircraft personnel in support of 24/7 continuous operations. Providing both network and helpdesk troubleshooting for satellite based transmissions while working with a small team of 6 people.  • Maintained weather, cartography, and air traffic control services in coordination with each other over a dual domain network for both classified and unclassified traffic.  • Led a constantly manned helpdesk to provide troubleshooting services to over 3000 International personnel, resolving over 1000 trouble tickets every month, and receiving several outstanding merits of professional and expert support to clients. Education Marine Corps Communications and Electronics School - 29 Palms, CA 2014 High School Diploma Snohomish High School - Snohomish, WA 2013 Skills Cisco (4 years), customer service. (5 years), EIGRP (4 years), LAN (4 years), WAN (4 years), IPV4 / IPV6 (4 years) Additional Information Professional Skills    • 4 years of experience in network administration  • WAN Protocols: EIGRP, DMVPN, eBGP, OSPF  • LAN Protocols: STP, VLAN, Trunking, Ether Channeling  • Cisco routers and switches  • Active Directory  • Microsoft Office  • Microsoft Server 2012 R2  • IPV4 / IPv6  • Customer Service