Business Analyst II/ Data Architect Business Analyst II/ Data Architect Business Analyst II/ Data Architect - WTI-Solutions North Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Business Analyst II/ Data Architect WTI-Solutions August 2018 to Present • Created and Maintains a functioning data base using SQL and SharePoint for the 547 Intelligence Squadron (IS) to track and store intelligence production and documentation.  • Participates in the Air Force intelligence ontology and taxonomy working group to help with production movement to an object-based environment.  • Provides analysts on emerging cyber threats to air operations and defense networks. Insider Threat Analyst/ Intelligence Analyst U.S. Army Reserves January 2017 to Present Conducts threat assessments on elements operating inside and outside of the organization and the organization's operating area.  ? Creates risk assessments based on verified vulnerabilities and how threats can exploit them.  ? Trains employees at all levels within the organization to understand, detect, and report insider threats. Information Systems Security Officer/ Cyber Systems Administrator Teksystems October 2017 to August 2018 Conducted weekly audits and reviews on DoD information systems for anomalies.  ? Was a key member of the configuration management team to get systems and network approved for use on government networks and followed the Risk management framework process.  ? Applied patch management and updates to all required systems and servers.  ? Ensured the confidentiality and integrity of information systems and user data. Information Systems Security Officer Invictus Technical Solutions LLC May 2017 to August 2017 Established local procedures for the delegation and exercise of classification and declassification authority; personnel access controls; need to know criteria; physical storage and control; and transmitting, transferring, reproducing, downgrading, and destroying information.  ? Provided daily network oversight and safeguards to enhance network security.  ? Conducted periodic information systems assessments and reported results to appropriate personnel.  ? Planned, prepared, and presented information security training and education. Network/Cyber Systems Administrator Invictus Technical Solutions LLC December 2016 to May 2017 Secured networks by implementing network access controls, monitoring tools, controlled evaluation, and ensured documentation was kept up to date.  ? Established network specifications by conferring with users and by analyzing workflow, access, information, and security requirements.  ? Created and managed over 200 user accounts across four domains.    IT Department Manager/ Information Assurance Security Officer for U.S. Army, 2nd Cavalry Regiment  ? Supervised a department of 19 personnel with many different skills sets in IT and Intelligence.  ? Developed a Computer Incident Response and Recovery Team for the organization to conduct disaster and incident recovery.  ? Analyzed all cyber incidents and determined the risk to organization missions.  ? Conducted briefs on known cyber threats, security issues, operations security violations, and area of operations. Education Master's in Data Science National University - San Diego, CA Present Master's in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT Present Associate in Intelligence Operations Studies Cochise College - Sierra Vista, AZ September 2017 Bachelor's in Criminal Justice and Cybercrimes and Security Colorado Technical University-Colorado Springs - Colorado Springs, CO October 2015 to July 2017 Skills SQL, Excel, testing, SAP, access, Business Intelligence, Visio, MS Office, Microsoft Office, Powerpoint Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SGT Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ October 2022 Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Present Lean Six Sigma Green Belt