System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Clarksville, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator ARMY ACTIVE DUTY - Fort Bragg, NC February 2014 to September 2016 C-3019 Ardennes St.  Fort Bragg, NC 28310 United States    02/2014 - 09/2016  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Hours per week: 40  System Administrator  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  KNOWLEDGE OF IT SECURITY SYSTEMS  Monitored network security compliance of over 350 computers and active directory users. Conducted investigations on automation security incidents and assessed security issues to determine the impact of IT systems. Provided information technology processing status and assistance, as requested, to  command IMOs and/or users. Identified IT procedural and system deficiencies by client's requests and troubleshooting over the phone and in person.  Facilitated the gathering of evidence used in prosecution of computer violations by deleting user accounts and restricting access.    COMPETENCY WORKING WITH SECURITY PROGRAMS  Managed group and user security polices in accordance with the Network Enterprise Center (NEC). Checked the availability of networks daily to maintain  adequate level of system integrity. As the manager of Army Training and Certification Tracking System (ACTCS), promoted awareness of security issues to ensure security principles were reflected in the organization's mission by notifying the end user.    ABILITY TO CONDUCT ANALYSIS OF COMPUTER SYSTEMS  Upgraded the Microsoft Office suite and evaluated the impact to comply with regulated policies. Identified vulnerabilities by conducting inspections/reports  of about 300 users and computers monthly, resulting in at least 90% or higher Information Assurance Compliance. Controlled active directory user and group policies that maintained the rights to the network shared drive and the intranet. Assisted in developing standard operating procedures for all users to ensure proper adherence was followed.Supervisor: Benjamin Hall (8643642151) Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Network Administrator ARMY ACTIVE DUTY - Fort Bragg, NC April 2012 to January 2014 C-2931 Ardennes St.  Fort Bragg, NC 28310 United States    04/2012 - 01/2014  Salary: 25,000.00 USD Per Year  Hours per week: 40  Network Administrator  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  KNOWLEDGE OF IT SECURITY SYSTEMS  Monitored and maintained security compliance of over 350 computers and active directory users. Knowledge of the major issues, program goals and objectives, work processes, and administrative operations of the assigned program. Created a trouble ticket system which saved time and increased  productivity by 70%. Assessed security issues to determine the impact of IT systems.    COMPETENCY WORKING WITH SECURITY PROGRAMS  Earned Security Plus certification with one week preparation time. Managed password and user access control for users by establishing user ID and generating, issuing, and controlling passwords based on confirmed authorization for user access. Developed collaborative relationships with other senior  management teams that lead to 100% of active directory user and computer security compliance. Maintained and managed a compliance level of 100% of bit-locker requirements. Maintained an Information Assurance compliance of 90% of active users.    ABILITY TO CONDUCT ANALYSIS OF COMPUTER SYSTEMS  Downsized the number of switches needed to maintain operations; saving $350,000. Responsible for a variety of duties that involved many different and unrelated processes and methods pertinent to IT. Electronically researched reported computer issues to determine if a problematic trend or pattern was  developing by tracking and reporting all incidents to the NEC. Assisted in tracking incident reporting, by installing, configuring, troubleshooting, and maintaining customer hardware and software programs. Helped over 200 users with Microsoft Office and Microsoft Windows related issues. Identified  problems and determined the accuracy and relevance of information received.  Supervisor: Joshua Ames (5856974818)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Education Associate's Degree ITT Technical Institute Nashville - Nashville, TN June 2011 Skills Microsoft Office (4 years), Windows 7 (4 years), windows 10 (2 years), Computer Repair (4 years), Network Management (4 years), Windows, Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Security Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist