Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Boonton, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Quick Stop Associates LLC October 2014 to July 2017 • Monitoring of network infrastructure including switches, routers and firewalls.  • Handling annual maintenance for customers' routing, switching, firewall technologies and LAN/WAN communication system.  • Responsible for taking backup of data and essential configuration files in direct attached storage.  • Coordinated, scheduled and deployed monthly security patches for systems and network devices.  • Providing Tier1 technical support; assisted users facing network problems. Performed advanced troubleshooting, diagnostics and provided tier/level-1 solutions to network failures.  • Send a large number of TCP/SYN packets from attacker's IP address to intend victim's fooled IP address and flooding it with traffic.  • Used various methods to prevent flooding like access control lists (ACL), rate limiting and observe on network bandwidth analyzer. Provide level-one support for in-house staff up to 100 or so work stations. Trouble shoots and resolves all computer desktop support (password resets, website questions from agents, etc.)  • Responsible for answering calls\tickets reported to the IT team in a timely manner.  • Provide customer service to our agents, insured, and company employees.  • Perform application testing for projects when needed.  • Support\Troubleshoot Network Printers and installation of PCs Network System Administrator THV Techno, LLC March 2014 to September 2014 • Operate and maintain corporate network and critical networks, protecting network assets.  • Establish and maintain external communication with other networks  • Responsible for creating documentation reference for existing and new software\hardware platforms.  • Maintained local phone connectivity and hookups.  • Ensure daily activities are aligned with Network Operations Division priorities.  • Handle user setups and desk moves (including equipment move\setups) Education Mechanical Engineering Maharaja Syajirao University Skills authentication (Less than 1 year), Backup Exec (Less than 1 year), firewall (2 years), LAN (2 years), TCP (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Proficient in troubleshooting of Layer 3 Routing protocols like RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, IGRP, ISIS, HSRP, VRRP and BGP and layer 2 protocols like STP, VTP, RSTP, PVST+ and GLBP.  Knowledge in the various network technologies like WAN, LAN, ACL, VLAN along with authentication protocols like HDLC, PPP, CHAP and PAP.    Software: MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Symantec Firewall and Backup Exec    Networking: Cisco routers and Switches, VPN, ACS, and Cisco PIX, Wireshark/TCP View Packet analysis, DNS servers, mail server    Operating System: Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8; Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012; Linux including CentOS,