Network Specialist <span class="hl">Network</span> Specialist Network Specialist - ACE COMPUTER TRAINING CENTER Queens, NY Versatile, results-oriented professional seeking to secure a professional position to ensure optimal utilization of company resource by using my skills to achieve organizational goals. Work Experience Network Specialist ACE COMPUTER TRAINING CENTER - New York, NY July 2011 to Present Develop, configure and troubleshoot network topologies for instructors according to the requirements of the courses such as CCNA, CCNP, MCSE, Check Point, WLAN as well as maintain and support lab equipment including Cisco routers and switches, and desktops.  ? Configuration and troubleshooting of all hardware (Cisco routers and switches), software and network related problems.  ? Interact efficiently with team members, management, customers and support personnel to provide excellent service.  ? Configuration of Cisco ASA firewall, VPN, IPS, DPS, and other security protocols. Network/System Administrator Pakistan Mission to UN - New York, NY March 2009 to October 2010 Provided all IT network and application support while managing internal office and administrative operations.  ? Designed and developed specifications for operations and management systems in addition to maintaining network management systems, supporting desktop applications, databases, LAN, WAN, web servers, telecommunications, user accounts and all business operation systems.  ? Installed, configured and supported hardware, software, servers, routers (Cisco, Linksys, Belkin), switches, peripherals, etc.  ? Received and resolved user issues across active directory, firewalls, routers, IP4/IP6 addressing, operating systems, network connectivity, TCP/IP configuration and Microsoft Office in addition to supporting VPN remote access, WiFi, Blackberry, laptop and PDAs.  ? Managed Active Directory GPO, domain ID and group accounts as well as login scripts.  ? Administered MS Exchange clients, mailboxes, distribution lists, and public folders.  ? Sourced, secured and managed vendors; negotiated contracts and oversaw adherence of SLAs.  ? Installed, configured and supported routers, switches, WinNT Server and workstations, MS SQL Server; provided services of LAN/WAN, Internet/Intranet, application integration, system development, TCP/IP network operating systems. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science City University of New York, York College - New York, NY Bachelors of Science in Information Technology Punjab University Additional Information ? Over 3 years of working experience in Information Technology, fully trained in various areas in the field; specialized in the field of Technical Support and Software Quality Assurance Testing with diversified skills in Manual and Automated Testing in government solutions and the financial sector.    ? Technical skills: Networking and Telecom: LAN, WAN, TCP/IP, RIPv1&2, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, Active Directory; Unix(basics); Blackberry server; Windows; configuring/managing Cisco switches, routers, firewalls, network monitoring and performance tools (Orion, Mazu profiler); monitor, report, and resolve hardware/software errors with vendors; managing Aruba, Meru and Ruckus WiFi system.    ? Hardware skills: IBM AIX RS/6000 Series. HP Superdomes, Network appliances, X86 servers, Itanium servers, Storage Systems, Tape backup systems, Security appliances, Modems, Printers and Peripherals Component diagnostics, Installing operating systems, RISC, Hubs, switches & wireless routers.    ? Successful education and experience in technical support (desktop/helpdesk), network administration, testing and hardware/software repair, troubleshooting and installation. Strong experience in network technologies, firewall equipment, routing & switching, network equipment and administration.    ? Excellent ability to understand and communicate complex ideas and concepts to non-technical users; serve clients by answering questions, reviewing options and implementing innovative solutions; reduce project lifecycle through effective planning and resource utilization.    ? Strong, hands-on experience with TCP/IP stack, routing protocols, Cisco routers & switches, data center servers, production workstations.    SKILLS    ? OS: Windows 95, 98, XP, 2000  ? Languages: C, C++, Java  ? Networking (CCNA certified), OSPF, EIGRP, RIP configuration, router configuration