Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Technican( Certified CCNA ) Ashburn, VA An enthusiastic network engineer with the necessary drive and determination needed to resolve complex networking issues. Possessing effective organizational skills and excellent working knowledge of networking technologies and having a commitment to keep up to date with the latest developments. Experienced in providing motivation, guidance and a up to date networking consultancy service to both colleagues and clients.   Now looking for a new and challenging network engineer position, one which will make best use of my existing skills and experience and further my development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator MapCom Technologies January 2016 to February 2017 • Analyze and resolve customer requests related to network, security and VOIP technologies.  • Create a system approach to log and resolve customer requests.  • Document and give preference to special requests.  • Keep constant inter-departmental communication and ensure everybody is working as per set  targets.  • Ensure customers' expectations are met in a timely manner.  • Deploy, configure, and maintain network security measures, IP Telephony, routing, and access control devices.  • Support the telecommunication network infrastructure. Network Support Technician ARRIBAT Technology December 2014 to October 2015 • Designed, installed, configure, and documented network infrastructure  • Upgraded hardware and software on routine bases for network infrastructure  • Identified, analyzed, and resolved technical problems of system and network operations  • Managed LAN switching environments and WAN environments with respective protocols  • Managed network security platforms and technologies  • Built and maintained computer networks for wide ranges of clients from different industry  • Provide high quality Level 3 support service focusing on Microsoft and Linux network  services, IP routing, switching and firewalls (layer 1 through 7), LAN/WAN architecture,  Switch management and Server builds. Education Bachelor's in Telecommunication engineering. 2015 Associate in Computer science 2012 Skills LAN (2 years), VOIP (1 year), VMWARE (Less than 1 year), BACKUPS (Less than 1 year), BGP (Less than 1 year), VPN (3 years), Dhcp (2 years), TCP/IP (3 years), OSPF, EIGRP, Subneting (3 years), Cisco, System Administrator, NOC, Ccna Certifications/Licenses CCNA June 2018 Cisco Certified Network Associate Additional Information Summary of Skills:    • Experience in planning and developing network infrastructure.  • Knowledge of Cisco routers and switches.  • Experience with Cisco ASA platforms.  • Experience with VPN technologies (IPsec, MPLS).  • Experience with VOIP systems.  • In depth knowledge of TCP/IP.  • Knowledge of routing protocols: RIP, EIGRP, BGP and OSPF.  • Strong knowledge of LAN related technologies: STP, VLANs, HSRP, VTP.  • Working technical knowledge of HTTP/S, DNS, POP, SMTP, FTP, SNMP, Tacacs+.  • Knowledge of proxy servers  • Experience with Data backups  • Knowledge of Disaster recovery  • Working knowledge of VMWare Infrastructure/vSphere  • Solid understanding of IP addressing and implementation of DHCP.  • Skilled in handling multiple projects and a team of network engineers.  • High creativity, foresight, and matured attitude.  • Ability to monitor and manage network system.