Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer • Cisco Certified professional with 2+ years of professional experience in Network Planning, Network design, Implementing, Configuring, Troubleshooting and Testing of networking system  • CCNA certified engineer with experience in routing and switching technologies, system design, implementation and troubleshooting of complex network systems including high-end routers: Cisco ASR series; 2600, 2800, 3600, 7200, 12000 Series Routers, and Catalyst 4500, 6500, and 7600 switches.  • Excellent working knowledge of TCP/IP protocol suite and OSI layers  • Good knowledge and experience in Installation, Configuration and Administration of Windows Servers, Active Directory, FTP, DNS, DHCP, TFTP, Linux OS under various LAN and WAN environments  • In-depth knowledge of deploying and troubleshooting LAN, WAN, Frame-Relay, Ether-channel, IP Routing Protocols - (RIPV2, ISIS, OSPF, EIGRP & BGP), ACL's, NAT, VLAN, STP, HTTP, VTP, HSRP & GLBP.  • Experience in troubleshooting connectivity issues relating to circuit and link failures.  • Hands on experience in troubleshooting and deploying of various IP Routing Protocols OSPF & BGP  • Experience in troubleshoot BGP peering issues and analyzing BGP routing tables including Prefix-lists filtering, route maps, route reflector and all issues relating to BGP route flapping.  • Experience using Python scripting to automate basic networking tasks.  • Extensive knowledge/experience in implementing, maintaining and troubleshooting LAN/WAN Network Security including NAT configuration, VPN, VLAN, Cisco Firewalls.  • Dealt with the escalation problems for Routing, Switching and WAN connectivity issues using ticketing system remedy.  • Experience in automating enterprise IT operations using ServiceNow.  • Experience in configuring and troubleshooting Wi-Fi access points (802.11a/b/g/n)  • Experience in analyzing traffic behaviors using Wireshark and Solarwinds.  • Good Knowledge on SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.  • Have good hands on experience in working with monitoring and managing the nodes within the network using Network monitoring tools like Solarwinds Orion NPM. Work Experience Network Engineer Bharath Vikas Networks April 2013 to May 2015 • Designing, implementing, and maintaining enterprise-wide system networks that integrate voice, data, and video architectures.  • Configuring/Troubleshoot issues with Cisco routers (7200, 6500, 4500, 1700, 2600 and 3500 series), to include: bridging, switching, routing, Ethernet, NAT, and DHCP, as well as assisting with customer LAN /WAN, router/firewalls.  • Configuring Ether-Channels, Configuring HSRP between VLANs, Port Channel on 6500 catalyst Switches Replace branch hardware with new 2851 routers and 2960 switches.  • Having Data Center Design Experience, installing and Configuring Network Devices in a Data Center including patching the cables in the Patch Panel.  • Configured OSPF on CISCO devices with multiple routing processes and redistributed them. Tested and hands on experience in multi area OSPF topologies.  • Configuring, managing and troubleshooting networks using routing protocols like RIP, EIGRP and OSPF (Single Area and Multi Area).  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture.  • Configuration and maintenance of ACL lists on Cisco routers  • Palo Alto design and installation (Application and URL filtering, Threat Prevention, Data Filtering)  • Palo Alto configuration, administration, monitoring and implementing the policies.  • Assisted in network engineering efforts consistent with the infrastructure of an Internet Service Provider and support of such network services. Helped in designing and implementation of VLAN for the new users.  • Placed pre-configured SD-WAN appliances at remote locations and branch offices.  • Use Layer 2 Cisco's Switching platform knowledge (e.g. system architecture, switching and forwarding issues) in Catalyst Switches C6500, C4000, C3000, C2900, and other Layer 3 devices to work with customers and Business Units.  • Used ServiceNow workflows to enable IT's delivery of business functionality more rapidly while also providing greater visibility and engagement for IT Operations.  • Used Solarwinds to monitor and analysis WAN network performance for all regions nationwide and to involve the Service Provider, for any required corrective actions to a resolution.  • Supply tier three support to technicians and customers alike on a per call basis, as well as logging tickets for problem dispatch and resolution.  • Performed Network Security Assessment and implemented security features such as network filtering, SSL, AAA, SNMP access lists, VTY access lists, EIGRP MD5 authentication, and HSRP authentication.  • Combined LAN and multiple storage protocols using FCoE on a converged network.  • Configure and install Aruba wireless network controllers and access points.  • Solving customer escalated network severity cases in a timely manner by leveraging Cisco Enterprise Switch technologies. Network Administrator Intern Mount Microtech Solutions Pvt., Ltd January 2013 to March 2013 • Analyzed systems and provided solutions for redundancy, recovery, and improvements.  • Assisted the Senior Engineer with the installation and configuration of Cisco Routers and Switches  • Installed Cat 5/6 cabling to connect personal computers and printers to the Local Area Network.  • Maintain, upgrade, rack, stack and ensure security of network and server infrastructure.  • Handled mid-sized networks utilizing multiple VLANs.  • Worked with 3rd party vendors for support on proprietary software and related hardware.  • Provided support for virtual servers running in VMware and HyperV.  • Administered Nexus switches.  • Configuring rules and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools  • Monitored a network utilizing various network management systems and tools, including HP, Solarwinds  • Worked with multi location clients, providing them with IPsec tunnels and out of office VPN access.  • Configuring VPN tunnels on GRE  • Resolve trouble tickets for local and remote sites  • Backup job administration and recovery of all servers, network devices, including phone servers in a timely and accurate manner.  • Performs Windows based server maintenance and monitoring Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering Florida Institute of Technology - Melbourne, FL May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & Communications Visvesharaya Technological University May 2013 Skills CISCO (2 years), SECURITY (2 years), SOLARWINDS (2 years), DHCP (2 years), EIGRP (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Routers: Cisco 17XX, 18XX, 26XX, 37XX, 38XX and 39XX series.  Switches: Cisco 3550, 3750, 45XX and 65XX series.  Routing: TCP/IPv4/IPv6, BGP, OSPF, ISIS, EIGRP, IGRP, RIP and RIP(v2).  Switching: VLAN, VTP, STP, Inter VLAN routing, Ether-Channel (PAgP, LACP).  Protocols: DHCP, DNS, FTP, ACLs, SNMP, ARP, VoIP, IPsec, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP.  Networking: HSRP, GLBP, VRRP, IPv4, IPv6, RSTP, STP, Syslog, VPN.  Monitoring: Packet tracer, GNS3, Wireshark, Solarwinds, VMware, Visual studio.  Security: IPS, IDS, Cisco ASA, DDoS.  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Mac OS, Cisco IOS.  Programming: C, C++, Python, Verilog, VHDL, Embedded C, MATLAB.  Frameworks: DJANGO, REST API.  Other: EXCEL, Word, PowerPoint, Microsoft Visio.