Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jr. Network Administrator Hollywood, FL To obtain a position with a respected, safety oriented company, where I would be challenged and able to use my knowledge and training in the Networking, management and business fields, to help create and/or maintain a safe working environment for all its employees.    ?Windows XP Environment ? Network Infrastructure   ?Microsoft Security Environment ?Wireless Communication   ?Windows Security Environment ?Design Network Infrastructure   ?Active Directory Domain Services ?Cisco Routing and Switching Work Experience Network Administrator Tekorder - Miami, FL January 2012 to January 2013 •Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.    •Managed and configured all Cisco 2900, 6500 routers and 2800, 3800, 7200 switches for clients to resolve any technical issues.    •Installed, maintained and networked high volume digital and network copiers such as Ricoh, Kyocera, Samsung, Canon, Konica Minolta, HP, Toshiba, Sharp and Brother.    •Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.    •Quickly resolve all IP network issues to reduce waste and downtime while also ensuring client Service Level Agreements.    •Responsible for providing direct, technical advice/support and troubleshooting assistance to attorneys and staff in a service center environment for a user base of 300+ (using both laptops and desktops), printers, PC/server applications, remote access, and document management.    •Demonstrated ability to effectively diagnose and troubleshoot complex technical issues while maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction    •Managed external customer network infrastructure including day to day operations/maintenance, facilitating technical support case escalation and resolution, and implementing projects as requested by customer, and respond to network outages, performing field work as necessary.    • Network technician providing hands on, on-site support for all IT issues. Managing and resolve all IT issues. PC, Routers, Switches, Copiers, Phones, and network support and remediation, providing solutions, and improving work efficiency. Network Support Specialist E Networking Solutions - Pembroke Pines, FL April 2010 to January 2012 •Designed and managed system-level Wide Area Network and LANs.     •Support of Active Directory, MS Windows operating systems and desktop applications such as MS Office 2003, 2007, 2010, Windows 98, Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows 7, MS Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Access.     •Developed, maintained, and provided security on routers and firewall.     •Identified, Prescribed, and resolved common switched network media issues, configuration issues, auto-negotiation, and switch hardware failures.     •Installed, configured, troubleshoot and physically manipulate/move PCs and peripherals  •Configured and managed servers. Installed and maintained network cabling.     •Configured and managed servers. Installed and maintained network cabling.     •Solved computer problems and enabled computer technology to meet individual needs of   organization.     •Planned, coordinated and implemented network security measures to protect data, software and hardware and performed data backups and disaster recovery operations. Education Diploma in Network Professional, Management Information Systems and Cisco FastTrain College - Miami, FL 2011 Skills CmpTia Network+, Cisco CCENT, Cisco CCNA in Progress, IOS, ACL, STP, NAT, PAT, VLANs/WANs, TCP/IP, RIP, RIPv2, UDP, VTP, EIGRP, OSPF. Cisco Routers and Switches, Dell Routers, Firewall, Active Directory Domain Controllers, DNS, VoIP, Wireless/VPN Architecture. Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/idael-pineiro/51/475/468/ Additional Information •A broad understanding of Cisco 2900, 6500 series switches and 2800, 3800, 7200 series routers, including installation, configuration, management, troubleshooting and support.    •Mastery of Microsoft Office programs (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access)     •Ability to work with several operating systems, including Windows, Microsoft Exchange Server 2000, 2003, 2008, Mac OSX, Linux and Manage Cisco IOS.    •Highly skilled in network cable management. Excellent at training users to perform needed procedures and providing detailed easy to use instructions.    •Highly self-motivated, analytical and directed, with keen attention to detail. Able to work as a leader independently as well as part of a team with positive attitude.