Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer To obtain a Full-time position in the field of Network Engineering. Irving, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Charter Communications - Denver, CO October 2016 to Present • Handling complex network issues related to routing protocols, MPLS, Multicast and other Routing technologies on different platforms like 3800, 7200, 6500/7600, GSR, ASR9k, CRS, Nexus 9K/7K/5K/3K/2K and other platforms.  • Implemented and troubleshot ISIS, BGP (IPv4/IPv6/VPNv4), MPLS, OSPF, MPLS, L2/3 VPN and VRFs across the Charter core network.  • Work collaboratively in a team environment with internal and external departments to guarantee optimal Network reliability.  • Configure and manage L2/L3 switch: VLAN, Port Channel, Trunk, Access, VTP, STP, RSTP, & PVST, ACL (Standard and Extended).  • Maintenance and troubleshooting of CATV/HSD/VoIP/Video/SDV technologies. Work with field personnel and network operations centers in order to resolve or prevent service outages.  • Performed overnight scheduled network maintenances to ensure the network is functioning appropriately  • Assisted and guided Headend technicians with troubleshooting network outages, and bandwidth capacity augmentations.  • Working as an escalation support for various Lan Switching technologies, MPLS and Multicast on 7600 and XR platforms. Network Analyst Windstream Communications - Little Rock, AR March 2016 to September 2016 • I work as a part of team to configure, turn-up, and test the network devices to expand the Windstream network and increase revenue.  • Works with client engineering groups to create, implement, and manage policies and standards that ensure confidentiality, availability and privacy of information.   • Configured and supported multiple remote site installations.  • Allocating management and gateway IP addresses to new devices.  • Creation & Configuration of VLANs and Ports assignment to VLANs on Cisco and Juniper Switches.  • Implemented procedures for configuration and management of routers and switches at local and remote sites.  • Resolved issues relating to operational and design activities by data analysis and identification of problems.  • IP Address management using Diamond IP.  • Efficient use of Microsoft VISIO as technical documentation and presentation tools Network Administrator Future Value Retail Limited a Future Group venture. - Ahmedabad, Gujarat September 2012 to December 2013 • Optimization of network performance and availability through automated discovery and comprehensive network performance management.  • Proactively monitoring company’s network links on 24x7 shifts.  • Managed change across entire IT infrastructure – from data centers to desktop using BMC Remedy tool (ITIL).  • Used Control-M to workload automation (traditionally called batch scheduling) software.  • Involved in compiling and analyzing data, creating reports, providing information business as per the request.  • IP Address management using IPAM.  • Creating Incident and Providing Level 1 support for the users related to network issues.  • Conducting root cause analysis on Network Incident. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX 2014 to 2015 B.E. in Electronics and Communication Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat 2008 to 2012 Skills Network Protocols : Layer 2 (ARP, VLAN, ATM, Frame Relay, MPLS, Ethernet), Layer 3 (IPV4, IPV6, EIGRP, NAT, RIP V1/2, OSPF), Layer 4 (TCP, UDP), Layer 7 (HTTP, FTP, Telnet, SSH, SIP, BGP). Networking Concepts : Email, DNS, DHCP, VPN, HSRP, Access-list, IP Sub-netting, STP, PVST, Ether-Channel, SONET, TCP/IP and OSI model, Network monitoring and troubleshooting. Software : Cisco Packet Tracer, Matlab, Simulink, Wireshark, Keil, Pspice. RF Technologies : LTE, GSM, UMTS, CDMA2000, Wi-Fi, MIMO, Massive MIMO, OFDM, Bluetooth. Programming languages : C, Basic of C++, 8085 & 80x86 µP, 8051 µC Assembly Languages. Hardware languages : VHDL Altera Quartus-II. Database : MySQL, Postgres. Knowledge of Cisco Certified Network Associate certification and Cisco IOS(CLI). (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA January 2016 to January 2019 CCNP February 2017 Additional Information PROJECTS  Implementation of different routing protocols on a network.  • Implemented RIP, OSPF and EIGRP on a Cisco routers using Cisco Packet Tracer and noticed routing updates being exchanged between the routers.  Studied several networking concepts using small network.  • Configured static and default routing on Cisco routers.  • Studied and Implemented Standard Numbered ACL and Extended Numbered ACL.  Analyze Network Traffic and Protocols.  • Analyzed the flow of packets for LAN and Wi-Fi interface on the computer using Wireshark. Analyzed DHCP, DNS, ICMPv6 and TCP protocol packets.  Rate versus Power Control in IS-95, CDMA2000 and LTE.  • Using channel inversion, equal power allocation and water-filling technique on SISO, MIMO schemes and finding out the rate versus power control in IS-95, CDMA2000 and LTE.  MIMO Simulation study.  • QPSK modulation technique analyzed the performance of spatial multiplexing in MIMO wireless systems using dual polarized antenna. SNR to BER comparison between the transmitter and receiver antenna was done.