Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer San Jose, CA linkedin.com/in/parth-gondaliya-91b205137    • CCNA, CCNP, Certified Network Engineer with 3+ years of rich experience in providing solutions, implementation, configuration of Cisco Routers and switches, firewalls, VPNs configuration and troubleshooting network problems, monitoring & maintenance and resolving customer's LAN troubleshooting and WAN issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Broadcom Limited - San Jose, CA February 2018 to April 2018 • Decommission of client sites at Data Centers and bring it up at new location and setup new Data Centers for Brocade, Hp, IBM.  • Experienced in designing, configuration, implementation, maintenance and troubleshooting of CISCO Routers, L2 and L3 Switches, Firewalls and Load Balancer.  • The Wireless Consultant, where I was responsible for implementation of solutions support for the deployment and maintenance of Aruba server hardware, and software products.  • Installing configuring operate FTP SSH of Dell, HP and IBM Server in Linux Environment and good knowledge of bash Shell Scripting.  • Experience on working with Integration of UNIX and LINUX with Active Directory using Certify Tool Provided 24x7 on call Support for Production Environments.  • Responsible for monitoring and co-ordination of incident ticketing system to resolve high priority tickets.  • Managed Networking faults (FTP, SFTP, telnet HTTP and SSH) and provided timely customer support.  • Experience in performing all aspects of VMware vSphere Operations and actions which is essentially required for virtual machines such as Snapshots, VMotion. Network Engineer Servesys Corporation July 2017 to February 2018 • Designed, installed, and maintained various LAN/WAN technologies and applications connecting remote sites to corporate headquarters.  • Installed, configured, patched, and monitored Linux/Unix and Windows enterprise servers with the team.  • Tuned BGP peering and customer sessions as well as debugged BGP routing problems.  • Strong knowledge in client/server domain environment using high availability and Microsoft best practice methods to setup Active Directory Domain Services (AD), Domain Name Services (DNS) and DHCP Server.  • Responsible for implementation of customer's basic network and Security infrastructure using Cisco ASA.  • Configured IP, RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, DNS & DHCP in routers in large-scale networks.  • Software used VMware, Solar Winds for Network Device Monitoring and Application. Also used for configuration of files to Network Devices. Jr. Network Administrator Nine Infotech - Gujarat, IN March 2013 to August 2015 • Design, implementation and operational support of routing/switching protocols in complex environments including BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, Spanning Tree, etc.  • Configured Static, IGRP, EIGRP, and OSPF Routing Protocols on Cisco 1600, 2600, 2800, 3600, 7300 series Routers.  • Expertise in LAN/WAN technologies (fast Ethernet, Layer2 & 3 switched/routed LAN, and Frame Relay).  • Responsible for monitoring and co-ordination of incident ticketing system to resolve high priority tickets  • Involved in complete LAN, WAN, extranet redesign (including IP address planning, designing, installation, pre-configuration of network equipment, testing, and maintenance) in both Customer and Branch networks. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering California State University - Los Angeles, CA Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & communications Engineering in Electronics & communications Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, IN Skills BGP (3 years), CISCO (3 years), EIGRP (3 years), LAN (3 years), LAN/WAN (3 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/parth-gondaliya-91b205137 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Networking: BGP, TCP/IP, ICMP, LAN/WAN, DHCP, DNS, FTP, SFTP,  • Routing: EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, IGRP, RIP, RIPv2, HTTP, ACLs, SNMP, ARP.  • Switching: VLAN, VTP, STP/RSTP, Ether-Channel (PAGP, LACP)  • Operating Systems: MS Windows 7/8/10, Server 2008/2012, Linux, Aruba.  • Applications: Cisco Packet Tracer, Solar winds, GNS 3, Active Directory, Cisco IOS, Office365.  • Other Design Tools: Mat lab, Visio, SONET, VMware, Xilinx, Auto-CAD.