Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Mantech International Corporation Fredericksburg, VA Work Experience Network Engineer Mantech International Corporation - Stafford, VA May 2018 to Present • Part of the Events Engineering team responsible for designing, architecting, and managing solutions for customers needed to utilize resources on the cybersecurity range. Infrastructure consists of approximately 8,750 virtual machines residing on 120 hosts. Hypervisors primarily include VMware ESXi and CypherPath. Physical gear consists of a diverse catalog of vendors (i.e. Cisco, HP, Dell, iXIA, Gigamon, Palo Alto, Imperva, Red Seal, Tipping Point, Arbor, F-5, Juniper, Fortinet and a host of others).  • Provide direct support to DISA and the USMC by managing a persistent environment that provides a realistic network environment that is a simulation of operational networks by virtually replicating the Global Information Grid (GIG).  • Responsible for implementing new solutions and capabilities that comply with the Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative (CNCI) of 2008 that mandated the creation of a dedicated test bed to increase the security of DoD networks to expand the cyber education of the military and DoD workforce.  • Part of a team of engineers that successfully virtualized both DISA's Joint Regional Security Stack (JRSS) and Internet Access Points (IAP).  • Experience with implementing designs for the following routing protocols: BGP, RIP, OSPF, and EIGRP  • Experience with designing a resilient, robust, fault-tolerant Layer-2 campus area network (CAN) using Rapid PVST/PVST+/MST, port-channels, first-hop redundancy protocols (VRRP, HSRP, GLBP), and other current technologies to ensure optimal network utilization.  • Experience with designing DMVPN solutions (all 3 phases) and also managing MPLS PE/CE architectures. Jr. Network Engineer STG - Fort Belvoir, VA September 2017 to May 2018 • Supported 70+ end-users, including high level Government Officials for CHRA Head Quarters.  • Provided port security, LAN connectivity to end-users and server equipment.  • Assisted with removal and installation of server rack equipment.  • Managed Active Directory and provide domain access to users and systems.  • Experienced in PKI technologies, installing and exporting certificates.  • Stayed up to date on the latest security threats, licensing, patch systems and provide port security.  • Wrote SOPs and other troubleshooting guides to enhance our knowledge base repository.  • Used network strategies to come a resolve with connectivity problems.  • Experienced with the installation of Cisco VPN and Citrix software.  • Troubleshot, gathered information, documented and escalated to critical CISD teams Network Administrator TML, a Xerox Company - Manassas, VA September 2015 to September 2017 • Performed print management solutions, network and software installs according to clients SLA  • Hands-on experience with networking technologies such as TCP/IP, IPv4, DHCP, DNS, DDNS, SNMP, SMB and FTP.  • Experience with Network monitoring tools such as Wireshark, Spiceworks, including installing TML 360 app which gives clients an overview of their printing infrastructure  • Provided CAT5 cable management, crimping and horizontal runs to server rooms.  • Experience with patch panels, switches and LAN/WAN technologies.  • Installed and troubleshoot Multi-Function Xerox Printer, Fax machines, Layer 3 devices and Cisco IP phones.  • Troubleshoot network problems such as VLAN, baud rate, subnet mask, IP and latency issues and ports relating to different flavors of network scanning.  • Experience on data collection, analyzing and using the OSI model for troubleshooting. Education Bachelor of Science in Urban Studies Virginia Commonwealth University August 2008 to December 2010 Associates Degree Germanna Community College August 2006 to May 2008 Skills Nexus, CCNP, Cisco, BGP