Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Houston, TX ? Dynamic and versatile Network Engineer with outstanding knowledge, skills and expertise, dedicated and committed to providing excellent interconnectivity and networking services, network security and solving networking problems.  ? Experienced Network Engineer with proficiency in installing, upgrading, troubleshooting, configuring, and supporting variety of Network & Security Devices.  ? Firewall technologies including general configuration, risk analysis, security policies, rules creation and modification of Palo Alto, Checkpoint and Cisco ASA Firewalls.  ? Experience in configuring and troubleshooting F5 BIG-IP load balancer LTM creating virtual servers, nodes, pools and iRules.  ? Extensive experience in Layer 3 routing and Layer 2 switching and dealt with router configurations like cisco 7200, 3800, 4000, 2000 and switches 6500, 4500, 3750, 3900, Catalyst and Nexus switch series.  ? In-depth knowledge of network security architecture and protocols, security vulnerabilities, network security, and application security.  ? Familiar with tools like wire shark, solar winds, GNS3, Tcpdump.  ? Advanced knowledge in TCP/IP suite and routing protocols, such as RIPV2, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP, ISIS  ? Good understanding of remote access and site to site VPN configuration, IPsec VPN design, connection and protocols, IPsec tunnel configuration, encryption and integrity protocols.  ? Excellent troubleshooting skills; tenaciously committed to the thorough resolution of technical issues.  ? Exceptional ability to grasp and master modern technologies quickly and easily. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Aspire Systems - Chicago, IL January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Assisted in development of various security policies for Palo Alto Firewall, Checkpoint firewall, Cisco ASA Firewall and assisted in installation, configuration, administration, monitoring, upgrading, downgrading and patching.  ? Integrated Panorama with Palo Alto firewalls, for managing multiple Palo Alto firewalls with single tool.  ? Configured SNMP on Palo Alto firewalls for receiving incident alerts and notification and wrote SSL decryption policies for decryption of traffic to provide Anti-virus, Malware protection.  ? Troubleshooted Firewall Connectivity related issues using Smart view tracker on Checkpoint Firewall.  ? Researched, designed, and replaced aging Checkpoint and Cisco ASA Firewall architecture with new next generation Palo Alto appliances serving as Firewalls.  ? Configured and troubleshooted remote access and site to site VPN in Firewalls.  ? Configured remote access and site to site VPN technologies using IPSEC by providing IKEv1 and IKEv2 keys for secure connection.  ? Designed QoS policies for critical applications based on business requirements and traffic patterns.  ? Configured and implemented F5 BIG-IP load balancers to maintain local traffic.  ? Extensively worked on TCP/IP suite and routing protocols, such as IP, IPv6, QoS, IGMP, TCP, UDP, ARP, NAT, DHCP, DNS, OSPF, BGP, & EIGRP, ISIS, MPLS, IGMP, IPsec VPN design connection & protocols, IPsec tunnel configuration, encryption and integrity protocols.  ? Monitored the connections using the management tools SNMP, and packet capture using wire shark and Solar winds.  ? Handled Tech Support as it relates to LAN & WAN systems.  ? Documented the Network Infrastructure using Microsoft Visio.  ? Deployed and managed Windows 2012 servers in physical and virtual environment. Network Administrator/ Network Engineer Zedge Systems - IN June 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:    ? Configured, Installed and upgraded Palo Alto and Checkpoint Firewalls for managed client which included network/resource access, software, or hardware problems.  ? Installed Palo Alto (Application and URL filtering, Threat Prevention, Data Filtering) Next Generation Firewall features.  ? Managed Cisco ASA Firewalls using CLI and ASDM.  ? Configured and installed Cisco Routers and Cisco Nexus and Catalyst Switches.  ? Managed ACL on both standard and extended modes and using variance for unequal cost path.  ? Configured F5 Big-IP to provide Load Balancing for server farm.  ? Troubleshooted VPN Issues.  ? Configured and troubleshooted IPv4 and IPv6 static routing, STP related optional features, Port Fast, BPDU guard.  ? Hands-on WAN (ATM/Frame Relay), Routers, Switches, TCP/IP, Routing Protocols (BGP, OSPF, EIGRP), and IP addressing.  ? Responsible to provide network connectivity as and when new location comes in to the network.  ? Created VLAN and Inter-Vlan routing with Multilayer Switching.  ? Provided technical support on hardware and software related issues.  ? Managed the IP address space using subnets and variable length subnet masks (VLSM).  ? Performed day-to-day administration functions, backup & restoration, file server maintenance. Skills BGP (2 years), Checkpoint (2 years), Cisco (2 years), Cisco ASA (2 years), EIGRP (2 years) Additional Information Technical skills:    Firewalls: Checkpoint 1400, 3000, 5000, Palo Alto 3000, 5000, 5200, Cisco ASA 5500  Network Security: ACL, IPsec, VPN, NAT, GRE, Port-security, RSA, AAA and IPS/IDS  Router Platforms: Cisco 7200, 3800, 2800, 4000, 2000 series  Switches Platforms: Cisco 6500, 4500, 3750, 3900, Catalyst and Nexus switch series  Load Balancer: F5 BIG-IP  Routing Protocols: EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, RIPV2, IS-IS.  ACS management: RADIUS, TACACS+, and Digital Signatures.  Network Management: Network Troubleshooting, SSH, SNMP, ICMP.  WAN: Frame Relay, ISDN, PPP, ATM, MPLS, SSL.  LAN: Faster Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, VTP, STP, 802.1Q Trunking, PAGP, LACP, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP  Servers: FTP, DHCP, DNS, HTTP, Syslog, TFTP, NTP.  Virtualization: Wire shark, Solar Winds, GNS3, VMware.  Operating Systems: Windows, Server 2003, Server 2012, Linux, MacOS, PANOS, IOS