Low Voltage Electrician Low Voltage Electrician Low Voltage Electrician - NYWiring Washington Heights, NY Work Experience Low Voltage Electrician NYWiring May 2018 to Present Understand how to read blueprints and run wire to destinations  ? Terminate different types of cable - Cat5, Cat6, RG59, RG6, Patch Panel  ? Install and setup CCTV, audio systems, alarm and card access panels.  ? Understand how to read a voltmeter  ? Setup networks for POS and Guest access Computer Technician/ Network Administrator Critical Technology Services May 2017 to February 2018 Communicate with customers/clients. Understand what they want done and accomplish the task.  ? Run cat5 cable, terminating ends with RJ45.  ? Install security cameras, run Coaxial cable and terminate ends with RJ6.  ? Setup network and computer infrastructure for residential and commercial buildings.  ? Perform house calls and help client solve the issue. Lot Associate The Home Depot - Mesa, AZ February 2017 to June 2017 Keep store stocked with carts.  ? Keep the outside of the store clean.  ? Load/Unload vehicles with merchandise Flow Team Member Target - Tempe, AZ October 2016 to December 2016 Unload semi trailer and throw the items on a conveyor belt  ? Read labels and organize boxes where they belong  ? Pull the pallets onto the floor  ? Stock Shelves  ? Backstock items that didn't go on the shelves IT Assistant Young Public School - Young, AZ June 2014 to July 2014 Prepare Laptops for student use - Windows Updates, Install Software  ? Diagnose technical problems  ? Keep them organized - Keep appropriate charger with laptop in chargings stations  ? Move unused computers and computer accessories in classrooms to storage room onto shelves Dishwasher / Prep-Cook Antlers Cafe and Bar - Young, AZ July 2013 to April 2014 Be able to communicate with line cooks and other workers in the kitchen  ? Wash Dishes in timely manner  ? Keep the kitchen area clean at all times  ? Prepare food - Cut/Mix food to be cooked Education High School Diploma Young Public School - Young, AZ August 2012 to May 2016 Skills LINUX, WELDING, PULLING WIRE, WORD, TYPING Certifications/Licenses OSHA 10 October 2018 to October 2023