Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Mphasis, IL Vernon Hills, IL • Around 6 years of professional experience in Network Designing, Deployment, Configuring, Troubleshooting and testing of networking system.  • Strong hands on experience in installing, configuring, and troubleshooting of Cisco 7600, 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500 and 1800 series Routers, Cisco Catalyst 6500, 4500, 3750, 2950 and 3500XL series switches.  • Switching tasks include VTP, ISL/ 802.1q, IPsec and GRE Tunneling, VLANs, Ether Channel, Trunking, Port Security, STP and RSTP.  • Experience in layer-3 Routing and layer-2 Switching. Dealt with Nexus models like 7K, 5K, 2K series, Cisco router models like 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500, 1800 series and Cisco catalyst 6500, 4500, 3750, 3500, 2900 series switches.  • Experience in physical cabling, IP addressing and Subnetting with VLSM, configuring and supporting TCP/IP, DNS, installing and configuring proxies.  • Maintain a thorough understanding of Local Area Networking  • Good knowledge and experience in Installation, Configuration and Administration of Windows Servers 2003/2008, Active Directory, FTP, DNS, DHCP, TFTP under various LAN and WAN environments  • Enterprise Routing experience using protocols RIP v1 & 2, EIGRP, OSPF and BGP.  • Enterprise Switching with VLANs, Trunks, Spanning Tree, Port Spanning etc.  • Primary responsibility is to design and deploy various network security & High Availability products like Cisco ASA and other security products.  • Experience on PIX Firewalls, ASA (5540/5550) Firewalls. Implemented Security Policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSEC, SSH, SSL, VPN, IPS/IDS, AAA (TACACS+ & RADIUS).  • Well experienced in configuring gateway redundancy protocols like HSRP, GLBP, and VRRP.  • Experience with Load Balancers for administrating and monitoring global & local traffic using Cisco CSM, ACE Module, and F5 BIG IP LTM & GSS.  • Configuring and installing client and server network software for upgrading and maintaining network and telecommunication systems  • Good knowledge of IPv4 and IPv6 Addressing, Fixed Length and Variable Length Subnet Masking (VLSM), OSI and TCP/IP models.  • Supervising the administration of systems and servers related network to ensure availability of services to authorized users.  • Had an experience with Scripting (Python, Powershell).  • Experienced in troubleshooting various network related problems by using sniffing tools.  • Excellent qualities such as Teamwork, Negotiation, Analysis and Communication.  • Configured ASA 5520 Firewall to support Cisco VPN Client on Windows 7/XP/Vista.  • Installation, advanced configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco and F5's load balancing devices.  • Experience with designing, deploying and troubleshooting LAN, WAN, Frame-Relay, Ether-channel, IP Routing Protocols - (RIPV2, OSPF, EIGRP & BGP), ACL's, NAT, VLAN, STP, VTP  • Implemented redundancy with HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, Ether channel technology (LACP, PAgP) etc.  • Experienced in Troubleshooting for connectivity and hardware problems on Cisco and HP Networks.  • Responsible for Configuring SITE_TO_SITE VPN on Cisco Routers between Head Quarters and Branch locations  • Specialist on MS Operating Systems installations, configurations, and troubleshoot issues.  • Configuring IPSEC VPN (Site-Site to Remote Access) on sonic wall firewalls.  • Good Understanding of Python scripts for system automation, monitoring and security reporting. Maintain existing Perl scripts and migration existing Perl scripts to Python. Work Experience Network Administrator Mphasis, IL May 2018 to Present USA    Project Name: Scarab Project  Human Resources & Operations    • Worked on the auditing the firewall rules on the Cisco ASA, BSD Firewalls, and Juniper SRX Firewalls  • Drafted, installed, and provisioned ASA and Juniper firewall rules and policies.  • Configured, maintained the Routers and Switches and Implementation of RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP routing protocols and troubleshooting.  • Implemented the firewall rules changes according to the business requirement and verification.  • Involved in meetings with external engineering teams to design and build the network connections as per the business requirement.  • Involved in migration of 500+ applications to Palo Alto 5020 Firewalls.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Site to Site as well as Remote Access VPN on Cisco ASA firewalls.  • Worked with automation tools like Tufin, Riverbed Net Profiler to discover, generate and deploy policies and rule bases.  • IOS upgrade in Cisco Routers, Switches, Avaya routers - 2330, 4310, Switches, Wireless Controllers(WLC) - 2504, 3504, Nexus 7k, 5k.  • Experience with configuring FCOE using Cisco Nexus 5548. Installed controller and light weight access point coordination with TAC  • Involved in Data center migrations. Handled proper management, maintenance, configuration , and altered management of firewall structure.  • Troubleshooting Firewall Connectivity related issues using OmniCentre, ASDM Log viewer for Cisco, NSM for Juniper Firewalls.  • Configure and administer Cisco ASA Firewalls (5585, 5550, and 5540) and use command line CLI, Cisco CSM, ASDM for day-to-day administration.  • Active/Standby and Active/Active HA configuration on Cisco ASA Firewalls.  • Verify Active Directory and Radius integration into Firepower for User Mapping and User Access.  • Configuring rules and maintaining Palo Alto firewalls and analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Experience on ASA firewall upgrades to 9.x.  • Update Visio network diagrams, documentation (Excel, SharePoint), and before and after ICMPs.  • Responsible for resolving tickets as per business requirement; Creating and removing firewall rules as needed.  • Monitors network performance and implements performance tuning when necessary.  • Involved in Decommissioning of BSD and ASA Firewalls.  • Implemented and configured Cisco ASA 5505, 5585, FortiGate 500 to 300 Series FIrewalls and Palo Alto , 3020, 5020, 220 in a Lab environment.  • Implemented Zone Based Firewalling and Security Rules on the Palo Alto Firewall.  • Implemented the Policy Rules, DMZ for Multiple Clients on the Cisco ASA and Juniper Firewall.  • Upgraded JUNO on juniper devices.  • Experience in configuring Juniper Layer 3 EX4200 & EX3200 switches. Design, implement and administer IPv4/IPv6 enterprise network infrastructure utilizing Juniper routers.  • Configure VRRP & GLBP and VLAN Trucking 802.1Q & ISL, STP, Port Security on Catalyst 6500 switches, avaya ethernet switches 3000, 4000 series.  • Identified the root causes of networking problems using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  • Experience performing analysis on NSX implementations.  • Install and configure proxy which includes content filtering, SSL interception, web filtering, black listing, policy management.  • Worked on Load Balancer F5 LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications.  • Configuring various advance features, profiles, monitors, iRules, Redundancy, SSL Termination, SNAT, HA on F5 BigIP Appliances.  • Packet capture analysis via wire shark, log analysis, report generation via bluecoat reporter, software maintenance etc.  • Evaluate existing Fortinet SIEM content and use cases and adapt them to meet our customer's goals.  • Experience with content Fortinet SIEM content creation, dashboard, development, and reporting.  • Configure checkpoint and fortigate firewall to authenticate users based on user identity, user group, session and PC-User Authentication.  • Proficient with deployment and management of Amazon AWS services - including but not limited to: VPC, Route 53, ELB, EC2.  • Created a load balancing controller in a Software Defined Network (SDN) that supported multiple protocols for managing network devices, such as OpenFlow, using EC2 in AWS.  • Did Integration services appliances to Cisco ACI deployments to include Application Delivery Controllers and Firewalls.  • Manage deployment and testing of code updates for Ubiquity wireless systems, such as WCS, WiSM, and WLC.  • Deploying Cisco Aironet 2700, 3700 Series, Cisco Meraki Enterprise Cloud Access Points, WLC 3504, 2504, Aruba Acees Points, and Wireless access points 3600 and 2800 series for LAN Expansions.  • Troubleshoot IPSEC overlay connectivity from SD-WAN appliance to Versa SD-WAN controllers via Internet, MPLS.  • Maintain network performance by using SNMP monitoring tools such as SolarWinds, OmniCentre to perform network monitoring, analysis as well as troubleshooting network problems.  • Managed Solarwinds Network Performance Monitor configuration and operations. Network & Security Administrator Vistra Energy Corp - Irving, TX January 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Assist with the configuration of the Juniper Unified Access Control as RADIUS server.  • Port-channel implementation on Nexus 7k, 5k, Catalyst 6500, 4500 series for servers to get high bandwidth  • Strong hands on experience on ASA (5505/5510) Firewalls. Implemented security policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSEC, SSL, VPN, IPS/IDS, AAA (TACACS+ & RADIUS), SSH.  • Involved in setting up IP sec VPN between ASA firewalls.  • Upgraded IOS on the ASA 5550 5585 5520 firewalls.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration ac ross our networks and support customer with the configuration and maintenance of the firewall systems.  • Hands on experience in Cisco ASA, and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Configuration and Administration of Palo Alto Networks Firewall to manage large scale firewall deployments and Cisco ASA-X FirePower Platforms 5515, 5525, 5545, 5585, Fire threat Defense 2100. 4100 series and Firepower Management centre of 1000, 2500 series.  • Experienced with implementation of Security profiles like Application, URL filtering, Threat Prevention, Data Filtering on Palo Alto.  • Exposure to Wildfire feature of Palo Alto.  • Work with other internal departments and 3rd party vendors to manage FTD and Firepower platform.  • Maintaining Palo Alto security policies including NAT, VPN and Secure Remote access\Maintained a Network with more than 600 Network devices, some 25,000 end hosts, and the other Network devices like DHCP, DNS servers, Firewall servers.  • Installing Juniper routers, Aruba, Avaya and Arista switches in the Network Lab environment and testing proof of concepts for technology integration.  • Hands-on Experience in configuration of Network architecture on Amazon AWS with VPC, Subnets, Internet gateway, NAT, Route table.  • Management and Administration of Amazon AWS Services CLI , EC2 , VPC , S3 , ELB Glacier, Route 53 and , and Trusted Advisor services.  • Coordinated intlltions for new hardware and modified IOS configs that supported VOIP telecommunications systems  • Performed Cisco ISE implementation for 802.1x authentication.  • Responsible in troubleshooting on Cisco ISE added new devices on network-based policies on ISE  • Configured Cisco ISE for Wireless and Wired 802.1x Authentication on Cisco Wireless LAN  • Designed Fiber Optic, Sierra Wireless, M2M and other systems and solutions according to specifications and budget.  • Provided Sierra Wireless support, AVL tracking and management  • Documented technical specifications and operating standards for VOIP telecommunications equipment.  • Configured SIP Trunks in CUCM as required, troubleshoot & resolve issues and escalate to Opentext.  • Configuring rules and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Understand the flow of traffic through the Check Point Security gateway cluster and troubleshoot connectivity issues using advanced troubleshooting from Command Line Utilities.  • Configured splunk for dynamic analytics and machine data indexing.  • Involved in VPN (IPSEC and GRE) migrations and new designs for the clients.  • Performing troubleshooting on slow network connectivity issues, routing issues that involve OSPF, BGP and identifying the root cause of the issues.  • Installation & configuration of Cisco VPN concentrator 3060 for VPN tunnel with Cisco VPN hardware & software client and PIX firewall  • Responsible for installations, testing, process, documentation, researching, and maintaining SolarWinds.  • Performed several site audits collecting device and connectivity information using SolarWinds, physical audit, and logical audit.  • Strong hands on Checkpoint 23000/15000 Next-gen Firewalls security gateways, security management server and configuring them through smart console.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Site to Site as well as Remote Access VPN on Checkpoint firewalls.  • Adding and removing Checkpoint firewall policies based on the requirements of various project requirements  • Checkpoint Firewall Log review and analysis and troubleshoot connectivity issues.  • Checkpoint, Cisco ASA, Fortinet and Palo Alto installation, upgrade, Monitoring and patch management.  • Managed Palo alto, Checkpoint, Fortinet , Cisco ASA policy, upgradation, patch management and network.  • Worked on Cisco Layer 2 switches (spanning tree, VLAN).  • Hands on experience working with security issue like applying ACL's, configuring NAT and VPN  • Responsible for Internal and external accounts and, managing LAN/WAN and checking for security.  • Experience with F5 load balancing, enabling customization of application load balancing solutions through the control and direct manipulation of the application traffic.  • Have very good hands and exposure with F5 Load Balancers LTM and ASM modules. Configuring virtual servers, NAT and troubleshooting the connectivity issues.  • Provided Load Balancing towards access layer from core layer using F5 Network Load Balancers. Senior Network Engineer YBR Infotechs Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created network diagram for employees using the Microsoft Visio.  • Preparing Client Machines for users with Operating Systems, Software, antivirus and required utilities and mailing clients etc.  • Primarily responsible in designing and maintaining the budget for the whole network.  • Perform daily maintenance, troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of all network components.  • Configuration of CISCO Routers (3600, 4000 Series) and 3550, 4500 series switches.  • TCP/IP network planning, Implementation and Management with subnets.  • Enabled SNMP traps for our Cacti Monitoring tool to monitor traffic and check the regular health of Servers and Network Devices  • Implementation of Virtual LANs across Routers and Switches.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, VTP and configuring ISL trunk on Fast - Ethernet channel between switches.  • Implemented and configured LAN Protocols: Ethernet, VLANs, VTP and STP.  • Implemented and Configured IP Routing Protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, and RIPv2  • Experience in Configuring Site-to-Site and Remote Site VPNs, NAT/PAT policies  • IOS upgrades on catalyst series switches like 2900, 3560, 3750.  • Troubleshoot TCP/IP problems and connectivity issues in multi-protocol Ethernet environment.  • Implemented trunking protocols like 802.1q on 3750 switches.  • Configured ACLs to provide accessibility and restrict unauthorized users.  • Involved in maintaining STP, RSTP and PVST+ for the catalyst switches I worked on.  • Configured and maintained RIP, OSPF and routing protocols on 2600 and 3600 series Cisco routers.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting of connectivity problems using Ping, Traceroute.  • Assisted in racking and stacking.  • Import and Export data from SQL Server to Excel and CV files and vise versa  • Prepare documentation of SQL environments, application they support, users, environment types, version, edition and patch level  • Conducted SQL Server production database analysis on a regular basis.  • Performed troubleshooting for LAN problems for individual client basic software.  • Maintenance and Troubleshooting of connectivity problems using PING, trace route.  • Designing, Implementing and Troubleshooting Cisco Routers and Switches using different routing protocols like RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, ISIS & MPLS L3 VPN  • Implement LAN protocols like STP, RSTP, VTP, VLAN and WAN protocols like Frame relay, PPP, port channels protocols like LACP, PAGP.  • Experience in designing and troubleshooting of EIGRP routing issues  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, VTP and configuring ISL trunk on Fast - Ethernet channel between switches.  • Performed IOS upgrades on Catalyst 3550, 2950, 1900 switches, and 3600, 2600 and 2500 routers. Network Engineer Beam Telecom - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Preparing Client Machines for users with Operating Systems, Software, antivirus and required utilities and mailing clients etc.  • Primarily responsible in designing and maintaining the budget for the whole network.  • Perform daily maintenance, troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of all network components.  • Configuration of CISCO Routers (3600, 4000 Series) and 3550, 4500 series switches.  • TCP/IP network planning, Implementation and Management with subnets.  • Enabled SNMP traps for our Cacti Monitoring tool to monitor traffic and check the regular health of Servers and Network Devices  • Implementation of Virtual LANs across Routers and Switches.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, VTP and configuring ISL trunk on Fast - Ethernet channel between switches.  • Implemented and configured LAN Protocols: Ethernet, VLANs, VTP and STP.  • Implemented and Configured IP Routing Protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, and RIPv2  • Experience in Configuring Site-to-Site, SSL and Remote Site VPNs, NAT/PAT policies  • IOS upgrades on catalyst series switches like 2900, 3560, 3750.  • Troubleshoot TCP/IP problems and connectivity issues in multi-protocol Ethernet environment.  • Implemented trunking protocols like 802.1q on 3750 switches.  • Configured ACLs to provide accessibility and restrict unauthorized users.  • Involved in maintaining STP, RSTP and PVST+ for the catalyst switches I worked on.  • Configured and maintained RIP, OSPF and routing protocols on 2600 and 3600 series Cisco routers.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting of connectivity problems using Ping, Traceroute.  • Assisted in racking and stacking.  • Maintenance and Troubleshooting of connectivity problems using PING, trace route.  • Worked with Remedy Ticketing tool in maintaining and keep a track of logs/monitor  • Performed switching related tasks such as implementing VLANS, VTP, RSTP and Port security. Skills Bgp, Cisco, Eigrp, Juniper, Layer 3, Mpls, Ospf, Switching, Tacacs, Vpn, Cisco asa, Cisco fwsm, Fwsm, Hsrp, Ipsec, Splunk, Ssl, Vrrp, Wireshark, Firewalls Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Firewalls ? Cisco ASA 5585, 5550, 5540 Palo Alto 220, 5020 and J2300, J6300, SRX-100,240  Routers  ? Cisco routers (1900, 2600, 2800, 2900, 3600, 3800, 3900, 7200, 7600), Cisco L2 & L3, Juniper routers (M7i, M10i, M320),ASR Routers 1006, 2800, 3800    Switches ? Cisco switches (3560, 3750, 4500, 4900 & 6500), Nexus (2248, 5548 &7010)  Routing RIP, EIGRP, OSPF & BGP, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization, Static routing  Routing Protocols ? RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, and BGP.  Switching Protocols ? VTP, STP, RSTP, MSTP, VLANs, PAgP, and LAcP.  LAN Technologies ? Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, NAT/PAT, FDDI. Cisco  Secure Access ? TACACS+/Radius  Network Management SNMP, Cisco Works LMS, HP Open View, Solar winds, ACI, Ethereal  Layer 3 Switching CEF, Multi-Layer Switching, Ether Channel.  Redundancy Protocols HSRP, VRRP, GLBP.  Security Protocols ? IKE, IPsec, SSL, AAA, Access-lists, prefix-lists.  QOS ? CBWFQ, LLQ, WRED, Policing/Shaping  Monitoring Tools Voyence, packet tracer, Wireshark, Infloblox, Opnet, GNS3 and Solar winds.  Security Technologies Cisco FWSM/PIX/ASDM, Juniper SRX, Bluecoat.  Operating Systems Microsoft XP/Vista/7,10, UNIX, LINUX  Carrier Technologies MPLS, MPLS-VPN  Tools  HPOVI, HP Service Desk, Remedy, Thousand Eyes, Solarwinds, SMC, NAGIOS, ASDB, CA Ehealth, Network Vantage, , Spectrum, MRTG, Solar Winds, ARUBA, CISCO Prime, CISCO ISE, Cisco Anyconnect, Info box, Cisco Total care Excel, Splunk