Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Moved to USA Piscataway, NJ Over 6 years of progressive experience in Network Protocols, Communication Network and Firewalls.Comprehensive Cisco technology knowledge in design, implementation, administration and support. In-depth knowledge of deploying IP Protocols and troubleshooting. Experienced in layer-2 switching and layer-3 routing. Proficient in usage of Microsoft Visio/EDRAW as tool for technical presentation and documentation. Extensive experience in Planning, Implementing, Configuring, Testing and Troubleshooting of network systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Engineer IR-Systems Private LTD - Lahore September 2015 to June 2019 IR-Systems (pvt.) Ltd. is an IT solution Provider Company, which has been working in IT-industry for over 20 years. IRS provides services from designing and engineering to post sales management in the field of Systems, Storage, Networking and Data Disaster recovery solutions. As a Sr. Network Engineer, my job was mainly to design and build networks using Cisco products (also few other vendors), configuring layer2 & layer3 technologies, providing technical support and identifying and resolving recurring issues of the clients. I also led my company as project manager in major projects with established clients including Outfitters-Loft Commercial Ltd., Big Bird Group, Chakwal Group of Industries Private Ltd., Gourmet Pakistan Private Ltd., Urban Sole and Khalis Group etc. My responsibilities as project manager were as follows:    Meet with clients to take detailed ordering briefs and clarify specific requirements of each project.  Develop comprehensive project plans to be shared with clients as well as other staff members.  Delegate project tasks based on junior staff members’ individual strength, skill sets and experience levels.  Track project performance, especially to analyze the successful completion of short- and long-term goals.  Completion of the project keeping in view the time and budgetary constraints.  Meeting expectations of the client and providing them post sales assistance on individual level. Network Administrator Unique Track Private Limited - Lahore, Punjab October 2012 to May 2014 Unique Track (pvt.) Ltd. is a leading supplier of GPS-based asset-tracking and fleet-management systems. Since 2008, UT is one of the renowned name in vehicle tracking industry. I served in this enterprise environment for two years. During my job, I fulfilled the following responsibilities:               Maintain internet services along with Security, HTTP, VPN, Email, Spam etc.  Design, setup and configure complex switching environment.  Design, setup and configure a wireless network that supports open or secured access and the ability to support voice and video applications.  Maintain local area network and assist in the design of multi-server environments including IP addressing, DNS, and more.  Maintain multi-site network operations and software applications, operating systems and regular maintenance with both private and public facilities.  Manage assigned projects and program components to deliver services in accordance with established objectives.  Responding to inquiries from staff, administration, services provider, site personnel and outside vendors by providing prompt technical assistance and support.  Supervising the administration of system server related network to make sure availability of services to authorized users.  Troubleshooting malfunctions of network hardware and software applications, security systems and telephones to resolve operational issues and restoring services.  Responsible for data network disaster recovery planning implementation. Education MASTERS IN COMPUTER SCIENCES in COMPUTER SCIENCES VIRTUAL UNIVERSITY OF PAKISTAN Skills Network Management (7 years), Linux (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CCIE (Services Provider) April 2015 to Present Additional Information Core Qualification:    ·        Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert (CCIE) Service Provider Certified  ·        Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert (CCIE) Routing & Switching Written  ·        Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert (CCIE) Data Center Written  ·        Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) Security Training  ·        Red Hat Certified Engineer (RHCE) Training  . Microsoft Certified Solutions Associates (MCSA) Window Server 2012 R2     Professional Expertise:    Routing: Static & Dynamic Routing, Routing Protocols (OSPF, EIGRP,ISIS & BGP), Policy-Based Routing (PBR), MPLS Traffic-Engineering, MPLS VPNs (Layer 2 & Layer 3), LDP, MP-BGP, RSVP, DMVPNs, IPV6, IP Multicasting, NAT, SSH & 802.1x    Switching: VLANs & Inter-VLAN routing, RSTP & MSTP, Etherchannel, High Availability & layer 2 Security    Security: IPsec & Secure VPNs, Policy NAT, Object ACLs, Local and remote AAA with ACS (RADIUS & TACACS)    Administration (Linux): LVM, RPM & YUM Installation, OS Kernel and Modules Installation, Password breaking & Grub Password, FTP, SAMBA (SMB), NFS, DNS with Bind, DHCP, Web Server Apache, Mail Server (Postfix, Dovecot & Squirrelmail), Proxy Server Squid & Security (Iptables, Firewalld & Selinux)    Product Knowledge: Cisco Switches: Catalyst 2960, 3550, 3750, 4506, 6500. Cisco Routers: 2900, 7200, 7600, Cisco ASR 9010, CSR 1000v, NEXUS 5000, 7000, 1000v. Cisco Firewalls: PIX FW 506, 525, 535, ASA 5505, 5520 & 5500-X, Others: Mikrotik & Juniper Routers, Fortinet & Sangfor firewalls, GNS3, VMWare Workstation 11 & ESXI 5.5. Hypervisors.