Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Virginia Tech Blacksburg, VA Work Experience Network Engineer Virginia Tech May 2014 to Present Duties include: Provide management and troubleshooting of data center networking devices. Devices include F5 load balancers, Brocade ServerIrons, Brocade MLXs, Juniper QFX and Cisco Nexus switches. Provide management and troubleshooting of RLAN's Cisco ASA. Provide design and diagnostics for MPLS and OSPF protocols for layer 3 communications. Provides switching designs and diagnostic support for campus enterprise networks. Demonstrates communication and leadership skills in Network Engineering, to support day to day operations, and network engineering projects. Provide technical analysis support for Network Operations Technicians. Research new and developing network technologies to incorporate into Virginia Tech networking needs. Upgraded Virginia Tech data center with Juniper QFX switches, using BGP/EVPN/VxLAN technologies. Network Systems Specialist Easter Seals UCP North Carolina & Virginia Title September 2013 to May 2014 Duties included: Installation and management of Cisco LAN and WAN technologies, Cisco Voice & Unified Communication Technologies, Cisco ASA Firewall. Management of Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange. Network Administrator Tazewell County Public Schools August 2011 to September 2013 Duties included: Installation and management of Cisco LAN and WAN technologies, Cisco Voice & Unified Communication Technologies, Cisco Wireless LAN Controllers, Cisco ASA Firewall. Door Access Control Systems and Video Surveillance Administration. Education Master's in Information Technology Virginia Tech - Blacksburg, VA August 2015 to December 2018 B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Bluefield State College - Bluefield, WV 2003 to 2005 Skills Cisco, MPLS Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) August 2018 to August 2021 Juniper Networks Certified Associate September 2018 to September 2021