NETWORK ENGINEER <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> ENGINEER NETWORK ENGINEER - Oak Ridge National Laboratory Powell, TN To obtain a challenging position as an infrastructure specialist where I can continue to grow and use my  knowledge of networking systems. Work Experience NETWORK ENGINEER Oak Ridge National Laboratory September 2016 to Present • Lead engineer for core routing and switching on the Campus, 3x Data Centers, and the LAN.    • Upgrading a campus LAN consisting of 800x access switch stacks with Catalyst 9300/9500 platforms.    • Upgrading 3x data centers' network and fiber optic infrastructures with an Arista spine-leaf.    • Working with engineering staff to complete and utilize a new campus fiber optic plant.    • Designed and currently building a new core routing architecture.    • Migrated to Palo Alto 7000 and Cisco Firepower 4140 platforms for edge and core firewalls.    • Standardized configurations and build procedures.    • Created thorough documentation of both current and future network architectures. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Knoxville Utilities Board May 2016 to September 2016 • Performed an upgrade of 300x F5 Load-balanced production websites and services.    • Worked with a team of network administrators to build out the network infrastructure for the KUB call  center. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Scripps Networks Interactive June 2013 to May 2016 • Network engineering team member responsible for daily datacenter, campus LAN, and firewall support.    • Lead the end-system side of an effort to migrate DR data center assets to the cloud.    • Migrated connectivity for more than 350 servers to both new physical locations and to virtual  environments.    • Administered F5 LTMs with advanced traffic manipulation with TCL-Scripted iRules.    • Established and maintained solid documentation and monitoring for all network assets.    • Created and implemented standardized network system configurations    • Maintain support contracts, assets and elevations, and comprehensive inventory. Education Master of Science in Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Western Governors University October 2016 to October 2018 Bachelor of Applied Science in (B.A.Sc.), Network Security & Forensics Fountainhead College of Technology January 2012 to December 2013 Skills best practices (Less than 1 year), documentation (5 years), large-scale (Less than 1 year), real-time. (Less than 1 year), remediation. (Less than 1 year), shell scripts (Less than 1 year), system configuration (Less than 1 year), training (Less than 1 year), Cisco, Security, MPLS, VPN, firewalls