Network Consultant Contractor <span class="hl">Network</span> Consultant Contractor Network Consultant Contractor - VINALS ACCOUNTING AND TAX SERVICES Naples, FL • Fluently Bilingual in English & Spanish   • A+, Net+ and Cisco CCNA   • Designing and Installing Microsoft Windows Servers 2008-2016, AD administration, Dell iDrac  • Exchange 2010-2016, O365 Windows XP-10, MS Office Suites 2007-2016 O365  • VMware vSphere v5 & v6 and HyperV hypervisors administration and cloud computing solutions  • Veeam Backup, Dell Equallogic, EMC2 and Qnap Storage Area Network  • Cisco VoIP CUCM, Unity Connection, Cisco ASA security appliances, Cisco enterprise switching and routing  • Wireless technologies (Ubiquity, Meraki, Cisco)  • Design, Implementation, and Management of complete Cisco/Merkai Network solution.  • Symantec Anti-Virus Client and Management Platform, McAfee endpoint and Sophos PureMessage  • Use of tools and software to monitor, manage, design, administer and secure Local Area Networks  • Designed and Implemented 1 to 1 solutions, Microsoft, Apple and Open Source (Chromebooks), for various organizations, Meraki Systems Manager and AirWatch Mobile Device Management  • Troubleshooting Laptop/Desktop/server hardware, MS System Center  • Configuring and troubleshooting Mac OS X, iOS devices, Applications and settings  • Communicate with techs and end users, escalation, decision making under pressure, team work  • Security systems management and configuration for Firewalls, IDS, IPS, security Auditing / Vulnerability Scanning, Anti-virus, Data Loss Prevention, Secure Messaging, End-Point security, Database security. VoIP Security.  • Excellent documentation and strong customer service skills, ITIL Change Management.  • Ability to work independently Work Experience Network Consultant Contractor VINALS ACCOUNTING AND TAX SERVICES September 2017 to Present • Manage and administer technical issues for users in a Call Centre environment  • Identify and fix all onsite infrastructure issues  • Maintain IT infrastructure documentation  • Analyze and coordinate network documentation with Division managers  • Propose and implement the latest technology for increased network productivity  • Security systems management and configuration for Firewalls, IDS, IPS, security Auditing / Vulnerability Scanning, Anti-virus, Data Loss Prevention, Secure Messaging, End-Point security, Database security.  • Cisco Hosted Collaboration Solutions, Cisco CTL and VoIP Security.  • Design and implementation of a new network environment segmented with several VLANs and redundant paths. Installing and configuring Access Points, switches, ISRs Firewalls including an in premises and off premises Data Center for disaster recovery and fail-over links. Network Engineer Avow Inc September 2016 to September 2017 • I documented the network with Visio both logical and physical topologies for a total of 12 IDF and MDF racks, including the former flat legacy network and the newly designed network infrastructure.  • HIPAA policies and procedures. Generated regular network security reports, access violations, detection statistics and remidiations.  • Project managed the design and implementation of a new network environment segmented with several VLANs and redundant paths. Installing and configuring 16 Meraki Access Points, 8 Meraki MS350 switches, 2 Cisco 4000 ISRs and 2 Meraki MX400 Firewalls including an in premises and off premises Data Center for disaster recovery, fail-over links (Dedicated fiber link and VPN). reconfigured Cisco Access Points, Cisco catalyst switches and ASA 5512x.  • Unity Connection, SIP, H323, MGCP, CWMS, Jaber.  • Administration of CUCM IP phone system. Implemented VoIP security and new features, created step by step "how to" documents for common phone system procedures such as deploying new phones and voice mail boxes, re-purposing existing phones, resetting passwords, generating reports, and other management procedures.  • Project managed and configured the addition of a second PRI on a Cisco ISR 2921 Voice Gateway, configuration of a 4 port FXS card on one of the Cisco 4431 ISR router to utilize 4 DIDs for analog lines as part of a faxing solution on a new administration building, spliced and cross-connected 4 POTS lines across 3 buildings as part of the fax lines project.  • Assisted on the migration from Exchange Server 2010 to Office 365, updated 250+ AD user accounts in order to populate the right information on various fields of O365 with a bulk AD user edit solution, assisted on the process of transitioning end users to the newly implemented O365.  • Participated on the transition from AirWatch to Meraki Systems Manager for our mobile management solution.  • Implemented a wireless Point-to-Point connection between two buildings across a lake and manipulated RSTP port priority values to create an automatic failover link between two Meraki access switches. Network Administrator City of Bonita Springs - Bonita Springs, FL January 2013 to August 2016 • Maintained and upgraded existing software systems, to maximize effective use by City Staff. Evaluate and recommend software and hardware system changes as necessary to improve output of City IT Systems.  • Maintained and repair system hardware as necessary, maintain system security to protect City system integrity, and safety, work with outside provider to improve City Web Site. Dell servers and workstations, iDrac, MS System Center.  • Display an effective, professional management presence under stress, distinguish priorities and modify those priorities on short notice if circumstances warrant, effectively handle crisis and appropriately adjust plans and activities to changes in circumstance, analyze and interpret data.  • Identify the critical elements, and apply the proper solutions, transmit verbal and written information and ideas in a timely manner clearly understandable  • VMware EXSi environment administration  • Exchange 2007 and 2010 migration and administration  • ActiveDirectory administration  • ArcGIS server/client administration  • Live stream video server, IPTV and equipment administration  • Configure, deployed and maintained network equipment such as Cisco PoE Catalyst switches, voice gateway router, multiple Cisco ASA, Site-to-Site VPN tunnels, network security, wireless network and wireless Point-to-Point connections.  • Cisco Unity Connection and Unified Communications Manager VoIP environment administration, Various voice protocols (SIP, H323, MGCP, CWMS)  • Mobile device management. Education Computer Systems & Network Engineering Certificate of completion and industry certifications in Computer Systems & Network Engineering Lorenzo Walker Technical College - Naples, FL August 2011 to April 2013 Skills DHCP (6 years), Vmware (3 years), Active Directory (6 years), Telecommunication (2 years), CUCM (2 years), MS Exchange (2 years), Meraki (3 years), Systems Engineering/Administration (4 years), Network Engineering/Administration (4 years), Apple Computers and Mobile Devices (6 years), Veeam Backup (3 years), Cisco ASA/Switching/Routing (4 years), VoIP (3 years), TCP/IP (5 years), DNS, Group Policy Certifications/Licenses CCNA August 2015 to August 2017 Cisco Certified Network Associate  Switching And Routing compTIA A+ May 2012 to May 2014 compTIA A+ certifies experience and understanding of basic computer systems and technologies. Careers: Technical Support Specialist, IT Support Specialist, IT Support Administrator, IT Support Technician, Field Service Technician. compTIA NET+ April 2013 to April 2015 compTIA NET+ is a mid-level certification for network technicians. This certification is designed to test the competency of a mid-level network technician in supporting and configuring TCP/IP clients in terms of network design, cabling, hardware setup, configuration, installation, support, and troubleshooting. Additional Information CV available upon request.