IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Magnolia Education and Research Foundation Los Angeles, CA IT Manager and System Administrator with 7+ years of experience leading IT operations for large education companies with thousands of active users. Strategic IT Leader focused on designing, developing, and implementing IT strategies to drive operational efficiency, productivity, business continuity, information security, and risk mitigation. Work Experience IT Manager Magnolia Education and Research Foundation - Los Angeles, CA 2013 to Present Design, develop, and implement IT strategies to maximize system performance while reducing IT expenditures.  ? Manage a team of 6 IT staff, supporting 400+ employees and 4000+ users across 11 different locations.  ? Led the implementation of a helpdesk system to improve IT support and reduce the time to issue resolution.  ? Launched a Cloud Base Management and Filtering system to support devices used on and off the campus which improved remote classroom management, education quality, and student focus.  ? Negotiate contract terms and pricing to maximize ROI on a $2M budget for software, hardware, and IT services.  ? Established standardized software and hardware update and refresh procedures to decrease inventory, application pricing, and licensing expenses for applications, PC desktops, and networking systems.  ? Led the installation, configuration, and maintenance of cabling, switches, servers, wireless system, phone system, and classroom projectors for two schools entirely from scratch.  ? Supported Finance and HR compliance audits requiring data recovery and supporting documentation. Network Administrator Accord Education - Irvine, CA 2012 to 2013 Designed, developed, integrated, implemented, and maintained network and telecommunications systems, including LAN, WAN, hardware, and software, to support several hundred employees.  ? Led WiFi system and VOIP upgrades to improve connectivity, reduce system downtime, and increase productivity.  ? Evaluated new technologies to determine the potential impact on productivity and information security and make recommendations to company leadership based on business needs.  ? Proactively identified complex network telecommunications issues and problems, tested alternative solutions, and made recommendations to reduce downtime and prevent issues. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems California University of Management and Science Bachelor's Degree in Physics in Physics Sakarya University Skills Data recovery, Information security, Voip, Dns, Tcp/ip, Ios, Dhcp, Systems administration, Tcp, Vmware, Security, It support, Xerox, Forecasting, Strategic planning, Budgeting, Inventory, Documentation, Contract negotiation, Lan Links http://linkedin.com/in/tyyrm Additional Information SKILLS  ? Information Technology: Strategic Planning & Forecasting, Resource Allocation, Systems Administration, Network Configuration, Installations, Troubleshooting, IT Support, Ticket Tracking, Information Security, Inventory Management, Vendor Relations, Contract Negotiation, Budgeting, Data Recovery, Documentation  ? Software & Hardware: LAN, WAN, VMware, Apple IOS, Windows Server (2003, 2008, 2012, 2016), Windows XP (7,8,10), DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, VOIP Systems, Printer & Scanners (HP, Ricoh, Canon, Xerox, Brother)  ? Leadership: Program Development, Project Management, Process Improvement, Prioritization, Problem Solving, Team Hiring & Management, Training & Development, Issue Resolution  ? Language: English - Fluent, Turkish-Native