Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - AON Service Corporation New York, NY ? 5+ years of experience in Networking and Security, including hands-on experience in providing network support, installation and analysis for a broad range of LAN / WAN communication systems.  ? Experience in planning, designing, implementing, maintaining and troubleshooting of the network.  ? Experience in design, Deploying & Troubleshooting F5 Load Balancer Includes BIGIP Series 5050V, 10000V  ? Hands on Experience in configuring F5 objects, components and provisioning various modules like LTM. GTM, ASM, APM  ? F5 Global Traffic Manager (GTM) Migration to successfully migrate 1500+ DNS rules / wide IP addresses.  ? Technically proficient in Installation, Configuration in Cisco switches, Cisco routers, Cisco Access Points, Cisco ASA firewalls, Check Point Firewalls  ? Experience in the support for TCP/IP devices in LAN/WAN network  ? Very good knowledge in OSI layer, TCP/IP layer, Cisco IOS  ? Good experience in routing protocols such as RIP(version1,version 2), EIGRP, OSPF, BGP  ? Experience in configuring ACLS both standard and extended and also switch port security.  ? Experience in IP addressing, sub netting and VLSM.  ? Proficiency in configuring Nexus switches of 2k, 5k and 7k series.  ? Good experience in Route summarization and redistribution.  ? Expertise in implementing switch security and firewalls.  ? Expertise in implementing security policies like ACLs, NAT, PAT, IPS, IDS, VPN.  ? Good hands on experience in Layer-3 routing and Layer-2 switching.  ? Experience in redundancy protocols such as HSRP, VRRP and good knowledge in GLBP.  ? Good knowledge in Intrusion Detection and Prevention.  ? Experience in configuring VoIP using asterisk server and SIP protocols are well known.  ? Resolve U-Verse customer's network issues over the phone  ? Troubleshoot Internet, IPTV, VoIP technology phone services  ? Explain causes and resolutions of issues to irate customers  ? Experience with the monitoring tools such as Solarwinds, PRTG monitor.  ? Successfully implemented VRF technology on Cisco technology.  ? Understanding of TACACS and RADIUS in detail.  ? Experience in configuring DNS and DHCP server and also troubleshooting them.  ? Proven ability to absorb new material and transfer knowledge to co-workers and users.  ? Able to communicate well and convey information with the team members, and the staff of the organization and also with the other vendors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator AON Service Corporation - New York, NY November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Configure / Troubleshoot CISCO 9000, 7500, 3800 series routers and 3560 series switches for LAN/WAN connectivity.  ? Updated and installed CISCO IOS and Catalyst OS software on different Switches and Routers.  ? Involved in Configuring and deploying Cisco Catalyst 6513E, 6506, 4948E, 4510 switches and Cisco 3750, 3560, 2960, 2921, 2950 2911 series switches.  ? Involved in the activity of DATA-Center migration of regular Cisco catalyst switches with the new Nexus2148, 2224T, 5548, 6018, 7010 using F3/M3 line-cards with 10GE & 40GE interfaces and Supervisor 2E/2T.  ? Involved in design and implementation of Data Center Migration, worked on implementation strategies for the expansion of the MPLS VPN networks.  ? Experience configuring VPC, VDC and ISSU software upgrade in Nexus 7010.  ? Actively involved in Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANS, Port security- 802.1x, Trucking 802.1Q, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, and LAN security on Cisco Catalyst Switches4507R+E, 6509-E and Cisco Nexus Switches 2232, 5596, 7009.  ? Worked on configuration commissioning and upgradation of the MPLS circuits for various branch offices and disabling all unused ports and putting them in unused VLAN and ensuring DHCP.  ? Serve as part of a team of network engineers responsible for base wide network upgrade from Cisco Layer 3 Catalyst switches to Juniper Layer 3 EX4200 & EX3200 switches.  ? Experience working with ASR 9000 series switches with IOS-XR.  ? Provided Layer-3 redundancy by implementing HSRP and GLBP for High availability.  ? Design and implement Catalyst/ASA Firewall Service Module for various LAN's.  ? Integrated Microsoft active directory (LDAP) into checkpoint for identify awareness and user authentication.  ? Implemented the policy rules and DMZ for multiple clients of the state on the Checkpoint firewall.  ? Experience in adding Rules and Monitoring Checkpoint Firewall traffic through Smart Dashboard and Smart View Tracker applications.  ? Installed and administration of Checkpoint R 75.40 Firewall.  ? Involved in Management of security policies of firewalls through Checkpoint Provider-1, other tasks include license and operational support management.  ? Hands on experience on all software blades of checkpoint firewall.  ? Extensive Packet level debugging and troubleshooting on Palo Alto Firewalls to resolve numerous network issues. Platforms PA 4000 and PA 500 and PA- 200 firewalls.  ? Upgraded all network devices for compatibility of integrating all Palo alto network with VMware NSX.  ? Configuring rules and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  ? Configuring and monitoring IDS and IPS systems. Analyzing and correlating logs from firewalls, servers, IDS/IPS, and other network devices.  ? Deployment and management of Cisco routing, switching, firewall, and IPS/IDS platforms. Monitor Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) console for active alerts and determine priority of response.  ? Provides management level reporting of firewall and Intrusion Protection System (IPS) activity on a periodic basis.  ? Involved in configuring Juniper SSG-140 and Check point firewall.  ? Implementation and Configuration (Profiles, I Rules) of F5 Big-IP LTM-6400 load balancers.  ? Worked on troubleshooting issues on F5 LTM related to network, objects, servers and experience in rectifying issues related to F5 LTMs using F5 support services.  ? Monitored and responded to network anomalies utilizing Solar winds/Orion's software and recommended appropriate network solutions for issues.  ? Experience in Packet capturing, troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark.  ? Working with different teams to gather info for the new request and troubleshoot for any connectivity issues by capturing traffic using TCPDUMP and smart view tracker.    Environment: Cisco Switches and Routers, VLANS, Port security- 802.1x, Trucking 802.1Q, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, ASR 9000 series switches, Palo Alto Firewalls, Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS), Intrusion Protection System (IPS), Solar winds/Orion's software, Wireshark, TCPDUMP. Network Engineer Genesco - Nashville, TN November 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Working in high availability Nexus Environment and provide Level 3 Network Support.  ? Configuring, upgrading and verifying the NX-OS operation system.  ? Converting PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution.  ? Basic and advance F5 load balancer and Cisco ACE configurations, general troubleshooting of the F5 load balancers.  ? Modified internal infrastructure by adding switches to support server farms and added servers to existing DMZ environments to support new and existing application platforms.  ? Analyzed customer application and bandwidth requirements, ordered hardware and circuits, and built cost effective network solutions to accommodate customer requirements and project scope.  ? Configured routers and coordinated with LD Carriers and LECs to turn-up new WAN circuits.  ? Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with both Checkpoint and Cisco ASA VPN experience Providing Level 3 support to customers, resolving issues by attending to conference calls.  ? Performed automation operations using VMware NSX and Python scripting  Providing Level 3 Engineering and Support to other internal network engineers and contractors.  ? Designing and installing new branch network systems. Resolving network issues, running test scripts and preparing network documentation.  ? Actively participated in upgrading fast Ethernet, Layer 3 switched/routed LAN infrastructure from Cisco 3640 to Cisco 2811 ISR routers and switches at access level to 2950, 3550.  ? Converting CatOS to Cisco IOS Config Conversion on distribution layer switches  ? Configured various Router interfaces like ATM interface, T3 & Channelized T1 interfaces  ? Configuring and troubleshooting CISCO catalyst 6509, 7609, 7613 with Supervisor cards, Cisco 3640, Cisco GSR 12416,21418(with PRP and RPR processors)  ? Excellent Troubleshooting Skills and Customer Centric approach.  ? Cisco ACI is used to automate the network and to meet service level agreements (SLA) on Nexus 93128TX, 9296PX switches.  ? Working with BGP, OSPF protocols in MPLS Cloud.  ? Providing daily network support for national wide area network consisting of MPLS, VPN and point-to-point site.  ? Configuring HSRP between the 3845 router pairs of Gateway redundancy for the client desktops.  ? Configuring GLBP, VLAN Trunking 802.1Q, STP, Port security on Catalyst 6500 switches.  ? Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches and fixes with all around technical support.  ? Configuring BGP, MPLS in Cisco IOS XR.  ? Configuring Virtual Device Context in Nexus 7010.  ? Configuring multiple route reflectors within a cluster.  ? Working on HP open view map for Network Management System and Ticketing  ? Involved in Configuration of Access lists (ACL) on ASA firewall for the proper network routing for the B2Bnetwork connectivity.  ? To secure configurations of load balancing in F5, SSL/VPN connections, Troubleshooting CISCO ASA firewalls, and related network security measures.  ? Designed and implemented DMZ for Web servers, Mail servers & FTP Servers using Cisco ASA5500 Firewalls.    Environment: Cisco ASA 5500 firewall, Cisco GSR 12416,21418, 3640, 2811, 3845 routers, Cisco 2950, 3550, 7609, 7613, 6500 series switches, F5 BigIp Load Balancer, NX-OS, Nexus 93128TX, 9296PX, 7010 Switch. Network Administrator ALL CONNECT INC - Atlanta, GA August 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Provided system support for the end client.  ? Installed and verified that all AIX/Linux patches or updates are applied to the servers.  ? Troubleshooting Linux network, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IPtables, firewall, TCP wrappers, NMAP.  ? Worked on UTB and Wireless Networks Configuration, maintenance, management and Data Backup.  ? Developed and configured the network to connect the company different branches together, monitored the network usage.  ? Installed and maintained new server hardware and software infrastructure diagnoses and resolved network problems and related devices.  ? Installs and configures client and server network software, and performs software upgrades as needed Pcs Maintenances and Devices Programming  ? Configures, manages and provides technical support for the firewalls, IPS, and other network security systems.  ? Installing the F5 TMOS upgrades, Hot-fix installations depending on Business need.  ? Configuring of Virtual Servers, Pools, Nodes and load balancing methods on F5 LTM.  ? Remote access technologies Vpn, dial-up  ? Performs routine preventative maintenance on network hardware and software applications.  ? Worked on the automation System Project to, Maintenance, Resolved the Complexities and Development.  ? Lookout Program Project Development and Configuration.  ? Camera System Network and Device, Implementation, Configuration, and Backup Data & fingers print program Monitoring & manipulation.  ? Configuration Implementation Documentation for the Automation Program  ? Oracle database manipulating and Merge.    Environment: TCP/IP, PPP, DSL, NAT Cisco Router configuration, Firewalls. Network admin Lexico Electronics ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  The Office network has a distributed Local area network, which covers Routers and switches. The entire network infrastructure is being managed and supporting for Hardware Issues and maintaining the stability in network.  ? 24X7 monitoring of WAN networking using Manager Tool.  ? Configured VLANs with 802.1Q Tagging according to the Server team's requirements.  ? Configuration, troubleshooting & management of devices like Cisco Routers, & Cisco Switches.  ? Coordinate with the ISP like BSNL, TATA, Reliance and Bharti for Leased line (Channelized El, 64 Kbps to 2 Mbps).  ? Daily Checklist on Network Equipment's to ensure Data Communication is smooth and Normal.  ? Coordinating with remote engineer for installation and configuration for Routers, Switches to support WAN links.  ? Taking Back-up Configurations of N/W equipment's like Routers, Switches and on weekly basis.  ? Responsible for escalating the major outages to Program Manager.  ? Working knowledge of the switching protocols like DTP.STP,PVSTP,RSTP  ? Performing redundancy testing on the MPLS circuits of main Hub locations in alternatives days.  ? Involved in Design and Implementation of Active Directory and Exchange services setup across the organization.  ? Administration and Level 3 support for Exchange 2K/2012R2 Servers.  ? Proficient in configuring DNS, DHCP and Active directory services in Windows based server environment. Strong knowledge of IIS.  ? Experience in Configuring Active Directory Objects and Trusts.  ? Working on the regional server issues through Incidents Tickets of Remedy Tool Proficient in setting up LAN and WAN networks.  ? Experienced in File System Management, Name Service Configuration, and Mail Configuration Experience in P2V and V2V migration.  ? Configure and troubleshooting OSPF issues  ? Wrote the F5 LTM Standard Build document and the F5 GTM Standard Build document for AIG.  ? Used load balancers ACE and load balancing technique with multiple components for efficient performance and to increase reliability through redundancy  ? Worked as F5 load balancer engineer involving complete support day in and out work on the F5 load balancers LTMs, GTMs, EMs, ASM, and Fire pass in Datacenter and remote functions.  ? Take care of the Logging issues of the F5 load balancer and how it works with the syslog servers making sure the communications through the switches and routers  ? Creating a test Environment in Citrix or VMware for Production Team to test them.  ? Applications Experience in Grid Servers Maintenance and troubleshooting.  ? Involved in Exchange Server Configuration and Administration with experience in Exchange Virtual Server creation on Windows Server Cluster.  ? Experience in installing and configuring Microsoft Windows 2012 Clustering Management Implementation, Publishing & Testing of applications on a Citrix Presentation Server Monitoring and Managing Citrix Meta frame Presentation Servers.  ? Involved in managing backup and restoration of Exchange and Active Directory server databases with VERITAS Backup Exec. And VERITAS Netback up.  ? Experience with Software and Hardware based RAID 0+1, RAID 1+0 and RAID 5 Work well both independently and as part of a team. Work well under pressure and conflicting priorities.  ? Experience in working with Client documentation and Storage Procedures.  ? Configure Static routes for back up lines.  ? Configure VLANS, VTP and STP protocols..    Environment: CISCO routers and switches, Access Control Server, VLAN, Trunk Protocols, CISCO ASA, DHCP, DNS, Spanning tree,ISP like BSNL. Education Bachelors in electrical engineering in electrical engineering Bapatla Engineering College Skills CISCO (5 years), MPLS (4 years), VLAN (4 years), VPN (4 years), LAN (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Networking Concepts OSI Model, TCP/IP, Static Route, Access List, Route Redistribution, NAT/PAT, Subnet Mask.  Routers 2500,3600,3700,7200, ASR ROUTERS ASR 1k (1001, 1004, 106, 1013), ASR 9kand ASR900.  Switches Cisco 2900,3560,3750,4500,6500,juniper,catalyst switch 2960,nexus switches N5k  WAN/core ATM, Frame-Relay, ISDN, PPP, HDLC  IPSEC/VPN Configuration  PIX to Router, Router to Router, PIX to VPN wildcard client, Router to VPN wildcard client, PIX to PIX, fully meshed configurations    Network Security Technologies ASA 5550/5540 Firewalls, Juniper SRX Firewall, Palo Alto firewall PA 200, 3000, Access Control Lists, IPSec, IDS, and IPS,AAA  Routing Protocols IPv4/v6, RIPv1, RIPv2, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, PBR, VRF, HSRP, PIM, BGP, MPLS.  Security Protocols DHCP snooping, IP source guard, Dynamic ARP Inspection  LAN Protocols IEEE 802.1q, VTP, STP, RSTP, HSRP, IEEE 802.1x, LACP, PAGP, VLAN, Ether Channel.  Lab Tools & Software  Wire shark, Cisco Packet Tracer, GNS3, Secure CRT, Hyper Terminal, NTP, SWITCHED PORT ANALYZER,NETORK ANALYZER,TACACS,RADIUS    Network Managements SNMP, SSH, TELNET, ICMP  Operating System Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 /8/7/Vista/XP, IOS, Cisco IOS  Microsoft Office Visio, Excel, PowerPoint, Word,C