Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Vectrus New Haven, IN Work Experience Network Administrator Vectrus - AF June 2019 to Present Oversee the administration of unclassified, classified, and Centrix networks consisting of 18K nodes spanning 400+ facilities. Manage the maintenance, updating and configuration of user/system files and protocols. Coordinate maintenance schedules of switches and routers within LAN/WAN environments aligned with organizational objectives. Provide strategic leadership and guidance to three network support teams consisting of 16 professionals.  • Selected to serve as a contributing member of a 16-man team accountable for 18K nodes.  • Entrusted to serve as an escalation point as an expert in resolution. Network Infrastructure Engineer Atlantic Comm Tech - Scott AFB, IL October 2018 to June 2019 Led day-to-day administration, maintenance and configuration of the CVAH weapon system network supporting the Air Force Cyber Protection teams. Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) in HP Net/Dell Power Edge servers, desktop hardware, Cisco switches, and data communication products. Leveraged various resources to diagnosis and remediate complex network issues. Administered LAN/WAN systems ensuing security adherence. Developed implementation strategies for technical solutions.  • Championed the deployment of ESXi servers including the design of clones, templates and task scheduling as well as managing snapshots and prioritization of VMs.    Apex Systems - Scott AFB JRSS Operational Engineer Cisco SME April 2018 to October 2018 Served as a network engineer support function overseeing customer programs of the DISA JRSS Enterprise Network. Facilitated troubleshooting leveraging CLI and GUI resources. Partnered in the provision of network architecture and technologies focused on the enhancement of capabilities. Conducted needs assessments.  • Expertly guided a team in the administration of Cisco ASA's, Cisco switches and routers, Juniper switches, F5 load balancers, Bluecoat Web Proxy, Palo Alto Firewalls, Tipping Point IPS, Fidelis Command Posts, Inquest, Bro, and Argus in conjunction with ArcSight. Network Administrator U.S. Air Force - Ramstein AB July 2012 to April 2018 Provided administration across a network consisting of 25K nodes spanning three bases and 31 geographically dispersed units. Served as the project lead supporting three shops. Defined and implemented security processes and procedures focused on enhanced confidentiality, integrity and availability.  • Resolved 3.2K remedy tickets.  • Effectively managed and completed a $112M project portfolio.  • Successfully delivered quality completion of various initiatives within time-restricted environments.  • Steered 40+ staff in the installation and replacement of 1.2K network switches across 800+ building.  • Re-engineered network connectivity for 25K devices within one year. Education Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity & IA in Cybersecurity & IA Western Governors University Skills Network architecture, System administration, Lan, Architecture, Integration, Networking, Customer Service Links http://linkedin.com/in/justin-normand-162313152 Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: SrA Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7zm88uwmsvatxbaa Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Areas of Expertise  • Network Engineering  • Solution Development  • System Administration    • Project Management  • Strategic Analysis & Planning  • Network Architecture    • Leadership & Development  • WAN/LAN Administration  • Integration/Configuration