Network Operation Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Operation Engineer Network Operation Engineer - Palo Alto Networks Santa Clara, CA Cisco certified Network Engineer having 5 years of experience in Network domain. Worked extensively with multiple Clients in Switching, Routing, Network Security (Firewalls), Experience in Campus and Data Center topologies in multi-vendor equipment. Team player with good communication and Documentation skills. Passionate to learn new technologies and implement new ideas to enhance the workflow in Network Engineering. Pursuing Cisco Certified Network Professional CCNP.  CAREER HIGHLIGHTS:    ? Experience with legacy and latest switching technologies in Campus and Data Center environments. Worked on Cisco, Juniper and Aruba/HP gear in campus environments. Worked on Cisco, Arista, Dell, Cumulus, Juniper gear in Data Center environment.  ? Experience with Campus and Data center Switching. Worked on all flavors in STP, LACP, MLAG, VPC, VSS, VDC, Gateway redundancy protocols - HSRP, VRRP, GLBP.  ? Experience with Interior and Exterior routing protocols that includes, OSPF, EIGRP, IS-IS and BGP. Worked on Cisco, Juniper and Arista routers.  ? Experience in Network Security that includes perimeter security for Internet, Extranet, DMZ, Internal Server farms, Web-traffic security with Proxies, Web Application firewalls. Worked and migrated multi-vendor equipment and Next generation firewall technologies.  ? Experience and high-level understanding in application delivery controllers, local and global load balancing techniques, redundancy solutions, high availability options for mission critical internal, vendor and public facing applications. Experience with F5 LTM, GTM, APM, NetScaler, Cisco ACE and A10.  ? Worked on troubleshooting and operations in VOIP environment, configuration of QOS, call managers, SIP trunks, migration from Analog to VOIP, provisioning VOIP phones. Experience with Cisco and Avaya.  ? Experience with TACACS/RADIUS severs, migration from ACS and Aruba ClearPass to ISE. Worked on 802.1X. Experience with windows and Infoblox DNS and DHCP servers, IPAM, internal and external grids.  ? Experience with WAN connectivity, MPLS circuits, leased Lines, Metro Ethernet, Site to Site IPsec tunnels, ISP circuits, Customer Edge configurations. Experience with SD-WAN solutions that include Viptella and Versa.  ? Knowledge and operational experience with SDN, Cisco ACI, VXLAN, VTEPS, VNI, Bridge Domain, Arista Cloud Vision, EVPN, MP-BGP, Spine and Leaf Architecture.  ? Worked on Open software platform switches like Cumulus on Mellanox and Dell hardware in a POC. Basic Knowledge in Python and Ansible scripting for automation in configuration templates, back-ups etc.  ? Experience with Network Monitoring tools, SNMP, Log collectors, Splunk, ticketing tools and thorough understanding of workflows in corporate environments that include Financial, Healthcare, Retail clients. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Operation Engineer Palo Alto Networks - Santa Clara, CA February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working on CISCO ASR to JUNIPER MX series WAN router migration project  • Responsible for the installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting of the company network.  • Palo Alto design and installation (Application and URL filtering, SSL decryption, SSL Forward Proxy). Configured and maintained IPSEC and SSL VPN's on Palo Alto Firewalls. Successfully installed PA-5000 series firewalls in Data Center as perimeter Firewalls.  • Working on VXLAN, EVPN configuration of routing using BGP among multiple Leaf to spine switches.  • Analyse and provide courses of action on current as well as emerging security threats like ransomware attacks by research and recommendation of other security solutions to help mitigate network security threats while preventing their outbreak across the network.  • Worked on integrating existing Layer 2 and Layer-3 networks with ACI.  • Implemented Zone-Based Firewalling and Security Rules on the Palo Alto Firewall.  • Implementing security Solutions using Palo Alto PA-5000/3000, Cisco 5580/5540/5520  • Configured BGP, and OSPF and Policy based Routing.  • Worked on OmniGraffle for Network diagram Purposes.  • Implemented Firewall rules and Nat rules by generating precise methods of procedure (MOPs). Responsible for packet capture analysis, syslog and firewall log analysis.  • Experience on configuring Palo Alto Next Generation firewall PA-5260 5050, 5020, 3020 Series.  • Responsible to evaluate, test, configure, and implement network, firewall.  • Application and, Data Filtering, configuring rules and Maintaining Firewalls & Analysis logs using Panorama  • Networks using routing protocols such as OSPF, BGP and manipulated routing updates using route- map, distribute list and administrative distance.  • Working with the firewalls PA-5020, PA-5060 series Palo Alto firewalls and Panorama, configuring firewalls Rules, troubleshooting the connectivity issues.  • Working with layer 2 switching technology architecture and Implemented L2 and L3 switching functionality, which includes the use of VLANS, STP, VTP and their functions as they relate to networking infrastructure requirements including internal and external treatment, configuration and security.  • Experience in configuring cisco ACS protocols like RADIUS and TACACS.  • Upgraded the Monitoring tool LibreNms version to 1.54-8 Network Engineer Deutsche Bank - Baltimore, MD July 2017 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Implemented and Configured Palo Alto Networks Firewall models and centralized management system to manage large scale firewall deployments.  • Palo Alto design and installation (Application and URL filtering, SSL decryption, SSL Forward Proxy). Configured and maintained IPSEC and SSL VPN's on Palo Alto Firewalls. Successfully installed PA-5000 series firewalls in Data Center as perimeter Firewalls.  • Migration of ASA firewalls to PA next gen Firewalls using migration tool in PA. Migrated all IPSEC tunnels, ACL's, NAT rules and policies.  • Configured and designed OSPF, EIGRP and BGP at Distribution and Core layers. Configured OTV layer 2 connection between Data centres on Nexus.  • Regular upgrade and maintenance of Infrastructure, Installing, configuring, and maintaining Cisco Switches (2960, 3500 ,7600, 3750, 3850 series, 6500 series) Cisco Routers (4800, ASR 9K, 800).  • Worked on Bridge Domains, VXLANs, VTEPS, VNID. configuration of routing using BGP among multiple Leaf to spine switches. Thorough understanding of Application Profile, Tenants, End Point Group, Inter Subnet Tenant Routing, Routing within Tenants, Router Peering and Redistribution. Worked on Migration project from traditional Data Center Architecture to Spine Leaf.  • Worked on connections handoff using Bridged Interface to an External Route. L3- EPG configurations, AEP configurations. Expert in GUI of ACI.  • Analyse and provide courses of action on current as well as emerging security threats like ransomware attacks by research and recommendation of other security solutions to help mitigate network security threats while preventing their outbreak across the network.  • Worked on network design improvements involving BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, IP metric tweaking and load balancing.  • experience with Cisco L2/L3 equipment, L2/L3 engineering, Performed Physical and Logical IMAC, Network Troubleshooting, and Operationalization functions for project-related activities  • Worked on Checkpoint Firewall to create new rules and allow connectivity for various Applications. Checkpoint is used as an internal firewall for application security in Kodiak network.  • High-level network troubleshooting and diagnostic experience using Packet capture tools like Wireshark.  • Configured network using routing protocols such as EIGRP, BGP and OSPF and troubleshooting L2/L3 issues.  • Designing, configuring, and troubleshooting QoS, SIP, H.323, RTP, SCCP, Session Border Controllers, Voice Gateways, Voice circuits IP /TDM, Cisco Telepresence Infrastructure, QoS, NAT, PAT, and multicast.  • Worked on Riverbed steelhead appliance to troubleshoot delay, jitter issues. Captured traffic and analysed for root cause. Wrote policies and rules in steelhead.  • Adding and modifying the servers and infrastructure to the existing DMZ environments based on the requirements of various application platforms  • Assist in creating network design standards for hardware and software. Developing and maintain Network Documentation (Visio diagrams, Excel spreadsheets, Word documents, etc.) Configure and troubleshoot network elements in a test/dev environment. Network Operations Engineer Mount Auburn Hospital - Boston, MA September 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installation and configuration of Cisco Routers 3600, 3900 and Switches3550, 3560, 3560E, 3750, 6500, 7200 routers for VLANs, Routing Protocols (OSPF, BGP), VPNs etc.  • Implemented Cisco ACS for wired and wireless user authentication utilizing certificates and MAB for all known company assets.  • Installed WAN and LAN access for internet and intranet access.  • Configured Ether channels, Trunks, VLANs, HSRP in a LAN environment. Worked on Access, Core and Distribution layers.  • Implemented route redistribution between OSPF and EIGRP.  • Provided end-user technical support for LAN and remote users in a 24/7 environment.  • Assisting in deploying WAN projects. Connectivity and configuration of routers, switches, end to end monitoring in new campuses.  • Provided WAN/LAN Cisco router/switch configuration, implementation, and support to internal customer tickets involving BGP, OSPF, EIGRP.  • Configuration and Maintenance of ASA 5585 firewalls with firepower, 5540, 5525 Firewalls using Cisco Security Manager (CSM).  • Implement and modify DNS entries and managing IP Addresses using Windows DNS and DHCP.  • Performed Access Control Lists (ACLs) to setup usage for the intended users.  • Responsible for IOS installations and upgradations using TFTP Server.  • Troubleshooted Routing/Switching/Security Configuration problems/errors encountered to Clients in Head/Remote Campuses.  • Performed subnetting of the IP addresses. Configuration and allocating IP and network resources to Storage, Virtualization, Server and Application teams.  • Responsible for design/implementation/maintenance of Site to Site VPNs, and remote access VPN's using Cisco solutions (ASA 5520 and 5540), including head-end and remote client-side connections.  • Performed network monitoring using tools like Netcool. Log collectors using Splunk. SNMP V2C configurations.  • Configuring High Availability using Cluster XL on Checkpoint as well as VRRP and monitor the Sync status for tasteful replication of traffic between active and standby member. Network Administrator Shree Printwell Offset Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Monitored the performance of the network devices. Performed Troubleshooting and observed directing conventions such as OSPF, EIGRP.  • Installation and configuration of the Network of Cisco Router and Switches for EIGRP and VLANs etc.  • Worked on the Cisco switches 2950, 3560 and the Cisco routers 2500, 2600, 2800  • Initially involved in installations, technical support, troubleshooting and maintenance of network equipment.  • Good knowledge in Configuring Access Control List (ACL).  • Configured VLANS on different impetus switches performed investigating on TCP/IP system issues, Administered Frame-Relay and systems.  • Layer 2 switching technology architecture, implementation and operations including L2 and L3 switching and related functionality.  • Involved in all technical aspects of LAN and WAN projects including, short and long-term planning, implementation, project management and operations support as required.  • Troubleshooting windows client OS and server OS.  • Configured IPv4 VPNs using IPSec VPNs.  • Managed system backup and restoration protocols.  • Escalating issue to higher network teams.  • Monitoring network traffic using tools like SolarWinds, Wireshark, etc. Education Master's in Networking and Telecommunication Engineering Stratford University Bachelor's in Electronics & Telecommunications Gujarat Technological University Skills Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Dhcp, E1, Networking, VPN, security, LAN Certifications/Licenses CCNA November 2017 to November 2020 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Router Cisco 7600, 7200, 3800, 3600, 2900, 2800, 2600, 1900, 1800 Juniper MX series, Arista 7000 series  Routing Fundamentals and Protocols  RIP, EIGRP, IS-IS, OSPF, BGP, IPX; MPLS, Static routing, ARP, HSRP, VRRP, Route Filtering, Multicast, Policy-Based Routing, Redistribution, Port forwarding.    Switch Cisco Catalyst 3550, 3750, 4500, 4900, 6500, Juniper EX Series  Switching Fundamentals and Protocols  Ethernet technologies, LAN networks, MAC, VLAN and VTP, STP, PVST+, Multicast, RSTP, Multi-Layer Switching, 802.1Q, EtherChannel, PAgP, LACP, CDP, HDLC,  RARP    Lan/ Wan Technology Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, HDLC, PPP, Frame Relay, SDWAN, Channelized links (E1/T1/E2/T2)  Protocols IP, TCP, UDP, ICMP, NAT, DHCP, IPSEC, SSL, HTTP, SSH, DNS, PAT  Network Security Cisco ASA, ACL, IPSEC, F5 Load Balancer, Checkpoint, Cisco ISE Palo Alto Networks (PA series 2K, 3K and 5K) with panorama 8.0  Network Management tools Wireshark, Net flow analyser, GNS3, Cisco NAC, ISE, Solar winds, Riverbed TCP Dump, LibreNMS  Applications MS Office, MS Visio 2010, OmniGraffle  Security Protocols  Standard and Extended ACLs, IPsec, VPN, Port-security, SSH, SSL, AAA, Prefix-lists, Zone-Based Firewalls, NAT/PAT, HIPAA standards, Content Filtering, SNMP trap    Operating Systems Windows 10/7/XP, MAC OS, Linux