Field Technician Field Technician Computer/ IT Support Technician Hyattsville, MD An efficient, confident and hardworking individual who is dedicated to high performance and achieving optimum set objectives with minimum supervision. Work Experience Field Technician Cabling Systems Inc - Beltsville, MD April 2018 to April 2019 • Perform installation of network equipment's (Patching, Racking and Stacking)  • Provides LAN and WAN technical support, analyzing, design, installation, maintenance and resolving complex network connectivity and routing configuration issues  • Knowledge of TCP/IP internet protocol.  • Terminate, splice and install a variety of fiber optic connectors and enclosures  • Installed various types cables like coaxial cable, twisted pair cable, and fiber optics and also spliced coaxial cables  • Install network routes within data center to connect network devices  • Reads and understands blue prints, floor plans and cut sheet  • Serve as a technical resource for hardware installation, configuration and operational support  • Pulls and terminates all counts of Fiber and copper  • Tests fiber and copper  • Adequate knowledge of coppers and fibers and their uses.  • Adequate Troubleshooting skills Network Technician Murray State University February 2017 to March 2018 • Installation and maintenance of software's including system backups and recovery.  • Troubleshoot and fix hardware/software problems with networking teams to maintain connectivity.  • Interact with various departments for network support and resolution of network issues.  • Perform installation of network equipment's (rack, stack and cabling).  • Communicate with customers to plan deployments and perform troubleshooting of equipment's.  • Installing and configuring windows and Mac operating systems for client.  • Responsible for network supports and conducting some hardware repairs.  • Provide 2nd level support for clients and internal technical team to resolve network issues and support the implementation of new network solutions.  • Monitor and documents of network problems and solutions using Net cool and HP Open View.  • Performing excellent hands-on configuration, troubleshooting and maintenance of Routers and Switches.  • Perform installation, configuration and administration of Dell, HP, and Cisco UCS servers.  • Replacing and upgrading RAM, hard disk, DVD-CD drives, sound cards and network cards from servers as required. Network Administrator ITRDN Technologies Limited March 2013 to July 2016 • Deploy a variety of computer equipment including but not limited to: laptop, CPU, printer ( network and local), monitor etc.  • Transfer data from original computer to new machine and ensure that all data arrives without error  • Troubleshoot connectivity issues and report findings back to appropriate staff  • Install and maintain transmission and reception equipment for FTTH network  • Transfer client data to the new unit and ensure that all data transferred  • Assist in keeping quality control of assets in and out of work areas. Verify with the customer that the job was completed satisfactorily  • Assist in keeping quality control of assets in and out of work areas. Verify with the customer that the job was completed satisfactorily  • Ensure that the EAMS/SharePoint ticket is completed and resolved to the users' satisfaction  • Troubleshoot Apple Macintosh  • Installation may include laptops, peripherals or complete workstation with removal of the replaced equipment  • Troubleshoot desktop, printer and network connectivity problem.  • Support your organization in varying endeavors, including proposal support that may include writing responses to RFPs, etc.  • Diagnosed software issues, installed update or new software and remove malicious programs Education Bachelor's Skills Lan (1 year), Lan/wan (Less than 1 year), maintenance (2 years), Microsoft office (Less than 1 year), networking (1 year)