Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> On the other hand - McLarty Automotive Group Little Rock, AR Self Motivated, Professional, and Responsive  Looking for a position to utilize computer skills and general knowledge of the IT field. Diplomatic and tactful with professional and non-professionals at all levels. Accustomed to handling sensitive, confidential information.  Flexible, Versatile  Poised and competent with demonstrated ability to easily transcend cultural differences. Excellent team-building skills. Follows direction from supervisors with enthusiasm. Work Experience Network Administrator McLarty Automotive Group - Little Rock, AR March 2016 to Present Responsible for managing 11 car dealerships and 4 body shops. I do everything from setting up new equipment, setting up new stores, implementing new software and hardware, to end-user training and support.     I am also responsible for coordinating with vendors and 3rd party clients to coordinate projects and am in charge of making sure everything is handled in a timely fashion and that the customer is always satisfied and experiences as little downtime as possible.     I always coordinate with my General Managers on when they can expect me at their store, as well as when I'm working on projects that will keep me away from their store or off schedule. On the other hand, they know if a problem arises and functionality was lost I will always be there to resolve the issue, during or outside of business hours.    It is worth nothing that the McLarty Automotive stores are the same stores I managed with Asbury Automotive Group(under the platform name North Point). During March of 2016 Asbury completed the first of 2 Buy/Sells with McLarty Automotive Group during which I started my career with McLarty. Network Administrator Asbury Automotive Group - Little Rock, AR January 2014 to March 2016 Responsible for managing all of my stores IT needs, setting up new stores IT infrastructure/hardware and reaching out to vendors to solve various problems. During my time at Asbury we remodeled the North Point Ford store which involved shuffling departments around the dealership to accommodate the construction while also making sure that the users had as close to 100% uptime as possible.     I was also involved in deploying/upgrading the phone system for both NP Ford and Toyota with CDK (formerly ADP) as well as getting the brand new BMW store up and running - all while still supporting my dealerships, checking in with GM's, and making sure everyone was taken care of and had all their IT needs catered too in the process.     I also provided weekly calendar invites to GM's/MMD's as to when I would be visiting their stores that week, what upcoming projects to expect/prepare for as well as cover their day to day needs. Support Technician Procyon Solutions - Little Rock, AR July 2011 to May 2013 Responsible for supporting and troubleshooting 300 desktops and 20 servers for various clients (including but not limited to: physicians offices, attorneys, real estate, travel agencies, accountants, etc..) in the Little Rock area.     This included answering Help Desk tickets, making sure each PC was patched/updated/virus free, support calls, troubleshooting/installing Backup Disaster Recovery (BDR), email migrations and deployment of Office 365, holding weekly meetings to keep my supervisors informed of where we stood on projects/outstanding tickets.     Also attended a Business Networking Institute (BNI) on behalf of Procyon Solutions in order to help the business grow. Education Colorado Mountain College 2008 to 2009 Journalism University of Central Arkansas 2006 to 2007 High school or equivalent Little Rock Christian Academy - Little Rock, AR May 2006 Marketing University of Arkansas at Little Rock - Little Rock, AR 2009 Skills MIGRATIONS, IT PROJECT MANAGEMENT, SERVER SUPPORT, CUSTOMER SERVICE, IT SUPPORT, OFFICE SKILLS, GENERAL OFFICE, GENERAL OFFICE SKILLS, SCHEDULING, Active Directory, Microsoft Office, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Networking Additional Information Trained on the use of Connect Wise ticketing system and Zenith/Continuum IT Support Portal, as well as the desktop deployment and management of users in Office 365 (cloud based email solution). Also trained in Samanage ticketing/solution portal, as well as experience working remotely providing phone support to end users. Trained in administration use of CDK DMS soultions, Eleads, and several other Dealership related vendors and tools.  