Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Histgroup Temple Hills, MD IT professional with over 8 years of professional experience providing network and systems design. Able to interface with various LAN and WAN technologies deployed in Remote Locations. Motivated and detailed Network Administrator Professional with a passion for continuous learning and improvement in network infrastructures. Able to work under pressure and be a team player; accustomed to providing integral technical support and troubleshooting issues relating to network equipment installation and setup. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Histgroup May 2016 to Present • Complete tasks isolated to network administration - port security, switch upgrades, hardware upgrades  • Documenting system/ network standards, maintain and update network diagrams and inventory  • Working with other infrastructure groups and end-users to identify/troubleshoot/train performance issues in an enterprise environment  • Supports the acquisition of hardware and software as well as subcontractor services as needed  • Upgrading, installing and troubleshooting networks, network hardware devices and software  • Manage, maintain and troubleshoot routers and switches  • Providing technical assistance and resolution for network incidents and problems  • Perform scheduled maintenance on remote devices  • Communicate with third party vendors to troubleshoot outages or degraded services  • Maintained, upgraded, configured, and installed Cisco routers, Cisco Catalyst Switches.  • Perform, troubleshoot with Cisco based wireless site survey and implementation.  • Identify and troubleshoot hardware and software technical problem related to LANs/WANs.  • Perform Troubleshooting end-to-end between two sites.  • Prepared technical documentation of configurations, processes, procedures, systems and locations.  • Researched and implemented upgrade process of cisco devices (Routers and Switches).  • Monitor and check network devices, links and status in real time using Orion.  • Assist in redesigning the campus LAN, routing protocol, enterprise edge, IP addressing scheme for client.  • Lead the installation and configuration of corporate wide rollout of the Cisco Catalyst 3560, 3750, switches including VLAN configuration, VTP, 802.1Q trucking, Spanning-Tree protocol, Ether Channel, & FHRPs such as HSRP.  • Provide technical expertise in troubleshooting of IP routing protocols including OSPF, EIGRP.  • Document troubleshooting progress, configuration changes, problem resolution, and the physical & logical topology to support future troubleshooting tasks.  • Configured and supported multiple remote site installations.  • Manage network IP access via Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).  • Perform fault isolation and trouble resolution on network hardware, software, and circuits.  • Monitor the Enterprise network and coordinate new circuit installations.  • Creating Users in Windows and Unix  • Installing application and patches Network Analyst OCR Services, Inc - Rockville, MD March 2013 to April 2016 • Assist in supporting company computer systems, including Dell desktops, laptops, servers, and Cisco networking equipment, LAN/WAN, peripherals and other hardware  • Configure/Maintain Cisco 1600, 2900 Series Routers, Cisco 3500, 2900 Series Switches, Cisco ASA 5510.  • Ensuring privacy of customer data by following IT best practices for PCI compliance.  • Implement and maintain Microsoft best practices frameworks for Active Directory, Group Policy, Scripting, Exchange Server, etc.  • Perform preventative maintenance tasks such as server patching, and applying updates and upgrades on a regularly scheduled basis.  • Create/Maintain/Update documentation of processes and operational procedures.  • Monitor the availability, capacity, and utilization of server infrastructure resources for optimization and maintaining the integrity of servers and storage resources.  • Apply analytical skills in identifying installation and connectivity problems, determining causes, suggesting and implementing solutions with great attention to detail.  • Oversee implementation of server technologies solutions to satisfy business and infrastructure needs.  • Assist with management and planning of disaster recovery environment.    • Provide desktop support as needed (as backup to desktop support specialist) System Administrator 202 IT Solutions - Washington, DC July 2010 to February 2013 • Provide System Administration and end-user support for over 100 local and remote users in 8 different offices with all hardware/software/server/desktop/LAN/WAN related problems• Design, configure, implement, troubleshoot, analyze, and maintain Windows Server 2000/2003/2008 application servers.  • Manage, maintain, and optimize Exchange 2007 server: including adding user mailboxes, distribution groups, public folders, storage groups, etc.  • Ensure day to day network reliability by keeping all servers and applications working properly.  • Responsible for Helpdesk trouble ticket resolution, Backup and Restore processes, New Computer/Server rollout, Software rollout and Computer/Server rebuilds as necessary.  • Maintain Asset Management Inventory of server, desktop, and laptop equipment, software, and license agreements.  • Administer and maintain Security, Trend Micro Virus and Sonic Wall SPAM protection software, WSUS.  • Research and recommend purchases, upgrades, patches, and new applications and equipment.  • Create/Maintain/Update documentation of processes and operational procedures Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Buea Skills Cisco (8 years), Eigrp (8 years), Ipv6 (8 years), Ospf (8 years), Vlan (8 years), Active Directory (5 years), Exchange (4 years), MPLS (8 years), VPN (8 years), DNS (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    - Network Hardware: Cisco 2800/2900/3800/3900 series routers, 3550/3750/3650/3850 series and Nexus Switches. Servers (HPE P03704-S01, Dell Power Edge T330).    - L2/L3 technologies: Routed (IPv4, IPv6) and Routing (OSPF, EIGRP, RIP) Protocols. VLAN, Trunking, Etherchannel, VTP, HSRP.    - Software: Windows Client and Servers, VMware, Unix.    - Tools: Wireshark,