Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Label IT Clearwater, FL • 8 years of experience in Networking and Security, including hands-on experience in providing network support, installation and analysis for a broad range of LAN / WAN communication systems.  • Excellent knowledge and experience on different vendor's like Cisco, Palo Alto, F5.  • Expert Level Knowledge about TCP/IP and OSI models.  • Experience with designing, deploying and troubleshooting LAN, WAN, Frame-Relay, and Ether-channel.  • Experience in Configuring & implementing VLAN, VTP, LAN switching, STP and 802.x authentication in access layer switches.  • Experienced in design, installation, configuration, administration and troubleshooting of LAN/WAN infrastructure and security using Cisco routers/Switches/firewalls.  • Experience in installing and configuring DNS, DHCP server.  • Experience in configuring Site-to-site and remote access VPN solutions.  • Enterprise Routing experience using protocols RIP v1 & 2, EIGRP, OSPF, OMP and BGP.  • Configure and setup Cisco Router, Switches and VPN Concentrators and Security appliances for access to vital business applications.  • Design, setup and configure complex switching environments.  • Assist in the design of multi-server environments including IP address schemes, DNS, DHCP, WINS, Ether-Channel (Bonding), etc.  • Maintain a thorough understanding of the basics behind the Internet and its workings (Security, IP Routing, HTTP, VPN, Email Routing etc.).  • Performed security operations on ASA firewalls.  • Worked on Citrix NetScaler Access Gateway configurations.  • Configured Security policies including NAT, PAT, VPN, Route-maps and Access Control Lists  • Configuring, Administering and troubleshooting the Checkpoint and ASA firewall.  • Enterprise Switching with VLANs, Trunks, Spanning Tree, Port Spanning etc.  • Expertise in maintenance of layer2 switching tasks which advocate VTP, STP, RSTP, PVST, RPVST, configuring of ether channel with LACP and PAGP along with troubleshooting of inter-VLAN routing.  • Experience in configuring VDC, VPC and FCOE, upgrading NX-OS for Nexus Family Switches.  • Design, configuration, and support of Cisco Nexus Platforms (Nexus7K, 5K, 2K).  • Experience in Physical cabling, IP addressing, configuring and supporting TCP/IP.  • Worked on Extensively on Cisco Firewall & ASA 5500(5510/5540) Series.  • Thorough understanding of VPN technologies like IPsec, GRE tunneling, MPLS for remote access security.  • Experienced working on network monitoring and analysis tools like, SOLAR WINDS, and Wireshark.  • Supervising the administration of systems and servers related network to ensure availability of services to authorized users.  • Experience in managing, administration and designing of IP Backbone Network and spearheaded the strengthening IP Backbone Network Security.  • Experience working with different WAN transports MPLS, VPN, Metro Ethernet  • Configured ASR 1K routers as head end WAN routers and implemented BGP with VRF & OSPF instances.  • Configuration / Troubleshooting Meraki Devices wired and wireless.  • Create a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers.  • Performed deep packet analysis to troubleshoot application issues using tools like Wire-shark.  • Configured Client-to-Site VPN using SSL Client on Cisco ASA 5520 ver8.2.  • Working knowledge of DNS as required when deploying load balancing configurations and also monitored packet flow in load balancers.  • Senior Network/Hardware tech; POC for tier 1 and 2 techs.  • Efficient at use of Microsoft VISIO/Office as technical documentation and presentation tools.  • Implementation and Troubleshooting of WAN authentication protocols- PPP, CHAP and PAP.  • Monitor Network and customer equipment with NMS  • Assisted with the financial development and hours to ensure that correct time is posted by Contractors and FTE's  • Cisco Prime Service Catalog Admin/Dev (Service Catalog, Lifecycle Mgmt, Portlets).  • Security implementation AAA with RADIUS and TACAS+  • Network Infrastructure Systems monitoring (HP OpenView, CiscoWorks, NetScout, Netcool)  • Expertise in Microsoft Azure Cloud Services (PaaS & IaaS), Application Insights, Document DB, Internet of Things (IoT), Azure Monitoring, Key Vault, Visual Studio Online (VSO) and SQL Azure.  • Managed multiple teams that constructed and implemented enhancements and upgrades to the FTE Wireless Operating Environments that support Mobil net Stores Retail and Billing.  • Also worked in Database Operations as a DBA and FTE  • Installation and setup of Polycom software and equipment  • Cisco and Polycom VoIP phones  • Network Monitoring with OPENNMS on Linux Work Experience Network Engineer Label IT - Clearwater, FL July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, LDP, EIGRP, RIP, BGP v4.  • Configured and involved in troubleshooting with L3 and L2 Ether channel  • Performed Cisco ISE deployments on mid to enterprise projects.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Cisco Switches (2900, 3500, 7600, 3700 series, 6500 series), Cisco Routers (4800, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2900, 1800, 1700, 800), Juniper Routers.  • Possesses a thorough understanding of SIP and H.323 VoIP signaling protocols.  • Rebuilding data centers and redundant sites for failover, F5 load balancers  • Created, deployed and managed BigIP F5 load balancer nodes and pools  • Deployed the Nexus 7000/5000/2000 architecture into production securing competitive advantage across multiple verticals.  • Good at Routing Protocols like EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, DMVPN, and Wireless  • Managed IP addressing and implemented IP Access Lists.  • Worked extensively on Cisco Firewalls, Cisco PIX &ASA 5500(5525/5585), Palo Alto 200 Series.  • Experience with Firewall Administration, Rule Analysis, Rule Modification.  • Configuration and administration of Cisco Switches and Routers 3900/2900/7200.  • Installed and maintained network hardware and software. Managing Palo Alto firewall.  • Configured with F5 Load balancers in Failover for Load balancing and SSL handling  • Involved in the migration of F5 3DNS to Global traffic manager (GTM) for the wide area-based load balancing environment of the datacenters  • Developed PowerShell scripts to automate various tasks in Exchange 2010 and 2013.  • Implemented PowerShell scripts that automated creation of contacts from Active Directory users and updating of address books -increasing productivity and efficiency.  • Extensive hands on support of F5 Products including AFM, ASM, LTM and APM.  • Modified BigIP F5 Load Balancer config for new servers, also configured firewalls.  • Worked with setting up MPLS Layer 3 VPN cloud in data center and worked with BGP WAN towards customer  • Involved in SNMP Network management.  • Cisco Call Manager and VOIP Maintenance and setup  • Bridging/Switching & 802.x protocols knowledge, (MPLS, STP, RSTP,802.1x, 802.3)  • Implemented Zone Based Firewalling and Security Rules on the Palo Alto Firewall.  • Involved in design and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Juniper Routers and SRX Firewalls.  • Worked in switching technologies like VLAN, Inter-VLAN Routing, Ether-channel, VTP, MLS, HSRP, and VRRP.  • Aruba S-3500 mobility access switch/ Azalea MSR wireless mesh routers (1200/2000/4000)  • Managed corporate Checkpoint Firewall implementing security rules and mitigating network attacks.  • Involved in writing test plans for different 802.3 & 802.11 protocols.  • Deployed Site to Site and Client to Site VPNs utilizing Checkpoint Firewall-1/VPN-1    Environments: LAN, WAN, IWAN, MPLS, Cisco ASA, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, VLAN, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, TCP/IP, STP, PVST, RSTP, VTP, F5loadbalancer, NAT, Cisco ASA firewalls, VoIP, Palo Alto Firewall, SSH, Syslog, SNMP, NTP, Solarwinds, Netflow, NetBrain and Infoblox VPN. Network Engineer DXC Technology, Delaware September 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Monitoring the network of Multiple applications and escalated to application support teams  • Working on L2 receiving tickets and resolving Networking related devices issue  • Responsible for routine /non routine checks to meet company objectives and standards reliability with excellent communication skills  • Work as a backup trainer for new employees  • Network Monitoring and creating Ticket for F5 Load Balancers regarding LTM and GTM pools and Pool members  • Working with Layer 2 Technology vlan's, Ether-Channels , Port-channels, HSRP ,VDC's etc  • Troubleshoot of Routing Protocols EIGRP , OSPF, DCNM (Ver 9,10,11) , VX LAN , Cisco,OSPF , BGP etc  • Application Monitoring NNMI , NNMX , Cribmaster , ATH etc  • Experience with OSPF, DCNM (Ver 9,10,11) , VX LAN , Cisco,BGP, and TCP/IP  • 3 Year experience with HP Service Manager Ticketing Tool  • Good Experience and knowledge with BSM and BPM Reports  • Working with NNMi and NNMX for Network Topology Map  • Firewall management and troubleshooting on Firewalls (Checkpoint, ASA, PIX, FWSM and Palo Alto).  • Configuring rules and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Provides continuous security monitoring and mitigation through ForeScout  • Performing audits using COBIT, COSO, PCI-DSS, SSAE 18, HIPAA SOX and Cyber Security  • Frameworks.  • Configured and performed troubleshooting on Juniper EX series switches and Juniper MXrouters  • Configured IPsec tunnels with Palo Alto to enable secure transport and cloud based/site-site VPN to both Azure and AWS  • Used Cisco ACI (Application Centric Infrastructure) SDN architecture to reduce operating costs, automate IT tasks, for greater scalability and visibility in a data center environment.  • Used Cisco ACI Fabric which is based on Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switches and the Cisco Application Virtual Switch (AVS)  • Implemented Cisco ACI infrastructure for supporting rapid application change by reducing complexity with a common policy framework that can automate provisioning and resource management.  • Contacting with Service Provider Carrier for Circuit Issue like AT&T , Verizon , Century Link, Timewarner, COX Cable, Comcast etc  • Working on tickets for International Circuit and Sites related Issues , making contact with International Providers like SITA, OSPF, DCNM (Ver 9,10,11) , VX LAN , Cisco,TATA , BT etc  • Handling and Working with Weather warning Alerts  • F5 load balancing tickets through prevention, detection, response, escalation and reporting in effort to protect Enterprise IT Assets through Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT)  • Worked with F5 Load balancing, IDS/IPS, Bluecoat proxy servers and Administrating.  • Worked on Network security including NAT/PAT, ACL, and ASA Firewalls  • Worked extensively on Cisco ASA 5500(5510/5540/5555) Series, experience with conversion of PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution  • Used ForeScout to help connect BYOD and remote client to connect securely to the network.  • Created SSL Certificate Private Key Infrastructure (PKI) in the SSL Certificate and KEY management and rollover process using Cisco ASA Firewall.  • Designed and Implemented policies and zones on Palo Alto 7050,5050 and 5020 Internet firewalls for incoming and outgoing traffic  • Responsible for layer 2 securities which was implemented using a dedicated VLAN ID for all trunk ports, setting the user ports to non-trunking, deployed port security when possible for user ports  • Engineer, install, and configure/integrate, and manage multiple security tools and applications, ForeScout Counter ACT, Splunk  • Designing F5 solutions/support for migration work of applications and websites from Cisco CSS Load Balancers to the F5 BigIP Load Balancers  • Installed and Configured the F5 BIG-IP LTM, configure virtual servers and associate them with pools for internal web servers  • Implemented automatic email notification of the monthly statements for the customers using Java Mail  • Performed a wide range of network administration duties including installations, debugging, maintenance, upgrades, and support for various network devices  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture  • Performed Migration of Cisco catalyst switches IOS configuration to Juniper MX routers JUNOS platform  • Develop solutions for connectivity between customers and their Datacenter equipment using: Cisco/Brocade/Palo Alto/Juniper/Extreme/Fortinet/SonicWALL.  • Documented and maintained all the network changes, topology diagrams and implementations through MS VISIO tool  • Worked extensively with Nexus 7000, 5000, 2000, Cisco 6500 series multilayer switches, Cisco 2960s series switches and Cisco 3560/3750s switches and configFured routing protocols like OSPF, EIGRP and BGP    Environment: Routing and Switching, Windows platform servers, Cisco/Juniper routers and switches, OSPF, BGP, MPLS, OSPF, DCNM (Ver 9,10,11) , VX LAN , Cisco,EIGRP routing protocol,CSM, FMC, WAN Optimization, java, Python, NEXUS 2K,5K,7K, 1000v, Cisco 6500, 3750, 3550,Juniper EX Switches,PKI, Juniper MX routers, Arista,VLANS, SNMP, NAT, Infoblox, HSRP, VLAN trunking 802.1Q, F5 Networks Big IP, CISCO ASA Network Administrator HID Global - Austin, TX March 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with both Checkpoint and Cisco ASA VPN experience.  • Lead the installation and configuration of corporate wide rollout of the Cisco Catalyst 3550, 3750, 4500, and 6509 switches.  • Administer, troubleshoot, and maintain IPv6 and IPv4 (TCP, UDP, ICMP, IGMP, ARP, AH, ESP, VRRP)  • Worked in setting up Inter-VLAN routing, redistribution, access-lists and dynamic routing.  • Replaced Checkpoint firewall architecture with new next generation Palo Alto appliances serving as firewalls and URL and application inspection.  • Expertise in implementing L2 technologies including VLAN's, VTP, STP, RSTP.  • Configuring and Troubleshooting Route Redistribution between static, RIP, EIGRP OSPF & BGP protocols.  • Implemented SDN architecture to reduce operating costs, automate IT tasks, for greater scalability and visibility in a data center environment.  • Developed installation guide, provided details to release note and supported Wi-Fi testing program that attracted major customers like Cisco, Broadcom, and others to conduct their Wi-Fi testing exclusively at TUV.  • Configure and deploy Cisco ASA Meraki MX84 firewalls with site-to-site IPsec VPN tunnels to connect smaller branch sites back to the data center  • Configured Security policies including NAT, PAT, VPN's and Access Control Lists.  • Configuring IPsec VPN on Cisco Firewall.  • Installed T1's, T3's, Ds1, DDS, and DS0 in a Novell and Windows NT, Unix environment. Responsible for working in a team data center environment that installed and performed maintenance of services to include Private-line, Frame Relay, MNS, and some ATM at the physical layer level, which dealt with private line circuits, network interface to network interface and OC-12, OC-48.  • Maintained, upgraded, configured, and installed Cisco ASA 5510, 5520, & 5505 Firewalls from the CLI and ASDM.  • Managed network IP access via Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).  • Monitored network availability and performance using SolarWinds Orion, NetQos, Net flow, Splunk, AppDynamics, and Extra hop.  • Managed network security processes using ASA firewalls.  • Experience in configuration of AAA with ACS protocols TACACS+, RADIUS and LDAP.  • Experience on working with different security types WPA/WPA2, 802.1x, Static WEP & use different RADIUS SERVERS (ISE, ACS, and FR) for testing.  • Configured Cisco AMP (Advanced Malware Protection) for endpoint security systems.  • Upgrade ios in Nexus7700/7100, and ASR1K, Migrate traffic from interface to new interface in ASR9K  • Eliminated over 65% of Severity-1 outages, with redundancy and simplified configurations of the new Cisco SD-WAN "iWAN".  • Tested and migrated an MPLS Wide Area Network (WAN) to an SD-WAN solution. Includes Cradle point solution when secondary circuit was not readily available.  • Worked as L1 network (NOC) Engineer support and responsible for escalation of Redstone ISP issues.  • Prepared technical documentation of configurations, processes, procedures, systems and locations.  • Configuring and installing client and server network software for upgrading and maintaining  network and telecommunication systems. Researched and implemented upgrade process to support Cisco VPN solution.  • Researched, designed, tested and implemented Cisco's VPN solution for remote clients.  • Hands-on expertise with Ether Channel, Spanning Tree, Trucking, ACLs, Syslog. Expertise within the setup of HSRP, Access-Lists, and RIP, EIGRP, Fabric path and tunnel installations.  • Responsible for designing and implementation for customer network infrastructure.  • Upgrade Cisco Routers and Switches IOS using TFTP.  • Advanced SIEM troubleshooting  • Performed onsite and remote assessment for PCI 3.2 Compliance  • Office 365 performance troubleshooting, operational readiness, and optimization of Microsoft Cloud platform.  • Managed and configured Microsoft's Office 365 Azure directory.  • NetScout PM Server and Infinistream probe configuration, deployment and administration.    Environment: Palo Alto, Cisco ASA 5520/5510, VTP, STP, RSTP, F5 BIG -IP LTM 3900, DHCP, MS Visio, NAT, PAT, VPN's and Access Control. Network Administrator Notan Networks May 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Hand on experience of the configuration and implementation of various Cisco Routers & L2/L3 Switches.  • Extensive experience in configuring and implementing BGP, EIGRP and OSPF.  • Configuration of EIGRP and OSPF as interior gateway protocol with route filtering and route redistribution, installed and maintained Cisco 3600, 2600 and 7200 backbone routes with HSRP  • Replaced Fast Ethernet switches with Gigabit Ethernet switches.  • Used DHCP to automatically assign reusable IP addresses to DHCP clients.  • Preparing BOM, HLD and LLD design for network implementation.  • Developed documentation, system standards and SOPs within the organization.  • Assisted in troubleshooting LAN connectivity and hardware issues in the network.  • Worked on FTP, HTTP, DNS, DHCP servers in windows server-client environment with resource allocation to desired Virtual LANs of network.  • Responsible for day to day management of Cisco Devices, Traffic management and monitoring.  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches and fixes with all around technical support  • Providing daily network support for national wide area network consisting of MPLS, VPN and point-to point site with Routing Information Protocol.  • Supported Cisco router/switch (2800 and Cisco Catalyst 3500) and VoIP System.  • Working experience with A10 and F5 Load Balancer.  • Configure new routes for new endpoints into Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Experienced as Commercial technical support engineer for servers and network infrastructure.  • Analyzed LAN to determine what were the major problems and improvements needed to be made to the network infrastructure.  • Design, plan and implementation for existing On-Premises applications to Azure Cloud (ARM).  • Successfully created team sites on SharePoint Online and SharePoint migration to Office 365.  • Exported migrating data by creating PowerShell scripts.    Environments: Configure and troubleshooting of routing protocol like EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, DHCP configuration (Server & Client), MPLS, VPN, Point to Point Site, Cisco routers and switches, Access control server, VLAN Jr. Network Administrator Iris Info Solutions July 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Upgrade Cisco 7200, 3600 Router IOS Software, backup Routers and Catalyst 3560, 4500 switch configurations  • Support 24x7 operations and answer calls from the customers on network emergencies and resolve issues  • Install and manage Cisco Catalyst 3500XL, &2960 series Switches and Cisco 1800, 3900 series routers.  • Plans, coordinates, implements and supports the LAN / WAN hardware, software and Internet /Intranet integration network connectivity, diagnose network failures and resolve any problems.  • Responsible for implementation and day to day operations of all associated hubs, routers, bridges, gateways and related equipment  • Monitoring the network, troubleshooting network problems, implementing changes, communicating and working closely with vendors, customers, system administrators  • Troubleshoot and fix any backup and monitoring systems related issues in conjunction with Systems team and external vendors  • Cisco Call Manager and VOIP Maintenance and setup  • Troubleshooting WAN link and coordinating with ISP.  • Active participation on operational support for routing/switching protocols in complex environments including BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, Spanning Tree, 802.1q, etc.  • Managed various teams involved in site surveys, cabling specifications, Network equipment installation and configuration.  • Design OSPF areas for reliable Access Distribution and for Core IP Routing.  • Steady state support for Call Manager/Contact Center Express and Voice Gateways  • Working with a team, develop web applications using C# .NET, Bootstrap, Agile Methodology  • Use of C# and XML to build a friendly user experience and facilitate accurate calculation and formatting of imported tax data.    Environment: Cisco 7200/3600, LAN, WAN, BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, Spanning Tree Education Bachelor's Skills Catalyst, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Ipv6 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: C, C++, C#, SQL SERVER, ASP.NET, JAVA SCRIPT  Network Configuration: Advanced switch/router configuration (Cisco IOS access list, Route redistribution/propagation)  Cisco Routers: Cisco GSR 12416, 12418, Cisco 7200vxr, Cisco 3640, Cisco 3 600  Network Protocols: TCP, UDP, HTTP, FTP, DNS, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, VoIP  Network Security: Firewalls, VPN and SSL  Load Balancer: F5-Big-Ip, LTM, Ax10  Layer 2 technology: VLAN, VTP, VMPS, ISL, DTP, Spanning-tree, PVST  Layer 3 Switching: CEF, MLS, Ether Channel  Routing Protocols: IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, VRRP, HSRP, GLBP, and RIP  Switching Protocols: STP, RSTP, PVSTP, VTP, ARP and VLAN  IP Services: DHCP, NAT, VLAN, DNS, FTP, TFTP, LAN/WAN  Network Technologies: IPsec, GRE, IPv4, IPv6  Switches: Catalyst 6500, MSFC, MSFC2, 7600, 3700, 3500  WAN Protocols: HDLC, PPP, MLPPP  Security Technologies: Cisco FWSM/PIX/ASDM, Juniper SRX, Cisco ASA, Checkpoint, Palo Alto  WAN Technologies: ATM, ISDN, PPP, MPLS, ATT, 802.11, 802.11a, 802.11b  Operating Systems: Windows Exchange Server 2007, Window 2000/XP/Vista, DOS, Windows server 2003/2008, Linux, UNIX, PYTHON, IOS