Network Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Network Security Engineer - Alight Solutions Edison, NJ • Cisco certified professional with over 9 years of experience in network design, execution, and support.  • Knowledge in troubleshooting of routing, switching, firewall network, and complex network systems.  • Worked on network topologies and configurations such as TCP/IP, UDP, Frame Relay, ATM, bridges, routers, hubs, and switches.  • Worked with Routing protocols such as BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIPv1&v2, Switching architecture and protocols (STP, RSTP, PVST, RPVST, VLANs, VLAN trunking 802.1q and Spanning Tree).  • Experience with Nexus models like 7K, 5K, 2K series, Cisco router models like 7600, 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500, 1800 series and Cisco catalyst 6500, 4500, 3750, 3500, 2900 series switches.  • Knowledge of implementing and troubleshooting complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP Ether channel, STP, RSTP and MST.  • Hands-on experience in Azure Cloud Services (PaaS & IaaS), Storage, Web Apps, Active Directory, USQLS, Application Insights, and Logic Apps.  • Installed and configured RHEL 4.x/5.x, Solaris 8/9/10, Windows 2003/2008 for production, staging and test environments.  • Proficient in configuring and troubleshooting Cisco Site-to-site and Remote Access VPN (Cisco Any connect VPN 4.2) solutions on Cisco ASA firewalls 5520,5550,5585.  • Expertise in installing, configuring, and troubleshooting Juniper EX Switches (EX2500, EX3300, EX4200, EX4500, EX8200 series).  • Experience with Cisco UCS on VMware, Installation, Upgrades and Patching.  • Worked on Capacity Management using Tools like SDC for AIX and Solaris Server.  • Experience in firewall administration including Bluecoat and Fortinet. Able to configured and installed F5 VIPRION 4800, BIG-IP 11000, BIG-IP 11000, BIG-IP 5000.  • Implemented VPN solutions for site-to-site connectivity using Juniper SRX services gateway and remote access VPN solutions using Juniper Pulse secure access.  • Familiar with Checkpoint 23000/15000, Next-gen firewalls security gateways, Security management server and configuring them through Smart console.  • Moderate and contribute to the support forums (specific to Azure Networking, Azure Virtual Machines, Azure Active Directory, Azure Storage).  • Extensive understanding in working with WLAN controllers using standard 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac protocols and knowledge on WI-FI security protocols (WPA, WPA2).  • Experience with F5 load balancer monitoring, configurations, and testing (both LTM and ASM modules).  • Implemented various Switching Technologies STP, RSTP, VLAN and VLAN Trunking Protocol (VTP), Inter-VLAN routing, Ether channel using LACP, PAgP along with Failover Mechanisms such as HSRP and GLBP.  • Support the Websense web filter product. Assist customers with installing, integrating, configuring, and troubleshooting the product on customer network.  • Knowledge on Cisco load balancers (CSM, ACE and GSS).  • Proficiency with Cisco Wireless Controllers and Access points.  • Adequate knowledge in sniffers and network management tools such as Wireshark, TCP dump, Ettercap, Xplico, Microsoft Network Monitor, NMAP, NetShark.  • Worked with migration of firewall rules from Cisco ASA to Palo Alto networks firewalls manually as part of migration project.  • Implemented proxy configurations in the network using Cisco Iron Port and Blu-coat proxy servers.  • Knowledge of JUNOS platform and worked with IOS upgrade of Juniper devices.  • Efficient at use of Microsoft VISIO/Office for technical documentation and presentation tools.  • Have good exposure with NetScaler and A10 Load balancers and deploying them in to the network.  • Experience with installing and managing IT services such as Active directory, Site replication, DNS, SSH, DHCP, NAT and Terminal service.  • Expert knowledge in Cisco Security: Telnet, SDM, NAT/ACLs, AAA, Layer 2 Security, Layer 3 Security, IPS/IDS, Cisco (ASA, PIX), Cryptography, VPN, IPsec. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Engineer Alight Solutions - Chicago, IL July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Perform troubleshooting, while maintaining trouble ticket tracking, following internal/external escalation procedures and customer notifications. Configure Cisco and Juniper Routers for OSPF, RIP, IGRP RIPv2, EIGRP, BGP, MPLS Static and default route.  • Responsible for Palo Alto and Cisco ASA firewall administration across global networks.  • Responsible role for implementing, engineering, & level 2 support of existing network technologies / services & integration of new network technologies / services.  • Designing, configuring, implementing and troubleshooting (LAN) VLAN's, VTP, Spanning Tree (STP), Trunking (dot1q and ISL) and Ether channel of Cisco & Juniper Switches.  • Configuring HSRP for network redundancy and High availability.  • Implementing and managing traffic engineering on top of an existing Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) network using Frame Relay and Open Shortest Path First (OSPF).  • Planned, tested and evaluated various equipment's, systems, IOSs and procedures for use within the Network / security infrastructure.  • Upgrading IOS, troubleshooting network outages  • Data Center Design Experience, installing and Configuring Network Devices in a Data Center including patching the cables in the Patch Panel. Design and implemented network  • Working on EX-3300, 4300, QFX5100, Cisco 7K,5K,2K Switches and virtual chasis fabric, MC LAG, Voice configurations.  • Working on OMNI for monitoring and logging issues  • Working BMC Discovery  • Working on Auroba Controller  • Working on SecureTuffin for Analysis, Audit and Generate Reports. SecureChange for change implementation by doing automation.  • Working on Palo alto, FreeBSD, Checkpoint and Cisco ASA Firewalls for policy configuration, VPN's, global objects and so on - Decommission process and deployment so on.  • Responsible to monitor and collect logs over Cisco ISE and configure policies for Network Admission and Access so on. Network Security Engineer State Farm - Plano, TX June 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible in providing Network Design, Installation, Analysis, Troubleshooting and support for LAN, WAN and WLAN Services.  • Planning, designing, Installing and Configuring of Cisco Routers (1800, 2500, 2600, 3200, 3600, 3700, 3800 and 7200, 7609) & Cisco L2 & L3 Switches (2900, 3650, 4500 & 6500).  • Configuring and implementing Routed and Routing protocols including TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, RIP, RIP2, OSPF, EIGRP, IS-IS, BGP.  • Providing comprehensive networking support leveraging VMware, Active Directory, SolarWinds Orion, with Cisco Catalyst and Nexus switches.  • Worked on Net scalar and A10 Load balancers and deploying them in to the network.  • Provided support on Solaris 8,9 version, Linux Red hat, and HP-UX server.  • Establishing VPN tunnels using IPSec encryption standards, configured, and implemented site-to-site VPN, Remote VPN.  • Upgraded the platforms using the checkpoint upgrade tools.  • Executing traffic engineering on top of an existing Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) network using Frame Relay and Open Shortest Path First (OSPF).  • Expert in IKEv1 and IKEv2 IPSec site-to-site VPN tunnel creation and troubleshooting, remote-access (client-to-site) IPSec and Any Connect SSL VPNs and integration with RADIUS or LDAP servers for 2 factor authentications.  • Configuration of client-side network monitoring IDS/IPS, TippingPoint and Deep Discovery Sandboxes.  • Design, Engineering, support and Implementation of solutions that required HP/Cisco Networking, TippingPoint IPS, Juniper/Cisco/Checkpoint/Fortinet Firewall and VPN solutions admin.  • Deployed, configured, managed, and troubleshot JUNOS-based enterprise routing and switching platforms, including EX2200, EX4200, EX4500, SRX240, and SRX650 devices.  • Performed migration project involving migration of edge routers cisco 7600 to Juniper MX 240 and MX 480 as a part of data center edge routers migration.  • Worked in configuring and troubleshooting switching and routing protocols on Juniper EX series switches.  • Revitalized, established, maintained and ensured adherence to security, and remote access policies (CISCO ASA, Fortinet Firewall).  • Implemented Zone Based Firewalling and Security Rules on the Palo Alto Firewall.  • Remediation of firewall rules from Cisco ASA firewalls to F5 and their implementation.  • Configuring and Implementing IPsec and GRE in VPNS.  • Experienced with VIPRION Chassis, LTM/GTM and DNS.  • Installed Cisco 3548XL switches as ILO switches for management purpose and configured telnet and SSH access for all devices.  • Worked on IAM performance to optimize roles, tasks and identity policies.  • Managed firewall using fortigate to allow or block IPs, created policies added different interfaces and VLANs.  • Proficient in using Solar Winds and Network Performance Monitor (NPM). Network Engineer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC May 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Configuring Routing protocols such as RIP,OSPF, EIGRP, static routing on Juniper M and MX series Routers.  • Configuring VLAN, Spanning tree, VSTP, SNMP on EX series switches.  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture.  • Provided VPN services to site-to-site and, Remote access VPNs using IPSec tunneling along with ensuring of high availability.  • Troubleshoot Fortinet Firewall issues, edited policies and created rules.  • Managing enterprise BGP setup by configuring and troubleshooting BGP related issues. My responsibility was also to add new BGP peers for remote branch offices and business partners.  • Responsible for timing up BGP peering and customer sessions, as well as debugging BGP routing problems.  • Support Identity Access management (IAM) systems and to provide tool administration support.  • Fortinet Firewall administration, configuration of FortiGate 3000, 3815 series as per network diagram.  • Responsible for managing partnership with number of security vendor such Cisco, F5 load balancer and web application firewall, FortiGate, FireEye, Bluecoat, Symantec, Splunk Enterprise.  • Hands on experience in IAM requirement analysis, implementation of Access Gateways and SAML, Oauth, WSFed and OpenID based integrations using Ping Federate.  • Investigate issues related to faulty network design, hardware, TippingPoint Operating System, and IPS or SMS (Security Management Server) configurations.  • Assisted in MPLS migrations, implemented a backup for the existing WAN connection using site-to-site IP sec VPN tunnels.  • Troubleshooting of protocol-based policies on Palo Alto Firewalls and changing the policies as per the requirement and as per traffic flow.  • Design highly available, cost effective and fault tolerant systems using multiple EC2 instances, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs.  • Involved in Configuration of Access lists (ACL) on Juniper and Palo Alto firewall for the proper network routing for the B2Bnetwork connectivity.  • Experience with Firewall Administration, Rule Analysis, Rule Modification.  • Experience in Configuring, upgrading, and verifying the NX-OS operation system.  • Supporting EIGRP and BGP based on the network by resolving level 2 & 3 problems of internal teams & external customers of all locations.  • Worked with creating VIP (virtual servers), pools, nodes and applying iRules for the virtual servers like cookie persistency, redirection of the URL.  • Management of ASA fireballs in the DMZ and FWSM in the Server Farm to provide security and controlled/restricted access.  • Experience in configuring network Security access control on switch infrastructure and apply policies like User Authentication.  • Worked on network monitoring tools such as NMAP, Solar Winds, Wireshark, Turin Secure Track and Splunk. Network Engineer Extreme Networks - Chicago, IL April 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Configured, implemented, and troubleshoot routers and switches.  • Installed, configured, maintained, and worked on troubleshooting issues of Data center.  • Configuring HSRP between VLANs, Configuring Ether-Channels, port channel on catalyst 6500 switch.  • Worked on Extensively on Cisco Firewalls, Cisco PIX(506E/515E/525/) and ASA 5500(5510/5540) Series.  • Actively participated in upgrading fast Ethernet, Layer 3 switched/routed LAN infrastructure from Cisco 3640 to Cisco 2811 ISR routers and switches at access level to 2950, 3550.  • Maintaining over 100+ physical and virtual servers "HP's mid-range" (SuSe, Red hat/HP UX).  • Aided Tipping Point's network migration from public to private management space.  • Configured Wireless Access Points, Controllers using Cisco Prime.  • Expert in Cisco Clean access manager and servers, Cisco NAC.  • Monitoring the routing traffic using Cisco 2000 and Wireshark.  • Provided administrative support to Tipping Point's full array of network security products including IPS/IDS, Next-Gen Firewalls, databases, and storage systems.  • Involved in support for Cisco ASA 5510 firewall with IPS module to monitor the traffic from the internet.  • Configured Network Security policies to ensure that all the network is segmented in the way that no data leak happens from one zone to another.  • Configuration and extension of VLAN from one network segment to their segment between different vendor switches (Cisco, Juniper).  • Responsible for layer 2 securities which was implemented using a dedicated VLAN ID for all trunk ports, setting the user ports to non - trunking, deployed port security when possible for user ports.  • Monitored all equipment using Solar Winds.  • Deployed Syslog servers of KIWI systems and configured them on the firewalls for the traffic logs to be sent to the syslog servers.  • Proficient in handling high availability solutions on all kinds of firewalls, configuring them in cluster and troubleshooting failover issues.  • Worked with Load Balancing team to build connectivity to production and disaster recovery servers through F5 Big IP LTM load balancers.  • Maintaining SSL certificate on Citrix net scalar load balancer and managing the virtual servers.  • Proficiency in handling High Availability solutions on all kinds of firewalls, configuring them in cluster and troubleshooting failover issues.  • Experience in identifying common types of attacks.  • Enabled STP attack mitigation (BPDU Guard, Root Guard), using MD5 authentication for VTP, disabling all unused ports and putting them in unused VLAN and ensuring DHCP attack prevention where required. Network Support Engineer Columbus, OH March 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Configured and installed CISCO Routers 1800, 2500 in networks.  • Implemented VTP and trunking protocols (802.1q and ISL) on 2560, 2570 and 4500 series Cisco Catalyst switches.  • Configured IP routing in Cisco routers including static and dynamic Routing.  • Performed Router configurations and troubleshoot LAN inter-networking problems.  • Troubleshooting complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF and BGP.  • Performed Network Administration duties for LAN/WLAN/WAN/SAN including Windows Server stand up and support.  • Extensively worked on implementation of Firewall ACL's, designing perimeter security policy, allowing access to specified services, enabling IDS/IPS signatures in Firewall and fine-tuning of TCP and UDP.  • Monitoring and maintaining compliance standards on Company's Endpoints.  • Deploying, Configuring, Upgrading and Monitoring Security Compliance Management products and policies (Endpoint Security, Web Gateway).  • Troubleshooting WAN, LAN issues and provide speedy resolution within SLA.  • Configure new switches/routers and places into the network via Emergency and standard change controls.  • Configured Cisco Catalyst Switches 1800, 2900 and 3650 Series.  • Sustaining proper documentation of the network setup and change control.  • Configure Client VPN technologies including Cisco's VPN client via IPSEC.  • Managing IP address and VLANs.  • Involved in troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP and other IP conflict problems.  • Troubleshoot the Network Issues onsite and remotely depending on the severity of the issues.  • Designed and implemented IT security policies and networked backup systems.  • Set up and troubleshoot secured wireless access points (WAP) and wireless LAN controller (WLC) for broadband internet.  • Preparing technical documentation (Equipment Selection, design, configurations, and production check-outs) using Microsoft VISIO.  • Worked collaboratively with the team in revising company policies, technical reports, related documents, and training materials, as well as in troubleshooting network and major incidents within the company. Network Administrator Blue Bridge Networks - Cleveland, OH February 2010 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Configured and installed routers, switches, and wireless controllers.  • Involved in all technical aspects of LAN, WAN and SAN projects including, short and long-term planning, implementation, project management and operations support as required.  • Experience in Inter- VLAN routing, Redistribution, Access-lists and Dynamic NATing.  • Conduct complete analysis, problem solving, and infrastructure planning.  • Worked with Remedy Ticketing tool in maintaining and keep a track of logs/monitor.  • Designing the network diagram using Microsoft Visio from the ISP to Customer Side and configuration of CORE & CIU devices with 3 basic services design.  • ADSL-Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line  • BI-Business Internet  • ML3-Managed Layer 3  • Implemented L2 security to protect from internal attacks  • Sound knowledge in routing protocols like Rip, EIGRP, OSPF in IPv4 & IPv6.  • Implemented and configured IP Routing Protocols: RIPv2, BGP.  • Knowledge of implementing and troubleshooting complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP, Ether channel, STP and RSTP, MSTP, LACP.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS, VTP, RSTP and Port security.  • Configure and Troubleshoot Spanning Tree protocol in the Switching Network.  • Designed and implemented IP Addressing, Subnetting, Route summarization and Route distributions.  • Configure static routes, default routes, Frame Relay.  • Configuration and troubleshooting link state protocols like OSPF in single area and multiple areas.  • Implemented security measures using ACL and configured NAT according to the connectivity requirement.  • Developed good knowledge on MS office tools such as MS Visio to provide documentation about network.  • Served in computer maintenance, performed all types of hardware, software maintenance and engineering in addition to systems selection, backup, and technical support.  • Extensively used TCP/IP tool like TELNET for remote login to the routers and SSH for secure login.  • Developing knowledge on identifying common types of attacks.  • Configured Access List (Standard, Extended, and Named) to allow users all over the company to access different applications and blocking others.  • Support the project manager in defining the work and the associated effort, duration, and resource needs to deliver the solution. Education Bachelor's Skills Bgp (7 years), Catalyst (5 years), Cisco (8 years), Cisco asa (5 years), Dns. (3 years), Eigrp (7 years), firewall (8 years), Frame relay (4 years), Internet protocol security (5 years), Ipsec (5 years), Juniper (7 years), Mpls (5 years), Network security (7 years), Ospf (7 years), Routing protocols (6 years), Security (9 years), Ssl (4 years), Tcp (4 years), Unix. (4 years), Wireshark (4 years), LAN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Routers Cisco: 1800, 2500, 2600, 2800, 3200, 3600, 3800, 4500, 7200, 7600 Series Juniper: J2320, J2350, J4350, M10i and M7i.  Switches  Cisco: Catalyst 6500, 4800, 4510, 4500, 3850, 3750, 3650, 2960 Series and Nexus 2K, 3K, 5K, 7K Series.  Juniper: EX2500, Ex3300, Ex4200, Ex4500, Ex8200.    Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Cisco IOS/CATOS/IOS-NX, JUNOS, LINUX, Unix.  Routing Protocols TCP/IP, UDP, IPv4/IPv6, RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, HSRP, OSPF, BGP, MPLS.  WAN Protocols HDLC, PPP, ATM, Frame Relay, Channelized links, HDCL, DS3, OC192, Fiber Optic Circuits.  Security Protocols WPA, WPA2, IKE, IPsec, SSL, AAA, Access-lists, prefix-lists.  Load Balancers HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, F5 BIG-IP LTM/GTM, CSM, ACE, GSS, AX10.  Network Security Cisco ASA Firewall, Palo Alto Firewall, Checkpoint Firewall, Juniper SRX, SonicWall.  Servers Domain servers, WINS servers, FTP servers, DNS servers, Proxy servers, Application servers.  Management Tools  and Sniffers    Cisco Security Device Manager, SNMP, Cisco CTM, Wireshark, Solar Winds, Cacti, TCP Dump, Open NMS, Riverbed NetProfiler, NetFlow, NetShark, Splunk, Xplico, Nagios, RANCID.    Microsoft office Excel, PowerPoint, Word, Visio, office 365