Technical Advisor Technical Advisor Technical Advisor Myrtle Beach, SC Work Experience Technical Advisor Conduent - Myrtle Beach, SC 2018 to August 2019 Worked remotely from Home supporting Apple customers. Answered calls from customers who had issues with their Iphones, Mac computers, Ipads, Ipods and applications and Operating systems.  Key Achievements:  * Served as a Remote Technician troubleshooting all Apple devices and software issues.  * Assisted customers in user account issues, troubleshooting and updating software. Remote Service Technician Support.com - Myrtle Beach, SC 2017 to November 2018 Myrtle Beach, SC  Worked remotely from Home supporting Comcast Internet Customers. Answered calls from customers who had internet connectivity issues with Comcast Internet Service.  Key Achievements:  * Served as a Remote Technician troubleshooting customer internet issues using a variety of tools that would connect to the customers internet gateway.  * Activated new customers, troubleshot laptops, PC's, tablets and smartphones. Assistant Network Administrator Monarch NC - Albemarle, NC September 2014 to November 2017 Monarch, Albermarle, NC    Partnered with network administrator in installing, configuring, and maintaining network. Built physical and virtual servers and played key role in enterprise-wide anti-virus and faxing projects.  Key Achievements:  * Served as technical specialist, troubleshooting and resolving issues with Shoretel telephone system, working with WSUS server, and using Vcenter to manage VMWare servers. Network Administrator Lowes Corp - Morrisville, NC 2013 to September 2014 Monitored Lowe's network in Organizational Command Center, troubleshooting hardware and software issues, maintaining wireless access points, and managing network appliances.  Key Achievements:  * Effectively tracked work performed using BMC Remedy to create ticks and monitor network alerts and Solarwinds to monitor network connectivity and device performance.  * Collaborated with colleagues and corporate groups to troubleshoot and fix issues identified by monitoring software. Tools Specialist Delhaize America - Salisbury, NC 2012 to February 2013 Oversaw entire network using Spectrum Enterprise network monitoring tool, adding, deleting, and troubleshooting devices and integrating tools into monitoring systems.  Key Achievements:  * Prepared performance reports using EHealth.  * Maintained IBM/Wintel servers, Cisco routers and switches, wireless access points, and other networking devices. Desktop Administrator AT-Tech Technology - Charlotte, NC 2010 to November 2012 Deployed workstations and imaged using Symantec Ghost, using Novell Zenworks to select applications for each workstation.  Key Achievements:  * Created, deleted, and updated user accounts in Exchange and Active Directory. Network Administrator Refresh Technologies - Charlotte, NC September 2008 to May 2010 Administered managed services, supporting hardware and software for desktops and servers, including Cisco routers and various makes of switches and hubs.  Key Achievements:  * Ensured efficiency of company systems, providing remote and onsite support for Microsoft Exchange 2003/2007 and Windows Terminal Server 2000/2003 boxes.  * Monitored, maintained, configured, and provided user support for Active Directory group policies. Skills Cisco, Exchange, Iis, Nas, Remedy, Sms, Tivoli, Ciscoworks, Citrix, Csu, Csu/dsu, Metaframe, Voip, Wireless, Raid, Veritas backup exec, Backup exec, Firewall, Ghost, Veritas Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  Hardware  Servers, Desktops, Laptops, Raid, NAS, SAN, Printers, Scanners, Routers, Hubs, Switches, Wireless, VOIP, CSU/DSU, ISDN, Tape Libraries    Systems Windows SMS/IIS/Exchange, Windows, Citrix Metaframe & Presentation OS  Vendors IBM, DELL, Cisco, HP, Nortel, Linksys, Adaptec  Software  Microsoft Office Suite, Veritas Backup Exec for Server/PC, Symantec Ghost Server/PC, Tivoli Patch Mgmt/Updates/Backups/PC Admin, AS400, Remedy, Lotus Notes Client, Ciscoworks, Rightfax, Guardian Firewall