Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Work Experience Senior Network Engineer April 2019 to Present Design and deploy functional networks (LAN, WLAN, WAN)  Configure and install software, servers, routers and other network devices  Monitor network performance and integrity  Resolve issues tiers of support have escalated by troubleshooting cloud and local  infrastructure  Automate tasks and monitor their effectiveness  Mentor team members on technical issues  Create, oversee and test security measures (e.g. access authentication and disaster  recovery)  Communicate with users when needed  Maintain complete technical documentation  Suggest improvements to network performance, capacity and scalability Network Administrator United States Air Force April 2014 to Present Configure, deploy, maintain, and troubleshoot Cisco IOS/NX-OS based enterprise  routers and switches to include Cisco 2811, 2960, 3560, 3750, 3850, 4500, 6500.  Provided 24/7 support of classified and unclassified enterprise networks, for over  18,000 users.  Worked closely with customers in resolving day-to-day network and computer  issues.  Was part of a team instructed with handling a $105M Network Upgrade to configure and install 304 Access Nodes and 8 Critical Nodes.  Configured and installed a large variety of Cisco and HP switches and routers.  Planned a network redesign in support of 5,000+ users and led a team of 4 in implementing a complete overhaul of the network in regards to routing, OS, security, and IP allocation.  Administer STIG's (Security Technical Implementation Guide) and implement  security solutions to mitigate vulnerabilities in compliance with DISA standard  operation procedures. Enterprise Watch Officer AbileGroup - Springfield, VA September 2017 to March 2018 Provided managerial, operation and support services to and infrastructure that  operates on multiple networks, systems, applications and servers.  Performed daily/nightly network, system, application and server monitoring  Performed fault isolation, troubleshoot customer problems, take customer calls and enter into remedy  Facilitated technical exchange meetings over a broad spectrum of IT systems, applications, network topologies and protocols.  Performed daily and nightly checklist and updated system procedures.  Made decisions based on impacts to operation and set the priority of work in accordance with customer's mission critical services.  Reported significant outages to the government customer and kept records in daily  log. Network Engineer Leidos - Norfolk, VA January 2017 to September 2017 NOSC NETWORK ENGINEER | JOINT INFORMATION OPERATIONS RANGE |  Provided 24/7 support of classified and unclassified networks  Configure network environments using Layer 2 and Layer 3 technologies, and managed all devices, such as firewalls, routers, switches, taclanes, and other network  equipment.  Support Event Coordinators in the design of network environments; ensure  technical, security, and operational requirements are met and balanced in accordance with JIOR Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).  Provide planning recommendations to ensure events meet collaboration  requirements (i.e., Voice over Internet Protocol, instrumentation, and visualization).  Support Event Site Engineers with the configuration, execution, and teardown of network environments for each event.  Documented NOSC engineering activities in accordance with the JIOR System  Security Authorization Agreement and SOPs; ensuring compliance with Designated  Approval Authority and Authorizing Official specifications.  Administer STIG's (Security Technical Implementation Guide) and implement  security solutions to mitigate vulnerabilities in compliance with DISA standard  operation procedures. Education BS in Network in Operations and Security Western Governors University July 2017 to Present Associates in Electronic Systems in Electronic Systems Community College of the Air Force July 2013 to June 2015 Skills Ccna, Cisco certified network associate, Ccnp, Cisco certified network professional, Cisco, Networking, Solarwinds, Vlan, Bgp, Dhcp, Eigrp, Lan/wan, Ospf, Tacacs, Vpn, Security, Ios, Voip, Access control, Authentication Additional Information SKILLS through inception to their completion. Highly organized with an extraordinary  ability to manage multiple projects, task and priorities effectively and in a timely  Cisco Networking manner. Passionate about networking and computing, and is always striving to  lean something new.    Cisco IOS Proficient in configuring and troubleshooting Ethernet, IP, OSPF, SNMP, SSH, STP,  802.1X, 802.1Q Trunks, VLANs, VoIP, AAA authentication, TACACS+, VTP, VPN  LAN/WAN Technologies Layer2/3 tunnels, Access Lists, Ether Channel, DHCP, Switched Virtual Interfaces  (SVIs), Routed Ports    Windows OS CERTIFICATIONS  XP/Vista/7/8/10  Cisco Certified Network Professional Switch (CCNP Switch)    License: CSCO12882954 - June 2019    Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA RS)    License: CSCO12882954 - June 2019- June 2022    CompTIA Security + CE    License: COMP001020695149 - March 2014 - March 2023    GIAC Security Essentials Certification (GSEC)    Analyst Number: 43030 - June 2018 - June 2022    Hardware: Cisco Routers/Switches, HP Switches, VoIP Phones, VoSIP Phones, KG-  175D    Software: Microsoft Office Suite, SolarWinds, GemX, Cisco Access Control Server,  Cisco Prime    Routing: BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP    LAN/WAN: Ethernet, Fiber, VLAN