Senior Network Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - STG INC Sierra Vista, AZ Work Experience Senior Network Administrator Iron Bow Technologies - Fort Huachuca, AZ May 2019 to Present • Manage networking at 190 data centers across the globe  • Configure and manage Nexus Switches  • Act as a network trainer for junior network admins  • Implement data center network technologies such as vPC and VXLAN  • Ensure network devices are compliant with DOD and Army regulations  • Support 24/7 operations for a global mission Network Engineer STG INC January 2018 to May 2019 • Install, configure, and troubleshoot switches, routers and firewalls in the TLA and JRSS in support of multiple mission areas.  • Work with customers to troubleshoot inter-connectivity between 80 remote sites across the United States, encompassing over 200 devices, using network monitoring tools to consistently meet service level agreements.  • Investigate Cisco ASA, Juniper, and Netscreen firewalls for policy and BGP and static routing issues.  • Implement, modify, and troubleshoot policies on Cisco ASA, Palo Alto Firewalls, and Netscreen firewalls.  • Ensure all network devices and configurations are compliant with current DoD and Army regulations.  • Resolve issues involving point to point traffic in a highly complex joint environment containing hundreds of Virtual Routing and Forwarding tables.  • Configure, maintain, and troubleshoot Access Control Lists, prefix-lists, and prefix-sets.  • Work in the NOC to provide 24/7 support for customers  • Act as network consultant and trainer for network associates  • Ensures that security procedures are implemented and enforced. Intermediate Network Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology January 2017 to December 2017 • Install; configure; and troubleshoot switches, routers and firewalls in the TLA and JRSS in support of multiple mission areas.  • Ensure compliance of all network devices.  • Ensure all network devices and configurations are compliant with current DoD and Army regulations.  • Ensure correctness of all diagrams; device checks and databases.  • Ensures that security procedures are implemented and enforced.  • Installs all network software.  • Troubleshoots LAN/WAN problems.  • Establishes and implements LAN/WAN policies; procedures; and standards and ensures their conformance with information systems and organization objectives. Nodal Network Systems Administrator U.S. Army October 2015 to January 2017 • Configure and install switches, routers, servers, computers and other IT devices  • Ensure compliance to security standards across the network  • Manage Active Directory  • Install and troubleshoot software and applications to user standards  • Install and configure peripherals and components  • Assemble and install Cat5 and Cat6 cables  • Maintain network and peripheral devices Nodal Network Systems Team Chief U.S. Army June 2014 to October 2015 • Maintained 100% accountability of all assigned equipment with a value of more than $1.2 million  • Managed a team of IT specialists to ensure all IT equipment remained operational  • Developed a maintenance plan for all IT equipment  • Coordinated the replacement of old or broken equipment Switching Systems Administrator U.S. Army March 2011 to June 2014 • Installed and troubleshot software and applications to user standards  • Installed and configured peripherals and components  • Coordinated with other departments to streamline the process of delivering, configuring and installing of new devices  • Assisted customers in resolving issues in a timely and accurate manner  • Installed all security measures on end devices to ensure compliance  • Configured and troubleshot Microsoft outlook Education Bachelor's in Network Operations and Security Western Governors University August 2019 High school or equivalent Teton High School June 2009 Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SPC 2011 to 2017 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Project+ CompTIA Security+ ITIL v3 CCNA Routing and Switching CCDA CCENT Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) CCNA Security