Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - AsteelFlash Hayward, CA Work Experience Network Administrator AsteelFlash - Fremont, CA August 2017 to Present • Manage Active Directory Services including: DHCP, DNS, GPO and Certificate Service.  • Manage Windows Server Updates  • Configure separate VLANs for VOIP and Data.  • Troubleshoot and Repair PC's and Laptops (Windows and Mac)  • Manage Enterprise Antivirus, Malware and Spyware.  • Manage Wireless Access Points Aruba and Cisco  • Manage Ticket Systems (Fremont CA, Raleigh NC & Tijuana, Mex.)  • QAD, FTPC, SAP & PLM Implementation for Fremont CA & Raleigh NC.  • Manage Microsoft Exchange Server 2010  • Manage FTP Account  • Provide Customer Service for all locations Americas, Mexico and Europe.  • Create and maintain technical documentation on the servers, backup / recovery process, Active Directory, VMware and Antivirus systems  • Manage VM Servers and Storage National Budget Planner Livermore and Data Center in Fremont April 2016 to 2017 • Manage Help Desk Multiple Sites (Pleasanton, Livermore and Data Center in Fremont 200 users)  • Manage Active Directory Services including: DHCP, DNS, GPO and Certificate Service.  • Manage OTRS Ticket Systems (Livermore, Pleasanton, BWW & Dennis)  • Manage Windows Server Updates replication and coordinate updates with General Manager.  • Configure separate VLANs for VOIP and Data traffic  • Troubleshoot and Repair PC's and Laptops (Windows and Mac)  • Manage Enterprise Antivirus, Malware and Spyware.  • Create and maintain technical documentation on the servers, backup / recovery process, Active Directory, VMware and Antivirus systems  • Manage Multi Emails Accounts (Gmail, National budget, My Student Services, Wbgsla.com, Dennis )  • Maintain excellent communication with IT Manager and staff on all tasks and projects.  • Manage GUI Application ASDM from Cisco 5510 ( Network and Internet Service) Network Administrator/IT Consultant East Bay Computer Systems - Hayward, CA April 2011 to April 2016 • Provide technical support to home and small business user; phone and remote desktop support, VNC, LogMeIn and WebEx, for hardware/software resolution.  • Manage customer's accounts, care and 24/7 support.  • Fix and troubleshoot any hardware/software issue on multiple platforms: Windows Server 2008 to 2012, Mac OSX, Linux, Ubuntu and Fedora.  • Setup, design and maintain Windows and Linux Server, Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, and GPO for the small business customers; setup and deploy network for up to 300 users for 40+ customers.  • Design, setup and administer Hyper-V servers and utilized remote desktop for their remote employees.  • Created and Design a Hybrid Virtual Lab with VMware to perform software updates and patch testing on windows server based network.  • Setup ISP routers for small business clients; configure built-in firewall and NAT to allow access to customer servers and services such as web host server, remote desktops, SFTP, FTP, SSH and Telnet. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Instituto Tecnologico de la Laguna