Microsoft Azure Engineer Microsoft Azure Engineer Microsoft Azure Engineer - TECHTREND INC Sterling, VA Work Experience Microsoft Azure Engineer TECHTREND INC June 2017 to Present • Involved in architecture and deployment for large customer environments providing high availability for cloud environments.  • Deployed OMS, Azure Security Center, Azure site recovery, and Azure automation.  • Worked with Azure App Service to customize SSL certs, manage deployment slots, and diagnostic logs for customers.  • Designed and configured Azure Virtual Networks (VNets), subnets, Azure network settings, DHCP address blocks, DNS settings, security polices (NSG’s), UDR’s (routing), load balancers and resource groups. Deployed with PowerShell  • Designed Network Security Groups to control inbound and outbound access to network interfaces, VM’s, and subnets.  • Setup Azure Virtual Appliances to meet security requirements as software based appliances functions (firewall).  • Associated unified define routes (UDR’s) to meet customer needs and have a more secure environment. (Pro, Dev, Testing).  • Configured site to site VPN for customers on premise to cloud environment, also assisted customer in testing site to site VPN.  • Virtual Machine backup and Recovery from a Recovery Services vault using PowerShell and Portal.  • Handled escalated support tickets till closure for Microsoft Azure in troubleshooting IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS for customer needs.  • Documented procedures and created a training guide for customers to follow and understand their environment. This Guide is for customers house IT, it trains administrators on how Azure is configured, best practices, and knowledge base.  • In addition, I support enterprise wide IT operations, troubleshooting, team building, desktop administration, government demonstrations, and prototypes for proposals/OTAs  • I support Infrastructure Management, modernization projects, enterprise wide role based access, SharePoint administration, back-end office support and utilize CMMI Level 3 best practices to support agile driven development work  • I am adept at managing and supporting multiple projects and simultaneous tasks within a federal framework, compliant with FedRAMP processes and requirements (including supporting DevSecOps) Network Administrator CHROMATIC LIMITED - DHAKA, BD March 2014 to December 2016 • Provide d on-site and re mote support for e nd users (tie r 1, 2, and 3) de sktop support, software issues, and hardware.  • Support and participate in de ploying Windows ope rating systems: Windows Se rver (2008, 2012 r2,), Windows 7 and 10  • Maintaine d Office 365: Re setting passwords, creating accounts, creating distribution groups, and lice nsing for use rs  • In charge of re covering de leted ite ms for de partments. Backups ran through Carbonate cloud.  • Installe d, configured, maintained local and ne twork printe rs and scanners. Supported variety of PC's, tablets, and phone s  • Worke d with a ticke ting system and rotation shift to make sure customer incide nts are completed with high satisfaction le vel. Skills Vpn, Iaas, Paas, Saas, Circuits, Azure, Office 365, System Administrator Additional Information CORE SKILLS  Scheduling and Planning | Communication | Customer Support | Interdepartmental Collaboration and Coordination | Relationship-Builder | Proactive | Problem-Solver | Team-Player | Analytical Thinker | Self-Directed | Highly-Organized | Detail-Oriented | Quick Learner    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Cloud Computing | Azure | VPN | Load Balancers | Application Gateway | Cloud Monitoring | Office 365 | Azure App Service |  High Availability Sets | ExpressRoute Circuits | Recovery Services vaults | Backup vaults | Azure Site Recovery | IaaS | PaaS | SaaS |  GitHub Administrator | PowerShell | Windows Server 2012 | Windows Server 2016 | OMS | VPN Gateway | Terraform | HashiCorp