Senior EMR Analyst Senior EMR Analyst Senior EMR Analyst - Enzo Clinical Labs, Inc Linden, NJ Work Experience Senior EMR Analyst Enzo Clinical Labs, Inc - Hasbrouck Heights, NJ 2011 to Present Supervise and coordinate all the aspects of daily operations, including implementing, maintaining and troubleshooting HL7 interfaces. Liaise and confer with EMR vendors about test compendium updates on regular basis to ensure up to date test availability. Ensure the smooth running of operations by providing ongoing communication in timely manner to vendors, and all levels of the company, regarding the current progress of pending HL7 interfaces. Administered and organized project operations from inception to completion associated with automate test compendium updates and successfully completed few EMR vendors test compendium process.  Key Achievements:  * Headed and oversaw multiple HL7 interface projects from kick off to go live as well as fostered congenial relationship with EMR vendors.  * Developed expert level of understanding and knowledge of different HL7 interface types such as TCP/IP, VPN, Web Service, SFTP, and Enzo's proprietary EzInterface.  * Enhanced senior management decision-making process by designing and maintaining SOP documentation.  * Steered the development program aimed at training, coaching, and educating support group on changes to existing and new HL7 interfaces. Network Administrator EPV Solar - Robbinsville, NJ 2008 to 2010 Managed and executed comprehensive activities that support in administrating, maintaining and configuring network devices. Designed, installed, and maintained new system application, including application security and rights management, applications patch and upgrades as needed to keep systems current. Guaranteed the adequate management of active directory infrastructure, including user account management, forest management, replication, and group policies. Played a vital role in administering local and remote server backups with Symantec Backup Exec.  Key Achievements:  * Leveraged astute technical capabilities during installing and configuring new workstations through imaging and utilizing Symantec Ghost.  * Revitalized and optimized efficiency and performance by managing server farm, consisting of over 20 servers, routers, and switches at main office and branch location.  * Drove continuous improvement and performance in system by installing, overseeing, supporting and maintaining network hardware and software.  * Spearheaded the implementation of disaster recovery, archival, and backup systems to support in protecting business assets and information as well as championed business continuity. Education BS in Computer Science Kean University - Union, NJ Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Modem, T1, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Terminal server, Vm, Vpn, Wins, Sftp, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Iis, Ethernet, Fddi, Raid, Hl7, Microsoft Office Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Connectivity & Hardware:  Cisco, Firewalls, Routers, Switches, Wireless, T1, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, FDDI, Cable/DSL Modem, Analog dial-up, TCP/IP, VPN, Web Service, SFTP    OS & Enterprise Apps:  Windows NT/2000/2003/2008 Server, Exchange Server 5.5/2003/2007, Blackberry Server, Norton Antivirus, Symantec, Ghost, Backup Exec, ISA Firewall, Proxy Server, VM Ware, Terminal Server, SQL    Technologies: RAID, SCSI, UPS, Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, RIS, Remote Desktop, IIS  Programming & Database: HL7, HTML/DHTML, XML, CSS, PHP, ASP.NET, JavaScript, Java, C++, Oracle, Content Management System, Web Standards  Desktop Technologies:  Windows 3.11/95/98/NT/2000/XP/VISTA, Microsoft Office 2003/2007 Professional, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Scanners, Desktop and Networked Printers