Network Technician II <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician II Salisbury, NC 6 Years of IT experience, 4 years of active duty USN services in IT and 2 years installing networks on USN Ships. Experience providing customer support for Naval ships, giving customers training, installing, configuring, and troubleshooting software, hardware, and network operations. Work Experience Network Technician II Atlas Technologies - Chesapeake, VA July 2017 to Present Atlas Technologies, Inc. - Chesapeake, VA  Network Technician II (July 2017 - Present)  • Installed and configured 8 SAN networks and 10 networks using HPDL380 hardware, each network consists of 18 to 23 virtual servers.  • Set up VMware with windows 2008, 2012 and Linux virtual machines.  • Constructed 3 networks using IBM blade centers with IBM storage and 4 networks using Oracle blade centers with EMC storage.  • Configured and linked more than 20 Cisco routers, 12 McAfee physical firewalls, 18 Cisco switches, 16 stacked Cisco switches with 4 switches per rack, to support from 300 to over 3000 users  • Connected cross domain solutions to use HP thin client remote desktop session on all networks per site for 4 sites  • Configured Threat Management Gateway, EMC Networker, SMVI, VMWare Configuration Manager, VMware Service Manager, Smarts ITOI, McAfee Host based security system, EMC APG, Network Configuration Manager, Microsoft Domain Controllers, SQL, VMWare, SharePoint, Microsoft Deployment Toolkit, Windows server update services, Nessus scanner, Microsoft Exchange server, Remote desktop  • Trained personnel to use Microsoft Deployment Toolkit to install Windows OS on workstations across domain.  • Ensure system security remains low by performing windows update, IAVA's, and IAVB's on a regular basis.  • Conduct weekly scans using Nessus scanner to monitor network vulnerabilities.  • Used McAfee Host based security system to track security violations and ensure security of network was not compromised.  • Troubleshoot software deficiencies providing restoration to naval systems  • Provide tier 3 support for navy informational technicians on hardware and software issues.  • Configured 2 ships KIV-7M's to support SHF communications  • Successfully accomplished broadcast traffic across 8 KIV-7M's  Provided training to crew members on managing and troubleshooting their network US Navy March 2016 to July 2017 • Administered, repaired, and installed 50 workstations and 4 servers including all security patches and software updates to ensure mission readiness was at 100% for all systems.  • Wrote ships disaster recovery and emergency action procedures to ensure network was recoverable and protected in emergency situations  • Repaired and installed a SQL server to a stand-alone computer allowing all available resources be accessible to end users.  • Configured the install 2 networking storage device systems granting 100% success rate of all data restoral processes.  • Troubleshot client information systems problems by responding to more than 700 software trouble tickets for 130 users that allowed all operational tasks to continue.  • Installed 7 wireless routers and 1 switch that allowed 100% of users to successfully connect and utilize all base area network resources.  • Integrated four information systems networks through 1 router allowing data to be passed from site to site through 1 ADNS connection.  • Prioritized work assignments assigned daily through 2 departments and 3 work centers 100% completion that strengthened my ability to multi-task.  • Performed network maintenance to correct any discrepancies ensuring no hardware or software faults arise.  • Configured 38 virtual Windows servers and 2 virtual Linux servers on 6 Hpyer-V servers, 4 Cisco routers 4 Alcatel switches, and 4 firewalls to optimize Local area networks for 130 end users.  • Monitored and configured McAfee HBSS intrusion prevention system (IPS) to keep a secure network for all end users. Network Administrator US Navy January 2014 to November 2015 • Configured 4 VPN network devices that allowed connection to 12 remote sites.  • Repaired DNS, E-Mail, and TCP/IP connectivity for 150 mission impacted units worldwide through troubleshooting encryption devices, packet shapers, and routers with limited downtime at 3% over a 2 year period.  • Assisted the installation and configuration for 8 virtual e-mail scanners and 6 firewalls during network hardware upgrade.  • Administered 118 virtual windows and virtual Linux servers on 36 hardware servers, 42 ADNS routers using OSPF, and BGP, 23 McAfee firewalls, using common protocol (FTP, SSH, SMTP, DNS, SNMP, NTP) to ensure all connectivity was readily available to all users with limited downtime.  • Configured Split/IP for ships to receive data faster during mission impacted operations.  • Monitored 3 packet shapers to ensure there was less packet loss and data was more reliable via satellite connections.  • Supervised 15 personnel and kept logs of all trouble calls, trouble shooting practices, and results that allowed for more time efficient resolutions.  • Wrote 2 job qualification requirement packets and 14 standard operating procedures to ensure all new personnel would be qualified to perform all tasks assigned.  • Wrote more than 250 Communication spot reports (COMSPOTS) that lead allowed me to troubleshoot over messages or phone calls    Computer Hardware and Software Skills    • Fluent in Microsoft Office products, Microsoft Windows 7/10, Windows 2003/2008/2012 Network Infrastructure, Microsoft SQL 2005/2008 R2, Windows 2008 R2 Directory Services, Active Directory administration and installation, LAN/WAN/SAN, DNS, DHCP, Routing, Remote Access, TCP/IP and troubleshooting network connectivity.  • Knowledgeable with: Quality Assurance processes, and Quality Standards 2004 to 2008 Change Management, Problem Management.  ? Vulnerability management, security measurement and compliance.  ? Quality Assurance processes, and Quality Standards. Education None in Network Administrator Advanced U.S. Navy - Pensacola, FL June 2013 to December 2013 None in Network Administrator Basic U.S. Navy - Pensacola, FL January 2013 to June 2013 Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2013 to September 2022 CompTIA Security+ September 2013 to September 2022 Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) August 2017 to November 2020 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) November 2017 to November 2020 Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gxow1zuxl0npasju Problem Solving — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/grpgw0-l4ionurd7 Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bww8nawcgep8jxmr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.