Network Administrator - khai <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - khai Network Administrator - khai - Tri Tutoring Center Port Lavaca, TX ? highly-motivated and dedicated individual, seeking an entry level position in network security administrator  & cyber security, where offers the chance to the growth of career path. Work Experience Network Administrator - khai Tri Tutoring Center - Houston, TX January 2019 to Present Help desk support, handle troubleshooting and maintenance computer system  - Achievement: config PFsense firewall for inbound and outbound access as well as deploy PDQ for automatic install software for the whole workstation. install Vmware to deploy service server:  DHCP, DNS, Routing, VPN..etc. Network Administrator HoangGia Ltd Co January 2011 to 2013 Network engineering & troubleshooting hardware & software  Achievement: setting up the whole network for company and sharing data, printers for each  department. update windows OS and software, patches. troubleshooting circuit board and hard disk.  backup data as scheduled time. Self Employed Self Employed March 2007 to 2010 contract to 2 companies to maintenance computer system and troubleshooting hardware and software once problems  arise. consulting and installing the most updated technology. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in cyber security in Business Administration The University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX December 2018 Victoria College - Victoria, TX May 2016 Bachelor of International Business Administration in International Business Administration HUFLIT University - Ho Chi Minh City, VN October 2010 Skills Active Directory (3 years), server 2003 (4 years), Vmware (2 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), help desk support (5 years) Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient November 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dkalc0ysnie-el9h Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information ? Experienced in troubleshooting Windows OS  ? Experience with Domain integration - Active Directory-GPO  ? Knowledge on switches routers, TCP/IP as well as DNS, DHCP, VPN service. .etc.  ? Experience with firewalls and security related issues  ? Knowledge on troubleshooting hardware and software  ? Experience with VMWare  ? Experience with kernel (Linux) or registry (Windows) configuration and debugging  ? proficient in Windows (xp, 7, 10), Mac OS, printer. windows server 2003