Combined Air Operations Center System Administrator Combined Air Operations Center System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Tucson, AZ • IT Professional with nearly 10 years of working experience in server and network administration, network  design, system implementation, leadership, O&M, network vulnerability assessments.  • Adaptable and detail-oriented with strong skills in implementation, leadership and troubleshooting.  • Have possessed a Secret and a Top Secret Clearance in the past. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Combined Air Operations Center System Administrator General Dynamics IT - Doha, QA November 2010 to 2012 At this time maintaining base network comprised of approximately 80+ Microsoft Servers of which nearly  50% are virtual machines; Unclassified / Classified / Coalition networks.  • Currently utilize VMware tools such as:  o VirtualCenter to manage three different virtual server clusters.  o Converter to convert physical windows systems in virtual machines.  o ESX1 4.1 and Hypervisor.  o vSwitch for management of VLANs and traffic flow..  • Configuration & maintenance of NetApp FAS6030, FAS3050, FAS3140, and R200 storage models  hosting Microsoft Exchange 2003 databases, Microsoft SQL 2005 databases and VMware vSphere 4.1 for purposes of backup and recovery.  • Configuration & maintenance of NetApp storage controllers, such as Hardware, Data OnTap, CIFS, NFS,  SnapMirror, SnapShots, Aggregates, Volumes, Qtrees, LUNs, iSCSI, and SnapManager for VI.  • Configuration & maintenance of aggregates, volumes and LUNs on NetApp storage to host Exchange  2003 databases, SQL 2005 databases, VMware, and Syncsort backups.  • Configuration & maintenance of backups for Exchange and SQL databases using SnapManager  products.  • Familiar with Tasking Orders in which we employ SCCM for patch management with tools such as:  o Packages  o Advertisements  o Queries    ITT Systems, Eskan Village, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Network Administrator Lead Network Control Center System November 2009 to November 2010 • Sustained base network comprised of 50+ Microsoft Servers, 120+ Cisco routers and switches, and support equipment on both Unclassified / Classified networks.  • Installed, configured and maintained: Cisco 3750, Cisco 2821, Cisco 6506, Dell 1950, Dell 2950, KG-  175B, Kiv-7, Pair Gain, Cisco IP Phone.  • Software Used: Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Works, Cisco IOS, Microsoft Server 2003, Microsoft Server  2000, Microsoft Systems Management Server, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange Server  2003. • Performed: Preventative Maintenance Checks, software upgrades on all equipment (servers, routers, switches), troubleshot routing and switching issues, implemented U.S. Air Force command technical  change orders, and continuously tuned the network to comply with network health assessments.  • Revamped Active Directory and file server groups, permissions, and security implementing the principle  of least privilege.  • Interact with internal clients on all levels to help resolve IT related issues and provide solutions in a timely  manner.  • Interfaced directly with military chain for day-to-day O&M.  • Responsible for maintaining good working relationship with military customer, namely the U.S. Army.  • Coordinate with problem management to troubleshoot and resolve multiple incidents.  • Serve as the focal point for resolution of problems affecting system performance; manage system and network operations, hardware and software configurations.  • Scheduled authorized services interruptions with customer.  • Managed 4-6 technicians: compiled timecards for payroll; managed leave requests; maintained a work  schedule for dept. technicians; administrative counseling of employees, employee evaluation reports and maintained the safety, health and welfare of each employee. Network Administrator Lead Network Operation Center System - Doha, QA March 2007 to November 2009 Sustained base network comprised of 80+ Microsoft Servers, 150+ Cisco switches, and support  equipment on both Unclassified / Classified networks.  • Installed, configured and maintained: Cisco 3750, Cisco 2950, Cisco 6506, Dell 1950, Dell 2800, Cisco IP  Phone.  • Software Used: Cisco Call Manager, Cisco IOS, Microsoft Server 2003, Microsoft System Center  Configuration Manager, Microsoft Active Directory, and Microsoft Exchange Server 2003.  • Performed: Preventative Maintenance Checks, software upgrades on all equipment (servers, routers, switches), troubleshot switching issues, implemented U.S. Army Network Tasking Orders.  • Maintained Active Directory:  o File server groups  o Permissions  o Security  o Group policy  • Interfaced directly with military chain for day-to-day O&M.  • Responsible for maintaining good working relationship with military customer.  • Reported and provided solutions to avoid system or equipment failures.  • Scheduled authorized services interruptions with customers.  • Compiled employee timecards for payroll; managed leave requests; maintained a work schedule for dept.  technicians; maintains vehicle logs and general upkeep of company vehicles; administrative counseling of employees, employee evaluation reports and maintained the safety, health and welfare of each  employee. Network Administrator Network Operation Center System - Doha, QA December 2003 to March 2007 Sustained base network comprised of 80+ Microsoft Servers, 150+ Cisco switches, and support  equipment on both Unclassified / Classified networks.  • Installed, configured and maintained: Cisco 3750, Cisco 2950, Cisco 6506, Dell 1950, Dell 2800, Cisco IP  Phone.  • Software Used: Cisco Call Manager, Cisco IOS, Microsoft Server 2003, Microsoft System Center  Configuration Manager, Microsoft Active Directory, and Microsoft Exchange Server 2003.  • Performed: Preventative Maintenance Checks, software upgrades on all equipment (servers, routers, switches), troubleshot switching issues, implemented U.S. Army Network Tasking Orders.  • Active Directory and File Server groups, permissions, and security implementing the principle of least  privilege.  • Assisted with implementation of Active Directory, migration from our own domain into Kuwait forest.  • Maintained network diagrams in reference to the Department of Defense Information Assurance  Certification & Accreditation Process (DIACAP).    Personal Traits  • Strong customer service skills  • Goal Oriented  • Team Player  • Loyal  • Patient  • Personable  • Bilingual Education Associate Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E4