Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Staten Island, NY Adaptable Economics major currently attending Hunter College, with 4.5+ years of work experience. Aiming to  leverage a proven knowledge of customer service, staff training and development, and report generation skills to  successfully fill the Team Member role at your company. Frequently praised as proactive by my peers, I can be  relied upon to help your company achieve its goals. Work Experience Network Administrator UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS RESERVE - Brooklyn, NY October 2016 to Present Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer  hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  ? Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  ? Recommend changes to improve systems and network configurations, and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes.  ? Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use. Emergency Medical Technician RICHMOND COUNTY AMBULANCE - Staten Island, NY September 2017 to June 2019 Administer first aid treatment or life support care to sick or injured persons in prehospital settings.  ? Observe, record, and report to physician the patient's condition or injury, the treatment provided, and reactions to drugs or treatment.  ? Coordinate work with other emergency medical team members or police or fire department personnel.  ? Communicate with dispatchers or treatment center personnel to provide information about situation, to arrange reception of victims, or to receive instructions for further treatment. Education M.A. in Economics Hunter College - New York, NY June 2021 Skills Microsoft office, Networking, Windows, Cpr Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: LCPL Additional Information ? Russian (Fluent)  ? Microsoft Office Proficient    CREDENTIALS AND LICENSES  ? CPR Certified  ? Certified BLS Provider    445 Brighton St, Staten Island, NY 10307, USA Staten Island, NY, 10307 (347) 668-4088 mroginkin23@gmail.com  445 Brighton St, Staten Island, NY 10307, USA Staten Island, NY, 10307 (347) 668-4088 mroginkin23@gmail.com