Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Support.com Killeen, TX To obtain a stable career that can utilize my analytical and leadership skills and experience. Work Experience Network Administrator Support.com - Sunnyvale, CA August 2017 to Present Monitoring, maintaining, and troubleshooting network system components; gateways, modems, switches, routers, firewall, LAN/WAN connectivity.  ? Managing network users, groups, computers, and email accounts.  ? Enhance networks by evaluating network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput, quality of service, and latency.  ? Create documentation of client system configurations and procedures for maintenance, updates and/or upgrades utilizing REMEDY ticket system.  ? Execute the selection, installation, configuration, and testing of equipment including network enhancements; enforcing network policies and procedures; establishing connections and firewalls. Apple Advisor Convergys - Cincinnati, OH June 2015 to July 2017 Responsible for diagnosing, testing and repairing Apple Computer Systems and Mobile Devices following Apple Computer Repair Procedures.  ? Install, repair, maintain, and upgrade Apple Desktop and Notebook Computers; Perform maintenance on printers.  ? Performed upgrades, installation of software and drivers and essential desktop troubleshooting.  ? Assisted in troubleshooting user problems relating to Operating System issues, network Connectivity, TCP/IP, configuration, upgrades, and internet connectivity  ? Maintained network availability and performance monitoring and notification systems.  ? Advised and informed team members on new processes and interventions. Participated in new internal hardware and software rollout projects.  ? Documented and managed all repair interventions and customer equipment using Apple's proprietary logging system.  ? Kept frequent phone and email contact with customers regarding repair status and completion.  ? Acted as liaison between the public, store management, and corporate engineering as escalations were necessary and initiated. Seasonal Teletech Holdings Inc - Englewood, CO January 2012 to June 2015 Assisted customer with installing, troubleshooting, and navigating software.  ? Remotely troubleshoot software with customers.  ? Routed calls to tier 3 support and other appropriate departments.  ? Utilized Sales Force as a knowledge base and work platform.  ? Informed customers of the different products we provided.  ? Provided daily log of financial transactions completed to team lead.  ? Exceeded the program past metric goals.  ? Handle over 60 calls a day in a virtual call center setting.  ? Collaborate with upper management as well as team members through WebEx. Education A.A. in Business Shoreline Community College - Shoreline, WA 2012 to 2013 Skills Cisco, Citrix, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Visio, Kronos, Adp, Sql, As400, Excel, Powerpoint, Microsoft word, Word, Networking, Active Directory, Windows, Technical Support, Security, Customer Service, Javascript, MAC, access, Python, DNS (3 years), Routers (4 years), Switches (1 year) Additional Information Summary Of Skills  Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Visio, AS400, Citrix, Cisco/VPN, VMware/VDI, SQL, Adobe, Lync, Sparks, Kronos, ADP iPay, Network TCP/IP protocols