Field Services Technician Network\System Administrator Tier II/III Field Services Technician <span class="hl">Network</span>\System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Tier II/III Field Services Technician Network\System Administrator Tier II/III Enid, OK Highly motivated professional seeking a position in the IT career field. Demonstrated success in installing, configuring and troubleshooting complex LANs and WANs. With 7+ years' experience in testing, installing, repairing and maintaining a diverse  range of hardware, software and peripherals. Work Experience Field Services Technician Network\System Administrator Tier II/III Integris Bass Hospital - Enid, OK January 2017 to March 2018 • Serve as the first point of contact for customers seeking technical assistance over the phone or email  • Perform remote troubleshooting through diagnostic techniques and pertinent questions  • Managed Integris Bass Hospital, Meadow Lake Hospital and 12 surrounding clinics consisting of over 2,000 employees and over 3,000 devices.  • Managed all switches at all locations. Responsible for all network runs, cross connects and port management.  • Resolve in-depth technical P.C. software and hardware problems by utilizing logical problem solving skills and referencing documented processes and procedures. (Microsoft Office, Win7, VPN, Active Directory, customer specific software applications, laptops, desktops, printers, VOIP telephony, routers, switches etc.). Network / System Administrator Ringwood Public Schools - Ringwood, OK June 2013 to October 2016 • Provide tier III support for over 400 + users.  • Evaluated network and systems and ensured it was configured for maximum functionality and availability. Solutions were implemented which improved uptime to 99.9%. Previously it was 86.1%.  • In charge of all purchasing, deploying and maintaining of all assets encompass by the network. Including OS workstations, MS 2008/2012 Servers, SQL Servers, all Cisco routers and switches, and Cisco VoIP phones.  • Evaluate EOL and nonfunctional equipment to determine the best way to recoup remaining value.  • Designed a new Disaster Recovery hot site using VMware vSphere 5.5 and SRM as well as NetApp storage appliances. Network Administrator Atwoods Ranch and Home - Enid, OK November 2007 to September 2010 • Designed, built and implemented new servers and applications. Ensured backups of all mission critical systems including 40+ MSSQL servers.  • Managed Exchange 2007 and Network wide Active Directory environment.  • Configured and supported 40+ remote sites  • Provided support for Tier 2 issues and escalations from Tier 1  • Maximized customer operational performance by resolving IT issues  • Implemented a new storage and virtualization platform using KVM and Open Solaris Education Information Technology Autry Technology Center - Enid, OK 2010 to 2012 Skills CISCO, LAN/WAN, DNS, EXCHANGE, NETWORKING Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • NETWORKING: LAN/WAN/MAN, DNS Servers, Mail Servers, CISCO ASA's, Routers, Switches  • OPERATING SYSTEMS: Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012, MS Exchange Server 2010; Linux Ubuntu, Red Hat  • DATABASES: MS SQL, MS Access