Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Cincinnati, OH Possesses CCNP, CCNA Security, CCNA, Network+, and A+ certifications. Works well in high-pressure environments with high volume tasks. Excellent communication and listening skills. Possesses an in-depth ability to plan, design, and implement various network topologies. Strong team contributor with effective problem-solving skills and attention to details. Experienced in Layer 2, 3, and 4 networking as well as routing and switching protocols. Knowledgeable of emerging industry trends to develop supporting networks and conduct technical studies evaluating proposed enhancements.    Proficiency and experience:    • CCNP  • CCNA Security  • CCNA  • Network+    Professional development includes:    • CCIE Written, Boson instructor led  • CCNA wireless  • CCNP Security  • CBT Nuggets Work Experience Network Engineer Great American November 2018 to May 2019 Secure applications with F5 load balancers in multiple data centers  ? Discover and remediate network vulnerabilities  ? Troubleshoot and Document wireless networks with Arubua VisualRF  ? Expand networks and document in Infoblox Network Engineer Data Blue April 2018 to November 2018 Core and Data Center Switch upgrade project  ? Installed and Configured Cisco 9500's 9300's with Stackwise or VSS  ? Engage with Cisco TAC to resolve equipment issues.  ? On costumer site for install cutover and support  ? Config back up and deployment Senior Network Engineer Powernet Global January 2018 to March 2018 Installed and Configured Fortinet, Cisco ASA, Juniper, Firewalls to customer specifications.  ? Coordinated with System Engineers on data center migration and consolidation.  ? Collaborated with Sales team on quote for Cisco 4500R+E and 2960X for customer add.  ? Troubleshot Wan/Lan, Wireless VPN and Remote connectivity issues Network Engineer Comcast Business / Brooksource August 2017 to November 2017 4    ? Oversaw daily operations of many client networks quickly adapting to the nuances of each network.  ? Top level escalation point for premiere clients ensuring satisfaction.  ? Collaborated with other departments and vendors to provide quick resolution to issues.  ? Developed/documented troubleshooting procedures to empower team members. Security Analyst The Health Collaborative/Insight Global February 2017 to July 2017 Assigned Security Analyst duties based on highly regarded work as Infrastructure Engineer  ? Collaborated with Director of Information Security in working toward HITRUST Certification by mitigating audit findings and testing host based security software configurations  ? Automated security tasks; ensuring compliance to organization and industry standards  ? Developed/documented standard technical procedures to be presented to Director    Infrastructure Engineer    ? Took ownership of server and network Infrastructure responsibilities when both employees left the organization; quickly gained knowledge to manage entire IT infrastructure including network, server, security, storage, data center and virtualization with seamless customer impact    ? Combined knowledge, experience, and strategy to improve network design and security policy  ? Collaborated with customer's IT staff to establish and troubleshoot ASA VPN connections  ? Analyzed current systems and recommended new hardware and software solutions to reduce costs, manpower, and footprint  ? Strengthened security posture with Cisco solutions such as Umbrella and Firepower Network Engineer III General Electric/CBTS May 2016 to January 2017 Resolved Incidents, Problems, Changes, and Service Requests in ITIL process maintaining SLA  ? Troubleshot Cisco Routers, Switches, Firewalls, and WAAS such as 2900's, 2800's, 4000's, Nexus 7k, ASA 5500's  ? Troubleshot Checkpoint firewalls, F5 Big IP Load Balancers, and Tipping point IPS devices across multiple business entities with business-specific standards.  ? Led a team of eight sites and 11 engineers to solve customer facing issues Network Engineer Honda Manufacturing of Indiana December 2015 to May 2016 Uncovered extraneous traffic using Wireshark on critical production network segment and proposed solution to save an estimated $10,000 quarterly in reoccurring downtime.  ? Analyzed, documented, and access points through site surveys for infrastructure refresh  ? Wrote system modification requests to communicate with stakeholders  ? Analyzed network for security vulnerabilities and proposed reconditions for mitigation Network Administrator CORDEV, Inc - Fort Campbell, KY February 2012 to December 2015 Served as Administrator of a Large Campus (CAN) Environment and two remote sites with 1050+ Cisco routers, switches, and ASA/ VPN 5500s  ? Assisted in the design and implementation of 802.1X security stance using Microsoft NPS to deliver dynamic vlans to edge switch ports  ? Maintained and configured Linux servers (Networking NMS appliance) (Fedora, Red Hat)  ? Managed SNMP monitoring agent and traffic analyzers including Netscout Infinistream/Performance Monitor and Spectrum OneClick  ? Managed network management tools - CiscoWorks LMS Prime  ? Maintained OSPF/BGP/MPLS core of network  ? Designed and maintained large multi-area IP Core (OSPF, EIGRP) for end-to-end service delivery  ? Maintained an active Secret Security Clearance Education Associates of Applied Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Ivy Tech Community College - Madison, IN December 2008 Bachelor of Applied Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Indiana University Purdue University - Columbus, IN