Project Engineer Project Engineer Midlothian, TX A highly organized and detail-oriented individual with over 8 years’ experience in several types of computer software, networks and help desk support Tiers. Excellent problem-solving skills in dealing with Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, network implementation and maintenance. Microsoft Server 2003/2008/2012/2016/2019, help desk and desktop support. Skilled and experienced in recommending safeguard solutions and assist in managing, implementation and maintenance of LAN and WAN networks. Network implementation and maintenance, risk management including unauthorized access viruses and a wide range of vulnerabilities and threats. Possess strong, organization, time management and interpreting skills. Bilingual IT professional - Spanish/English. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Engineer CTGtech MSP - Arlington, TX August 2011 to July 2019 Project Engineer/vCIO/Sales Manager/Tier III Support  • Work with active customers to develop a deep understanding of their needs and translate those needs  into product requirements that satisfy their demands.  • Cross-selling and up-selling services and solutions to existing accounts.  • Qualify new sales opportunities for current customers.  • Perform business interviews with prospective clients.  • Receive requests for service and products details from customers and provide timely responses  • Conduct onsite or online presentations that showcase the services and products of the company to active customers.  • Effectively communicate features and benefits of solutions and manage prospect expectations  throughout the lifecycle of the account.  • Manage the complexity of Managed IT services proposals, contracts and service level agreements.  • Maintain in-depth product knowledge of the service offerings of the company.  • Perform sales procedures through activities and opportunities in ConnectWise Manage CRM system  and remain compliant with defined policies and procedures.  • Achieve and maintain a positive rapport with prospects and work to give them the best possible  service.  • Understand current and future business goals and ongoing IT issues to ensure business success.  • Develop a renewal and upgrade schedule for company software programs and hardware.  • Ensure that employees are following computer use policies, information security and privacy.  • Participate in recruitment, orientation and ongoing training of new IT staff.  • Supervise and direct IT personnel.  • Created documentation used for training and troubleshooting. Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting of system issues, documented help desk tickets/resolutions. Provided Tier III  support.  • Trained, mentored and provided clear and concise direction to new employees. Acted as first point  of contact for all major technical issues, including power outages, system failure and disaster  recovery. Incorporated process improvements; updated existing procedures.  • Configure, deploy, and troubleshoot network equipment. Such as switches, firewalls/UTM devices, and wireless equipment.  • Configure, deploy, and troubleshoot Microsoft Active Directory, GPO, DNS, and DHCP. Computer Network Administrator CCI Training Center - Arlington, TX October 2010 to August 2011 • Troubleshooting printers, installing printers & scanners, installing and configuring Windows XP & Windows 7 OS, installing RAM, CMOS batteries, power supplies, and optical drives.  • Create, change, and delete user accounts per request, wiring, imaging computers, managing and maintenance of LAN and WAN networks.  • Managing and troubleshooting Active Directory issues, managing Win 2008 servers including backup  and storage, troubleshooting & repairing PC's, troubleshooting and configuring Microsoft Office  2010, Outlook 2010. Education CCI Training Center - Arlington, TX 2010 to 2011