Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Echelon Technologies Phoenix, AZ Work Experience Network Engineer Echelon Technologies October 2018 to Present • Setup new employee network infrastructure from ground up, installed fiber connections, gateways, managed switches, UniFi wifi  • Setup and implemented Amazon web services, VMWare, and Hyper-V environments  • Provided off-site backup support and file recovery  • Specialized in network security while working with managed service providers Network Administrator (Level II) National EWP October 2017 to October 2018 • Facilitated Gmail for business to Office 365 migration.  • Monitored Hyper-V servers. Setup and monitored backups to Azure portal.  • Managed Cisco Meraki switches, gateways, access points, site to site and client VPN connections.  • On call desktop support.  • Setup and deployed hundreds of Apple iPhone devices. Network Administrator Micro Tronics Inc - Tempe, AZ April 2013 to December 2017 85282  • Network administration (including backup, security management, user account management, e-mail systems including e-mail web server, internet access, office systems and applications support)  Provided direct support for Office 365 products ranging from initial setup to custom configurations per user. Trained end users on how to understand Office 365 from basic navigation to work production  • Implemented Office 365 for business and provided on-site support to 150 local users. Organized company-wide Skype for business, provided training configuration and on-going support along with group and 1-on-1 training.  • Implemented and supported Shoretel based VoIP system  • Manage small to medium sized projects according to agreed upon budgets and schedules ( network hardware infrastructure, installing routers, server racks, running Cat5e)  • Configured SQL servers to deploy company enterprise resource planning software(Syteline)  • Setup and configure site to site networks via Windows Server 2008R2 and 2012 using VMware  • Setup of site permissions and domain services with active directory  • Trained staff on conducting operations with enterprise resource planning software Syteline and E2 Network Administrator PHX-IT January 2017 to September 2017 • Was staffed as an hourly retainer to various clients ranging from aerospace and medical, to retail and service contractors. Provided 24-hour support to global clients  • Installed and configured enterprise level HP and Lenovo servers, and IBM Mainframes that served as domain controllers, enterprise resource management servers, and Microsoft Exchange servers  • Advised clients on necessary hardware/software in order to grow business or help business run efficiently.  • Performed network admin services for Mac OSX servers with VPN, File Sharing, and DHCP access. Field Technician H&R Block - Phoenix, AZ November 2011 to May 2012 • During tax season, setup tax office computers in tax offices all over the greater Phoenix area  • Administration of all hardware/software on 15 enterprise servers and over 400 PC's with Windows XP/2000 and Windows Server  • On call tech to repair desktop computers and internet troubleshooting  • Created universal PC images for Windows XP/2000 and Windows Server using Symantec Ghost Education Associate in Information Technology Administration and Management South Mountain Community College 2013 to 2017 Mesquite High School 2001 to 2005 Skills Active Directory, Security, Vmware, Exchange, Microsoft Technology Associate (Windows Server Cert.) (4 years), Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (SQL Developer, Database Admin) (5 years), Microsoft Solutions Developer (Cloud Apps Cert.) (3 years), Microsoft Office Specialist (Microsoft Office 365 Cert.) (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/anthony-lloyd-b7a5bb3a Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate July 2018 to Present Windows Server 2008 - 2016 Certified Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate May 2018 to Present SQL Developer, Database Admin Microsoft Solution Specialist July 2018 to Present Microsoft Cloud Apps certified Microsoft Office Specialist February 2018 to Present Certified in all MS apps.