System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Contract Callers Inc Harlem, Georgia, 30814, US Resourceful System Administrator able to respond to a wide range of challenges with a focused and  creative approach. Highly effective at problem solving and decision making. 7 years of progressive IT  experience. Work Experience System Administrator Contract Callers Inc - Augusta, GA July 2016 to Present Implemented corrective plans of action for network performance issues including availability, utilization, and latency  Established network specifications and analyzed workflow, access, information and security  requirements  Implemented, developed and tested automations at various levels to increase efficiency and optimization  Made recommendations regarding information technology infrastructure overhauls  Completed reports detailing network and systems performance, costs and downtime issues  Analyzed complex project server issues and worked on large enterprise and business-critical  applications  Managed and monitored the company's entire network infrastructure  Was the lead IT contact for internal and client facing contacts to discuss issues and solutions Subject Matter Expert Unisys - Augusta, GA September 2015 to July 2016 Augusta, GA  Managed high levels of call flow and responded to Level 1 and Level 2 technical support needs of customers.  Served as Subject Matter Expert on Citrix and Windows 10, functioning as escalation point for all  issues related to Citrix and their receiver functionality.  Loaded software, granted permissions and configured hardware for new employees as part of onboarding process.  Built and provided basic end-user troubleshooting and desktop support on Windows, Linux and Mac systems.  Engaged end users and answered questions via email, phone, website live chat and in forums.  Followed up with clients to ensure optimal customer satisfaction following support engagement and problem resolution.  Removed malware, ransomware and other threats from laptops and desktop systems. Network Administrator Suthern Bank - Waynesboro, GA June 2012 to September 2015 Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new  security configurations.  Monitored stability of network and wireless services to ensure comprehensive stability.  Rewrote and updated group policy with new domain move and domain level raise.  Ensured continuity of computer and telephone system services for users through technical  expertise, assistance and project coordination.  Managed data backups and disaster recovery operations for 50-person company.  Installed, configured, and supported local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) and Internet system.  Identified issues and implemented troubleshooting techniques to alleviate downtime and system  failure. Education Associate of Science Augusta Technical College - Augusta, GA November 2020 High School Diploma Burke County High School - Waynesboro, GA Skills Virtualization, Documentation, Software testing