Network Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Network Security Engineer - Honda Greensburg, IN • Experience in Networking, including hands-on experience in IP network design, installation and analysis.  • Network Professional with 6 Plus years of experience in Designing and troubleshooting LAN, WAN, MPLS in Branch, Campus and Data Center environments.  • Expert level knowledge of troubleshooting, implementing, optimizing and testing of static and Dynamic routing protocols such as EIGRP, OSPF, BGP; ability to interpret and resolve complex route table problems.  • Hands on experience and implemented, deployed the CISCO ISE 3595 Physical Appliance.  • Implemented and Supported in the network design and Checkpoint Firewalls and supported the Routing issues.  • Implementation of traffic filters on Cisco routes using Standard, extended Access list.  • Expert Level Knowledge about TCP/IP and OSI models.  • In-depth expertise in analysis, implementation, troubleshooting & documentation of LAN/WAN  • Architecture and good experience on IP services.  • Cisco ASA/Checkpoint Firewall troubleshooting and policy change requests for new IP segments that either come on line or that may have been altered during various planned network changes on the network.  • Configuring RIP, OSPF and Static routing on CISCO/Juniper EX/MX/SRX series Routers.  • Configuring and testing Multicast for both IPv4 and IPv6 routing in Data Environment  • Troubleshooting Firewall Connectivity related issues using Smart view tracker on Checkpoint, NSM Log viewer for Juniper Firewalls.  • Worked with Cisco ASA 5500-X with Firepower services, Firepower 4100 and Palo-alto Next-Gen PA-5000 Firewalls implementing and managing NAT, IPsec, site-to-site and remote VPNs, advanced inspection, anti-spoofing and AAA policies  • Configured rules and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools for Editing and Changing Palo Alto Polices and Monitoring threats on firewalls.  • Analyzed traffic pattern and implemented URL filtering using the Palo Alto Firewall. Troubleshooting and configuring Palo Alto FW's 3060 & 5060.  • Expert level knowledge of MPLS and its applications (VPLS, L2VPN, L3VPN, NG-MVPN, EVPN, MPLS-TP, Seamless MPLS) along with different vendor specific standards. Strong knowledge base in the design and deployment of Blue Coat Proxy SG and Checkpoint firewalls.  • Implementing security policies using ACL, ASDM, IPSec, VPN, and AAA Security on different series of routers  • Experience with F5 load balancers - LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate  • Worked on Cisco Routers, Active /Passive Hubs, Switches, Cisco PIX Firewall.  • Nortel VPN Concentrators TCP/IP, NAT and Checkpoint ESX/GSX firewall. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Engineer Honda - Greensburg, IN April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Supported with the Cisco IOS & IP Routing of all routing protocols and WLAN Controller and Anchor Management with required updates and configuration changes required for HMIN network infrastructure.  • Worked on the Layer 3 Design and implementation of the new projects with architecture and technical solutions and supporting HMIN with enterprise networking and analysis of IP Traffic Flow.  • Lead the Cisco NAC (ISE) Project with the implementation in HMIN Network Environment.  • Worked on Cisco ISE Appliance and performing various test results for the visibility of the endpoints as required.  • Created and Implementend the rules and policies for the authentication and authorization of the endpoints and also creating the necessary profiling devices required for the endpoints.  • Worked with HLD & LLD for the Cisco NAC (ISE) Project and also implemented the test plan document for the Cisco ISE with coordinating the Cisco Engineer.  • Worked on Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) implementation design, configuration, and deployment  • Configured and created the certificates in the Cisco ISE 3595 Physical Appliances.  • Created the Profiles for endpoints and the required and also the rule conditions of profile in order to authorize the deivce with the OUI feedbacks.  • Configured and troubleshoot the issues with the profiling, Authentication and Authorization Policies, and proxy issues.  • Managed and upgraded Wireless Infrastructure primarly used Wireless Services Module (WiSM2) Controller.  • Integrated the Active Directory with the ISE Physical Appliances and added the groups in the ISE for specific group access with the Physical Appliances.  • Configured with the Admin Access in the ISE Appliance and created the rule permissions to have limitied access to ISE Appliances with types of AD Groups.  • Created the Authentication and Authorization Policy rules including (wired devices and wireless devices) 802.1x/RADIUS/TACACS.  • Worked on the deployment of the switches with configuration and changes required to add switches to the Cisco ISE Appliance and get visibility.  • Worked on the Python Scripting for the configuring the Switches/routers for Cisco NAC Project. Worked on Python scripting for backup of the Cisco devices.  • Worked on the Design and Implementation of the new firewalls for replacement of Current ASA Firewalls with Checkpoint Firewalls.  • Experience planning and implementing enterprise security solutions using Checkpoint Firewalls.  • Supported with routing changes on the new Checkpoint Firewalls and supporting the Current ASA Firewalls with rules creation and adding or removing of the network objects.  • Perform analysis on newly implemented CheckPoint firewall rules and recommend strategy for firewall rules cleanup and Provided plan to create new firewall rules on R80.20.  • Supported with the OSPF routing and other L3 routing challenges on the cisco routers/switches. Worked on the Cisco Routers & Switches with routing for the configuration changes of implementing new Firewalls and for the conversion of L3 to L2 traffic.  • Designed layer 3 security for the network interfaces converted all the layer to interfaces behind checkpoint firewall. Worked on checkpoint firewalls routing, managing VRF behind the checkpoint firewall.  • Designed network interfaces use l3 capabilities and configured anti-spoofing for the network interfaces on checkpoint firewall  • Provided assistance in network planning, engineering and architecture with technical solutions consistent to enterprise network strategy.  • Maintained and supported all Cisco Chassis and interfaces. Documenting the inventory of cisco switches/routers and other network related objects.  • Supporting with the Lease replacement of the Network switches Cisco Cat 4507, 3850, 3750 and all network hardware and repair.  • Configured and supported our network Core Switches Cisco Cat 6509, 6807 and also supported with the core switches replacement from 6509 to 6807 Cisco Catalyst Switches.  • Worked, supported and implemented on the OSPF and EIGRP Routing protocols with 6807 cat switches. Implemented the OSPF Instance with multiple OSPF areas connected to the firewalls and implemented the routing in between CheckPoint Fw's and Cisco Catalyst 6807 Switches.  • Worked on the replacement of the bad Network cards & UPS for the Hubs and also supporting with the Network and hardware issues on the line side in the plant.  • Coordinating and reviewing of the project progress in the Status meeting and team meetings and monitoring with the provided timeline for each phase of the project.  • Reviewing and monitoring the risks and issues and provide technical solutions and escalate it for any identified issues.  • Managing the System stability with Incident report analysis and preventative maintenance and also with the weekly status reports and milestone reviews. Network Administrator Oregon Public Employee Retirement Sysytem - Tigard, OR September 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created Data-filtering profiles in Palo Alto devices which helps to prevent sensitive information.  • Firewall Policy provisioning on Palo Alto devices using Web UI as well as PANORAMA. Provided day-to-day operational support for all firewall and VPN platforms including Checkpoint and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Performed upgrades on Palo Alto OS devices in High Availability pair. Firewall OS upgrades and Maintenance of OS up maintaing dates as part of addressing Vulnerabilities on Firewalls.  • Configured rules and Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Configured and maintained the HP Switches with OS Upgrades and routing protocols (OSPF, BGP).  • Used Cisco Prime Infrastructure for troubleshooting and managing wireless networks.  • Provided network support for the core network including MPLS, DMVPN and Datacenters.  • Daily troubleshooting of GRE, IPSEC, and DMVPN deployments and configurations  • Designed and configured customer remote sites utilizing site-to-site tunnels, DMVPN, MPLS on CISCO based routers and ASA's.  • Splunk log monitoring & report monitoring for Data, Network, and Application device & user activities.  • Worked on Source Fire and Palo Alto IPS/IDS Systems, Splunk log monitoring tool, Qualys vulnerability assessment tool. Sr. Network Engineer Hitachi - Englewood, CO October 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Configured Perimeter firewall and supported Site to Site VPN tunnels. Security Policy, Provisioning, Managing Security zones and interface configurations on Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Configured and implemented APP and URL Filtering on Palo Alto Firewalls. Configured Firewall logging, DMZs and related security policies and monitoring.  • Involved in configuration of Access lists (ACL) on checkpoints firewall for the proper network routing for B2B network connectivity.  • Designed security policies on Palo Alto network firewall for controlling what traffic needs to be allowed or blocked based on customer requirements.  • Involved in designing L2VPN services and VPN-IPSEC authentication & encryption system.  • Involved in designing GRE tunnels for encryption of data flow from source to destination.  • Installing and configuring TACACS/RADIUS, Performed ISSU to upgrade to the core Nexus 7k switches.  • Creating guest users and providing access to limited services by providing limitations with cisco ISE  • Performed IOS upgrades on various catalyst series switches and maintained latest IOS versions according to company's policy.  • Good automation experience using programming languages like Python and Shell scripting.  • Excellent knowledge in Routing, Switching, Firewall and Gateway technologies, system design, wireless design, data network design, capacity management and network growth.  • Deployed the Cisco 3500 Access Points using Cisco Wireless controllers 5500 and 2500 and WCS System.  • Configured Nexus 7010 including NX-OS Virtual Port Channels, Nexus port profiles, Nexus Version 4.2 and 5.0, Nexus VPC peer links.  • Performed OSPF, BGP, DHCP Profile, HSRP, IPV6, Bundle Ethernet implementation on ASR 9K redundant pair.  • Performed OSPF, BGP, DHCP Profile, HSRP, IPV6, Bundle Ethernet implementation on ASR 9K redundant pair.  • Worked on ACE load balancers. Experience with F5 load balancers - LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications and their availability.  • Worked extensively with ASR 9K (9010/9922), Nexus 7000, 5000, 2000, Cisco 6500 series multilayer switches, Cisco 2960s series switches and Cisco 3650/3850s switches.  • Priorities and optimizing the application performance with Quality of service in cisco ASR routers.  • Experience on Deploying and decommission of VLANs on core ASR 9K, Nexus 7K and 5K and its devices.  • Experience with Security- Firewalls, NAT / PAT, IPSEC, S2S.  • Install and upgrade Cisco Wireless LAN equipment including but not limited to: 1100, 1200, 1300 and 3500 series Access Points; 4400 and 5500 series Wireless LAN controllers; 6500 & 3750 Core switch routers; 2960, 3560 & 3750 series switches.  • Expertise in networking technologies like LAN, MAN, WAN and peripheral devices.  • Develop Engineering Documentations to record F5 environment and change processes LTM/GTM/iRules.  • Worked with F5, CISCO ACE 4710 Load balancers, GSS and Wireless networks. Network Engineer Carnival Corporation - Miami, FL April 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities  • Created object, groups, updating access-lists on Check Point Firewall, apply static, hide NAT.  • Work with users to verify connectivity and troubleshoot Firewall related connectivity issues. Worked with Firewalls and updating policies on a day to day basis  • Convert User requests into firewall change requests and update firewall policy using smart dashboard and verify the connectivity with users.  • Configured Site to Site VPN tunnels on various platforms including Check Point and ASA firewalls.  • Responsible for Check Point Firewall support and Troubleshooting, IOS Security Configurations, IPsec VPN Implementation and Troubleshooting, DMZ Implementation and Troubleshooting.  • Implemented Zone Based Firewalling and Security Rules on the Palo Alto and Exposure to wild fire feature of Palo Alto  • Configuring, administering and troubleshooting the Check Point, Palo Alto and ASA Firewall  • Configured Palo Alto to connect with Wildfire cloud to prevent Zero-day attacks.  • Experience in setting up and maintaining perimeter security by using Cisco ASA, Fortinet 3340, checkpoint and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Hands on experience on Cisco switches (2900, 3550, 3750, 6500, MDS 9000, 5000 NX-OS) series, juniper (EX, QFX, QFabric) series switches, juniper (T4000, LN, CTP) series routers, Cisco (2500, 2600, 2800, 3600, 3800, 7200) series Routers.  • Monitored and responded to network anomalies utilizing Solarwinds/Orion's software and recommended appropriate network solutions for issues.  • Cisco Sourcefire (Firepower) ASA 5585-SSP- 20/40 management, configuration, and maintenance for all cruise ships.  • Designing, implementing LAN/WAN configurations on Cisco 5K, catalyst 6500 switches.  • Expertise in IP subnetting and worked on various designing and allocating various classes of IP address to the domain.  • Involved in complete LAN, WAN development (including IP address planning, designing, installation, configuration).  • Troubleshoot connectivity issues involving VLAN's, OSPF, QoS etc.  • Migrate configuration and services from ASA to Firepower including licensing  • Hands on Experience with Cisco Wireless Controllers 5500's and 2500's and coming to access points, worked on 3700's, 3500's and 1142 access points.  • Implemented traffic engineering on top of an existing Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) network using Frame Relay and Open Shortest Path First (OSPF).  • Setting Aruba Access to link distribution switch system and then to WLAN controller.  • Deployed, configured and implemented Cisco 6800 catalyst switch.  • Provided redundancy in a multi homed Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) network by tunings AS-path and Worked with Cisco IOS, NX-IOS, IOS-XR. Network Engineer Deloitte - IN April 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities  • Configured Cisco ASA firewalls in Single and Multiple Context Mode firewalls. Upgrade of Cisco ASA Firewall in Active/Standby mode.  • Cisco ASA Firewall Policy Provisioning and troubleshoot connectivity issues through firewall.  • Configured ASA 5510 appliance as a Firewall and as a VPN server. Troubleshoot TCP/IP problems; troubleshoot connectivity issues.  • Cisco ASA Firewall Policy Provisioning and troubleshoot connectivity issues through firewall.  • Coordinated with higher-level support and external vendors for resolution.  • Experience in Designing and assisting in deploying enterprise wide Network Security and High Availability Solutions for ASA.  • Installed, configured and managed Cisco routers such as 3700 series and Cisco Catalyst switch series 4500, 3500, and 2900.  • Experience in working with load balancer for converting CSS to ACE.  • Configured and performed software upgrades on Cisco Wireless LAN Controllers 5508 for Wireless Network Access Control.  • Experience in working with LTM and GTM for scaling and securing DNS infrastructure during high volumes.  • Installation and maintenance of Cisco Layer 3 switches 3750, 4500X, 6500 and Cisco 3550/4500/6500 switches in multi VLAN environment.  • Included network services such as DNS, email, web, Servers, VPN and Firewall.  • Troubleshoot TCP/IP problems, troubleshoot connectivity issues in multi-protocol Ethernet, Environment.  • Configured various Routing protocols such as RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, static routing.  • Maintaining Core Switches, creating VLANs and configuring VTP.  • Back up a Cisco IOS to a TFTP server and Upgraded and restored a Cisco IOS from TFTP server.  • Efficient designing of IP Addressing Scenario using VLSM and Subnetting.  • Experience with troubleshooting LAN, WAN, Frame-Relay, Ether-channel, IP Routing Protocols - (RIPV2, OSPF, EIGRP & BGP), ACL's, NAT, VLAN, STP, VTP.  • Design implementation and support of Networks using TCP/IP  • Upgrade Cisco Routers and Switches IOS using TFTP.  • Performing network monitoring, providing analysis using various tools like WireShark, Solarwinds etc.  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with both Checkpoint and Cisco ASA VPN experience. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering JNTU Skills Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Csu, Csu/dsu, Security, DNS, Active Directory Links http://Sr.Network Additional Information Skills:  Router platforms: Cisco routers (7600,7200, 3900, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500, 1800 series) & Cisco Catalyst switches (6500, 4900, 3750, 3500, 4500, 2900, 6807 series), Nexus 7K, 5K, 2K & 1K.  Switch platforms: Cisco 2900XL, 2950, 2960, 3560, 3650,3750,3850, 4500 and 6500, Nexus (2K, 5K, 7K and 9K)  Networking Concepts: Cisco ISE, Access-lists, Routing, Switching, Subnetting, Designing, CSU/DSU, IPSec, VLAN, VPN, WEP, WAP, MPLS, VoIP, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi Firewall Juniper Netscreen 6500, 6000, 5400, Juniper SSG, SRX5600, SRX5800, CheckPoint (NGX, R65, R70 and R71), Cisco Firewalls (ASA 5505, 5506-X, 5585), Palo Alto Networks (PA-2K, PA-3K and PA-5K).  Network Management/Monitoring: Solar winds, HP NNMi 8xi ( Network Node Manager), Net flow  and Cisco prime, Ethereal / Wireshark, TCP Dump.  Load Balancers: F-5 BIG-IP LTM 2000, 3900, 5000, 6400, 6800 AND 8900, Bluecoat SG8100, AV 510.  Security Protocols: IKE, IPsec, SSL, AAA, Access-lists, prefix-lists, SSL-VPN  Networking Protocols: RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, STP, RSTP, VLANs, VTP, PAGP, LACP, MPLS, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, TACACS+, Radius, AAA, IPv4 and IPv6  Operating System: Windows 7/XP, MAC OS X, Windows Server 2008/2003, Linux, Unix