Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Gemological Institute of America Edison, NJ • Network & Security Engineer with 7 years of experience in the design, development, implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance of complex network systems in high availability environments.  • Excellent Data Center Experience in Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of Cisco and Juniper Network Devices.  • Strong Hands-on experience with configuring, troubleshooting and upgrading Cisco IOS-XR, NX-OS, Cisco ASA (5550/5580), Cisco Routers (ASR 9K, 1K) and Cisco Catalyst Switches (6500/7600/9400).  • Experience in Design, Implementation, and Migration & Troubleshooting of Juniper Switches, Routers and Firewalls which includes Juniper: EX-2200, EX-4200, EX-4500, MX-480, JunOS and ScreenOS, SRX and J-series Aggregation Routers.  • Experience in configuration and implementation of ATM, Frame Relay, DSL and other WAN technologies.  • Extensive Knowledge on the implementation of Cisco ASA 5500-X with Firepower Service and Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Implementation experience of Virtual Chassis for Juniper EX series switches for redundancy.  • Experience in implementation of technologies like MPLS TE, MPLS L3 VPN, L2 VPNs, RSVP, Frame Relay, PPP, HDLC.  • Negotiating VPN tunnels using IPsec and SSL encryption standards and also configured and implemented site-to-site and remote access VPN on Juniper SRX, Palo Alto and Cisco ASA firewalls.  • Performed configuration of authentication and authorization on Network devices using local, RADIUS and TACACS+ methods and corresponding Cisco ACS configuration.  • Proficient in configuration of dynamic routing protocols such as RIP, EIGRP, multi-area OSPF and BGP.  • In-depth knowledge and efficient designing of IP addressing, Sub netting, VLSM and ARP, reverse & proxy ARP, traceroute and ping concepts.  • Experience with STP, VSTP, PVST+, VLAN, SNMP, ARP, SPAN, RSPAN, 802.1 (q, s, w), 802.3 ae Tagging on Cisco Catalyst 9400,9300, 6500, 4500, 3750, 3500, Juniper EX-4500, 4300, 3k series Ethernet switches  • Involved in monitoring network traffic and its diagnosis using tools like Solar winds, Manage Engine OpManager, Wireshark, and Cacti.  • Experience in performing system administration for Red Hat Linux, Microsoft Windows 2008 Enterprise Server, Windows 2003 Standard/ Enterprise Server, Windows 2000 Standard/ Advanced Server, Windows98/XP/Vista/7  • Efficient in preparing Technical Documentation using Microsoft VISIO/Office and also in preparing presentation.  • Strong organizational, problem solving, written and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Gemological Institute of America - Carlsbad, CA November 2018 to Present Duties and Responsibilities Handled:  • Designed and implemented campus switch network with Cisco Catalyst 9410R and 9300 series Layer 3 switches with multi VLANs environment using inter-VLAN routing, VRFs, VRRP, dot1q trunking protocol, EtherChannel.  • Implemented migration of Switch environment from old Cisco Catalyst 3750 Switch stacks to Cisco 9410R with Cisco DNA implementation.  • Team lead for small to medium-sized projects and/or portions of large projects and assist in resolving issues and planning for new network services and connectivity.  • Migrating all network devices to take AAA credential from Radius NPS server.  • Configuration and monitoring of SDWAN Silverpeak device for WAN connectivity between all sites.  • Ensuring automatic backup from Solarwinds CatTools for newly added network devices.  • Overall Network administration including QoS and traffic shaping across switched and routed networks, as it relates to VoIP  • Configuration and maintenance of Cisco ASR 1000, 9000, ISR 4221, 4321 router hardware with upgrades.  • Maintain and configure of Palo Alto PA-3050, PA-850 with Firewall policies as per requirement.  • Enabled STP attack mitigation (BPDU Guard, Root Guard), use of MD5 authentication for VTP, disabling all unused ports and putting them in unused VLAN and ensuring DHCP attack prevention where needed.  • Maintained technical documentation using Microsoft VISIO/Microsoft Office.  Environment: Linux, ASR 1000, 9000, ISR 4000, 2921, Cisco Catalyst 9400,9300 series, Silverpeak SDWAN, Palo Alto PA-3050, SRX 550, SRX 3000, Solarwinds, BIG-IP F5 Load Balancer(LTM), EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, DHCP, DNS, VLAN etc. Network Engineer Global Network Solutions - New York, NY March 2017 to October 2018 Duties and Responsibilities Handled:  • Configure OSPF and BGP on edge routers and ensured network availability by resolving connectivity issues for LAN and WAN.  • Configure MPLS, VPN (IPsec, Web, SSL, Remote, Site-to-Site), NAT policies in integrated networks also improved transmission rates using Juniper SRX, J-series firewalls.  • Work with system, network, security, and storage engineering teams to prepare and configure new servers for the environment.  • Responsible for various updates/upgrades/troubleshooting on the infrastructure. Upgrade of the Cisco and Juniper based switching environment.  • Configure Big-IP F5 LTMs for managing the traffic and tuning the load on the network servers.  • Configure OSPF, BGP and Redistribution in routers. Routing related tasks includes, providing router configuration, and troubleshooting the configuration and installation issues.  • Configure BGP with different attributes like communities, Local preference, MED, AS-PATH for route influence and traffic segregation.  • Involved in the modification and removal (wherever necessary) of BGP from the MPLS routers.  • Trained Junior Engineers with the detailed explanation of existing infrastructure design and future configuration and troubleshooting steps and precautions to be taken according to the design.  • Responsible for the quality, integrity, performance and design of the framework of the system that you work with Agile Development methodologies or practices such as Scrum, Kanban, Behavior Driven Development, or Test Driven Development.  • Maintained technical documentation using Microsoft VISIO/Microsoft Office.  Environment: Linux, Ansible, Cisco routers 7200/7604, ASR 9000, ISR 4000, 2921, Cisco Catalyst series, Juniper EX 4200, EX 4600, EX 9200, Juniper MX 240, MX 480, Palo Alto PA-3050, SRX 550, SRX 3000, Solarwinds, BIG-IP F5 Load Balancer(LTM), EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, DHCP, DNS, VLAN etc. Network Engineer TPG Communications - Belleville, NJ June 2016 to February 2017 Duties and Responsibilities Handled:  • Installation and Configuration of Cisco Catalyst switches 6500, 3750 & 3550 series and Configured Routing protocol OSPF, EIGRP, BGP with Access Control lists implemented as per Network Design Document.  • Configure Nexus 7010 including NX-OS virtual port channels, Nexus port profiles, Nexus versions 4.2/5.0 and Nexus VPC peer links.  • Included IPS, IDS, Cisco Websense in the design as per customer requirement.  • Deployment of OSPF dynamic routing in network routers. Provide Technical support to end-user either through remote management or onsite based on the requirement.  • Act as a technical liaison between IT, QA, and Development for all cloud network designs.  • Worked on F5 LTM configuring different Load balancing methods like Round Robin, Ratio based, etc.,  • Hands on experience on Windows server installation components like DNS, DHCP and ISA application for load balancing on the servers.  • Performed Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLAN'S, Port security, Port Aggregation & link negotiation, Trunking, RSTP, Inter VLAN routing, LAN security etc.  • Configuring IPSEC VPN (Site-Site and Remote Access) on SRX series firewalls and Palo Alto firewall.  • Designed perimeter security policy; Implemented Firewall ACL's; Allowed access to specified services; Enabled IDS/IPS signatures in Firewall & fine-tuned TCP & UDP.  • Designed, validated and implemented LAN, WLAN & WAN solution to suite client's needs.  • Configured and designed LAN networks with Access layer switches such as Cisco 4510, 4948, 4507 switches and Cisco ASR 9000 series Service aggregation routers.  • Engaged in office moves, helped in identifying network requirements of new building, installed new networking hardware, and coordinated with vendors for cabling/wiring.  • Documentation tools & implementing and maintaining network monitoring systems and experience with developing network design documentation and presentations using VISIO.    Environment: Cisco routers 3700, 3800, 7200, 7604, ASR 9000, Cisco catalyst series Switches 2960, 3750, 3560, 6500, Nexus 7k, Nokia 7450/7750, F5 LoadBalancer (LTM), VRF, DSLAM, RIPv2, OSPF, BGP, IPSEC, VLAN, STP, VTP, HSRP. Network Engineer BMB Solutions - New York, NY October 2015 to May 2016 Duties and Responsibilities Handled:  • Design and implementation of network devices as per requirements.  • Experience with design and implementation of Virtual Switching System VSS for both User segment and server segment using 6509-V-E catalyst switches  • Enabled TACACS on Cisco devices for authentication, authorization and accounting (AAA).  • Implemented EAP Extensible Authentication Protocol for Wireless Networks.  • Implemented with Cisco Layer 3 switches 3750, 4500, 6500 in multi VLAN environment with the use of inter-VLAN routing, HSRP, ISL trunk, ether channel.  • Used DHCP to automatically assign reusable IP addresses to DHCP clients.  • Experience with Using OSPF/EIGRP as interior routing protocol and BGP as external protocol.  • Involved in Designing network plan of routing policies with route map, distribution list, and access-list.  • Installing and configuring ASA firewalls to block unauthorized users and to protect the network from any kind of attacks.  • Performed Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANs, Port security, Trunking, RSTP, Inter VLAN routing, LAN security etc.  • Maintain a summary report of the status of Design projects, equipment and network problems on a regular basis to for future reference.  • Recommend changes in existing designs for improvement in reliability and scalability.  • Testing the recommended design changes in a lab environment and implementing in production environment if the intended output is produced.  • Coordinating with ISPs for acquiring new public IPs and for blocking specific IPs from their end in case of an attack.  • Test patches and fixes to operating software and to ensure that they are implemented and functioning correctly in the pre-production test network and then live network as implementation plans dictate.  • Configure VPNs (IPsec Site-to-Site) between branch offices and also client sites in Cisco ASA 5000 series firewalls.  • Maintaining documentation of Network Security policies and procedures    Environment: Cisco routers 3700/3800/7604, ASR 1000 series, ISR series, Cisco Catalyst Series Switches 2960/3750/6500, Nexus 5000, F5 Networks, ASA Firewalls, Cacti, VRF, DSLAM, RIPv2, OSPF, BGP, QoS, IPSEC, VLAN, STP, VTP, HSRP. Network & Security Engineer - Data Center Services Trimax IT Infrastructure and Services Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2013 to September 2015 Duties and Responsibilities Handled:  • Troubleshooting and maintenance of Juniper and Cisco network and firewall devices.  • Develop guidelines and procedures for LAN/WAN management including process and efficiency improvements.  • Maintain network documentation, run-books, diagrams, and network assets in the configuration management database.  • Recommend and implement industry best practices for improved system / network performance.  • Develops plans and provides real-time support for the activities to implement network changes and associated components.  • Networking and virtualized networking SDNs; containers; emerging software patterns and practices; CI/CD  • Act as a technical liaison between IT, QA, and Development for all cloud network designs.  • Experience with migrating the Partner IPSEC VPN tunnels from one data center to another data center.  • Provided redundancy in a multi homed Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) network by tuning AS-path.  • Creating, modifying, decommissioning vrf's, creating inter-vrf routing in L3 devices.  • Creation of IPsec and SSL VPNs on Juniper and Cisco Firewalls.  • Configuration of URL filtering in Palo Alto PA-820.  • Configuring Virtual Chassis for Juniper EX series switches  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco ASA 5500-X with Firepower Service as per requirement  • Was part of Critical Response Team to ensure that network outages and issues are dealt with in a timely and effective manner to ensure 99.99% uptime.  • Performed Outage analysis and Log monitoring for drafting RCA/RFO in case of network outage.  • Maintaining documentation of network security policies and procedures.    Environment: SDN, Ansible, OPENSTACK, Cisco Catalyst 3560/3570/6500, Cisco 3900/7200, ASR 1000/9000 routers, Juniper EX 2300/4200, 4500/9200, MX 240/480 Edge routers, Cisco ASA, Palo Alto, Solarwinds, VPNs, LAN/WAN protocols, QoS, Firewall policies. Network Support Engineer HT Tech Solutions - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2012 to May 2013 Duties and Responsibilities Handled:  • New router and switch provisioning with basic configuration and system updates.  • Troubleshooting network connectivity issues in Routers, Switches and Firewalls.  • Basic configuration on Cisco ASA along with ACL rules and NAT configuration.  • Creation of VPN and firewall policies on Juniper firewalls.  • Configuration of Routing protocols on Aggregation and EDGE Routers.  • Implemented the Cisco Secure Access Control Servers (ACS) to offer centralized command and control for all user authentication, authorization and accounting (AAA).  • Coordinating with ISPs for bandwidth monitoring and blocking malicious IP addresses.  • Firewall configuration which includes NAT, ACLs and Port Filtering as per customer requirement.  • Setup wireless access points for clients to access the networked resources.  • Ensuring daily backup of all network devices by logging into syslog server.  • Maximizing network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshooting network problems and outages; scheduling upgrades; collaborating with network architects on network optimization.  • Effectively generated end user network performance reports on demand and Provide Tier 2 analysis of reports, root cause and continuous correlation analysis of network events.  • Provided 24x7 on-call support for all network and security related issues.  • Providing proper solutions to client/customer for any incident with proper documentation.    Environment: Cisco routers 1800, ASR 1000 series, ISR series, Cisco Catalyst Series Switches 2960/3750/6500, Nexus 5000, F5 Load Balancer, Palo Alto 850, 5050 Firewalls, Cacti, VRF, Netflow Network Analyzer, RIPv2, OSPF, BGP, QoS, IPSEC, VLAN, VRFs, STP, VTP, VSS, VPC. Education Master's Skills BGP, CISCO, DHCP, E1, E3 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Routing Protocols OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, RIP, PBR, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization, Static Routing  Switching LAN, VTP, STP, PVST+, RPVST+, Inter VLAN routing & Multi-Layer Switch, Ether channels, MPLS, VSS, Transparent Bridging  Load balancers F5 BIG-IP, Radware Link and Server loadbalancers  Operating Systems NX-OS, IOS-XR, Windows (Server 2003/08), OSX, Linux (Ubuntu, Kali, CentOS, Fedora)  LAN/ WAN Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, PPP, HDLC, Channelized links (E1/T1/E3/T3), Fiber Optic Circuits, Frame Relay.  Gateway Redundancy and Monitoring HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, VSS, IOS and Features, IRDP, NAT, SNMP, SYSLOG, NTP, DHCP, CDP, TFTP, FTP, & Services  AAA Architecture TACACS+, RADIUS NPS, Cisco ACS,  Network Management Wireshark, SNMP, Ethereal, EMC Smarts  Scripting languages Python, Perl, Bash Scripting  Tools used  SolarWinds, PRTG Network Analyzer, HP Openview, Cacti, Manage Engine Netflow Analyzer, Wireshark, Packet Tracer, VMWare, GNS3, Cisco Works