Helpdesk/Desktop Support Specialist Helpdesk/Desktop Support Specialist Network Administrator - TEKSystems(International Monetary Fund) IMF Dumfries, VA • An accomplished, performance-driven and proven IT Professional with in-depth experience in Information Security and Assurance, Cloud Architecture, Systems Engineering, IT Service Management and Operations. Broad range of knowledge with a multitude of software and hardware platforms. Indepth knowledge of Active Directory and Server Administration, VMware, VSphere ESXi server and VCenter and adept at working in team environments with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Helpdesk/Desktop Support Specialist Cyxtera Data center - Sterling, VA April 2017 to Present Helpdesk support, with access control, bio metric creation,   Service Now  Office 365 Network Administrator TEKSystems(International Monetary Fund) IMF - Washington, DC August 2016 to Present • Used Active Directory to create and maintain all top-level OU hierarchies, groups and appropriate security permissions maintaining group policies as well.  • Managed user requests via tracking (Service NOW) software to deploy solutions to help requests from over 1500 Home Office and over 180 Regional Offices Worldwide.. Generated reports via asset and desktop service management, Audit and Change Management on hardware and software to enhance inventory and audit reports  • Performs analysis of systems and identify problem areas, identify ways of enhancing existing systems, and develop viable solutions.  • Provide System Administration functions with Active Directory and Office 365 Enterprise for User Accounts, Groups, Security, Access levels.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout the organization's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.  • Maintenance and Administration of Windows Server 2008 R2, Server 2012 R2 and related services. AD, DNS, DHCP, and Group Policy, Exchange Server 2010, Powershell scripts.  • Acted as escalation point for troubleshooting advanced network/systems issues; consistently earned 100% issue-resolution scores by providing excellent service to internal and external customers upgrading, configure, and administer Citrix XenApp Farm from v4.5 to v6.0 to support remote users. Systems Administrator Thurgood Marshall Academy April 2013 to July 2016 • Maintenance and Administration of Windows Server 2008 R2, Server 2012 R2 and related services. AD, DNS, DHCP, and Group Policy, Exchange Server 2010, Powershell scripts.  • Perform daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media, recovery tapes or disks are created, and media is recycled and sent off site as necessary.  • Developed and maintained installation and configuration procedures  • Provide System Administration functions with Active Directory and Office 365 Enterprise for User Accounts, Groups, Security, Access levels, DNS, LDAP, etc.  • Used Active Directory to create and maintain all top-level OU hierarchies, groups and appropriate security permissions maintaining group policies as well. Systems Administrator ESI Technologies January 2011 to March 2013 • Provided Storage administration and maintenance via DELL EqualLogic PS6100 Series Group Manager.  • Responsible for maintaining overall health of IT systems via updates, patches and necessary configuration changes.  • Hardware platform design (identifies components, design OS layout, manage standardized infrastructure components, serviceability, manage vendors, and creating system solutions and frameworks) upgrade, configure, and administer Citrix XenApp Farm from v4.5 to v6.0 to support remote users.  • Apply OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis, and upgrade administrative tools and utilities. Configure / add new services as necessary.  • Provided strong second/third technical support for of network and PC Operating systems, including Windows 7 (32/64bits), Windows Server 2003-2008r2.  • Supports end user with network issues, file access, VPN access/setup, folder permission rights, LAN connectivity, Citrix issues, etc. Education Master's in Cybersecurity information Assurance Strayer University-Virginia - Woodbridge, VA September 2016 to December 2018 BSc in Cyber Security Information Systems ITT Technical Institute - Chantilly, VA July 2010 to August 2014 AAS in Network Systems ITT Technical Institute - Chantilly, VA July 2010 to August 2012 Skills Office 365, Window 7,8,10 windows Server 2008 2012, DHCP, AD DNS, Exchange (5 years), Desktop Support, Technical Support, Networking, Active Directory, Vmware, Windows Certifications/Licenses A+ Certificate September 2000 to Present Security+ CE September 2017 to September 2020 Dell DSCE August 2014 to August 2020 AWS-Certified Associate developer December 2018 to December 2021 Amazon certified