Network Administrator & Director of IT <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; Director of IT Full time student Chula Vista, CA Work Experience Network Administrator & Director of IT Keller Williams Larchmont - Los Angeles, CA 2006 to 2016 Acquisition, installation, configuration and maintenance of IT equipment including, but not limited to, printers, scanners/copiers, workstations, phone systems, audio/video equipment (projectors and large displays), network equipment (servers, routers, Wi-Fi access points, switches, racks, battery backups, and cables).  Key Achievements:  • Personally developed and implemented Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans (BCP & DRP) for several Keller Williams offices and annexes in the west Los Angeles area.  • Instrumental in the development and deployment of six new Keller Williams offices: Network Infrastructure, Telecommunication Systems, Risk Assessment, Vulnerability, Penetration Testing, and Security Systems (Cameras and Property Access Control).  • Trained staff and Real Estate agents on the use of various IT equipment through one-on-one training and bimonthly classes (average class size of 20 to 40 students).  • Training classes covered a wide variety of technology topics including, but not limited to, introductory classes on Google Docs/Office 365 and how to maximize the use of personal equipment (phones, tablets, etc.) for Real Estate purposes. Network Administrator & Director of IT Keller Williams Beach Cities - El Segundo, CA 2012 to 2015 Acquisition, installation, configuration and maintenance of IT equipment including, but not limited to, printers, scanners/ copiers, workstations, phone systems, audio/video equipment (projectors and large displays), network equipment (servers, routers, Wi-Fi access points, switches, racks, battery backups, and cables). Other responsibilities included training staff in the use of various IT equipment.  Key Achievements:    • Personally developed and implemented Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans (BCP & DRP) for several Keller Williams offices and annexes in the South Bay, Los Angeles area.  • Instrumental in the development and deployment of Keller Williams annexes: Network Infrastructure, Telecommunication Systems, Risk Assessment, Vulnerability, Penetration Testing, and Security Systems (Cameras and Property Access Control). Education BS in Network and Telecommunications Southern New Hampshire University Skills Disaster recovery, Vpn, Wireshark, Firewall, Security, Ethernet, Tcp/ip, C#, C++, Exchange, Html, Javascript, Ms project, Objective c, Php, Visio, Visual basic, Firewalls, Network administration, Networking