Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - T-MOBILE Bellevue, WA • 9+ years of experience in Networking and Security, including hands-on experience in providing network support, installation and analysis for a broad range of LAN / WAN/MAN communication systems.  • Hands on experience in configuring Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3750, 4500, 6500 Arista 7050/7060/7260/7150/728 and Nexus 3000, 5000, 6000, 7000 serswitches and Cisco 2600, 2800, 3600, 3800, 7200, 7600 series routers, Load Balancers & Cisco Firewalls.  • Experience with various LAN and WAN technologies and protocols like: - TCP/IP, VLAN, VTP, STP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, IKE/IPsec VPNs, NAT, DNS, MPLS and access list.  • Hands on experience in configuring Cisco Nexus2232, 2248, 5548, 6001 and 7018(Sup 2E) and worked on nexus protocols VPC, VRF, VDC and FEX Links.  • Experience with tunneling methods like GRE/mGRE, DMVPN, IPsec, L2TP, ezvpn, IKE v1 and v2 remote vpns.  • Excellent knowledge and experience on multi-vendor platforms like Cisco, Juniper, Checkpoint, F5 Big-ip LTM load balancers, Bluecoat, Riverbed, Citrix, and VMware.  • Experience in implementing and designing new solutions with Cisco ASA Firewall series 5505, 5510, 5512-X and Palo Alto Firewall series PA-500, PA-2050.  • Hands-on experience of various layer 2 transport protocols including ATM & Frame Relay and MPLS, 2547bis VPN, RFC 4364, mVPN, VPLS.  • Extensive knowledge of Load balancing technology including algorithms and health check options.  • Experience directly managing routers, switches, load balancers and SSL accelerators in a high-availability infrastructure.  • Expert understanding of TCP as it pertains to packet inspection and network/application flows.  • Expert ability to troubleshoot issues and make recommendations for system changes, as needed, to resolve issues.  • Designing and implementation of DMVPN based IPSEC on all ATM centers Installation and configuration.  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with both Checkpoint and Cisco ASA VPN experience.  • Good understanding of WAN optimization technologies like Riverbed and WLAN environment which includes Aerohive.  • Has a good experience working with the Trouble Tickets on F5 Load balancers on LTM module.  • Experience in configuring and troubleshooting BIG-IP F5 load balancer LTM creating virtual servers, nodes, pools and iRules on BIG-IP F5 in LTM module.  • Basic knowledge of Palo Alto Firewalls and Panorama centralized management.  • Working knowledge of IIS Server, DHCP Server, DNS Server, proxy server on Linux and windows. Implementation and administration of DNS, DHCP and WINS.  • Knowledge in OTV, Virtual Device context, Fabric path, Virtual Port channel and VSS cluster.  • knowledge of network technologies, such as AWS, NX-OS, IOS/XE, VLANS, STP, BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, DMVPN, Firewall, VMware, f5 and Linux.  • Very good knowledge in scripting languages like TCL/TK, Perl and Python.  • Experience with implementing and maintaining network monitoring systems (Cisco works and HP Open view).  • Experience with WAN acceleration technologies, such as Cisco WAAS and Riverbed Steelheads.  • Intrusion Prevention System - IDS/IPS (IBM ISS IPS) Implementation and Upgrade for Site Protector.  • Experience with multi-vendor Load Balancers, WAN accelerators, Proxy Server, Content Filtering and also with automate network administration using applications like HPNA.  • Expertise in creating groups and pruning traffic flow using VLAN, VTP, ISL, 802.1Q.  • Strong knowledge of TACACS+, RADIUS implementation in Access Control Network.  • Network planning and implementation of WAN technologies including E3, E1, T1, T3, ISDN, HDLC, PPP, Frame Relay, ATM and MPLS VPN  • Design and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Juniper Routers (MX960, MX480) and SRX Firewalls (SRX240, SRX550), Bluecoat Proxy SG300/600.  • Moderate knowledge in configuring and troubleshooting Cisco Wireless Networks: LWAPP, WLC, WCS, Standalone APs, Roaming, Wireless Security Basics, IEEE 802.11 a/b/g, RF spectrum characteristics.  • Hand on experience on Site-to-Site and Remote access VPNs.  • Experienced with HSRP, VRRP, and GLBP protocols.  • Knowledge in MPLS Technologies and MPLS VPN's.  • Experience in Network Management Tools and sniffers like SNMP, SolarWinds, Wireshark and Cisco work to support 24 x 7 Network Operation Center.  • Moderate knowledge in configuring and troubleshooting Wireless Network: Net gear, Wireless Security Basics, IEEE 802.11 a/b/g, RF spectrum characteristics as well as WAN testing.  • Experience with VOIP and QOS implements and support.  • Experience in the configuration of Aggregation protocols for Ether Channel i.e. PAgP and LACP.  • In-depth knowledge and hands-on experience on IP Addressing, Subnetting, VLSM and ARP, reverse & proxy ARP, Ping Concepts.  • Effective inter-personal skills, adaptive to any environment, keep abreast with the latest technologies and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team.  • Well organized, Self-starter, Quick learner, Self-Motivated, Team player with analytical, technical and communication skills. Work Experience Network Engineer T-MOBILE - Bellevue, WA September 2018 to Present Worked on Cisco and Juniper Firewalls, Designed a new DMZ environment with a pair of LTM and Juniper SRX for Perimeter Firewall. Migrated from ACE to F5. Worked on troubleshooting and installation of Nexus and Catalyst switches. Migration from cisco 7200 series to ASR edge routers. Worked on Cisco WLAN controllers for new AP groups and SSID's.    Responsibilities:  • Configure / Troubleshoot CISCO 4300, 4500, 3800 series routers and 4500, 3800, 6500 seriesswitches for LAN/WAN connectivity.  • Involved in design and implementation of Data Center Migration, worked on implementation strategies for the expansion of the MPLS VPN networks  • Experience in configuring VPC, VDC and ISSU software upgrade in Nexus 7010.  • Serve as part of a team of network engineers responsible for base wide network upgrade from Cisco Layer 3 Catalyst switches to Juniper Layer 3 EX4200 & EX3200 switches.  • Actively involved in Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANS, Port security- 802.1x, Trucking 802.1Q, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, and LAN security on Cisco Catalyst Switches4507R+E, 6509-E and Cisco Nexus Switches 2232, 5596, 7009.  • Troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF &BGP, MPLS  • Experience with deploying PIM Sparse-mode/Dense-mode multicasting in Campus locations.  • Serve as part of a team of network engineers responsible for base wide network upgrade from Cisco Layer 3 Catalyst switches to Juniper Layer 3 EX4200 & EX3200 switches.  • Responsible for managing Cisco routers, switches, HP switches, F5 load-balancers using SNMP MIBs for fault detection and for fault isolation.  • Design, implement and administer IPv4 enterprise network infrastructure utilizing Juniper routers like Juniper MX80, MX 480 and MX960.  • Administer Riverbed WAN Optimization appliances  • Responsible for improved application response and effective utilization of network resources using Riverbed Appliances on classified networks.  • Design and implement Catalyst/ASA Firewall Service Module for various LAN's.  • Troubleshooting Cisco routers, APs, Switches, Fortinet Devices and Meraki appliances.  • Configured Remotely Cisco routers, switches and ARUBA access points.  • Managed Aruba wireless access controllers and troubleshooting Aruba Access points  • Involved in Configuration of Access lists (ACL) on checkpoint firewall for the proper network routing for the B2B network connectivity.  • Integrate Microsoft active directory (LDAP) into checkpoint for identity awareness and user authentication.  • Configure and manage LDAP User management with Checkpoint Smart Directory. Implemented the policy rules and DMZ for multiple clients of the state on the Checkpoint firewall.  • Worked with several network engineers for the understanding of Juniper SRX firewalls along with the changeover to Palo Alto. Palo Alto Firewall Management-Panorama.  • Experience working with ASR 9000 series switches with IOS-XR.  • Involved in configuring Juniper SSG-140 and Check point firewall.  • Provided Layer-3 redundancy by implementing HSRP and GLBP for High availability  • Implementation and Configuration (Profiles, iRules) of F5 Big-IP LTM-6400 load balancers  • Worked on configuration commissioning and upgradation of the MPLS circuits for various branch offices. Disabling all unused ports and putting them in unused VLAN.  • Implemented, analyzed and recommended appropriate system for the out of band management monitoring. Utilizing SolarWinds for primary and disaster recovery site.  • Monitored and responded to network anomalies utilizing SolarWinds/Orion's software and recommended appropriate network solutions for issues.    Environment: Cisco 4300,4400,4500, 3800 series routers and Cisco 3560, 4500,6500 series switches, Juniper EX4200, EX3200 Switches, Juniper MX80, MX480, MX960 Routers, F5 ADC, ASR 9000, Juniper SSG-140, Cisco Nexus Switches 2232, 5596, 7009, Checkpoint Firewall. Network Engineer Expedient - Pittsburgh, PA March 2017 to August 2018 Worked to provide support for 3 datacenters compliant with HIPAA, Data security standard (PCI DSS). Supported the network to design and configure the devices and to monitor the health of the entire network.    Responsibilities:  • Configuring 2800,2900,3900,44XX series routers & switches 2950,3500,4500,3800 series.  • Implementing, administering and troubleshooting network infrastructure devices like routers, switches, Wireless access points and controllers.  • Upgrading Network Bandwidth to avoid connectivity issues.  • Performing circuit installations with the vendors.  • Working on daily issues on priorities simultaneously to focus on key efforts needed.  • Create and assigning Incident tickets or requests, change management.  • Support in Ticket handling system like Incident managements regarding WIFI connectivity issues.  • Helps in task analysis and resolving the assigned workflow.  • Serving as a point of escalation for the monitoring team in providing answers and resolving issues.  • Troubleshooting network related issues.  • Supporting all aspects of the network management process, implementation and problems are delivered as required with the minimal impact on network.  • Working on IDF security Project in assigning IP addresses and changing the configuration part of the devices for connecting the security devices for small branches and Key Business centers.  • Maintaining and implementation on complex data center network design and providing step by step implementation process.  • Working on network segmentation project in implementing all the configurations and network cabling, IOS upgrades for nexus devices and switches 3850, 4500.  • Managing assigned projects and program components to deliver services in accordance with established objectives.  • Providing daily network support for Global wide area network consisting of MPLS, VPN and point-to point site.  • Constructed dial plans in the Call Manager and also remotely troubleshot various implementation problems.  • Worked on multiple projects related to Branch networks, Campus networks, Extranet clients and Data Center Environments involving in data center migrations from one data center to another.  • Supporting EIGRP and BGP based network by resolving level 2 &3 problems of internal teams & external customers of all locations.  • Hands on experience on cisco prime infrastructure.  • Worked on upgrading Aruba controllers and Access points in troubleshooting the onboarding devices with the networks.  • Configuring and troubleshooting Apps in bringing online from small and campus environments.  • Clear pass policy manager for adding devices and knowing the status of the device and onboarding the devices. Worked on provisioning, Master and local controllers.    Environment: Cisco 7200/3845/3600/2800/2900, ASR 1000 routers, 2950/2560/3850/nexus 7 series switches, Flow, TACACS, EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, BGP, VPN, MPLS, Ether Channels, Sniffer, Solarwinds, WAN, Aruba, Airwave, Clear pass policy manager, Cisco Prime Infrastructure. Network Consulting Engineer Citi Group - New York, NY August 2015 to February 2017 Primary responsibilities include support and administration of next-generation firewall, IDS, URL filtering, and other related technologies. Administering next-generation firewalls with advanced features such as NAT, transparent deployments, IDS/IPS, URL inspection, HTTPS decryption, and anti-virus.  Responsibilities:  • Reviewing, analyzing, approving and executing all changes in the network. All Configurations of Cisco Routers and Switches. Participated in a rotating 24x7 support schedule for the Network operation Center.  • Worked with Network Operations Center (NOC) to troubleshoot various network issues like TCP/IP, VLAN, MPLS, routing issues like RIP, OSPF and BGP.  • Configuring AAA Services on the Cisco ASR 9000 Series Router module of Cisco ASR 9000 Series Aggregation Services Router System Security Configuration Guide.  • Configured F5 Big IPs with VIPs, Pool, IRules and SSL certificates to ensure traffic was load balanced. Tested end to end connectivity via firewalls, routers and switches.  • Configured trunk and access ports and implemented granular control of VLANs and VXLANs using NX-OS to ensure virtual and flexible subnets that can extend further across the network infrastructure than with previous generation of switches.  • Build and configure monitoring systems and other network related tools such as Introscope, Splunk, MRTG, Solarwinds, and RANCID on a Linux/Windows 2003 platform.  • Team player in a data analytics environment, maintaining network capacity, integrity, and performance of client connectivity and data centers leveraging Device42, Solarwinds as the primary toolset and VPLS as the key technology.  • Implementation and Maintenance of Juniper EX 2200, M120 devices.  • Netscreen firewall setup, upgrade and configuring IPSEC VPNs and NSM (Netscreen security manager) management.  • Creating, Managing and maintaining rules to adhere corporate security standards using checkpoint Firewall.  • Worked on troubleshooting customer issues related to MPLS VPN related issues involving PE configuration issues, PE-CE link issues such as routing protocol configuration, Layer1 / Layer2 issues, BGP4 address-family related issues, MP-BGP.  • Implemented Positive Enforcement Model with the help of Palo Alto Networks.  • Innovated with support of Palo Alto for remote and mobile users and for analyzing files for malware in a separate (cloud-based) process that does not impact stream processing.  • Performed IOS, IOS-XR and Junos upgrades and production network maintenance.  • Filtering network traffic by configuring IP access list to comply with Organization network policy.  • Deploying new technologies to data center and branch offices including firewall, NAC, wireless and switching technologies.  • Created company policies and procedures governing corporate security, email and Internet usage, access control, and incident response.  • Traffic analysis using Wireshark.  • Monitoring traffic at many different points and provide visibility into the security posture of the network using IDS/IPS tools.  • Signature Updates Deployment on the Management Components and all the Individual IPS/IDS devices.  • Troubleshooting client and business partner VPN connectivity issues. Responsible for VPN access support for Executive team and data security. Password resets, granting share access and permissions to Enterprise folders for different team, e.g. Finance, HR, Ops Planning.    Environment: Palo Alto firewalls, R77.10 gain, Linux/Windows 2003, monitoring tools Nagios, solarwinds, Introscope, splunk, MRTG, RANCHID, Citrix Netscale, SonicWALL, Cisco WAAS, Cisco IPS Network Administrator TATA Tele Services August 2012 to June 2014 Primary responsibilities include support and administration of next-generation firewall, IDS, URL filtering, and other related technologies. Administering next-generation firewalls with advanced features such as NAT, transparent deployments, IDS/IPS, URL inspection, HTTPS decryption, and anti-virus.    Responsibilities:  • Reviewing, analyzing, approving and executing all changes in the network. All Configurations of Cisco Routers and Switches. Participated in a rotating 24x7 support schedule for the Network operation Center.  • Worked with Network Operations Center (NOC) to troubleshoot various network issues like TCP/IP, VLAN, MPLS, routing issues like RIP, OSPF and BGP.  • Configuring AAA Services on the Cisco ASR 9000 Series Router module of Cisco ASR 9000 Series Aggregation Services Router System Security Configuration Guide.  • Configured F5 Big IPs with VIPs, Pool, IRules and SSL certificates to ensure traffic was load balanced. Tested end to end connectivity via firewalls, routers and switches.  • Configured trunk and access ports and implemented granular control of VLANs and VXLANs using NX-OS to ensure virtual and flexible subnets that can extend further across the network infrastructure than with previous generation of switches.  • Build and configure monitoring systems and other network related tools such as Introscope, Splunk, MRTG, Solarwinds, and RANCID on a Linux/Windows 2003 platform.  • Team player in a data analytics environment, maintaining network capacity, integrity, and performance of client connectivity and data centers leveraging Device42, Solarwinds as the primary toolset and VPLS as the key technology.  • Implementation and Maintenance of Juniper EX 2200, M120 devices.  • Netscreen firewall setup, upgrade and configuring IPSEC VPNs and NSM (Netscreen security manager) management.  • Creating, Managing and maintaining rules to adhere corporate security standards using checkpoint Firewall.  • Worked on troubleshooting customer issues related to MPLS VPN related issues involving PE configuration issues, PE-CE link issues such as routing protocol configuration, Layer1 / Layer2 issues, BGP4 address-family related issues, MP-BGP.  • Implemented Positive Enforcement Model with the help of Palo Alto Networks.  • Innovated with support of Palo Alto for remote and mobile users and for analyzing files for malware in a separate (cloud-based) process that does not impact stream processing.  • Performed IOS, IOS-XR and Junos upgrades and production network maintenance.  • Filtering network traffic by configuring IP access list to comply with Organization network policy.  • Deploying new technologies to data center and branch offices including firewall, NAC, wireless and switching technologies.  • Created company policies and procedures governing corporate security, email and Internet usage, access control, and incident response.  • Traffic analysis using Wireshark.  • Monitoring traffic at many different points and provide visibility into the security posture of the network using IDS/IPS tools.  • Signature Updates Deployment on the Management Components and all the Individual IPS/IDS devices.  • Troubleshooting client and business partner VPN connectivity issues. Responsible for VPN access support for Executive team and data security. Password resets, granting share access and permissions to Enterprise folders for different team, e.g. Finance, HR, Ops Planning.    Environment: Palo Alto firewalls, R77.10 gain, Linux/Windows 2003, monitoring tools Nagios, solarwinds, Introscope, splunk, MRTG, RANCHID, Citrix Netscale, SonicWALL, Cisco WAAS, Cisco IPS Jr. Network Engineer HathwayDatacom April 2010 to July 2012 The role of this position is responsible for designing, testing, implementing, and supporting network services infrastructure. This position provides consultation and direct technical support in life cycle planning, problem management, integration, and network configuration.    Responsibilities:  • Have ability to install and maintain Microsoft Exchange and worked extensively on different applications.  • Created network diagram for employees using the Microsoft Visio.  • Preparing Client Machines for users with Operating Systems, Software, antivirus and required utilities and mailing clients etc.  • Primarily responsible in designing and maintaining the budget for the whole network.  • Perform daily maintenance, troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of all network components.  • Configuration of CISCO Routers (3600, 4000 Series) and 3550, 4500 series switches.  • TCP/IP network planning, Implementation and Management with subnets.  • Enabled SNMP traps for our Cacti Monitoring tool to monitor traffic and check the regular health of Servers and Network Devices  • Implementation of Virtual LANs across Routers and Switches.  • Implemented and Configured IP Routing Protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, and RIPv2  • Implemented and configured LAN Protocols: Ethernet, VLANs, VTP and STP.  • Worked with Remedy Ticketing tool in maintaining and keep a track of logs/monitor  • Designed and implemented IP Addressing, Subnetting, Route Summarization and Route Distributions    Environment: LAN, WAN, Subnetting, VLAN, VTP, VPN, NAT, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP. Education Bachelor's Skills BGP (7 years), Cisco (8 years), OSPF (8 years), VLAN (6 years), VPN (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Routers: Cisco 1800, 2600, 2620, 2900, 2901, 3900, 3925, 3945E, 4000, 7201, 7613  Switches: Cisco Catalyst 2232, 2960, 3560, 4507R+E, 5596, 6509-E, 7009 Nexus 2232, 5596, 7009, Arista (7050/7060/7260/7150/728)  Network Concepts: OSI Model, TCP/IP, UDP, IPV4, IPv6, Subnetting, VLSM, Layer2/3, Advanced switch and router configurations (Cisco IOS)  Switching Technologies: LAN, Vlans, Trunking, Ether Channel, Port Fast, Up-link, VTP, PVST+, RPVST+, STP, RSTP, DTPMLPPP, IEEE 802.1q, MPLS, ISL and dot1q, SMTP, Inter-VLAN Routing, Multi-Layer Switch, Ether channels, MPLS, Transparent Bridging, Light weight access point  Routing Technologies: RIP (Versions 1 & 2), IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, PBR, BGP v, IS-IS Static Routing, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization  Juniper: EX-2200, EX-4200, EX-4500, MX-480, M Series, SRX210, SRX240  Load Balancers: Cisco CSM, F5 Networks (Big-IP) LTM 8950, GTM 6400, ASM, F5 Vipiron, Cisco ACE 4710  Network Management-  Tools: Wireshark, Net flow Analyzer, Cisco Works, Solar Winds, InfoBlox, Ethereal, Splunk, SNMP, GNS3, EMC Smarts  Infrastructure services: DNS, ICMP, SNMP, ARP, IRDP, NAT, SNMP, SYSLOG, NTP, DHCP, CDP, TFTP and FTP  LAN Technologies: Ethernet (IEEE 802.3), Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet  WAN Technologies: Frame Relay, Fiber Optic Circuits, PPP, HDLC, Channelized links (E1/T1/E3/T3), MPLS, GRE Tunneling, VOIP  Network Security: VPN, NAT/ PAT, access-lists, IPSEC, Juniper SRX, Cisco ASA 5540, ACL, IPSEC  Firewall: Bluecoat, Juniper Secure Access VPN Appliance, Cisco ASA firewalls, checkpoint R77, R76, Palo Alto, Cisco PIX, ASA.  Gateway: HSRP, VRRP, GLBP  AAA Architecture: TACACS+, RADIUS, Cisco ACS  OS products/ Services: Windows (98, 2000, XP, Server 2003/2008, Vista, Windows 7), Mac OS X, Unix and Linux  Language skills: C, C++, Python  Additional -  Technologies: MS (Office, Word, Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio), VMware, Wireless Sensor Networks, Modulation techniques, GSM, VoIP, OFDM, Spread Spectrum, Adaptation Algorithms, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator