Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - United States Marine Corps Quantico, VA Self-motivated and dependable while achieving high performance with minimal  supervision. Network Administrator with background as Fiber Optics looking to join a  growing entrepreneurial organization as part of the Executive team. Excellent client and  project management skills. Action-oriented with strong ability to communicate  effectively with technology, executive, and business audiences.  Enthusiastic Network Administrator proudly offering over 3 years' experience. An astute  employee with knowledge in installation of network components. Skilled in task  prioritization and troubleshooting. Dedicated Fiber Splicer with 3 years' experience in  the field. Able to manage inventory, work from ladders and independently lift heavy  loads. Seeking a fast-paced position with room for advancement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator United States Marine Corps - Quantico, VA November 2016 to Present Conducted in-depth network reviews and tightened up security policies to monitor access and prevent cyber threats.  Participated in on-call shifts at certain times, including holidays and weekends in case of system or network-related emergencies.  Traveled to client sites and answered questions via phone and email so that issues  were remedied in a timely manner.  Promoted the company in maintaining a work environment focused on quality, communication, collaboration, integration, and teamwork. Education High School Diploma Randallstown High School - Randallstown, MD 2015 Skills NETWORK SECURITY, GUI, ONLINE LEARNING, MECHANICAL APTITUDE, ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS, Troubleshooting, Project Management, Active Directory, Customer Service, Networking, Technical Support, Security, Security Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal July 2015 to Present Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2019 to Present Fiber Optic Splicer/Installer October 2016 to October 2021 Additional Information Skills  Proficient in Software Lifting up to 100 lbs  Network security management Troubleshooting at component level  Network repairs and maintenance Good mechanical aptitude  Task prioritization Troubleshooting  Online learning Team player  Network penetration testing Strong organizational skills  Software system testing Flexible work schedule  GUI and tools Strong work ethic  Manual labor skills Power tools  Safety understanding Terminating cables  Good at following instructions Operating equipment