Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Catholic Health Initiatives Omaha, NE • CiscoCertifiedNetwork Engineer with around 8+ years of experience in Routing, Switching, FirewallSecurity and Troubleshooting.  • Hands-on experience in providing network support, installation and analysis for a broad range of LAN / WAN/MANcommunication systems.  • Experience in Cisco: Physical cabling, IPaddressing, Wide Area Network configurations (Frame-relay & MPLS).  • Experience in working with Cisco Nexus Switches and Virtual Port Channel configuration.  • Proficient in Cisco IOS for configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, LDP, EIGRP, RIP, BGP v4, MPLS, ISIS.  • Good knowledge in ACL, NAT/ PAT, Ether Channel, IP Sec and VPNs. Experience in Troubleshooting for connectivity and hardware problems on Cisco Networks.  • Experience in L2/L3 protocols like VLAN, STP, ISL, MPLS and Trunking protocols. Design and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Juniper Routers (MX960, MX480) and SRX Firewall (SRX240, SRX550).  • Experience in set up, configuration and management of CiscoASAFirewall in a variable domain such as the Internet, DMZ, Business-Partner and Remote-Access VPN etc. Knowledge of cryptosystems such as RSA and AES.  • Worked on network topologies and configurations, TCP/IP, UDP, Frame Relay, Token ring, bridges, routers, hubs,and Switches.  • Well Experienced in configuring protocols HSRP, GLBP, VRRP, ICMP, IGMP, PPP, PAP, CHAP, and SNMP. Aggregating switch links using LACP and PAGP protocols.  • Experience in installing and configuring DNS, DHCP server and involved in designing and commissioning WAN infrastructure for redundancy in case of link failure.  • Strong hands-on experience in installing, troubleshooting, configuring of CiscoASR, 7200, 3900, 3800, and 1800 series Routers, Cisco Catalyst 6500, 4500, 3750, 2950 and 3500XL series switches  • Extensive hand on experience with complex routed LAN networks, CISCORouters,andSwitches.  • Good experience with Security Incident and Event Management (SIEM), Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems (IDS/IPS) and log management and database activity monitoring.  • Multiple data center migrations and transformation projects, with great expertise on Wireshark. Upgrade and Maintenance of Service router such as a Cisco router.  • Managing global outsourced services SLA with external third party vendors on the systems and applications side such as SUN, RedHat, HP-UX, Oracle Linux, HP-UX, Symantec (to name a few).  • Protocols in a high availability environment. Experience with different Network Management Tools and Sniffers like SNMP, HP-Open view, and Ciscoworks to support 24 x 7 Network Operation Center.  • Worked with several network engineers for the understanding of Juniper SRX firewalls along with the changeover to Palo Alto. Palo Alto Firewall Management-Panorama.  • Expertise in Configuring, Installing, troubleshooting, and supporting and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls&Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Supported enterprise environment including Aruba controllers, Airwave and APs/Cisco wireless controllers.  • Experience in designing MPLSVPN and QoS for an architecture using Cisco multi-layer switches.  • Hands-on configuration and experience in setting up Cisco routers to perform functions at the Access, Distribution, and Core layers.  • Experience with F5 load balancers and Cisco load balancers (CSM, ACE,and GSS).  • Finely tuned analytical/critical thinking and debugging skills with excellent verbal and written communication skills.  • Basic and advance F5 load balancer configurations, including migrating configurations from CiscoACE to F5 and general troubleshooting of the F5 load balancers. Knowledge in implementing and configuring F5 Big-IP LTM and GTM load balancers.  • Implementing a VoIP and hoc network with SIP Proxy Server and multiple Clients, capturing the Installed and maintained Wireless Access Points throughout the building.  • Hand-on experience in developing scripts using Perl scriptinglanguage.  • Ability to Install, Manage & Troubleshoot Large Networks&Linux platforms in Development, Staging, Lab & Production Environments. Extensive knowledge in VMwareinstallation, configuration, and virtualized infrastructure management.  • Knowledge ofVMware ESX Server security tasks creating and applying for Roles and Permission within Active Directory Users and Groups, configuring vMotion, Resource Pool, and DRS, HA Cluster, cloning and migrating VMmachines.  • Highly enthusiastic, creative team player, project implementation, analytical, interpersonal and communication skills.  • Efficient at the use of MicrosoftVISIO/Office as technical documentation and presentation tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Catholic Health Initiatives - Omaha, NE April 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Migrating CUCM/CUC and UCCX server from UCS 220 to UCS 240 7KBE and 6KBE.  • Up grading Voice Gateway ISR router 4300 series and performing MGCP configuration.  • Performing Escalation support for ESI on-premise VoIP systems. And Escalating support for ESI In-House VoIP system.  • Checking Software verification testing for VoIP systems.  • Firmware verification testing for VoIP Phones.  • Maintaining VoIP system Lab Test environment. And Troubleshoot ESI SIP trunk issues.  • Installed high availability Big IP F5, configured LTM and GTM Services to provide uninterrupted service to customers. Configuring objects such as Load Balancer Server pools for local traffic management on F5 Load Balancers.  • Decommission serial T3 circuits and replace with MPLS circuits. MPLS clouds were provided by carriers ATT, Verizon or Level 3.  • Hands-on experience with WAN (ATM/Frame Relay), Routers, Switches, TCP/IP, Routing Protocols (BGP/OSPF), and IP addressing.  • Oversaw tuning and performance monitoring for UNIX/Linux workstations, servers, and peripherals.  • Involved setting up the TFTP server for backing up the IOS images and configuration files of Cisco Routers and Switches and troubleshooting the file servers. Upgrades, installs, configuration and administration security and monitoring tools on Linux.  • Provided redundancy to the network, implemented hot standby routing protocol (HSRP) and Load sharing for effective utilization of routers.  • Troubleshooting WAN T1, T3 and MPLS circuits on CISCO ASR 1002 series routers along with various service providers like Orange, ATT, Reliance Com and NTT.  • Configuring, implementing and troubleshooting VLAN's, VTP, STP,Trunking, Ether channels. Configuring and maintenance of layer2 switching tasks which advocate VLAN, VTP, STP, RSTP, PVST, RPVST, configuring of ether channel with LACP and PAGP along with troubleshooting of inter-VLAN routing.  • Packet capturing, troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark, identifying and fixing problems. Implementing, configuring, and troubleshooting various routing protocols like RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP etc.  • Performing network monitoring, providing analysis using various tools like Wire shark, Solar winds etc. Network Engineer Volkswagen - Chicago, IL September 2017 to March 2019 Description:Volkswagen is aAutomaker organization based in Chicago, Illinois. The system is a network of Multiple building, remote sites and car dealers across the state.  Responsibilities:  • Configured Routing protocols such as RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, static routing,andpolicy-based routing.  • Team member of Configuration of Cisco 7206 router with VPN and Configuration of Catalystswitches. Configuration 7500, 7200 with OSPF and catalyst 6505, 4500, 3550 switches with various VLAN. Create and test Cisco router and switching operations using OSPF routing protocol, ASA 5500 Firewalls, and MPLS switching for stable VPNs.  • Worked on Cisco's Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) implementation (Nexus 9K, APIC).  • Troubleshooting the Network Routing protocols (BGP, EIGRP,and RIP) during the Migrations and new client connections.  • Network Service/Support Engineer in the Global Network Operation Center (GNOC) of  • AT&T, providing Network Support for all Pop's (Point of Presence) of AT&T spread across the counter  • Hands on experience in Aruba S2500 switches, Aruba 7200, 3600 series wireless controllers, Aruba IAP 105, Airwave Products and clear pass Servers. Configuring & managing around 500+ Network & Security Devices that includes Cisco Nexus & Arista Switches, Juniper MX Series Routers, and Juniper SRX Firewalls.  • Experienced with Juniper EX-2200, EX-4200, EX-4500, MX-480, and M Series, SRX210, SRX240.Optimized performance of the WAN network consisting of Cisco 3550/4500/6500 switches by configuring VLANs. Configured OSPF and BGP on Juniper M and MX Series Routers  • Tested JUNOS images on Juniper MX router platforms covering various protocols and technologies like OSPF, BGP, LDP, MPLS, Layer3VPNs.  • Worked with Cisco Catalyst 4500, 4900 switches and Cisco 2800, 3600, 3800, 7200&7600 series Routers.  • IP Address Design and Management and also managed DNS and DCHP using a Bluecoat at appliance called IPAM.  • Expertise in installing, configuring, and maintaining CiscoSwitches (2960, 3560X, 3750X, 4500-X, 4948, 4510, 6509, Nexus 2k, 5K,and 7K)  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. ConfiguredTrunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture. Configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco 7500, 7200vxr, 3800, 3600, 2900, 2800, 2600,1800,1700 routers. Worked with Cisco Nexus, Catalyst,and Aruba wireless devices.  • Scripting for automation of processes for Windows Servers. Familiarity with main script languages like Power Shell, PHP, Shell, Perl, Python.  • Enhanced 911 solution with West Safety Services  • Implemented, configured BGPWAN routing, converting OSPF routes to BGP (OSPF in local routing). Experience in set up, configuration and management of Cisco ASA Firewall in a variable domain such as the Internet, DMZ, Business-Partner and Remote-Access VPN etc.  • Analyzed the Policy rules, monitor logs and documented the Network/Traffic flow Diagram of the Palo Alto Firewalls placed in the Data Center with MS Visio.  • Provided ongoing administration and support for authentication service using RSA SecurID and Cisco RADIUS servers for internet-based remote access VPNsolution. Experience in creating DAP Policies on Cisco ASA for Remote-access users and Creating IPsec tunnel on ASA with Business Partner Firewall.  • Worked with Palo Alto firewalls PA250, PA4050, PA3020 using Panorama servers, performing changes to monitor/block/allow the traffic on the firewall. Technical assistance for LAN/WAN management and complex customer issues.    Environment:Net Flow, TACACS, EIGRP, RIP,OSPF,BGP,VPN,MPLS,CSM,SUP720,IPAM, Ether Channels, Cisco ACI, Cisco 4510, 7200/3845/3600/2800 routers, Cisco 6509/ 3750/3550/3500/2950 switches, Radius, SecurID, Solarwinds, Citrix, Checkpoint firewalls(SPLAT), Palo Alto, F5 Load Balancer, RSA. Network Engineer Inova Health System - Sterling 2016 to August 2017 Description:Inova Health System is a non-profit health organization based in Falls Church, Virginia, near Washington, D.C. The system is a network of hospitals, outpatient services, assisted living and long-term care facilities, and healthcare centres.  Responsibilities:  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 5000.  • Work with Level3Engineering on software bugs and solutions involving software upgrades and feature enhancements.  • Hands on experience on complex voice routing on S4B using Dial plans, Normalization Rules, Voice Policy, Voice routes, PSTN Usages, Trunk Configuration, Masking, Enhanced 911 solution with West Safety Services.  • Involved in Substantial Configuration & validation prior to implementation of Nexus7K, 5K& 2K connecting to blade servers.  • Experience with converting 6500 to CiscoNexus in the Data Center environment.  • Primary responsibility is to design and deploy various network security & High Availability products lick Cisco ASA other security products.  • Responsible for implementation of Cisco Nexus 2148 Fabric Extender and Nexus 5000 series to provide a flexible Access Solution for Datacenter access architecture.  • Worked on F5 LTM, GTM series like 4000, 5000 for the corporate applications.  • Management of F5 LTMs>Ms (DNS) to improve web application delivery speed and replication through and between distributed global data centers  • Experience in configuring Virtual Device Context in Nexus 7010.  • Configuring Layer 2 switching protocols and deployment of Juniper EX sand QFX series switches in data center environment.  • Managed Customer Related issues such as Network Outage, New Turn-Ups, Technician Dispatches and Test Assists through WMS, BMP and AOTS Ticketing System.  • Design, implementation and operational support of routing/switching protocols in complex environments including BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, Spanning Tree, 802.1q, etc.  • Working on tickets received on AOTS tool, UD tickets (sev1, sev2 & sev3) related to network issue should be resolve and fixed.  • Experience with building Ultra Low Latency DataCenter Design End-to-end design approach.  • Experience with Splunk Security Infrastructure and event management.  • Hands-on Experience with Spirent test center.  • Deploying and decommissioning of CiscoRouters, Ciscoswitches,and their respective software upgrades.  • Performing the Firewall ACL requests change for various clients by collecting source and destination details.  • Experience in Configuring, upgrading and verifying the NX-OS operating system.  • Administration and troubleshooting of Juniper SRX 3000, 4000, 5000 Series firewall.  • Policy management and changes in Juniper SRXfirewall  • Experience with manipulating various BGP attributes such as Local Preference, MED, Extended Communities, Route-Reflector clusters, Route-maps,and route policy implementation.  • Working with NetworkDesign and implementation teams on various projects across North America.  • Experience in network security in a telecommunications environment.  • Identify, design and implement a flexible, responsive, and secure technology services.  • Performing troubleshooting on slow network connectivity issues, routing issues that involve OSPF, BGP and identifying the root cause of the issues.  • Performed OSPF, BGP, DHCP Profile, HSRP, IPV6, Bundle Ethernet implementation on ASR 9K redundant pair.    Environment:Cisco routers 3700, 3800, 7200, 7604, Cisco catalyst series Switches 2960, 3750, 3560, 6500, Nexus 5k, F5 Networks, Nexus 7k, Frame Relay, VRF, DSLAM, RIPv2, OSPF, BGP, IPSEC, VLAN, STP, VTP, HSRP. Windows/VMware Systems Engineer Princess Cruises, CA February 2015 to May 2016 Description: Princess Cruises is a cruise line owned by Carnival Corporation & plc. The company is incorporated in Bermuda and its headquarters are in Santa Clarita, California. It was previously a subsidiary of P&O Princess Cruises and is part of the Holland America Group, which controls the princess cruises brand. The line has 17 ships which cruise worldwide and are marketed to both American and international passengers.  Responsibilities:  • System analysis, Installation, monitoring and performance tuning for Windows 2000 /2003 /2008 /2012 R2 Servers.  • VMware ESX 5.0, 5.5, 6. & 6.5 Host Server Installation, Configuration & Maintenance, VSphere Suite with P2P and P2V, Virtual Machines Installation, Configuration & Maintenance.  • Working on Host Migrations from 5.5 to 6.5 and vCenter migration.  • Creating resource pools and adding VM's into the pools.  • Configuring HA, DRS clusters and capacity planning for new clusters, configuring FT for important VM's.  • Monitoring of Virtual Machines and hosts and performing actions such as migration, reconnect VA and adding resources to VM's.  • Troubleshooting Citrix servers and Citrix owned applications.  • Installed PRTG monitoring tool on the local server and adding sensors to monitor network and health of servers.  • Maintain server VMs to create server client software products for the user and giving server support.  • Working as windows administrator by creating an ActiveDirectory, Domain Controller, DHCP&DNSserver, Terminal server,and Exchange Servers.  • Created New User setup for users with laptops, works stations and docking them.  • Working and maintaining Palo Alto, ASA 5500 firewall,and Checkpoint R75, R77.20, R80.  • Configured and setup wireless AP's with Cisco 2500 series wireless controller and creating WirelessSSIDs.  • Adding and removing policies on firewalls based on the client requirements.  • Creating VLANs and Trunking on the Cisco Switches and configuring HSRP and VRRP on Vlans.  • Setup wireless printers, Wired IP printers and IP phones at the enterprise level.  • Providing Level 3 support in handling Client Connectivity issues as well as working on a ticket system.  • Worked on critical tickets and high ticket based on priority and solve them immediately to solve the impact.    Environment: Windows 2012 R2/2008 R2/2003, Windows 7, Microsoft DFS, Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, NTFS, IIS Servers, IBM TSM backup, VMware 5.5, 6.0,6.5 Servers, Exchange Server 2010/2013/2016, PRTG, Putty, TFTP, Wireshark, TroubleCall, Webex, Jabber Powershell Scripts, Sharepoint etc. Network & Systems Engineer Key Bank 2013 to January 2015 Description:MetLife, Inc. is the holding corporation for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, better known as MetLife, and its affiliates. MetLife is among the largest global providers of insurance, annuities, and employee benefit programs, with 90 million customers in over 60 countries.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Datacenter migration projects and P2V conversions.  • Installing and Configuring of Cisco Routers and Switches (2900, 3560, and 3750).  • VPN establishment using IPSEC, GRE tunnels in Cisco ASA.  • HSRP, VRRP implementation on routers and switches for redundancy.  • Managed, led and supported Windows XP, 7, Server 2008, 2012 R2, VMware and Active Directory domain network in multi-locations  • EMC VNX 5300-5600 series SAN devices for MS-SQL, Hyper-V, and UCS boot LUN's.  • Broad experience with designing, implementing and troubleshooting VMware ESX server, VMware virtual center, setting up V-Motion, HA, DRS, and related VMware products such as VMWorkstation, P2V converters, VM Backup products,and other products for virtualization.  • Generated reports with Health analyzer giving recommendations and resolving performance and tuning issues in the HA, DRS clusters and virtual Datacenters.  • Troubleshooting of Enterprise application response problems & connectivity issues.  • Configuring STP, VLAN, VTP,and troubleshooting.  • Configuring Network Address Translation (NAT) according to the connectivity requirements.  • Upgrading the Firewall Versions to the Latest versions / IOS.    Environment: Cisco ASA 5500 firewall, Cisco GSR 12416,21418, 3640, 2811, 3845 routers, Cisco 2950, 3550, 7609, 7613, 6500 series switches, F5 BigIp Load Balancer, NX-OS, Nexus 93128TX, 9296PX, 7010 Switch. Network and Security Engineer GD Research Centre - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to May 2013 Description:GD Research Center is a leading provider of global business intelligence including competitor, market, product, and customer information. It provides in-depth research, analysis, data and forecasts through a range of interactive online databases.    Responsibilities:  • Configured the Cisco router. Maintained redundancy on Cisco 2800, 3600 and 3800 routers with HSRP.  • Configured and Implemented protocols like RIP v1, RIPv2, OSPF, EIGRP,andBGP and provided administrative support for EIGRP, OSPF routing protocol.  • Established Site to Site Tunnel from Checkpoint Firewall&CiscoRouters.  • Troubleshooting client connectivity issues related to firewalls and routers  • Troubleshooting Site to Site VPN/direct/remote access connectivity issues with clients.  • Switching (Ethernet) related tasks included implementing VLANs and configuring ISLtrunk on Fast-Ethernet channel between switches.  • Provided security to Network using Cyberoam firewall based on Information SecurityPolicies.  • Configured all the required devices and equipment for remote vendors at various sites and plants.  • Configured and maintained setup of Wireless VLANs using Cisco Routers and Multilayer Switches while support of STP, RSTP, RPVST along with VLAN and troubleshooting of inter VLANutilizing 802.1q.  • Provided level 1 and level 2 technical support for all network related issues and Telecom transport services, such as T1, fiber, DS3,and Ethernet.  • Other duties were to monitor computers, Setup wired, wireless printers, phone calls,and network security solutions updates.  • Managed LDP label limit constraints on smaller routers such as 7500 by deploying LDP filters.  • Worked on engine 3 line cards such as E3 16 port OC3, E3 OC48c and Channelized E3OC48.  • Engaged Network Operations on troubleshooting and root cause analysis on Minor, Major network problems  • Implemented BGP capabilities like ORF, Route refresh and Extended communities, for various customers.  • Configuring, managing and troubleshooting networks using routing protocols like RIP, EIGRP and OSPF (Single Area and Multi Area).  • Assisted with troubleshooting all network issues with routers and switches when necessary and consulted with on call tech as needed for client.  • Configured firewall filters, routing instances, policy options, on Juniper m320 an d T640  • Migrated some of our routers end routers M320 as RR    Environment: Cisco Router configuration 2800, 3600,HSRP, EIGRP, OSPF,Firewall, STP, RSTP. Network Administrator MiTej Info Tech - Pune, Maharashtra March 2010 to December 2011 Description: MiTej InfoTech LLP is a global outsourcing software development and offshore software development company providing specialized application development services and product re-engineering services across the world from Pune, India. Productive & defined bottom-line benefits of offshore outsourcing & offshore IT consulting company with its recognized expertise in offshore software application development.  Responsibilities:  • Provided system support for the end client.  • Installed and verified that all AIX/Linux patches or updates are applied to the servers.  • Troubleshooting Linux network, security-related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IP Tables, firewall, TCP wrappers, NMAP.  • Worked on UTB and WirelessNetworksConfiguration, maintenance, management,andDataBackup.  • Developed and configured the network to connect the company different branches together, monitored the network usage.  • Installed and maintained new server hardware and software infrastructure diagnoses and resolved network problems and related devices.  • Installs and configures client and server network software, and performs software upgrades as needed Pcs Maintenances and Devices Programming  • Configures, manages and provides technical support for the firewalls, IPS, and other network security systems.  • Installing the F5 TMOS upgrades, Hot-fix installations depending on Business need.  • Configuring of Virtual Servers, Pools, Nodes,and load balancing methods on F5 LTM.  • Remote access technologies VPN, dial-up  • Performs routine preventative maintenance on network hardware and software applications.  • Worked on the automation System Project to, Maintenance, Resolved the Complexities and Development.  • Lookout Program Project Development and Configuration.  • Camera SystemNetwork and Device, Implementation, Configuration, and BackupData&fingersprintprogram Monitoring & manipulation.  • Configuration Implementation Documentation for the Automation Program.  • Oracle database manipulating and Merge.  • Performed RE, SIB, Fabric on various platforms like 12 k series and Juniper and t640 routers  • Configured all devices for remote sites/plants, vendors and added new equipment to RADIUS and worked with MPLS-VPN and TACACS configurations.  • Created load balancing policies using BGP attributes such as Local Preference, AS-Path, MED, Community etc.  • Validate existing infrastructure and recommend new network designs.  • Created scripts to monitor CPU/Memory on various low end routers in the network.  • Monitor, troubleshoot, test and resolve Frame Relay, ATM, MLPPP, PPP, and Dial-up.  • Configuring/Troubleshoot issues with the following types of routers Cisco (7200, 6500, 4500, 1700, 2600 and 3500 series), to include: bridging, switching, routing, Ethernet, NAT, and DHCP, as well as assisting with customer LAN /MAN, router/firewalls.  • Worked on various point to point SONET links such as OC3, OC12, and STM-1.  • Worked on Channelized T1/T3 & PRI links.    Environment: TCP/IP, PPP, DSL, NAT Cisco Router configuration, Firewalls. Education Master's Skills Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp