System Administrator II- Indrasoft System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II- Indrasoft System Administrator II- Indrasoft Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator II- Indrasoft Air Force Electronic Warfare System 2016 to 2019 Senior System Administrator for the Air Force Electronic Warfare System;  Migration/Integration deployed, managed, configured server infrastructure and maintained  system health for Windows enterprise environment.  Windows 10  • Driven customer focus-based service, developing a deep understanding of Active Directory communication to all levels within company; delivering superior phone  etiquette and engaging customer service experience while taking  Python/ Powershell customer calls, responding to emails or diagnosing an issue.    Desktop Support • Experience with SCCM and patch management, log management and performance maintenance analysis tools; image configuration/  Microsoft Exchange/ optimization, configuration policies, antivirus solutions, installing,  Server 2012 troubleshooting and fixing problems with web-based applications.    • Assessing system problems within the network, software, and hardware  designed automated scripts using Python to configure services in ABOUT ME maintaining a steady workflow in a 24/7 server space.    Veteran System Administrator with 6+ • Implemented structured Directory server skills in keeping a healthy server  environment establishing a consistent review process of user/group  years' experience installing,  managements, permissions, workflows and integrations.  configuring, troubleshooting and customizing Microsoft enterprise • Performed analysis and troubleshooting of Microsoft Exchange Server;  including add/remove users and groups, configuring file permissions,  infrastructure. Seeking to leverage  checking event logs, and implementing backup solutions.  proven Microsoft engineering skills and network maintenance capabilities. Network Administrator Air Force - Atlanta, GA 2012 to 2017 Expert Network Architect utilizing CCNA capabilities and helpdesk skills to  Documented experience in Exchange, perform break/fix issues on laptops and desktops. Installed and upgraded  desktop software, printers, and scanners.  Active Directory, SAN's, virtualization,  and upkeep of server environment. • Senior Help Desk Analyst for the Air Force Help Desk Team; deployed,  Maintained windows 2008-2012 managed, configured hardware and software and maintained system health for Windows enterprise environment for over 5,000 users.  enterprise security architecture for Air  Force Electronic System for 4 years. • Established security protocols, anti-virus and firewall configurations,  Deep understanding of mail workflow consistently ranked in the top 10% of maintaining excellent intrusion  prevention tactics.  processes. Efficient at troubleshooting  and analyzing software/hardware • Lowered vulnerabilities by 40% and improved network performance via  issues with 99.9% server upkeep time. monitoring and application reassignment. Education AS in designs and evaluations Air University Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux Additional Information AWS Solutions Architect  AWS Sys Ops Administrator  Sec +  CCNA