Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - VEEMOST TECHNOLOGIES LTD South Amboy, NJ IT professional with over 3 years of experience in Network Administration, with a primary focus on routing and switching. Experience includes implementing, maintaining and troubleshooting network solutions for organizations. Work Experience Network Administrator VEEMOST TECHNOLOGIES LTD - Red Bank, NJ February 2015 to Present • Work with the Design Team during the initial phase of various projects, assisting in the validation of proposed network designs.  • Work with the Advanced Technical Team on new site turn-ups.  • Configuration generation for LAN/WAN networking products from Cisco, including routers, switches, and firewall devices. Responsible for the initial configuration of these devices during staging phases.  • Responsible for putting final configurations validated and/or provided by the Advanced Technical Team on devices.  • Provide first-level technical support to customers on networking issues.  • Manage and maintain a database of various configurations for various devices in customer networks.  • Perform diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving client issues with hardware maintenance, installations, upgrades and application compatibility issues.    • Worked as a member of the Service Delivery and Quality Management Team to ensure that our engineering team delivers what the customers requested and paid for.  • Network Monitoring of crucial customer core devices.  • Configuration testing in lab before certifying it to be used in production Sales Associate MACYS - Menlo Park, CA February 2012 to January 2015 • Developed proficient customer interaction skills  • Maintained sales records for inventory control  • Prepared sales contracts and accepted payment through cash, cheque and credit card  • Quoted prices and discounts as well as credit terms, trade-in allowances, warranties and delivery dates  • Recommended merchandise based on individual requirements  • Provided advice to clients regarding particular products or services  • Answered customers' queries and concerns  • Won salesperson of the month two times across all entire departments within our branch  • Handled customer account enquiries and disputes  • Assisted management with financial and administration task  • Mentored new hires Service Administrator E-HORIZON CONSULTING April 2006 to February 2007 • Subject Matter Expert (SME) on Soil Sustainability Technology  • Managed Soil collection and analysis Lifecycle  • Used data collected from soil sample analysis to advice stakeholder on project viability (project Go/No Go)  • Advised on alternative solution if project is a No Go Education Technology CAPELLA UNIVERSITY June 2020 Project Management Certificate Middlesex County College 2013 Bachelor of Science in Agriculture, Soil Science & Environmental Management Imo State University Skills Active directory, Catalyst, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Layer 2, Ospf, Wins, Dns, Hsrp, Vrrp, Configuration management, Ios, Snmp, Routing protocols, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Vmware, Customer Service