Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Commercial Metals Company Dallas, TX • Cisco Certified Network Professional with over 5 years of expertise in Designing, Implementing and Troubleshoot various Network Technologies.  • Hands-on experience in the areas of Wi-Fi portfolio, Routing, Switching and Troubleshooting  • Strong knowledge in configuring and troubleshooting routing protocols like RIP, OSPF, SNMP, EIGRP and BGP  • Experience working with 2600, 2900, 3600, 3900, 7200, 7600 series Cisco Routers.  • Implementation, working analysis, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN, WAN & WLAN architecture with excellent work experience on IP series  • Working knowledge with Load Balancers F5, AVI networks.  • Working knowledge of Firewall, LDAP, AAA, TACACS/RADIUS, and IPSEC.  • Comprehensive understanding of OSI Model, TCP/IP protocol suite (IP, ARP, ICMP, TCP, UDP, SNMP, FTP, TFTP).  • Security policy configuration including NAT, PAT, VPN, SSL-VPN, Route-maps and Access Control Lists.  • Strong practical experience in IP addressing, Sub-netting, VLSM and ARP, proxy ARP, and ping concepts  • Expertise in troubleshooting and configuring DNS, DHCP, TFTP, TELNET, SSH, FTP and NFS  • Excellent hands-on experience in designing and implementing IP addressing that includes both IPV4 and IPV6  • Implementation of Access lists, route maps, and distribute lists.  • Strong fundamental knowledge in implementing Layer-2 level technologies including VLAN's, VTP, STP, RSTP and Trunking.  • Technical support for improvement, up-gradation & expansion of the network architecture.  • Good understanding and working knowledge of Protocols like IEEE 802.1, IEEE 802.3& IEEE 802.11, 802.1x, EAP, PEAP & EAP-TLS.  • Working Experience with Palo Alto Firewall.  • Experience of IP addressing, administrating subnets and various routing models  • Excellent communication skills, Enthusiastic, motivated and a team player.  • Played various customer interaction roles in various capacities, across projects in different areas.  • A highly organized individual who adopts a systematic approach to problem solving, effectively analyzes results and implements solutions.  • Highly motivated with the ability to work independently or as an integral part of a team and Committed to highest levels of professional projects. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Network Engineer Commercial Metals Company - Irving, TX January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Coordinate with multiple vendors like Cisco, Juniper, F5, Citrix and Arista for TAC cases for device issue and coordinate with major ISP's for link issues.  • Responsible for the installation, configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting of the company network. Duties included monitoring network performance using various network tools to ensure the availability, integrity and confidentiality of application  • Implemented TCP/IP and related services like DHCP/DNS.  • Configured Palo-Alto 7050 firewalls in vwire mode. Also configured Palo-Alto 3050 firewalls.  • Implemented Positive Enforcement Model with the help of Palo Alto Networks.  • Working knowledge of firewall technologies Palo Alto.  • Experienced in facing the Bluecoat and Palo Alto product lines, up to pre sales type of function.  • Demonstrated experience with Check Point, Cisco, and Palo Alto Networks solutions  • Innovated with support of Palo Alto for remote and mobile users and for analyzing files for malware in a separate (cloud-based) process that does not impact stream processing.  • Responsible for turning up BGP peering and customer sessions, as well as debugging BGP routing problems.  • Provided Load Balancing towards access layer from core layer using F5 Network Load Balancers.  • Managed the F5 BigIP GTM/LTM appliances to include writing Irules, SSL offload and everyday task of creating WIP and VIPs  • Configured Security policies including NAT, PAT, VPN, Route-maps and Access Control Lists.  • Hands on Experience with Juniper MX960 Series.  • Configuring, implementing and troubleshooting VLAN's, VTP, STP, Trunking, Ether channels.  • Patch and test cables for new and existing sites.  • Configuring F5 LTM's by adding new requested pools, pool members.  • Migrated legacy F5 LTM and GTM appliance to newer version appliances  • Created complex rules utilizing TCL scripting to perform load balancing decisions  • Configured F5 GTM solutions, which includes WideIP, Pool Load Balancing Methods, probers and monitors.  • Technical assistance for LAN/WAN management and complex customer issues.  • Provided support for troubleshooting and resolving Customer and user reported issues.  • Worked with Network Engineer's in the installation and configuration of firewalls.  • Performed route redistribution & manipulated route updates using distribute lists, route-maps & administrative distance, offset-lists.  • Involved setting up the TFTP server for backing up the IOS images and configuration files of Cisco Routers and Switches and troubleshooting the file servers.  • Configuration of EIGRP and OSPF as interior gateway protocol with route filtering and route redistribution.  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches and fixes with all around technical support  • Supporting EIGRP and BGP for problems of L2/L3 in internal teams & external customers.  • Troubleshooting and supporting multiple OS and hardware environments.  • Maintained detailed time based incident logs and technical checklists.  • Responsible for documenting network related issues.  • Extensively worked on F5 load balancers & F5 firewalls.  • Hands on experience on test tools like IXLOAD, SPIRENT (Landslide).    Environment: Juniper MX960 routers, F5 BIG-IP LTM, F5 AFM, OSPF, BGP, MP-eBGP, Ixload and Spirent. Network Administrator Charter Communications - Hemet, CA September 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Main responsibilities include installation, maintenance, support and services of the various Network equipment.  • Familiar with configuring Cisco Routers (2600, 2800 and 3600 series), Cisco Catalyst Switches (2900 and 3500, 3750 series) and Firewall (Cisco ASA).  • Experience in troubleshooting network and isolating the problems using tools, ping and trace route and debug commands.  • Hands on experience of Cisco works and Cisco configuration professional tools used for Network discovery, topology views, end-station tracking, and VLAN management.  • Responsible for Monitoring and tracking of network response time and availability.  • Used Wire Shark Network Packet Analyzer for capture live packet data from network interface and troubleshoot network related problems.  • Knowledge of Manage Engine Op Manager and PRTG for Monitoring, analyzing and availability of network traffic.  • Performing installation and upgrading recommended hardware and/or software in a manner that is timely and non-disruptive to end user.  • Implementing and maintaining backup schedule. Conceptual and working knowledge of RIP, OSPF, EIGRP routing protocols.  • Created network diagrams using Microsoft Visio and trained the work-center on proper.  • Troubleshooting procedures as well as implementation of new firewall rules.  • Created and configured VLANS and inter-VLAN routing with Cisco Catalyst 3550 and Cisco 3750 series switches. Designed basic security and implemented Access Control Lists, static routes, route redistribution.  • Provide technical support and investigating, diagnosing and resolve network problem.  • Provide timely and accurate progress status on all ongoing support issues with an emphasis on problem, issues and concerns. Implemented IDS and IPS solutions.  • Implemented Layer 2 switch security including port security, disabling all unused ports & putting them in unused VLAN. Implemented Cisco router and switches hardening.  • Enable STP attack mitigation BPDU guard, Root guard, Loop guard. Configured 802.1x authentication in switch ports.  • Responsible for managing & operations of Cisco 2600 series, 2800 series router, as well as 2900 series, 3500 series Cisco switches.  • Implemented SNMP on devices to allow for network management.  • Involved in lab testing using Gns3 and validation of network modifications before implementation.  • Configuration of SSH on all network switches and routers for secure management purposes.  • Experience on security applications like standard ACL, Extended ACL, and NAT & PAT.  • Experience of configuring and monitoring Cisco router using Cisco Configurational professional.  • Created OSPF multi area summarization plan, and created stub, totally stub areas.  • Configured, managed and troubleshooting IP routing using a combination of static routing and dynamic routing protocols OSPF, EIGRP, RIP etc.    Environment: Cisco Routers 2600, 2800, 3600, 3700; Cisco Catalyst switches 2950, 3500; Routing Protocols EIGRP, OSPF, RIP; VTP, STP, VLAN; Desktop Support Engineer i7 Networks - IN April 2014 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • To manage all network connectivity as well as system.  • Support on peripherals and devices.  • Desktop/Laptop Support.  • Installing any kind of software and troubleshooting the issues.  • Configuring Outlook, MS Outlook & troubleshooting the issues.  • Install & Configure printer server & troubleshooting the issues.  • Day to day System Administration and troubleshooting of networking, windows.  • Operating system and software support.  • Windows NT, 95, 98, 2000, 2003, XP, 7, 8,2008R2 Installation and configuration. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering The University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University Skills Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Dhcp, E1, Vmware, Security