IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Romeo RIM Davison, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager Romeo RIM - Romeo, MI July 2015 to Present Responsibilities  The company consists of approximately 150 users, 50 of which are admin personnel. Romeo RIM is a manufacturing company, which consists of making composite parts. My responsibilities here are Romeo RIM, are to oversee and help manage the company infrastructure, including, internal and remote users. I manage the ERP system PLEX for Romeo RIM. I oversee all EDI transactions. I create and maintain the IT budget for the year, and oversee employee reviews and raises.    Milestones  • Choreographed office employees transition to new work space.  • Instituted a VOIP Phone System  • Configured VLANs over multiple Plant Locations.  • Secured FTP/HTTP Server  • Upgrade Juniper Firewall, with Automatic fail over capabilities.  • Transitioned users from Local Anti-virus installs to an Endpoint Solution.  • Created Company Wide SPAM filter.  • Developed company's security protocols and Documents Network Administrator Kenrick Corporation - Auburn Hills, MI 2011 to 2015 My job consisted of supporting 60 users in house and ten remote users. I had to maintain a combination of 15 physical and virtual servers. I was in charge of maintaining and keeping the servers up and running. This included, all security patches, service packs, and all other necessary maintenance. I maintained the supply levels for assorted IT equipment; such as printers, workstations, accessories and servers. I viewed daily security reports, ran by the WAF, and IDS system, and took appropriate actions to remediate any threat. I organized daily meetings with other IT personnel to discuss updates, and current workload. Along with IT roles, I also assisted in the facility maintenance of building. Working hand and hand will all vendors and contractors over the years, providing them with access, and answering any questions.  Milestones  • Upgraded Entire Server Environment From Windows Server 2003 to Server 2008 R2.  • Upgraded SQL Servers from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2012.  • Transitioned Underwriting Department from Paper Files to completely paperless Document Management System.  • Oversaw multiple upgrades to networking equipment  • Upgraded Switch  • Upgraded Firewall  • Upgraded Domain Controller Education Master of Science in Cyber Security in Cyber Security Kaplan University 2016 Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Kaplan University 2015 Bachelor of Science in Information Security in Information Security Technical Institute - Swartz Creek, MI 2010 Skills Document Management (4 years), Juniper (6 years), MS SQL SERVER (8 years), Security Compliance (8 years), SQL (8 years), PLEX (4 years), EDI (4 years), Office 365 Management (4 years), Windows Server (8 years), Network Administration, Vmware, Customer Service Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ovedhthxtpkajszc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Areas of Expertise  Policy Administration  • Created Backup Policy / Methodology Procedures  • Created Acceptable Use Policy  • Produced Security Policies for Internal and External Employees    Hyper-V  • Replication  • ESX SAN Environment  • Maintain/Configure Virtual Servers  • Perform Nightly Backups of Servers  • Manage Memory Usage and Storage    Networking Equipment  • Configuring VLANS  • Firewall Rules  • MDF/IDF Configurations  • LAN/WAN Networking    Microsoft SQL Server  • SSIS Packages  • Update, Backup, Maintain Security Functionality of Databases  • Create Databases  • Construct Procedures to adhere to Audit Regulations  • Run Updates and Scripts within our Production Environment    Additional Skills  • ERP (PLEX)  • EDI  • SQL Server  • Hyper-V  • VLANS  • Juniper Switches/Firewalls  • VMware, Vmotion, Vsphere, Veeam  • Windows Server 2008,2012,2016, 2019  • Citrix  • LAN/WAN Configuration  • Windows 7/ Windows 10 Configurations  • End-User Support  • Network Configurations  • Print Server/End-User Support  • IIS  • Active Directory  • Group Policies  • Anti-Virus Installations and Configurations  • Document Management Systems  • WSUS  • SFTP  • DFS  • DNS  • DHCP  • Encryption  • Office 365