Roustabout Roustabout Roustabout Wasilla, AK Obtain CDL, Career I can grow in.  Administrative Specialist with over 6 years of Honorable military service, with SCI clearance. Specialized in Network  administration, customer service, communication, record management, preventive and routine maintenance, tactical  & physical security, heavy equipment operation, hazmat and waste management.    Construction Safety Policies/operating procedures  Computer Hardware/Software Attention to detail Mechanical inclination  Communication Collaboration Multi-functional Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Roustabout Nabors Alaska Drilling - North Slope, AK March 2019 to April 2019 Worked as a roustabout for Nabors at the end of the season, rig shutdowns caused layoffs.  ? learned the safe operation of the role and small scopes outside of my role. Network Administrator, Marine Air Support Squadron U.S. Marine Corps - Oceanside, CA June 2017 to January 2019 Ensured network reliability for over 270 people as well as over 120 network assets for the Squadron in support of operational and training objectives.  ? Managed Information System Center as the senior Non-Commissioned Officer leading 6 personnel.  ? Demonstrated valuable skills outside of my military occupational specialty such as leadership, managerial  skills, an ability to operate calmly and decisively under stressful and unnatural circumstances, and a focus on mission accomplishment while retaining the safety of all personnel involved.  ? Led the software turnover for 116 assets from windows 7 to windows 10 in a secure network environment.  ? Assisted military vendors in the procurement of new communications equipment. Network Administrator Marine Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Squadron-4, U.S Marine Corps - Oceanside, CA November 2015 to June 2017 Ensured network reliability, computer hardware function, software stability, and technical training for 89 network users  and 67 network assets. Maintained unit communications equipment and field readiness.  ? Served as the Data Chief and Maintenance Chief ensuring the efficient tactical operation of all  communications equipment for 8 different field training exercises.  ? Served as a multi billeted Leader with technical and tactical expertise in functions outside of my regular  network administration duties to include Radio operation, and Communication equipment repair and preventative maintenance. Network Administrator 1st Battalion 1st Marines, U.S Marine Corps - Oceanside, CA October 2013 to November 2015 Deployed with 1st Battalion in support of Joint operations with Japanese Self Ground Defense Force to build better  global relations with our nations allies.  ? Supported operations and training during my tenure as a junior network administrator Farmhand Mark Colf Excavation - Phelps, NY September 2010 to October 2012 Administered Quality care to over 2200 head of sheep, directly responsible for the health and comfort of sheep and offspring.  ? Produced over 800 newborn offspring for replenishment of stock and market purposes.    1 of 2  ? Operated Heavy Equipment on a safe and efficient manner, to include Front loaders, Skid steer, Excavators, backhoe, forklift and Tractor Trailers Education High School Diploma Shortsville Central School - Shortsville, NY Skills Forklift, Maintenance, Data Entry, Word, Heavy Equipment, Welding, Hand Tools, Forklift Operator Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Cpl