Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Administrator Saint Charles, MO Self-motivated professional with 27 years of diverse experience in all aspects of network/system design, implementation, and administration. Experience in consensus building, crisis management, problem-solving, and negotiating. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Engineer GFI Digital - Maryland Heights, MO November 2018 to Present Provide tier 1-3 support to 150 customers   Research client's issues in a timely manner and follow up with the customer with recommendationsand action plans.   Mentor new engineers by answering technical questions, escalating cases, and teaching detailedprocess development.  Network Administrator Dorel Industries - Wright City, MO April 2018 to April 2018 Manage Solarwinds  ? Reimage end-user devices  ? Work helpdesk tickets Network Administrator Zoltek Corporation - Bridgeton, MO March 2015 to April 2018 Supervised Security Administrator including training, evaluating and disciplining  ? Performed troubleshooting as required  ? Installed new physical servers and configure hardware  ? Performed daily system monitoring  ? Repair and recover from hardware or software failures.  ? Responsible for approving OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis  ? Maintain Meraki switches ensuring firmware is up-to-date  ? Plan/Purchase/Install new Meraki switches  ? Monitor anti-virus system (F-Secure)  ? Managed Nimble Storage Array  ? Implemented Microsoft Hyper-V Cluster  ? Managed Exchange on-prem installation  ? Manage active directory administration  ? Provided leadership in planning and implementation of projects involving Zoltek network  resources.  ? Maintained and tracked support contracts.  ? Assisted IT manager with Fiscal Year budgeting and planning.  ? Provided end user support and on call/after hours support. Network Administrator Mom365 - Saint Charles, MO September 2014 to March 2015 Manage TSM backups/restores  ? Manage Office 365 accounts  ? Manage Windows Active Directory  ? Manage Group Policies  ? Support help desk staff  ? Assist with CommVault implementation  ? Assist in managing VMWare virtual environment  ? Implement and manage Windows SUS and ensure Windows XP machines are updated prior to end of life  ? Assist in the implementation of phone system upgrade Network Administrator Anthony Allan & Quinn - St. Louis, MO January 2011 to September 2014 Manage 20 Windows Servers which includes adding/removing users, creating security and distribution groups, setting up group policies  ? Manage Exchange Server (2003) which includes adding/removing users, creating aliases  ? Manage Cisco 2610 XM VLAN Router which includes creating VLAN interface entries, ACL  entries, and adding bandwidth limits, setting up secure Internet and LAN connectivity for all  tenants  ? Configure and maintain SonicWall Firewall  ? Manage HP switches which includes adding VLAN entries and assigning ports to corresponding  VLANs  ? Manage PBX which includes adding new station IDs, DIDs, Pilot DNs, Phantom DNs.  ? Monitor Event Viewer and audit logs for potential security breaches  ? Setup POP3 access (opening firewall ports)  ? Provide network support to all tenants, troubleshooting RJ45 ports  ? Manage Cisco PIX 506E Internet Firewall, adding/removing static NAT entries and access rules  ? Manage Web Server for SIMON (collaboration software), assign private and public IP addresses, configure NIC - setup IP address, register domain name in GoDaddy, and add MX, A record in  GoDaddy  ? Manage onsite and offsite backups Education Bachelor of Applied Arts and Sciences in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Texas A&M International University - Laredo, TX 1998 Associates of Applied Arts and Sciences in Computer Programming in Arts and Sciences Laredo Community College - Laredo, TX 1992