Enterprise Tier 4 Network Engineer Enterprise Tier 4 <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Enterprise Tier 4 Network Engineer - Salient CRGT • Maintained, patched and programed Cisco Network Routers and Switches for over 5,700 customers.  • Led project of an $8 million installation migration; proactively identified and addressed security concerns and obstacles to ensure project was completed on schedule.  • Controlled, Inventoried and preserved over 20 million dollars of IT assets/equipment. Work Experience Enterprise Tier 4 Network Engineer Salient CRGT 2017 to Present Project Management: Directed tier 4 Enterprise Network team designed and installing DISA circuits for globally reaching TS/SCI DOD mission network. Integral participant in cross-functional team troubleshooting complex IT systems, software, applications and programs; provided recommendations for solutions and improvement. Engineered $30 million datacenter renovation plan for cutting edge DOD datacenter. Installed Nexus 2K, 5K, 7K switches and connected over 700 servers to the datacenter network. DISA Contractor CenturyLink Communications 2016 to 2017 Senior Network Operations Technician  • Systems Administration: Configured/Maintained System images, enterprise application software, and monitoring tools. Responsible for the implementation of networking equipment, routing/switching, VPN connections and TCP/IP technologies. Multiple years of experience with Linux, Mac, Windows, and mobile operating systems used in a hybrid environment. Pivotal working with power systems, generators, PDU's and cable wiring for multiple government facilities.    • Efficiency & Quality Improvements: Analyzed and implemented solutions to address issues with firewalls, proxy servers, and adaptive security appliances in a live environment. Inspected appliances and government assets to prevent malfunction and enhance equipment lifespan. Minimized potential business impacts and met business level SLA's and federal contractual obligations. Administered operating system devices using scripts written in PowerShell and command line optimizing performance and management capabilities. Network Administrator UNITED STATES AIRFORCE 2011 to 2016 Performed multifaceted responsibilities configuring, installing and administering network infrastructure and telecommunications systems. Evaluated performance issues by analyzing availability and utilization and testing of equipment to ensure optimal operations. Designed and implemented solutions to monitor and secure network, protect data, hardware and software and identify potential risks.    • Hardware Control: Installed Cisco IP phones and responsible for the purchase of securely modified 7975G phones which were regulated to operate in a secure government facility. Responsible for the installation of 20 new alarm systems and affixing fiber to a central location for security monitoring in real time. Upgraded and installed Aruba 3600 wireless controllers, improved viability and trust of wireless network and ensured network viability.  • Security: Diligently monitored for rogue access points eliminating the threat of unauthorized users. Addressed dead zone areas to guarantee better coverage. Ensured redundancy in multiple point to point tunnels optimizing network security. Administered user access control, per clearance lever, to Department of Defense and Special Operations Command. Installed new alarm systems and fiber to a central location to allow for real-time monitoring. Created reporting and analytics of potential network threats. Investigated violations of IT policies and procedures.    Technology Proficiencies  Protocols:  EIGRP, STP, QOS, OSI/ISO Layers, Ethernet, IP address, TCP/UDP DNS, DHCP, SSH, Telnet, HTTP, FTP, TFTP, RDP, NTP, IMAP, IMAP, BGP, VRF, Spanning-Tree, VTP, VLANS, Physical Cabling, AAA, IPsec, CDP, NTP, PoE    Operating Systems / Software:  Solarwinds, Active Directory, Backup Software, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Office, VMware, VirtualBox, Windows Server 2008/2012, Visio, Solarwinds, GEMX, GEM One, REMEDY, Service Now, CUCM, Infoblox, Netbrain    Hardware:  Cisco 3560, 3750X, 3850, 4500's, 6500's, 7200's, Cisco Nexus 1K 2K 5K, Cisco ASA's, Cisco WAP's, Aruba 3600 Controller, HP 5500's, Cisco 2800's, Cisco 2842, Cisco 2911/2901, General Dynamics KG-175D/A's/G's, Dell Servers, HP Servers, Cisco 7911, 7970, 7975, Cisco Tandberg VTC's, Printers/Computers.  TS/SCI Education Associates in Applied Science, Information Technology COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF THE AIR FORCE 2016 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Vmware, Exchange, Remedy