Developer Developer Developer Fort Lee, NJ To obtain a responsible and challenging position in the realm of Jr level Database and Information Technology where my education and life experience will enable me to advance and excel. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer IMM March 2014 to Present • Work with Developers\Architects to define the technical implementation of the system architecture for the cloud/windows based platform that aligns with the business vision.  • Present and distill complex solutions into simple, easy to understand concepts for both technical and non-technical audiences.  • Drive the development of platform features from collaboration on requirements definition, feature design, coding, testing, and deployment.  • Reviews developmental frameworks, coding standards, conducts code reviews and walkthroughs, and conducts in-depth design reviews to ensure that implementation align with functional requirements.  • Participate in white-boarding, design sessions with the development team to solve issues related to highly complex distributed systems.  • Programmed and maintained production applications, and distribute knowledge transfer to both application support and QA.  • Recorded all issues and enhancements requests using Jira Ticketing System, SpiceWorks, SAP, and Asana.  • Created Utilities and programs using C# to reduce time for manual tasks such as importing data to DB and Purging, and costume add-ons for Production applications. Technical Support level 2 Hotel Connections March 2013 to Present Create SQL Procedures to optimize Database.  • Worked with DBA for writing scripts and document Database Architecture.  • Ensure that effective data housekeeping is in place and up to date for all supported environments.  • Administer and maintain PLC applications and environments, whilst building and maintaining up to date technical knowledge that are relevant to the execution of the applications.  • Ensure that all planned infrastructure work has had appropriate prior testing.  • Deploy and administer workflow for applications, database and content changes.  • Administer user accounts for operating systems and applications.  • Work with colleagues in the Operations team to proactively monitor, detect and resolve applications and environment problems in a timely fashion using the most appropriate tools.  • Write and maintain tools and utilities to help improve overall team efficiency.  • Provide out of hours and on call assistance when required.  • Liaise with software development teams and third party suppliers to provide fixes and enhancements to applications and environments.  • To record all incidents, requests, updates and releases via Jira Ticketing System. Network Administrator Lincoln Park Medical Center - Lincoln Park, NJ June 2011 to March 2013 Oversee installation, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of end user workstation  • Assisted in Planning, Installing Hardware (workstation components) and software (OS).  • Optimized network hardware and Inventory and ensured network connectivity of all workstations.  • Administrated and maintained end-user accounts, email, permissions, and access rights.  • Managed security solutions including firewall, antivirus, and intrusion detection systems.  • Extensive Application support experience and knowledge of Microsoft OS(XP, Win 7).  • Wide knowledge of Switches, routers, Installing operating systems, Software and hardware.  • Debugged software applications and Increased performance. Education Associates in Applied Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Paramus, NJ March 2011 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • PL/SQL, SQL Server 2005/2008, C#, HTML, Visual Basic, Asp.Net.  • Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, Access.    QUALIFICATIONS  • Excellent knowledge of Database: Oracle, SQL Server.  • Creating tables, views, triggers, procedures, functions, indexes and other database objects.  • In-depth knowledge of the relational database.  • Interpreting SQL Error Logs and Event Logs.  • Experience in Query Optimization and Troubleshooting.  • Ability to provide solutions for computer hardware and software problems.  • Strong design skills that contribute to fast, efficient, and creative problem solving.