Analyst Programmer, Guyana Sugar Corporation Analyst Programmer, Guyana Sugar Corporation Help Desk Technician Rahway, NJ Information Technology Professional with over 9 years of experience in the field, who has held roles such as Network Administrator/Engineer, Analyst Programmer, Systems Administrator among others. Supported and maintained LAN and WAN networks. Familiar with the software development life cycle.    Skills and Competencies  LAN, WAN, TCP/IP, VPN, Routers, Switches, Window Networking, Windows Server, Technical Support, Active Directory, Linux Networking, POS, Customer Service, Help Desk, ITIL, Documentation, Research, PLSQL, Database, Crystal Reports, Visual Basic, Adobe Golive, Joomla. Work Experience Analyst Programmer, Guyana Sugar Corporation Ogle Guyana, S.A June 2014 to April 2015 Worked as part of a team of three maintaining and providing a series of enhancements to the organisations a weekly payroll application.  ? Projects/Accomplishments: Enhanced the employee payroll application system supported by Oracle db, through a series of programmed updates, tools used PLSQL, Crystal Reports, Visual Basic 6. Provided system code patches and data fixes for application. Also debugged and tested payroll application to resolve application problems.  ? Resolved the daily queries for about 30 users, utilizing service desk (ManageEngine Service Desk) and customer service to respond to and resolve user queries.  ? Provided a work around for some reported application problems where required, and documented their solutions.  ? Assisted the technical team in resolving payroll application related issues they were unable to resolve. Network Engineer Guyana Sugar Corporation, Ogle Guyana, S.A December 2013 to January 2014 and May 2014.  ? Maintained and monitored communication infrastructure and services.  ? Projects/Accomplishments: Configured and setup a Linux Mint 16 deployment server and documented configuration steps.  ? Monitored incident tickets for over seven locations so as to ensure compliance with service level agreements (SLA).  ? Minor supervision of Network Administrators at over seven locations.  ? Configuration of user accounts, granting of user rights in active directory and backing up of data on servers.  ? IT asset and procurement management.  ? Other tasks included, system backup and recovery, setting up of user accounts in Active Directory, setup, configuration and troubleshooting of SonicWall VPN accounts. Network Administrator Guyana Sugar Corporation, Ogle Guyana, S.A November 2010 to November 2013 Supported and maintained LAN and WAN for two locations with a 100+ users including telephone support. Provided hardware support installing, troubleshooting and repairing desktop and laptop computers. Supported, installed and troubleshooted Citrix thin Clients both Windows and Linux based. Also provided printer installation and support. Provided software support installing, troubleshooting, and supporting Microsoft Windows 2000/XP/7/8, Microsoft office, and provided first level support to Payroll and Antivirus software (including Symantec EndPoint Protection). Support was both remote and on-site.  Accomplishments/Projects:  ? Extended the network services to estate residences.  ? Improved existing computer performance of computers on the estates.  ? Improved the state of wiring around the industry.  ? Completed asset register for all power and networking equipment.  ? Improved network performance and documentation. Systems Administrator Guyana National Newspapers Ltd, Guyana, S.A March 2010 to August 2010 Functioned in a managerial role, managing the Management Information Systems (MIS) department. Accomplishments:  ? Managed and maintained the organization's LAN of 40+ users.  ? Trained and supervised employees.  ? Prepared staff work schedule.  ? Maintained and supporting the organization's website. Fixing of minor issues as it relates to the website and updating website pages with newspaper content.  ? Evaluation, Procurement and management of IT assets.  ? Consultancy on projects.  ? Preparing of reports.  ? End user software and hardware support. Systems Administrator Guyana National Newspapers Ltd, Guyana, S.A January 2006 to February 2010 Functioned in a managerial capacity of Systems Administrator in the absence of one (2006-Feb 2010); duties above.  ? Configured, installed, maintained and repaired Windows PCs.  ? Repaired and Troubleshoot LAN.  ? Updated website pages daily using Adobe GoLive and later Joomla. Maintained and supporting the organization's website. Education MSc. in Information Systems Management University of Liverpool 2017 Master Certificate in Systems Design and Project Leadership Cornell University 2014 BSc. in Computer Science University of Guyana 2008 Skills Active Directory, Help Desk, Tech Support, Desktop Support, Service Desk, VPN, SQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tanishapeters Certifications/Licenses Linux Networking and Troubleshooting June 2019 to Present AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner (training) July 2019 to Present ITIL Foundation Certificate 2019 to Present