Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Capital one San Antonio, TX • Over 5 years hands-on experience in designing & implementing inter- networks using Cisco Products and Design schemes for IP addressing & Subnetting. Experience in IP Routing with BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, IGRP, RIPv1 & v2. Hands-on experience in implementing MPLS, MPLS -VPNs.  • In-depth knowledge of TCP/IP, IP protocol suite and OSI Model.  • Installed Configured:  • Cisco Routers: GSR 12000, 7600, 7500, 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500, 1800, 1700, 800 series.  • Catalyst Switches: 6500, 4000, 3550 and 2900 series.  • Working knowledge of various firewalls including Cisco ASA 5500 series, Cisco PIX 500 series.  • Good working knowledge of Cisco Works.  • Proficient in designing networks with MS Visio.  • Worked with load balancing techniques.  • Proficient in configuring, troubleshooting ACLs (Standard, Extended, and Named), Layer 2 protocols including VTP, STP, RSTP, PVRSTP+ and VLANs.  • Outstanding experience in designing and configuring of Layer 2/3 features such as VLAN, ISL, STP, RSTP, PVST, VTP, Port Security and L2PT.  • Strong experience in Configuring VLANs and implementing inter VLAN routing.  • Experience in Upgrading and troubleshooting Cisco IOS to the Cisco Switches and routers.  • Good working knowledge of authentication protocols including PAP, CHAP, WPA, TACACS+, and IPSec.  • Good working knowledge of TCP/IP, 802.x protocols, VLSM, DS0, DS1, DS3, SONET/SDH, ISDN, BGP, IPV6, NAT, VPN, Frame-relay and ATM technologies.  • Expertise in IP Addressing, Subnetting and VLSM.  • Expertise in Configuration of routing protocols likes RIP, IGRP, OSPF and EIGRP, BGP.  • Experience in Establishing of Point-to-Point WAN links and configuration of fallback options for redundancy.  • Work experience on Windows Server 2008 and Windows server 2012, Backup and Restore.  • Good team player, excellent communication skills, analytical skills, strong internetworking concepts, and eagerness to learn new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Capital one - Richmond, VA September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the configuration, implementation and operation of Cisco 3745 routers, Cisco 6509 and 3750, 4500, 6500 switches and Arista switches 7020R, 7260X  • Configuring and troubleshooting OSPF and EIGRP, BGP, MPLS, static routes and NAT pools on the routers end.  • Provided fault resolution to backbone infrastructure running on routing protocols such as RIP, BGP, OSPF & MPLS.  • Configured and managed rules and policies on Checkpoint firewalls  • Configured Checkpoint Firewall in distributed deployment and also maintaining Site-to-Site VPN Connection through the Firewalls.  • Responsible for configuration and Virtualization of Checkpoint firewalls across the enterprise.  • Implemented and configured firewall Palo Alto PA-5260.  • Utilized Cisco BGP communities and advanced route filtering on Cisco IOS.  • Implemented Cisco L3 switches 3750, 4500, 6500 in dual VLan environment with the use of inter-Vlan routing, ISL, trunk & ether channels.  • Configured Client VPN technologies including Cisco's VPN client via IPSEC.  • Monitoring and Troubleshooting Gateway Clusters using Checkpoint FW monitor commands and cphaprob and cphaprob stat.  • Troubleshoot network access problems, Strong TCP/IP understanding, Debugging Checkpoint Firewall  • Implemented VTP, trunking protocols (802.1q and ISL) on cat 3560, 3750 and 4500 switches.  • Configured PVSTP+ for loop prevention and VTP for Inter-VLAN Routing.  • Designed ACLs, VLANs, troubleshooting IP addressing issues and taking back up of the configurations on switches and routers.  • Worked with application layer protocols such as Telnet, HTTP/HTTPS, SSH, SSL and DNS.  • Provided technical assistance for LAN/WAN management and resolved customer issues.  • Performed troubleshooting on Trunks and Router interfaces and ASA firewalls.  • Blacklisted and white listed web URL on Blue Coat Proxy servers  • Configured BPDU Guard, BPDU filter, port-fast, uplink fast, backbone fast of spanning tree STP.  • Configuring and modifying policy maps, route-maps.  • Bundle Ethernet Configuration, Assigning DHCP profiles.  • Configuring ISL trunk on Fast-Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet channel between switches.  • Worked on HSRP and GLBP for first hop redundancy and load balancing.  • Planning and configuring the entire IP addressing plan for the clients' network.  • Experience in Cisco switches and routers: Physical cabling, IP addressing, Wide Area Network configurations (Frame-relay and ATM).  • Installed different software on the systems. Install and managing network devices including Hubs, Switches.  • Perform system maintenance to proactively tune various network issues prior to occurrence.  • Provided testing for network connectivity before and after install/upgrade.  • Performed IOS upgrades on various catalyst series switches and maintained latest IOS versions according to company's policy.  • Network Monitoring using tools like Cisco Works 2000.  • Performed and technically documented various test results on the lab tests conducted.  • Worked on Windows Platform and also involved in capacity planning of Network maintenance.  • Provide 24/7 supports and troubleshooting of a variety of network related issues including Guests' connectivity and devices operability.  • Planned resources and presented project status to higher management. Network Engineer Jefferson Bank - San Antonio, TX April 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Internal and external accounts and, managing LAN/WAN and checking for Security Settings of the networking devices (Cisco Router, switches) co-coordinating with the system/ Network administrator during any major changes and implementation.  • Designed and implemented an IP addressing scheme with subnets for different departments.  • Involved in the design & configured a LAN using 2691 series Routers and 2950 series switches.  • Used and maintained routing protocols like EIGRP, BGP on the Routers in the network.  • Worked on MPLS connectivity using VRF id and have broad knowledge on multi-protocol label switching for (MPLS-VPN) and traffic engineering (MPLS-TE).  • Managed the LAN Switching Environment including creating and maintaining VLANs, STP, Trunking, Port Security, Vlan Security etc.  • Set up and troubleshoot secured wireless access points for broadband internet.  • Involved in configuration of WAN connection using a 3600 series Router and Frame relay method.  • Implementation of NAT with a pool of 2 public IP addresses.  • Involved in installing and configuring PIX firewall.  • Worked on migration from PIX to ASA.  • Designed and implemented DMZ for web servers, mail servers, FTP using PIX525, PIX535, ASA5550, ASA5520 also worked on Checkpoint Firewall NG/AI/ to implement network security solutions.  • Established IPSec VPN tunnels between branch offices and headquarter using ASA Firewall.  • Extensively worked on firewalls which include migration from Cisco PIX to ASA Firewalls and also worked with Juniper firewalls.  • Assisted in migrating existing server and network infrastructure from HQ to a data center for optimal functionality and management.  • Involved in Installing and Configuring a Cisco secure ACS server for AAA authentication (TACACS).  • Designed network connectivity and network security, between various offices and data center. Installed and configured routers including 1800, 2600 along with Cisco switches including 3750 and 6500.  • Involved with the Systems team to Install, configure, & maintain AD, DNS, DHCP on Windows 2000 Server, also configured a FTP server; Installed configured & maintained MS Exchange Server.  • Development and management of Cisco Nexus 7000, 5000 switches, ASA 5550 firewalls and routers, ACE Load Balancers, and other network equipment configurations in data centers.  • Install and maintain voice, video and data communications infrastructure systems and cabling.  • Used various Network sniffers like Ethereal, TCPdump etc.  • SNMP network management using MRTG and Cisco works.  • Participate in 24 x 7 incident & problem support. Network Administrator Cigna Health Care - Denver, CO January 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities  • Provided support for global network including T1/T3, ATM connections using HDLC and Frame Relay on 2600, 4000 series Routers.  • Responsible for SNMP Monitoring and Performance Tuning software.  • Designed WAN structure to prevent single point of failure in case of link failure.  • Experience in Maintenance and Troubleshooting of connectivity problems using PING, Traceroute.  • Planning and Implementation of Subnetting, VLSM to conserve IP addresses.  • Experience in configuring STP for loop prevention and VTP for Inter-VLAN Routing.  • Performing the Configuration and troubleshooting of EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP.  • Dealt with the configuration of Standard and Extended ACLs for Security.  • Been involved in providing technical assistance for LAN/WAN management and complex customer issues.  • Provided support for troubleshooting and resolving Customer reported issues.  • Performed IOS upgrades on Catalyst 3550, 2950, 1900 switches, and 3600, 2600 and 2500 routers.  • Implemented and configured routing protocols like EIGRP, OSPF, BGP.  • Experience in Troubleshooting the issues related to routing protocols.  • Managing, troubleshooting and monitoring the network using Network Monitoring tool.  • Implementing Network Security with Cisco IOS Feature Set, NAT, and Simple Network Management Protocol.  • Involved in installing and configuring PIX 515E firewall.  • Dealt with DNS, DHCP trouble shooting and other IP conflict problems.  • Implementation of name resolution using WINS & DNS in TCP/IP environment. Network Administrator Progressive Insurance - Mayfield, OH September 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Hands-on experience in troubleshooting TCP/IP stack & HTTP.  • Automate the testing process to verify configurations on Cisco routers and switches.  • Operation and Management of Indian Railways (VPN) customers.  • IP configuration, Management and Co-ordinate with APNIC.  • Coordinate with Vendors and service providers for media and routing related problem (Tulip, TCL).  • Configure line interface in Juniper and Cisco routers for Customers & Backbone links.  • Providing technical support to field engineers & customers.  • Configuration & troubleshooting of routing in J & M Series (M120, M20, M10i, M10, J2350) Routers of Juniper.  • Provisioning & troubleshooting of L2VPN, L3VPN & Internet Bandwidth Customers.  • Managing traffic (Bandwidth) of MPLS Network.  • Provide Technical Support to VPN & Internet customers.  • Monitoring of customer SLA through Info vista and Cacti.  • Automate the testing process to verify configurations on Cisco routers and switches.  • Monitoring of backbone links and Network nodes through Argus, Nagios & Dorado NM.  • Hands on configuration experience on Cisco Switches (2950 and 3750) & Cisco Routers (1800, 2600, 3600).  • Hands on configuration experience last mile Internet & VPN customer.  • Handling L1 support and Helpdesk team. Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Hardware: Routers, Switches, Bridges, Modems, Desktops, Printers, scanners.  • Network Protocols: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, VPN, STATIC, RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, STP, ICMP.  • Tools/Technologies: Dream Weaver, Wire shark, Network Diagnostic Tool, Network traffic monitoring Tool, Solar winds, Ghost, VNCviewer, Tracert, IP filter.  • Security: NAT, ACL, IPtables.  • Operating and Database Systems: Windows, Linux, Fedora Core, Ubuntu, IOS, MS DOS, Oracle 8i, Access.  • Programming Languages: C, C++, Prolog, Core Java, VB, HTML, Java script.  • System Administration: DNS, DHCP, NFS, NIS, QMAIL, SENDMAIL, POSTFIX, FTP, Apache, Samba.