IT Specialists IT Specialists Network Administrator Armonk, NY Work Experience IT Specialists PepsiCo - Purchase, NY June 2019 to Present Support Campus Network Environment of IT Peripheral Equipment. Network Administrator Stellaris Health Network - Armonk, NY April 2016 to January 2019 Responsible for installation and maintenance of hardware /software systems and supporting large user groups. ? Assist in selection and evaluation of hardware and software.  ? Support, maintain, and install local area network equipment.  ? Responsible for remote location network operations. Support Specialist All Covered - New York, NY January 2015 to November 2015 Providing customer service to the clients of All Covered remote and on-site support to our clients. Interact daily with clients and works with other Client account stakeholders in understanding client support requests and requirements. Primarily focused on end user support and entry level system administration functions.  My duties are providing on-site and remote end user support with focus on performing end user support primarily relating to the desktop and Mobile communications. Assisting with proactive maintenance, documentation, and testing of client network environments as directed through a combination of scheduled onsite and remote work using prescribed checklists.  Assist other team member in maintaining accurate and up to date documentation of client's network environment and supporting material that ensures consistent quality remote support by any member of the Service Delivery Team.  Project deployment working with assigned project leads and Project managers, working assigned tasks and within defined project scope and milestones to ensure the successful deployment of I.T. projects. NETWORK ENGINEER Paul Hastings - New York, NY October 2013 to December 2013 Project to convert from a Nortel Voice Switch to VOIP utilizing network Ethernet infrastructure. Cisco CUCM was setup via 3rd. party vendor. All Cisco network switches I supported for conversion. Support Specialist Insight - White Plains, NY February 2013 to September 2013 • Supported customers utilizing Cisco Network Routers and Lan Switches for a 3rd. party network provider.  • Worked with various enterprises on job locations for network support. NETWORK ENGINEER Slait Consulting - New York, NY June 2012 to December 2012 * Merged Networks on a MPLS Network for 2 HMO Organizations.  * Overall responsibility was to inventory network equipment and data network interfaces for over 25 on site locations. Converted over to one network while setting up Avaya VOIP equipment and Cisco network switches to an MPLS network. Support Specialist White Plains, NY February 2011 to September 2011 • Supported different and various enterprise networks for 3rd party provider.  • On site job locations for network support. NETWORK ENGINEER International Computer Center - New York, NY January 2011 to April 2011 Resolved network issues at NYC location while supporting United Nations data networks and a co-location center in New Jersey for ICC. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory (2 years), Aironet (3 years), Bgp (3 years), Catalyst (10+ years), Check point (Less than 1 year), Cisco (10+ years), Citrix (3 years), Dhcp (10+ years), Disaster recovery (10+ years), documentation (10+ years), Eigrp (3 years), Exchange (2 years), Frame relay (4 years), Ftp (Less than 1 year), Hdlc (7 years), Hsrp (2 years), Http (10+ years), Lan (10+ years), network operations. (10+ years), operations. (10+ years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Information Technology (10+ years), Help Desk (5 years), Comptia (3 years), It Specialist (10+ years), Network Support, Computer Repair