Sr.Voice Network Engineer Sr.Voice <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Sr.Voice Network Engineer - Medco Health, NJ Health, AR ? 7+ years of experience in designing, implementing and maintaining enterprise level VoIP networks.  ? Experience in VoIP Telephony and expert knowledge of SIP - signaling protocol.  ? Knowledge of PBX, media gateways and gateway controller.  ? Extensively worked on Cisco ICM, CVP, CUCM, CUIC, Finesse, Gateways and EIM/WIM (Email/Chat).  ? Active participation in UCCE installation.  ? Extensive hands on experience on working with troubleshooting of VoIP network using Cisco call manager, Third Party voice mail server, voice gateways, Avaya CM and Broadsoft Application server.  ? Practical understanding of UCCE Deployment models.  ? Involved in migration projects to cisco UCCE from Avaya/Nortel.  ? Strong design knowledge and support of IP-PBX, AVAYA systems, Data, VoIP, Video networks.  ? Troubleshooting VoIP protocolsSIP, RTP, H.248, H.323, IAX, and MGCP.  ? Strong knowledge of relevant IETF RFCs, IEEE&ITU-T standards.  ? Experience in SIP trunking and working knowledge of Broadworkstrunking algorithms.  ? Experience with handling and troubleshooting SBC (Acme) and ESBC.  ? Experience with working on WIRESHARK, Abacus and Agilent network analyzer.  ? Experience in software sanity, acceptance, progression testing, automation design, development and support.  ? Full understanding of the life cycle of a software development and testing process.  ? Planned, designed, implemented and supported IPT application and network infrastructure for small, medium and large enterprise type of businesses located world-wide.  ? Worked on Sonus policy server(PSX) and PSTN gateway(GSX)  ? Excellent Team Co-ordination skills and good team player with both excellent communication, Interpersonal skills  ? Wide system view, excellent analytical skills, ability to handle complex tasks, high learning Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Voice Network Engineer Medco Health, NJ January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for configuring, testing, and certifying Cisco, Adtran and Carrier Access routers for use in Qwest's VOIP network.  ? Involved in call flow analysis using Wireshark.  ? Involved in CUCM 9.0 Upgrade.  ? Configured mobility features such as mobile voice access, extension mobility, and remote destination profiles in CUCM.  ? Deployed new ICM environments, including the build of all components: Router, Logger, PGs, AW/HDS, and CUIC.  ? Troubleshoot various call routing issues within UCCE and CVP, using my knowledge of voice protocols and Cisco voice products.  ? Upgraded ICM from 8.5.1 to 8.5.4.  ? Implemented ICM 9.0 and CVP 9.0.  ? Troubleshoot various call routing issues within UCCE and CVP, using my knowledge of voice protocols and Cisco's voice products.  ? Deployed new ICM environments, including the build of all components, Router, Logger, PG's AW/HDS, and CUIC.  ? Conduct test defect analysis of SIP, DOCSIS, PCMM Protocols through SSH, Wire Shark and Agilent test tools.  ? Troubleshooting Cisco and Polycom MGCP, SIP, and SIP-B endpoints for customer deployments.  ? Develop strategies for replacement and upgrades of Cisco core networking elements.  ? Developed technical support policies and procedures.  ? Administered and configured Unity Connection, Cisco Emergency Responder, and Cisco UCCX.  ? End to end call flow testing  ? Tested SIP trunking algorithms  ? Tested Feature access codes.  ? Tested Broadworks announcements.  ? Tested call detail records.  ? Prepare test plans and test cases using Quality center. CTI Developer/Admin Bank of America, NY June 2016 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Deployment of new ICM environments, Including the build of all components: Router, Logger, PGs, AW/HDS, and webview.  ? Troubleshoot ICM and CVP problems of all kinds.  ? Involved in development of Jphone with is essentially a CTI client based out of Java.  ? Built reports as per business requirements based out of AWDB.  ? Worked on PG failure issues.  ? Has good knowledge on ICM scripting in designing call flows.  ? Also, involved in troubleshooting call flow issues.  ? Administered all cisco UC and UCCE operational bug updates and upgrades, Includes daily scripting of ICM and IVR for business.  ? Installed and setup CTIOS Client and CAD for various agent scenarios and setup appropriate screen pops per customer requirements.  ? Installed and configured IPCC Express for small call centers and built all necessary scripts.  ? Planned and tested enhancements and upgrades to VOIP systems.  ? Built replica of production VoIP system in a lab environment.  ? worked on speech technologies like VXML to develop speech systems.  ? Proficiency in analysis of speech systems requirements to transform them to a Voice user interface (VUI) design.  ? Worked with the design team to implement and test new applications and scripts in ICM design and production environments.  ? Communicated with various telecom vendors, service partners and outsource providers for support of our call center infrastructure.  ? Has experience on building regex strings for monitoring purpose in splunk. Voice Network Engineer USAA - San Antonio, TX October 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Performed hands-on and automated VOIP testing of the Geico telephony from switches to phones, servers, clients, and, in some cases, peripheral or third-party devices.  ? for feature functionality and verification of a quality product for voice and telephony, conferencing, messaging, presence and Instant Messaging (IM), clients, and communications applications for Unified Communications system Enterprise Software.  ? Worked on hosted VoIP services and SIP Trunking.  ? Telephony Connectivity -Analog, T1, E1, ANI, DNIS, PRI, Etherspeak  ? Data Connectivity- TCP/IP, Ethernet  ? Tested call flows with PSX and GSX.  ? Worked on inSSIDer for analyzing Wi-Fi networks.  ? Capture the SIP, UDP and RTP using the Wireshark network Analyzer, Empirix-Hammer and Broadsoft logs.  ? Worked on PSX CLI to add routes and policies.  ? Review Event Logs system configuration and call flow  ? Run traces/Telnet into switches, phones etc.  ? Capture data (all server logs, Application & System Event logs).  ? Trouble Shoot SIP, analog, PRI & voice quality Issues  ? Ixia was used to validate Layer2/3 functionality and AX4000 was used to validate SONET functionality.  ? Configured routers, switches and PBXs.  ? Active Participation in the installation of cisco UCCE devices and servers.  ? Proven experience of migration projects to Cisco UCCE from Avaya/Nortel.  ? Provisioned users on Cisco Call Manager.  ? Experience in SIP Troubleshooting involving SBC, CUSP and other components.  ? Worked on Dial plan. Voice Network Administrator Robert Half Technology - Washington, DC June 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Building Site Partitions, Calling Search Spaces, Route plans, and Translation Patterns in Call Manager.  ? Voice Gateway configuration and deployment. Troubleshooting Implementation of Cisco LAN/WAN Infrastructure Switch & Routing Configuration and Deployment Network Migrations Testing and Troubleshooting.  ? Configuring Clusters and Plan implementation tasks, including change management and communication in Call manager.  ? Runs advanced show commands and demonstrates a solid understanding of PRI's, FXS ports, and dial-peers.  ? Validate installed solution against design record to ensure successful product deployment.  ? Provided technical support by phone, remote screen sharing, and in person when required, to maximize first-call solve rates for local and remote users.  ? Completed moves, adds, changes in for Call manager and Unity related issues but not limited to.  ? Perform proactive monitoring of voice systems, alarms and alerts to identify those components that may lead to or already are causing voice/video/data degradation or failure. Provide mentoring, training, and support for junior technical staff and Contractors.  ? Tier 3 Voice Engineer for LAN/WAN issues and resolve Networking, Call Manager, Unity, Meeting Place, and call routing related issues daily.  ? Training and Leading a team of Voice Engineers on how to Deploy VoIP along Cisco Unified Communications Manager. Work independently as well as with a team of engineers.  ? Ensuring Team Exceeds SLA using Service Now.  ? Communicate with Managed Service teams on service issues, collecting information, and determining root cause of issues.  ? Maintained and inventory licenses in phone systems, servers, quality management, and workforce management systems to ensure they are up to date.  ? Documented network problems and resolutions for future reference.  ? Provisioned PRI, BRI, Private Port SIP, E1 Circuits and POTS.  ? Troubleshoot networks, systems, and applications to identify and correct malfunctions and other operational difficulties.  ? Established and perform maintenance programs following company and vendor standards.  ? Recommended changes to improve systems and network configurations and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes.  ? Deployed telecommunications services in a call center environment Experienced with outbound dialing technologies. Voice Network Engineer Medco Health, NJ July 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for configuring, testing, and certifying Cisco, Adtran and Carrier Access routers for use in Qwest's VOIP network.  ? Involved in call flow analysis using Wireshark.  ? Involved in CUCM 9.0 Upgrade.  ? Configured mobility features such as mobile voice access, extension mobility, and remote destination profiles in CUCM.  ? Deployed new ICM environments, including the build of all components: Router, Logger, PGs, AW/HDS, and CUIC.  ? Troubleshoot various call routing issues within UCCE and CVP, using my knowledge of voice protocols and Cisco voice products.  ? Upgraded ICM from 8.5.1 to 8.5.4.  ? Implemented ICM 9.0 and CVP 9.0.  ? Troubleshoot various call routing issues within UCCE and CVP, using my knowledge of voice protocols and Cisco's voice products.  ? Deployed new ICM environments, including the build of all components, Router, Logger, PG's AW/HDS, and CUIC.  ? Conduct test defect analysis of SIP, DOCSIS, PCMM Protocols through SSH, Wire Shark and Agilent test tools.  ? Troubleshooting Cisco and Polycom MGCP, SIP, and SIP-B endpoints for customer deployments.  ? Develop strategies for replacement and upgrades of Cisco core networking elements.  ? Developed technical support policies and procedures.  ? Administered and configured Unity Connection, Cisco Emergency Responder, and Cisco UCCX.  ? End to end call flow testing  ? Tested SIP trunking algorithms  ? Tested Feature access codes.  ? Tested Broadworks announcements.  ? Tested call detail records.  ? Prepare test plans and test cases using Quality center. Education Bachelor's Skills CISCO, GSX, AVAYA, E1, T1, VPN, Vmware, security, Exchange, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Protocols: SIP, SDP, SNMP, UDP, TCP, H.323, HTTP and RTP.  Hardware: Cisco Routers and Switches, Cisco IP Phones, SONUS PSX,GSX, Acme Packet Session Border Controller 4200 and 4250  Test Tools: Quality center 10, Wireshark, HP Quality Center, SPIRENT Abacus and Agilent.  Soft switches: Broadsoft, Avaya CM, Cisco Call Manager, IP Centrex.  Languages/Scripting: HTML, Linux, XML, UML and SQL.  Cisco: ICM, CVP, CUSP, EIM/WIM, Finesse and Ingress & Egress gateways.  Edge: SBC  Carrier Lines: T1, DSL and E1  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, and Cisco IOS