Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Jacksonville Beach, FL Energetic professional seeking a position where I can immerse myself in a challenging work environment that allows me  to fully utilize my organizational, interpersonal, and IT skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator City of Jacksonville, FL - Jacksonville, FL July 2019 to Present Install, maintain, and keep up-to-date networking equipment such as Switches, routere and IP phones. Ensure the citys large enterprise network is operating as intended and nodes stay up. Contact customers to troubleshoot over the phone as well as going into the field to troubleshoot, repair, and upgrade nodes all across the city. Sales, Management King of Scooters - Panama City, FL March 2017 to November 2017 Worked with customers to ensure safe and successful rental of equipment. Responsible for bringing in sales, managing  employees, accurately completing documentation, and maintaining store. Guided and motivated junior employees and resolved customer complaints. Livery Operator, Sales SunCat Watersports - Panama City, FL April 2012 to June 2016 Responsible for smooth and safe operations of watercraft rental booth; worked with customers to ensure an enjoyable  experience. Trained customers in safe operation of personal watercraft. Maintained machinery and carried out troubleshooting of problems as required. Education Industry Certifications in Information Technology Tom P. Haney Technical Center - Panama City, FL August 2018 to June 2019 Deane Bozeman High School 2009 to 2012 Skills Comptia, It Specialist, Help Desk, Information Technology, Desktop Support, Computer Repair, Network Support, Cisco Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ April 2019 to April 2022 Vendor neutral, globally recognized IT certification. CompTIA Network+ April 2019 to April 2022 Vendor neutral, globally recognized networking certification. MTA Microsoft Windows 10 operating system fundamental certification. MTA Networking Fundamentals Microsoft networking fundamental certification. Additional Information Preparing for CompTIA Security+ Exam to acquire the CompTIA Secure Infrastructure Specialist certification.