Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - City of Fort Myers Fort Myers, FL Work Experience Network Engineer City of Fort Myers - Fort Myers, FL February 2018 to Present ·       Maximize network performance by monitoring performance, troubleshooting network problems and outages, scheduling upgrades and collaborating with network architects on network optimization. Designed and implemented new solutions and improve resilience of the current environment.  ·       Maintaining and administering computer networks and related computing environments including systems software, applications software, hardware, and configurations.  ·       Performing disaster recovery operations and data backups when required.  ·       Work with control network infrastructure design ( network architecture concepts, including topology, protocols, and components) and their relation to IEC 62443 and the Purdue Model.  ·       Secure network systems by establishing and enforcing policies and defining and monitoring access. Support and administer firewall environments in line with IT security policy. Experience using Bomgar appliances.  ·       Provide remote support to on-site engineers and end users/customers.   ·       Installed and managed Virtual Switches with Hyper-V, identified cloud computing and SAN technologies.  ·       Installed, configured and troubleshooted Extreme Switches. Network Administrator Access Technologies Inc - Albuquerque, NM May 2017 to November 2017 • Worked with TCP/IP networks.  • Configured, installed and troubleshooted router, switches and firewalls.  • Configured and troubleshooted Scala servers, players and content manager.  • Deployed, configured and installed March Network Security devices.  • Managed, Administered and Configured Windows Server 2012R2.  • Customer services oriented. Network Security Administrator Student New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Albuquerque, NM May 2016 to September 2017 • Moved to United States.  • Obtained CWNA and CCENT/ CCNA certification.  • Went to New Horizons Computer Learning Center in a Network System Professional Administrator training to get CompTIA  Network +, Security + and MSCA certifications.  • Identified wireless transmissions techniques, devices and components. Also installed a wireless routers.  • Enabled static routing and implemented dynamic IP routing.  • Implemented IPv6 addressing, worked with TCP/IP protocols, commands and information.  • Created a DNS record and assigned IP addresses using DCHP server.  • Learned WAN basics, connectivity methods, transmission technologies and unified communication technologies.  • Obtained strong knowledge on network security, vulnerabilities, threats and attacks, authentications methods. Also I  tested permissions, installed a Certificate Authority (CA), configured NAT and windows firewalls. Besides hardened  network and scanned for port vulnerability. Senior Network Engineer Junior Network Engineer MoviTel S.A - Havana, CU September 2012 to May 2016 Havana, Cuba  • Promoted from Junior Network Engineer to Senior Network Engineer in one year and a half.  • Experienced using the TCP/IP and OSI Model and its functionality.  • Networking fundamentals, WAN technologies, and basic security, routing and switching fundamentals, and configuring  simple networks.  • Designed and implemented network solutions.  • Installed, configured and supported network equipment including routers, proxy servers, switches, WAN accelerators, DNS and DHCP. Procuring network equipment and managing subcontractors involved with network installation  • Configured firewalls, routing and switching to maximize network efficiency and security  • Troubleshooting experience on network Layer 2 and Layer 3 issues, with a strong knowledge of VLANS, TCP/IP, Spanning  Tree Protocol.  • Designed, configured and implemented 802.11x wireless access points and the related infrastructure.  • Managed a team of 7 direct reporting officers for continuous product optimization, account management. Education New Horizons Computer Learning Center September 2017 Central New Mexico Community College September 2016 Bachelor in Telecommunications & Electronics Superior Institute Polytechnic July 2012 Skills SECURITY (6 years), FIREWALLS (5 years), TCP (5 years), TCP/IP (5 years), SWITCHING (3 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/barbarogonzalez Additional Information SKILLS  Technical Skills  • Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, MacOS, Android.  • Windows Server: Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows Server 2012.  • Hardware: CISCO ASA Firewalls, Routers and Switching. Fortinet Switches and Firewalls. Extreme switches. Palo Alto  firewalls.  • Network Technologies: WLAN, WAN, LAN, VLAN, TCP/IP.  • Security: WPA2, HTTPS, VPN, IPsec, SSL, TLS, NAT, firewalls and ACLs.  • Software/Applications: Hyper-V, IPS.  Soft Skills  • Attention to detail Customer Service Analytical mind Reliable Ability to learn new technologies quickly  Leadership Strong documentation skills Teamwork.    ·       Key Focuses: Network Engineer, Systems Administrator, IT Systems Administrator, Network Support Specialist, Wireless Network Engineer, Computer Network Administrator, OSPF – EIGRP, Systems Troubleshooting, Software, Hardware, Users Support, Technical Resolutions, Network Monitoring, Users, Software & Hardware Troubleshooting Technical Problems, Configuring, Troubleshooting Support, Networking CISCO, Systems Technology, Software, Network Security, WAN/LAN, Network Administrator, TCP/IP, Business Continuity, Disaster Recovery, Virtualization, Cloud Computing, MS Office, VMware, Encryption, Retention, Intranet, Extranet, Nutanix.