Sr. Network Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Sr. Network Engineer - Capital One Huston, PA, PA • Cisco Network Engineer with around 8+years of experience in Designing, Implementing and Troubleshooting Service Provider Networks and Enterprise Networks and Network administration, implementation, design and troubleshooting, load balancers, seeking a challenging and interesting opportunity in computer/ network engineering which enables me to maximize my technical and managerial skills.  • Experience in configuration, and deployment of all Unified Communications infrastructure.  • Experience in designing, implementing, migrating and supporting Citrix suite of products (XenApp, XenDesktop, NetScaler, etc.) version 7.x including Citrix Receiver.  • Experience with administering Active Directory Domain services in a Windows Server 2008 and 2012R2 environment  • Experience in configuring routing protocols and other network technologies such as BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, VRF, SSL VPN, IPSEC, GRE, L2TPv3, NAT/PAT, PrF, NBAR, MPLS, QoS, STP, HSRP, VTP, VPC ETC  • Configured Security policies including NAT, PAT, VPN's and Access Control Lists.  • Analyze existing voice and data networks and recommend solutions.  • Installed high availability Big IP F5 LTM 6900 and 7250 and GTM 6400 and 6800 load balancers to provide uninterrupted service to customers.  • Good knowledge of IP Addressing, Subnetting, VLSM, ARP, OSI and TCP/IP models.  • Experience in Configuration and Support of LAN protocols on Cisco Switches such as (Layer2, Layer3 and Multi-Layer).  • Experience working with Cisco Nexus 2148 Fabric Extender and Nexus 5000 series to provide a Flexible Access Solution for datacenter access architecture.  • Hands on Experience in Cisco Wireless Controllers 5508, Cisco Meraki Appliance MX (400, 80, 60) and Meraki wireless Access points (MR66, MR18), Cisco Meraki AP's and Aruba Access points IAP-92, IAP-93.  • Having Experience in Implementation, Administration and Maintenance in multi-vendor platform environments (Cisco, Juniper, Checkpoint, F5, Palo Alto)  • Experience with Bluecoat Proxy servers, LAN & WAN management.  • Installed and Configured F5 BIG-IP to provide load balancing for servers across multiple Data centers.  • Upgrade Cisco 6500, 3750, 2960s, Nexus 5000, Nexus 2000, Nexus 7000 switch IOS software  • Experience adding Policies in Palo Alto firewall PA-500, PA-3020 using GUI 6.1.  • Exhibit strong communication, critical thinking, multitasking, and customer service skills  • Involved in the redistribution into OSPF on the core Palo Alto firewall.  • To secure configurations of load balancing in F5, SSL/VPN connections, Troubleshooting CISCO ASA firewalls, and related network security measures  • Experience with F5 load balancers and Cisco load balancers ACE  • Advanced knowledge of Checkpoint, Juniper, Cisco, Unix, and Linux platforms. Day to day activity includes Change Implementation on firewalls, log analysis and troubleshooting of network access issues.  • Well experienced in configuring protocols HSRP, GLBP, VRRP, ICMP, IGMP, PPP, HDLC, PAP, CHAP, and SNMP.  • Strong hands on experience on PIX Firewalls, ASA (5540/5550) Firewalls. Implemented Security Policies using ACL, Firewall IPSec, SSL, VPN, IPS/IDS, AAA (TACACS+ & RADIUS).  • Expertise with WiFi analyzers, wireless survey software tools (i.e. AirMagnet, Ekahau, etc.)  • Manage and support all F5 LTM's in pre-production and production environments.  • Experience in Configuring, Security, Operations, and Maintaining the Office 365 business productivity Services.  • Troubleshooting the VPN tunnels by analyzing the debug logs and packet captures. Advanced knowledge in Design, Installation & configuration of Palo Alto and Checkpoint Provide Environment.  • Experience in creating load balancing implementation plans and configurations, ensure network interoperability, and document existing and propose load balancing infrastructure.  • Hands on Knowledge/experience on F5 and NetScaler load balancer.  • Knowledge of Linux/Windows based systems including hardware, software and applications.  • In-depth expertise in the implementation of analysis, optimization, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN networking systems.  • Implemented new ultra-secure networks in multiple data centers that included Cisco and Juniper security devices.  • Convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution, Migration with both Checkpoint and Cisco ASA VPN.  • Experience designing, deploying and supporting Citrix NetScaler VPN solution  • Experience with Cisco load balancers (CSM, ACE and GSS).  • Basic and advance F5 load balancer configurations, including migrating configurations from Cisco ACE to F5 and general troubleshooting of the F5 load balancers  • Ability in troubleshooting and performing root cause discovery during incidents which may involve storage, networking, or server-side investigation.  • Hands on Experience with blocking of IP's on Checkpoint that are suspicious. Responsible for Checkpoint firewall management and operations across our global networks. Implementing security Solutions using Palo Alto PA-5000 and Checkpoint Firewalls R75, R77.  • Experience in various actions with Microsoft Active Directory 2008, 2012 such as Install, configure, troubleshoot, diagnose, and resolve problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Network Engineer Capital One - McLean, VA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Managed day-to-day client and internal service requests and documented all services performed.  • On-boarding of applications in the F5 and NetScaler load balancer equipment's, this includes design, planning, implementation and support.  • Migration of load balancers from NetScaler to F5.  • Provided help to client on troubleshooting Routers, Switches and Cisco VoIP products  • Worked with VMware Infrastructure Client in supporting our Windows 2003 & 2008, Linux Enterprise 5 Server environment.  • Configure and maintain Cisco ASA remote access SSL and IPSec Site-to-site VPNs.  • Implementation and configuration of Firewalls Especially Checkpoint and Cisco ASA.  • Built and maintained email and cloud storage services via Google's g suite. Managed and administered remote VPS instances for word press websites and specialized cryptocurrency  • Working configuration of new VLANs and extension of existing VLANs on/to the necessary equipment to have connectivity between two different data centers.  • Designed network security using Checkpoint Firewall to secure the corporate networks. Established and maintained multiple VPN connections between corporate headquarters and remote sites.  • Creating load balancing implementation plans and configurations, ensure network interoperability, and document existing and propose load balancing infrastructure.  • Configured Client VPN technologies including Cisco's VPN client via IPSEC.  • ALL Tier 3 routing, switching, VPN, firewall, Azure, AWS, Cisco, Nexus, design, configuration, implementation and tier 3 support escalations customer networks and projects  • Familiar with the upgrade paths for ESX\ESXi Host servers\Virtual Center Server & the setting up of networking on Linux 5 servers.  • Cisco ASA Firewall with Firepower Installation, Firepower Management Center, AMP and IPS with FMC  • Experience installation and maintenance of various Aruba products and extending support to Enterprise customers and partners worldwide.  • Troubleshot Cisco PIX 535 Firewall and upgrade to ASA for ensuring safe transaction of confidential information to remote sites using VPN links and DMZ.  • Installing the F5 TMOS upgrades, Hot-fix installations depending on Business need.  • Configuring IPsec VPN Site-site, GRE Tunneling and SDM along with troubleshooting.  • Build IT security infrastructure including Checkpoint, Juniper and Palo Alto firewalls  • Implementation and Troubleshooting of WAN authentication protocols- PPP, CHAP and PAP.  • Configured and maintained IPSEC and SSL VPN's on Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Documented technical requirements supporting business/RFP needs.  • Experience in deploying and maintain Cisco PIX and ASA firewalls  • Experience in designing and deploying enterprise-wide network security and high availability solutions for ASA.  • Establishing and maintaining relationships with outside vendors to assist with installation and/or maintenance of Citrix/NetScaler infrastructure  • Lead the deployment Checkpoint Smart Defense, Cisco ASA, Infoblox and Palo Alto to prevent worms, Trojans, UDP and TCP protocol attacks.  • Worked in F5 Big-IP Load Balancer environment to manage the traffic between 2 web servers in the cloud.  • Participate in design, build, and test activities related to new WiFi deployments, network upgrades, and technology/platform evaluations.  • Configuring and designing VPN rules for Net Screen VPN Box and Checkpoint Firewall.  • Troubleshoot, maintain, upgrade, and provide solutions to complex hardware/software problems.  • Experience in creating image of Linux system with System Imager and automate Linux installs using and building Red Hat Network Satellite Server.  • Managing Access list on F5s and check for the ACLs on Firewalls such as CISCO ASA, Juniper, Fortinet-Fortigate.  • Perform other duties as assigned by leadership.  • Enhanced security posture of the DMZ, WAN, data center and research links globally with the design, deployment and tuning of Tipping Point IPS appliances  • Designed and implemented F5 Big IP load balancers that resulted in improving application performance.  • Troubleshooting end user connectivity issues through the firewalls and network.  • Hands on experience with Cisco Nexus 7K, 5K and 2K series equipment including configuration of protocols  • Configure F5 Big-IP and NetScaler's local traffic management LTM to create VIPs.  • Developed and documented critical Disaster Recovery strategies.  • Involved in complete LAN, WAN development (including IP address planning, designing, installation, configuration, testing, and maintenance).  • Design and implementation of multiple Cisco technologies. Cisco ISE, ISR/ASR Routers, Nexus/Catalyst Switches, Firepower, S2S, ASA Firewalls, VMware/vSphere.  • Perform planning, testing, & evaluate new devices and troubleshooting.  • Designed, implemented and supported Cisco wireless deployments.  • Supporting legacy Meru wireless network.  • Responsible for Installation, configuration, Maintenance, Deployments, Update, Monitoring, performance tuning on Linux  • Experience on Bit9, BigFix, ASA, Palo Alto, Juniper SRX, Checkpoint, PIX and Symantec Endpoint protection  • Performed the juniper SRX 5800 deployment to replace the Net Screen 5200/5400 firewalls in the Data Center.  • Conduct security-centric infrastructure components and various scanning tools.  • Installing, configuring, running, and maintaining critical enterprise firewalls, IPS, VPN and other technologies.  • Maintaining network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting network problems; escalating problems to vendor.  • Securing network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation; maintaining documentation.  • Served as In-House Cloud Computing expert, particularly regarding HIPAA compliance.  • Day-to-day work involves scheduling firewall policy provisioning and working with users to identify connectivity related issues and troubleshoot using both Smart Utilities and CLI.  • Configured and Implemented Site-to-Site VPNs between branch offices.  • Performed installation and configuration of Cisco Switches, Routers, Telnet, CSU/DSUs, network management and analysis tools.  • Improved compliance by designing audit-compliant Share Point forms for firewall exceptions, Extranet provisioning, proxy changes, VPN changes and data center access rights.  • Configured Security, Operations, and Maintaining the Office 365 business productivity Services.  • Configured ACL to allow only authorized users to access the servers.  • Responsible for designing and implementation of customer's network infrastructure.  • Configure F5 Big-IP global traffic management to create WIPs.  • Retrieving entries from the audit log for display in the BIG-IQ Network Security GUI.  • Application and URL filtering Threat Prevention and Data Filtering.  • Provided updates and upgrades to the Palo Alto Firewall and Panorama devices  • Implemented and monitored the network using network sniffing and scanning tools.  • Configuring Checkpoint Firewall and accept/reject rules for network traffic.  • Other duties include operations and maintenance activities for multiple networks, server maintenance, and administrative tasks. Network Security Engineer Ingram Micro - Irvine, CA January 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implementing security Solutions using Palo Alto Pa-5000/3000, Cisco ASA, Checkpoint firewalls R75, R77.20 Gaia and Provider-1/MDM.  • Managing cabled LAN and wireless access, with switching technologies and wireless technologies  • Configuring High Availability using Cluster XL on Checkpoint as well as VRRP and monitor the Sync status for statefull replication of traffic between active and standby member.  • Configuring Big-IP F5 LTMs (virtual servers, pools, SNATs, health monitors, iRules) and GTM's for managing the traffic and tuning the load on the network servers.  • Firewall rule base review and fine-tuning recommendation.  • Hands on experience in configuration of Cisco ASA 5000 series firewalls and experience with checkpoints and FortiGate.  • Responsible for managing network & security at the Data center.  • Configure Syslog server in the network for capturing the log from firewalls.  • Involved in deployment of new F5 LTM for Datacenter.  • Implemented storage systems consisting of fibre channel and iSCSI SAN, NAS, CAS, and Azure  • cloud storage to meet the organizations growing capacity and archival requirements.  • Configure and install Aruba wireless controllers and access points.  • Policy Reviewing, Audit and cleanup of the un-used rule on the firewall using Tufin and Splunk.  • Configure and Monitor Cisco Sourcefire IPS for alerts.  • Experience working on Network support, implementation related internal projects for establishing connectivity in various field offices and Datacenters.  • F5 Load Balancer Tool. Proficient in J2EE Technologies. Strong experience in Enterprise Application Integration project planning, architecture and platform administration  • Migration of RIP V2 to OSPF, BGP routing protocols.  • Working with different teams to gather info for the new request and troubleshoot for any connectivity issues by capturing traffic using TCPDUMP and smart view tracker.  • Load Balancing with F5 GTM and LTM across multiple data centers.  • Configuring and troubleshooting site-to- site IPSEC VPN tunnels using Cisco ASA 5540 for third party connectivity.  • Implemented configuration back-ups using WinSCP, cyberfusion to automate the back-up systems with the help of public and private keys.  • Documentation involved preparing Method of Procedures (MOPs) and Work Orders. Also creating and submitting Remedy tickets for user auditing.  • Experience working on Checkpoint blades, IPS, Threat prevention, Identity awareness, Application and URL filtering.  • Recommended Security considerations for the Intranet data center, integrating security, providing solution design details and configuration details  • Performing URL filtering and content filtering by adding URL's in Bluecoat Proxy SG's.  • Working on the network team to re-route BGP routes during maintenance and FW upgrades.  • Co-ordinated and Upgraded F5 LTM's and Cisco ASA's IOS images during window time.  • Running vulnerability scan reports using Nessus tool.  • Configure B2B VPN with various business partners and 3rd parties and troubleshoot VPN Phase 1 and Phase 2 connectivity issues including crypto map, encryption domain, psk etc.  • Worked on Blue Coat Proxy SG to safeguard web applications in extremely untrusted environments such as guest Wi-Fi zones.  • Troubleshoot connectivity issues and Monitor health of the firewall resources as well as work on individual firewall for advanced troubleshooting.  • Successfully installed Palo Alto PA-3060 firewalls to protects Data Center and provided L3 support for routers/ switches/firewalls.  • Build IT security infrastructure including Checkpoint, Juniper and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Working on Service now tickets to solve troubleshooting issues.  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with Cisco ASA VPN experience. Network Engineer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA October 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and implementation of customer's network infrastructure.  • Designed, monitored, and maintain various system applications including web-based monitoring tools while optimizing disk space for better QoS.  • Manage and support all NetScaler LTM's in pre-production and production environments  • Ability to troubleshoot Cisco Networks to diagnose root cause and resolve telephony issues.  • Worked extended hours as workload and deadlines require; be on-call 24x7.  • Performed level 3 technical support and escalation for network and telecommunications voice issues.  • Maintaining and supporting existing Citrix environment consist of Xenapp 6.5 and NetScaler  • Deploying and supporting applications to the Citrix environment.  • Performed operational and administration tasks and configuration changes and recommended operational enhancements.  • F5 Big- IP LTM-6400 load balancers, all Clustered, 3DNS GTM Balancers, Active and Secondary Datacenter's, working with IIS 6 and up for migration.  • Provided recommendations regarding Citrix practices (ie: requirement specification, coding standards) and execute continuous quality improvement in meeting internal and external customer requirements, including customer escalations and cross team support  • Establishing and maintaining relationships with outside vendors to assist with installation and/or maintenance of Citrix/NetScaler infrastructure  • Updated drivers and firmware on HP branded Emulex FCA using One Command.  • Managed user accounts using Active Directory 2003/2008 to create new domain accounts, provide controlled access to existing network shares as well as creating new ones.  • Firewall Policy Provisioning and troubleshoot connectivity issues through firewall.  • Troubleshoot, diagnosed, and upgraded various network hardware technologies to Cisco platforms including routers, switches, and hubs.  • Installed various network hardware including concentrators, bridges, and hubs to establish communication connections with remote locations.  • Configured multiple domain name services (DNS), email services (Exchange Server), web, and file transfer protocol services (FTP) for various platforms including line leasing through DHCP servers.  • Worked on assigning and editing permissions to the Office 365 SharePoint site Collections for the business users as well as project team members.  • IPSEC and SSN VPV's configured and maintained on Palo Alto and Checkpoint Firewall Zone based Firewall and security Rules are implemented on Palo Alto Firewalls. Managed multiple Palo Alto Firewalls by integrating with Panorama.  • Configured, implemented, and troubleshoot routers and switches with various account settings, permissions, and parameters including security firewalls.  • Trained various local administrators on standard network server services, virus protections, and other security measures while installing and configuring LAN technologies.  • Tracking of changes in the configuration with Audit logs and provided ways in identifying the rollback.  • Networking protocols worked with included but not limited to TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, VPN, Terminal Services, Routing and Remote Access, Network Design, wiring and cabling. Network Administrator/Intern IMF - Tampa, FL June 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Upgrade Cisco 7200, 3600 Router IOS Software, backup Routers and Catalyst 3560, 4500 switch configurations  • Support 24x7 operations and answer calls from the customers on network emergencies and resolve issues.  • Install and manage Cisco Catalyst 3500XL, & 2960 series Switches and Cisco 1800, 3900 series routers  • Hands on Experience in Inter-Vlan routing, redistribution, access-lists and dynamic NATing  • Log messages using Syslog server and analyze the issues related to high CPU utilization and parameters that can degrade performance of the network  • Involved in all technical aspects of LAN and WAN projects including, short and long term planning, implementation, project management and operations support as required  • Conduct through analysis, problem solving, and infrastructure planning.  • Provide assistance to Network Manager and serve as Secondary Network support.  • Troubleshoot and fix any backup and monitoring systems related issues in conjunction with Systems team and external vendors Network Engineer/Intern Equinox - Tampa, FL February 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Configured multiple domain name services (DNS), email services (Exchange Server), web, and file transfer protocol services (FTP) for various platforms including line leasing through DHCP servers.  • Designed, monitored, and maintain various system applications including web-based monitoring tools while optimizing disk space for better QoS.  • Troubleshoot, diagnosed, and upgraded various network hardware technologies to Cisco platforms including routers, switches, and hubs.  • Provided remote support to clients and interfaced with customers to ensure their satisfactions, collaborating with various departments for additional assistance.  • Networking protocols worked with included but not limited to TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, VPN, Terminal Services, Routing and Remote Access, Network Design, wiring and cabling.  • Responsible for lab evaluation of equipment engaged in the end-to-end development, engineering, certification, field verification, and deployment of platforms supporting various networks and products, including LAN/WAN, internet, TCP/IP, IPX, routing (RIP, OSPF), PPP.  • Designed, installed, and maintained various WAN technologies and applications connecting remote sites to corporate headquarters.  • Configured, implemented, and troubleshoot routers and switches with various account settings, permissions, and parameters including security firewalls.  • Installed various network hardware including concentrators, bridges, and hubs to establish communication connections with remote locations.  • Expertise in network protocols, Firewalls and Communication Network design. Education Bachelor's Skills CISCO (8 years), LAN (8 years), FIREWALLS (7 years), SECURITY (7 years), VPN (7 years), Ccie, Nexus, BGP, F5, CCNP Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:    Routing  Routers    LAN Switching    Protocols    Static, Dynamic - RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, IS-IS, BGP-V4  Cisco (9000,7600,7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500, 1800 series)  VLAN, VTP, STP, RSTP, MST, ETHERCHANNEL, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, Port Security  FTP, TFTP, STP, MSTP, VTP, VRRP, DHCP, SNMP, NAT, RIP, OSPF    Switches    Networking Concepts    Cisco (6500, 4500, 3750, 3500, 2900, series), Nexus 5k and 7k  Access-lists, Routing, Switching, Subnetting, Designing, CSU/DSU, IPsec, VLAN, VPN, WEP, WAP, MPLS, VoIP, Bluetooth, Frame Relay, Wi-Fi    TCP/IP Services DNS, DHCP, SNMP, NAT, FTP, TFTP  Load Balancers  Security    F5  Checkpoint, Juniper, Nortel, Cisco PIX & ASA Firewalls, Access lists and Policy based routing, Firewall Design, VPN Configuration and troubleshooting, Internet Content Filtering, Load Balancing, IDS/IPS    Firewall Checkpoint Console R75.40 & R77.10, Cisco PIX - 506, 515, 525 Series  Wireless Controllers Cisco 4400, 5500  Access Points Infrastructure services Cisco 1242, 2400 & 3500. DHCP, DNS, SMTP, FTP, TFTP  Platforms Languages LINUX, UNIX, Windows, Mac C, C++, SQL, HTML/CSS, JAVA SCRIPT