Senior Network Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Administrator - Durr Megtec LLC Appleton, WI Committed results oriented IT professional that strives to drive productivity and performance up while  lowering costs through automation, process improvement, and standardization. Seasoned 10 year IT  professional with over 7 years of experience designing, implementing, and maintaining IP networks  ranging from small telecommunications company to large scale multinational IP network infrastructure. I  have a strong background in routing, switching, firewalls, IDS/IPS, wireless, and load balancing  technologies from an array of vendors looking to transition into a career focused on network security. Work Experience Senior Network Administrator Durr Megtec LLC - De Pere, WI July 2018 to Present Manage network, security, and voice infrastructure operations for more than 15 locations globally  in over 10 countries.  ? Recommend and implement improvements for network, security, and telephony configurations.  ? Build out project proposal for technical scope, timeline, and resourcing requirements.  ? Administration and configuration of Cisco(IOS/NX-OS/ASA-OS), Fortinet(Forti-OS), Palo  Alto(PAN-OS) and other network related infrastructure.  ? Fortinet configuration of web filtering, SSL deep packet inspection, antivirus, application control, and IPS policies.  ? Utilize change control and incident management software.  ? Automation of network device configurations and backups with Python and Ansible  ? Maintain support contracts for network and voice infrastructure.  ? Establish and maintain relationships with vendors and third party resellers. Network Engineer Alta Resources - Neenah, WI July 2014 to June 2018 Design, document, and implement network infrastructure in an enterprise multi-site environment  with more than 4000 users.  ? Network lead/support on projects ranging from data center design/upgrade, greenfield remote site  deployments, and Dell and Cisco equipment configuration and installations.  ? Subject matter expert for all Cisco ASA, WAN routing, and F5 design and deployments.  ? F5 LTM(Local Traffic Manager) design/administration.  ? F5 ASM(Application Security Manager) administration and security policy management.  ? Utilize Python and other tools to automate configuration standardization, backups, F5 certificate  renewals, monitoring of network equipment health, and other routine tasks.  ? F5 iHealth and iControl REST API development. Network Operations Supervisor Airadigm Communications - Appleton, WI May 2012 to June 2014 Perform job functions of Network Switch Technician.  ? Conduct interviews to fill vacant positions.  ? Schedule general maintenance of UPS, Generator, Batteries, cooling system, and other  datacenter equipment. Switch Technician May 2012 to December 2013 Deploy, maintain and troubleshoot network infrastructure of LAN/WAN  ? Configure IPSEC VPNs on Cisco ASA's connecting to other business partners and vendors.  ? Utilize network monitor tools such as Solar Winds to track network problems and outages.  ? Develop and execute shell scripts for automation of various daily jobs and tasks. Education Bachelor of Science UW Stevens Point May 2008 Skills BGP, DHCP, MPLS, SWITCHING, TCP, TCP/IP, VPN, DNS, LOAD BALANCING, IDS, IPS, WIRESHARK, PYTHON, SECURITY, IOS, WIRELESS, ROUTING PROTOCOLS, LINUX