IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Lumiere Healing Centers Fort Lauderdale, FL Solutions-focused Engineer with over 8 years of experience in investigating and resolving security-based issues and cost-effective management of innovative customer and technical support strategies. Proven ability to successfully analyze an organization's critical support requirements, identifies deficiencies and potential opportunities, and develops threats, security architectures and vulnerability management policies to evaluate technology enhancements. Analytical and skilled technician, adept in advanced user intrusion-detection, and a vast spectrum of tools and testing methodologist and computer hardware and software skills including installation, configuration, management, troubleshooting and support. Possess outstanding presentation and communication skills to effectively interact with users and management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager Lumiere Healing Centers 2018 to Present • Direct and support implementation of software and hardware upgrades    • Identify security vulnerabilities and eliminate them with strategic solutions that increase data safe    • Identify and recommend new technology solutions that we can implement in our department    • Setup and managed multi-site Cisco Router Meraki network between Ohio, Tequesta and Jupiter.    • Setup and Managed Mitel Voip Phone system    • Develop reliable metrics for hardware, software and storage while ensuring strategic capacity planning    • Manage the clinic's help desk    • Devise and establish IT policies and systems to support the implementation of strategies set by upper management Network Engineer/ Pacs Administrator Independent Imaging - Wellington, FL 2011 to 2017 * Spearhead the day to day operations support for the organizational Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS): GE, Viztek, Mckesson, Sectra and Merge.  * Install, monitor Firewalls and intrusion detection systems. Diagnose problems and solve issues, often under time constraints. Voip System troubleshooting and setup (Cisco, Allworx, Avaya)  * Provide network and host based security, incident response, firewall and VPN management and administration (DMVPN, IPsec, and SSL VPN)  * Oversee and coordinate operational administration and management of PACS and RIS. Configures and performs systems analyses.  * Design, administer and maintain Imaging center multisite active directory domain infrastructure for all computers. Training and end-user support. Design, implemented and maintain McAfee E-Policy Orchestrator, WSUS, GPO, Symantec Altiris Deployment solution  * Installed and managed MSP manager across the company. Implement and support Nuance dragon powerscribe360 voice recognition software for doctors and managed Critical backup solution for patients data  * Setup Mpls network between the client site and Colo location for Patient Image Transferring and worked with Tera Recon application for computed tomography.  * Managed databases, implement efficient workflow, and interface with other health information systems databases as part of the patient's Electronic Health Record  * Provide 24/7 support for HMI PACS and any other Imaging related issues  * Install, support and maintain hardware and software infrastructure according to best practices, including routers, aggregators, switches, Wireless controllers, and firewalls. (ISR 2800, 2900, 3800 Series Routers) (6500, 4500, 3750, 3560 Series Switches) (4100 Series Wireless Controller) (Cisco ASA 5510, 5520), Sonicwall  * Perform network security design and integration (Fortigate 500D WebFiltering) L2 Port Security, ACL Network Administrator Integrated Telecom Solutions - Wellington, FL 2009 to 2010 * Designed and implemented Active Directory at an enterprise level to include multiple sites.  * Design networks for small businesses; troubleshoot Voip Avaya phone system and Installed Cat 5 and 6 Wiring.  * Managed Cisco ASA and Sonicwall Firewalls across multiple sites and provided VPN capabilities to interconnected Sites. Computer Tech Vac Atlantic LLC - Pompano Beach, FL 2008 to 2010 * Repair and setup computer for employees  * Interconnect offices between Florida and Seattle, Washington. Education Bachelor's degree in Information Security in Information Security ITT Technical Institute - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2009 to 2011 AA in Computer Networking Lincoln College - West Palm Beach, FL 2005 to 2007 Bachelor's in Bachelors in information system security ITT Technical Institute - Fort Lauderdale, FL Skills AUTO CAD (Less than 1 year), CAD (Less than 1 year), Cisco (9 years), Firewalls (9 years), HIPAA (Less than 1 year), Mac OS (8 years), Network Administration, Vmware, Customer Service, Strategic Planning Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating System Router and Firewalls Professional  Microsoft Server 03/08/12 Cisco HIPAA Compliance  Mac OS (Unix) & Linux Sonicwall VMWare Support & CAD systems  VMware Fortigate Microsoft Office 365 Products  Microsoft Windows (7/8/10) Palo Alto Networks Hologic modalities & mammography Viewers