Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Vonage - Homdel, NJ New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Vonage - Homdel, NJ April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and troubleshot Cisco and Juniper network routers, switches and firewalls.  • DMVPN, Site-to-Site and SSLVPN designing, implementation and troubleshooting  • Designed, implemented and troubleshot HSRP, VRRP and IP SLA load balancing  • Configured, troubleshot both WAN, LAN and SDWAN networks.  • Created and configured access list, prefix list, NAT translations, policy based routing, port forwarding and redistributions for small and large business networks.  • Designed, configure and troubleshoot network protocols BGP, EIGRP and OSPF  • Monitor traffic using net flow, top talkers, IP SLA statement and other networking tools  • Troubleshoot and configured SSL, DNS, DHCP on MPLS, WAN and LAN networks.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations. Network System Administrator First Choice Loan Service - East Brunswick, NJ October 2015 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments, including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Designed, implemented & supported Site-to-Site VPN's & Client to Site VPN's.  • Designed, configure and troubleshoot network protocols BGP, EIGRP and OSPF.  • Configured and maintained Cisco ASA 5500 Firewalls. Also configured Cisco Switches and Routers.  • Troubleshoot and configured SSL, DNS, DHCP on MPLS, WAN and LAN networks.  • Designed, implemented, supported and upgraded Cisco Firewall infrastructure. System Engineer Visiting Nurse Association - Red Bank, NJ August 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Active Directory, Exchange, Avaya Site Administration (ASA) installation and administration.  • Cisco routers, Switches, Wireless Access Point and Server installation and administration.  • Configure VLANS in live environments.  • Troubleshoot network connectivity issues using PING, ARP, DNS, IPCONFIG, GETMAC, NSLOOKUP and other commands.  • Configured DHCP filters, Active Directory profiles and other proprietary accounts.  • Configured and supported network protocols MPLS, BGP, OSPF, HSRP, CDP and MAC  • Troubleshot network outages and escalated outages to the required network vendors.  • Updated ISOs on Cisco Routers and Switches. IT Desktop Support Engineer Mechoshade - Edison, NJ June 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Network, Desktop support for an entire Mechoshade Site  • Create and administer Active Directory, Exchange, IP Phone extensions and wireless accounts  • Cisco and Dell switch, router and server installation and administration.  • Configure VLANS in live environments.  • IT asset inventory management using BMC Track-It.  • Monitor networking using PRTG Network Monitor and WireShark.  • Troubleshoot network connectivity issues using PING, ARP, DNS, IPCONFIG, GETMAC, NSLOOKUP and other commands.  • Racked and configured Dell, IBM and HP blades servers and other network devices.  • Configured DHCP filters, Active Directory profiles and other proprietary accounts.  • Network cable runs for entire site. Network Admin Realogy - Parsippany, NJ April 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Cisco network router, firewall and switch administration.  • Configure routing protocols OSPF, EIGRP and BGP  • Monitor networking using PRTG Network Monitor and Wire Shark.  • Monitor networking using HP Open View Network Node Manager, graphical network monitor using Cacti.  • Troubleshoot Windows 2008 Server issues.  • Racked and configured Dell, IBM and HP blades servers and other network devices.  • Troubleshoot TCP/IP connectivity issues with using PING, ARP, DNS, IPCONFIG, GETMAC and other commands and switches.  • Cisco and Dell switch, router and server installation and administration.  • Performed administrative duties in Active Directory and DHCP.  • Patch cables and cable runs for offices.  • BGP, EIGRP, HSRP, NAT configuration and trouble shooting in Data Center environment.  • Installed and configured Cisco ASA firewall. Education Associate in Applied Science in Network Systems Administration in Network Systems Administration DeVry University Diploma in Computer Technical Support Chubb Institute Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance