Remote Service Technician Remote Service Technician Multi-talented Professional in Information Technology Katy, TX A well-rounded Network Administrator bringing 5 years of expertise, seeking to advance profession. Looking to utilize credentials and matured expertise to collaborate with a team towards achieving Corporate yearly goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Remote Service Technician Support.com - Katy, TX April 2019 to Present Answer user inquiries regarding Comcast Wireless Gateway to resolve problems.    Maintain records of daily data communication, problems and remedial actions taken, or installation activities Network Administrator First Service Credit Union - Katy, TX October 2015 to October 2018 • Fully support, configure, maintain and upgrade corporate networking infrastructure  • Install and integrate new server hardware and applications  • Maintained needed updates using Zoho Desktop Central  • Ensure network security and connectivity leveraging Palo Alto application layer firewall.  • Set up user accounts, permissions, and passwords    Networking Highlights:  • Firewall Conversion - Collaborated with 3rd-party and internal Security Team with conversion of Main Firewall Cisco ASA 5500 to Palo Alto PA-3050, an application layer firewall which also replaced the current Web Filter. After months of planning, the full conversion transpired over 48 hours with partial connectivity within the first 24 hours.  • Data Center Relocation - Assisted with planning and completion of the Road map for relocating Data Center to headquarters. This project consisted of mapping ports for connectivity, power infrastructure and rack design.  • Onboard Automation - Planned and configured the automation of On-boarding and Domain User Termination process using custom Powershell scripts. This script Automation included modules that called different Domain Servers to complete various tasks, like creating their mailbox on Exchange 2010 and a user directory folder with appropriate permissions on the File Server. Help Desk First Service Credit Union - Houston, TX October 2013 to October 2015 Education AAS in Network Administration ITT Technical Institute - Houston, TX December 2011 to September 2013 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Networking, Dhcp, Vmware, Vpn, Firewall, Mfa, Cisco asa, Lan, Office 2010, Windows server 2008, Windows, Customer Service, Windows 7, Technical Support, Javascript, Security, Microsoft Office Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/l8pv-tionjznrjmj Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tcm6txsc79jfmcli Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Key Skills  Advanced Windows OS/Server OS  Advanced Powershell  Proficient AD & GPO   Experienced Firewall    Networking: DHCP, DNS, WAN, LAN, VPN  OS Systems: Window 7-10, Windows Server 2008-2016  Software: Palo Alto Firewall, Cisco ASA Firewall, Office 2010-365, Exchange 2010, VEEAM Backup, ManageEngine Desktop Central, DUO MFA, Active Directory, VMWare