Systems Engineer III Systems Engineer III Systems Engineer Bedford, TX 10 years of experience in the IT field working different positions such as MITSC NOC Watch Officer, Area Control Center Defense messaging system Lead Tech and most current as a Systems Engineer. Work Experience Systems Engineer III Vistra Energy - Irving, TX June 2017 to Present • Troubleshooting mail flow issues.  • Fair knowledge of migrations from on-premise exchange to Office 365  • Managing Exchange on-premise in a hybrid system.  • Engage in administrative tasks such as adding, modifying and deleting group mailboxes and email accounts.  • Inbound\Outbound mail flow troubleshooting on all versions of Exchange server.  • Research acute, complex technical problems within the environment and develop plans to resolve.  • Supporting end users with all Office products.  • Understanding and use of PowerShell within scope of tasks needed. System Administrator Family Health Care Associates - Arlington, TX 2016 to June 2017 • Assist in onsite support for installation, maintenance, and repair of Wide Area and Local Area Network equipment (routers, switches, firewalls)  • Analyze existing operations and make recommendations for improvement and growth of the infrastructure.  • Configure, deploy, and troubleshoot network printers including the configuration of network print server queues and services.  • Manage permissions to network resources including; File Servers, SharePoint, and Microsoft Exchange.  • Identify solutions for network security; provide Spyware, Adware and, virus protection.  • Create and manage Microsoft Exchange mailboxes Desktop Administrator Account Control Technology - Dallas, TX December 2013 to February 2016 • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components and operating system software.  • Maintain and configure ShoreTel IP phone system and recording software.  • Configure and maintain HP thin client environment and Virtual Machine servers.  • Support and maintain personal computer components, laptop computers, and portable devices.  • Maintain and configure the mobile management and security software MaaS360.  • User support and training on all applications. Data Network Specialist United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA November 2009 to November 2013 • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, active directory, Windows Server and Exchange Server.  • Configure, maintain, monitor and support the Automatic Message Handling System.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components and operating system software.  • Support and maintain personal computer components, laptop computers, and portable devices.  • Configure, Monitor, and maintain email applications. Education A+ Certification Communication Electronics School - Palms, CA July 2010 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: CPL