Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - McWane Ductile Norwich, OH Work Experience Network Administrator McWane Ductile April 2019 to Present I was contacted by Robert Half Technologies to McWane Ductile as a Network Administrator. While there I managed the network infrastructure that consisted of Cisco switches. Also managed all user devices and printers and keep track of printer toner inventory.    * Helped map out all switch, IP Cameras, WiFi access points and critical equipment and provided to engineering to created digital maps of all locations  * Managed change over to new printer supply company and tracked all toner orders and provided monthly page counts for billing.  * Managed all AutoCAD licensing, which also involved managing the network licensing server. Network Administrator Southeastern Ohio Regional Medical Center September 2016 to April 2019 I helped managed the server and network infrastructure of the medical center and surrounding offices in a 24/7 environment. This includes maintaining and deploying new servers through Hyper-V. Monitoring the infrastructure using several different programs. Upgrading and installing new infrastructure as needed.    Key Contributions:  * Manage a VMware vSphere environment running 10 hosts connected to 5 SAN storage units through a fiber fabric switches  * Developed and implemented a plan to perform Windows Server updates to reduced downtime for reboots.  * Managed and implemented Sophos Safeguard Encryption on all mobile devices  * Installed and configured Citrix Xen Apps server to be used by inside and outside users to access internal applications  * Worked with Palo Alto Firewalls to create access rules and VPN tunnels for secure access  * Developed project to migrate all VMWare virtual Machines to Hyper-V virtual machines  * Performed backups of all servers via Veeam Backup software  * Performed monthly New Employee orientation for use of all computer systems at the hospital  * On Call 24X7 for the last year for any issues with the network or servers Information Technology Manager U.S. Bridge - Cambridge, OH October 2013 to September 2016 I managed the company's entire Information Technology department as a one person shop. I supported the company's network infrastructure, desktops, servers, telecommunications and end-users. I was also in charge of planning and installing all new upgrades and systems.    Key Contributions:  * Negotiated new Fiber Optic and Phone service from Time Warner, saving the company thousands of dollars per year on service costs.  * Helped design and install new IP based ShoreTel phones System to replace old POTS system  * Purchased and installed Dell AppAssure back-up systems that runs incremental back-ups every 30 minutes from our Cambridge, Ohio with nightly backups to our New Albany location.  * Managed our Citrix based virtual environment by making changes to the current Virtual servers for better performance and adding new Servers for new programs being added.  * Completely wired New Albany office and installed new network rack and server.  * Replaced all aging Infrastructure and upgraded company to campus wide wireless IT Publishing Systems Specialist Central Ohio - Newark, OH April 2012 to October 2013 Part of small team that supported Gannett owned Newspapers in Newark, Zanesville, Lancaster, Coshocton, Chillicothe, Granville, Pataskala and Ohio State Lantern. Supported all network infrastructure, PC's, servers and applications.    Key Contributions:  * Helped install and implement building wide wireless system for all locations  * Imaged over 70 new laptops and desktops for upgrade of news reporting system.  * Ran new network cables for Ohio State Lantern Business office and install server and rack Service Desk Analyst Dawson Resources - Columbus, OH May 2011 to April 2012 Contracted to State Auto Insurance. Worked on the service desk team that answered all incoming calls and emails regarding issues with various applications and computer issues.    Key Contributions:  * Troubleshot issues with users PC's, laptops VPN and various applications. Education Associates Degree of Information Technology in Information Technology Zane State College - Zanesville, OH John Glenn High School - New Concord, OH Skills Active directory, Maintenance Additional Information Core Competencies: PC and Server maintenance and troubleshooting, Active Directory and Group Policy, Network Infrastructure