Satellite communications network engineer Satellite communications <span class="hl">network</span> engineer Operations Analyst - Roundtower Technologies St. Louis, MO Professional oriented individual with a pleasant personality and a tenacity that knows no restrictions. Multitasking help desk agent considered highly ambitious, willing to meet or exceed expectations, and self-motivated to always learn new things. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Satellite communications network engineer TEKSystems(USAA) - St. Louis, MO July 2019 to Present Troubleshoot computer networks as well as satellite communications. Use Linux servers and Cisco devices via putty to troubleshoot the issue. Specialist US Army Reserves January 2015 to Present • setup mobile communication networks so people can access the internet.  • Supported satellite terminals, Line of Sight Radios, switches, routers and virtual firewalls.  • Use Crypto key for data encryption  • I have a secret security clearance due to being in active reserves. Operations Analyst Roundtower Technologies November 2018 to July 2019 • Create tickets via email and phone calls.  • Assist users in basic over the phone troubleshooting  • Remote into users computer to provide remote troubleshooting of VPN's, Application Issues, Microsoft Office issues as well as password and account issues.  • Troubleshoot Citrix applications and submit requests and edit users in FIM (Forefront Identity Mangager) for specified access to certain applications and network drives.  • Also Map printers for users so they can print important documents.  • Use the service now ticketing system as a knowledge base as well as ticket routing and creation.  • Lastly Create tokens as well as sending users tokens so they can access certain specified applications when off or on the network. Help Desk Administrator ERP Suites March 2018 to November 2018 • Route tickets and fix problems that arise  • built packages within JDE and deployed them over a customer's database as requested.  • built distribution lists to notify customers when the package they requested was deployed.  • monitor servers over Solar Winds and remediate  • Manage customers AD- create users, delete users, reset passwords  • ServiceNow Ticketing System Level 1 Help Desk Technician Atos IT Services and Solutions Inc December 2017 to February 2018 • Assist users fixing computer or application issues over the phone  • RDPD into computers to try and solve customer issues.  • Personally, handled 40-50 tickets per day  • HPSM Ticketing System IT Technical Support in Call Center Live Reps Call Center June 2017 to December 2017 • Taking calls and when a computer is broken fix it or repair it.  • Troubleshoot EUC devices and install software.  • Monitor network. Education High school or equivalent in Engineering Technologies Scarlet Oaks Cdc - Cincinnati, OH August 2013 to May 2015 Skills Microsoft Office (2 years), Troubleshooting (3 years), TCP/IP (1 year), VPN (2 years), PowerPoint, Customer Service, access, database Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/peter-baumgartner-b97b3513b Military Service Branch: Reserves Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) May 2018 to May 2021 The first half of the CCNA and mostly consists of basic networking concepts such as subletting and checking configurations for any issues or problems. CCNA May 2019 to May 2022 Cisco certified network associate is a Cisco certification for routing and switching in networks. Also tests your ability in troubleshooting network issues as well as the theory on how data moves and passes between the layers.