Freelancer, WordPress Developer Freelancer, WordPress Developer Freelancer, WordPress Developer - Artificial Houston, TX Work Experience Freelancer, WordPress Developer Artificial - Houston, TX 2014 to Present * Consulted with clients to determine the necessary structure for their Web Applications.  * Developed custom web sites and web applications.  * Conducted maintenance and provided hosting to client for ongoing functionalities.  * Experience in programming languages such as HTML, Cascading Style Sheets, JavaScript, and Phyton. Network Administrator Lone Star College - Houston, TX January 2017 to May 2019 Utilized various WAN technologies such as, Point to Point WAN, Multilink Point-to-Point WAN, Metro Ethernet, Point-to-Point over Ethernet, and Generic Routing Encapsulation for connecting networks. Attached different Cisco switches and routers as well as identified the MAC address and routing tables based on IP packets between LANSs. Separated data link traffic into different domains by executing Virtual LANs. Performed static routing for local LAN and Virtual LANs for receiving and sending IP packets to networks/hosts in a different IP network /subnets. Evaluated the link state database for OSPF, and IP EIGRP topology table relating to EIGRP routing protocol by Troubleshooting OSPF and EIGRP routing protocol.  * Executed IP address scheme for IPV4 and IPV6 by ensuring the proper subnets for Ethernet frames and IP packets transported across the network.  * Implemented Network Address and Port Address Translation to local networks for communicating with devices globally. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Networking Lone Star College - Houston, TX 2019 Skills Javascript, Word Press, Website, HTML5 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) May 2019 to May 2022 https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/dc6e1fca-12e2-4a3a-89a9-fd4521f07f0e Additional Information Dedicated and resourceful professional with related education and hands-on experience in configuring several network device settings and connecting different switches and boards.  • IT Support: Excel at deploying and integrating system servers, troubleshooting network resources, evaluating technical alternatives, and suggesting solutions to maximize system performance.  • Network Engineering: Proven record of success in implementing, supporting, and maintaining complex IP enterprise LAN / WAN networks, system upgradation, and accounting database maintenance.  • System Security: Talent for executing security strategies backed by knowledge of processes to assist data warehousing and information distribution as well as improving processes continuously and managing time.    • Key Strengths: Strong communication skills combined with the proven ability to build robust relationships and effectively manage competing demands result in the achievement of challenging goals.  Core Technologies:  Environments: Windows 7, 8, 8.1, and 10  Applications: MS office suite  Tools: Python Programming, Node JS, JavaScript Programming, HTML, CSS