System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Avenal Community Health Center Fresno, CA I am a System Administrator and IT Specialist with more than  07 years of experience. I have completed following courses:  MCSA (Microsoft Certified System Administrator), CCNA (Cisco  Certified Network Associate) and CompTIA Network Security plus  certification.. I have experience with Windows servers with Cisco  routers and switches. Work Experience System Administrator Avenal Community Health Center - Lemoore, CA May 2018 to Present Aria community health center is rapidly growing health care provider with 19  clinics at current time. I was hired to ensure minimum network downtime and fix all the issues related to the servers. We implemented catastrophic disaster  solution, antivirus protection, replication, monitoring system, electronic faxes.  Have knowledge of HIPAA and documentation.  My job responsibilities includes:  • Support and monitor IT infrastructure  • Installing, configuring and maintaining Windows server 2016  • Active Directory operations.  • Domain Name System  • DHCP  • Monitoring the use of a local network and Internet  • Creating and implementing Group Policy  • Backups and Disaster Recovery  • Office 365 Administrator  • VOIP 8x8 phones  • Network Monitoring with Zabbix  • Network security with Firewalls installation and configuration  • Creating and maintaining VPN tunnels  • Provides NextGen, Apteryrx Information Technology Officer The Punjab State Cooperative Bank. Ltd April 2014 to February 2018 3 years 11 months)  Mansa Area, India  I joined The Punjab State Cooperative Bank. Ltd when they were in transition  phase from Manual to Automation. There was many IT challenges. The  computers were old, network components were outdated, the Internet was  very slow. My goal was to develop proposals for improving infrastructure and work performance.  I analyzed the infrastructure and developed a plan to achieve my goal. Then  the company signed supply contracts and bought new servers, computers, and switches. I installed and configured the infrastructure with the following  products:  • Windows server 2012  • Active Directory operations.  • Domain Name System  • DHCP  • Monitoring the use of a local network and Internet  • Creating and implementing Group Policy  • Setting up new sites and design the network Plan.  • Administering and managing the Server.  • Backing up Data in order to ensure Disaster Recovery  • Office 365 Administrator Network Specialist Adesh Institute of Engg & Tech July 2009 to March 2014 4 years 9 months)  Faridkot punjab  I joined the Institute as Lecturer and Network Administrator. My duties there  included  • Monitoring the use of a local network and Internet  • Creating new users in Active Directory  • Creating and implementing Group Policy  • DHCP  • DNS  • Backing up data  • Installing and Configuring new hardware like Computers, Printers, Scanners, routers, switches, wifi access points etc.  • Print Server  • Eset Nod32 Antivirus  • Microsoft Office Windows 2007, 2010 Education Master of Technology in MTech, Information Technology Punjab Technical University 2011 to 2013 Bachelor of Technology in BTech, Information Technology Malout Institute of Management and Information Technology 2006 to 2009 High School Diploma Government Polytechnic College - Bathinda, Punjab 2003 to 2006 Skills Active directory, Hyper-v, System Administrator, SCCM, System Admin, Vmware, office 365 (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jagbir-sidhu-83300b105?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3Buj2%2BPxO7S2eGTXQC61mnbg%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching MCSA Security+ Additional Information Top Skills  Office 365  Hyper-V  Active Directory