Administrator ( Infrastructure/Systems Administration T3) <span class="hl">Administrator</span> ( Infrastructure/Systems Administration T3) Administrator ( Infrastructure/Systems Administration T3) - Cisco Systems Mililani Town, HI CUCM VoIP: 2 years  Cisco: 7 years  MCSA: 4 years Work Experience Administrator ( Infrastructure/Systems Administration T3) Cisco Systems - Hickam AFB, HI Present • Provide recommendations on performance and security issues and other items of interest relating to AOC baseline(s).  • Completion of all applicable fielding prerequisites and post install releases by applicable deadlines while working with all functional and operational systems and personnel in the FlexPod component and all pertinent entities.  • Attended site and Engineering fielding team meetings, as applicable while working with key players to identify achievable site specific objectives.  • Planned, designed, and proposed infrastructure upgrades In the FlexPod to meet baseline requirements to support Network Core (Nexus) upgrade and related data center systems and network devices, CUCM, Solarwinds, ACS/ISE, ISR etc.  • Demonstrated knowledge of the full product life-cycle and related configuration management processes and application, knowledge of systems engineering roles and functions, including requirements management, functional analysis, configuration management processes and procedures. NOC Network Manager ll General Dynamics Information Technology Baghram, Afghanistan (BAF) December 2017 to November 2018 • Performed Cisco routing and switching configuration, network performance analysis, network troubleshooting utilizing Cisco CLI, Nexus-OS, CUCM, Cisco Wireless Controller, Cisco VoIP phones, Access points, Cisco ACS admin, Solar Winds, CA Spectrum, ISE administration, DHCP, MAB servers, VLAN, Wireless LANC ontroller. Establish new circuit requirements, document network enterprise, develop continuity folders, and create and update drawings. Shop was a 24-hour operation with on call.  • Installed and configured Cisco 3650, 3750, and 3850 series switches on the existing network.  • Built and configure VoIP phones utilizing Call Manager Cisco, and correlate with the field team with the details of the installation and customers' preferences.  • Patch Single-Mode/Multimode Fiber cables from PC/VoIP wall connection to patch panel, trace cable to patch panel and sometimes directly to the switch, and create new path for new customer and for cutover projects when upgrading layer 3 switches.  • Ticketing Creation and handling using BMC Remedy. Provided Data Center Management services, rack and stack installation, decommissioning, and made sure facilities meet requirements Network Engineer Contractor EPS April 2017 to June 2017 • Migrated and conducted a cutover base wide in Camp As Aliyah.  • Installed switches and identified configuration, design, and software anomalies then communicated findings and updates in written and verbal communications to the military and contract personnel in meetings, and through documentation utilizing Visio and Excel.  • Tracked tasking orders, accreditation status, inspection schedules, and other time sensitive information. Performed QA of the migration to meet government standards and guidelines. Network Engineer ProHealthCare January 2017 to April 2017 Contractor)  • Provisioned, configured, deployed, installed, and troubleshooted Cisco ISR Routers, Switches, UPS. Cisco wireless access point at remote sites that connect to the campus data center via VPN tunnels.  • Ticketing creation and updating utilizing ServiceNow and communicated with the vendors to troubleshoot.  • Updatec and recorded location and IP address management information systems in IPAM and Excel spreadsheets. Work collaboratively with other teams such as firewall, active directory, and systems.  • Added, deleted and issued RSA security tokens and reset passwords.  • Created point of reference and instructional documents of installation. NOC Network Manager ll General Dynamics Information Technology February 2016 to September 2016 • Performed Cisco routing and switching configuration, network performance analysis, network troubleshooting utilizing Cisco CLI and some Nexus OS, CUCM, Cisco Wireless Controller, Cisco VoIP phones, Access points, Cisco ACS admin, Solar Winds, CA Spectrum, ISE administration, DHCP, MAB servers, VLAN, WLC. Establish new circuit requirements, document network enterprise, develop continuity folders, and create and update drawings. Shop was a 24-hour operation with on call.  • Installed and configured Cisco 3650, 3750, and 3850 series switches on the existing network.  • Built and configure VoIP phones utilizing Call Manager Cisco, and correlate with the field team with the details of the installation and customers' preferences.  • Patch Single-Mode/Multimode Fiber cables from PC/VoIP wall connection to patch panel, trace cable to patch panel andsometimes directly to the switch, and create new path for new customer and for cutover projects when upgrading layer 3 switches.  • Ticketing Creation and handling using BMC Remedy.  • Provided Data Center Management services, rack and stack installation, decommissioning, and made sure facilities meet requirements. NOC Network Administrator Vectrus OMDAC SWACA April 2015 to January 2016 Performed Cisco routing and switching configuration, network management utilizing Cisco IOS (CLI-based) and some  Nexus OS, CUCM, Cisco Wireless Controller, Cisco VoIP phones, Access points, Cisco ACS admin, Solar Winds, CA  Spectrum, ISE administration, DHCP, 802.1X MAB servers, VLAN, WLC. Establish new circuit requirements, document network enterprise, develop continuity folders, and create and update drawings. Shop was a 24-hour operation and I was on-call and available to cover for absent personnel.  • Set up BGP neighborships for newly installed routers in remote locations.  • Patch Single-Mode/Multimode Fiber cables from both point of entry and from the user to patch panel and switch.  Utilized Cisco Unified Call Manager and Cisco IOS to manage the phone system portion in the network  • Utilized web-based Remedy ticketing systems to update work orders timely and accurately for end users and vendors.  • Monitored and responded to alarms or outages and network activity by utilizing CA Spectrum.  • Used DHCP to create DHCP scopes and reservations, utilized Active Directory to troubleshoot VLAN authentication issues.  • Provided Data Center Management services, rack and stack installation, decommissioning, and made sure facilities meet requirements. Engineer Associate Level 3 Communications September 2014 to February 2015 • Provisioned customer Cisco switch using the Cisco IOS etc. configured Gigabit Ethernet ports and VLANs for installs in conjunction with the remote NOC team.  • Purchased and maintained spare equipment inventory, consumables, and asset recovery via TW telecom's materials inventory system (RFID).  • Orchestrated equipment routers, switches, SFPs, deliveries for daily installs and projects by communicating across cross functional groups, application, and database.  • Ensured the accuracy of the inventory and have the ability to maintain the required levels for the field. System Administrator TEC Systems Inc - Long Island, NY June 2013 to May 2014 • Planned, designed, and arranged the network layout, as well as get the materials--coaxial and fiber-optic cable, copper wire and network adapters. Updated documentation and diagrams after implementation and changes.  • Monitored LAN functions and responded to alarms surveillance and resolved hardware and network related problems.  • Installed, configure and changed network VLANs, configured port security, configured sub-interfaces,  • DNS assigned names/ID and Configured NAT. Network Administrator Siemens - New York, NY March 2011 to December 2011 • Performed and adhered to SLA tasks and scheduled assignments to ensure optimal automation system is operating and efficiently. Tested and verified system readings.  • Monitored LAN / VLAN functions via CA Spectrum and maintained / configured as required.  • Arranged and configured PC workstations, user interfaces, data servers, IP Networking devices, protocols, routers, switches, mass storage devices and hubs and confirmed efficient network performance.  • Utilized the Siemens proprietary system application I was able to control critical areas such as laboratories, clean rooms and operating suites within precise operating parameters.  • Used Site-Wide Licensing solutions to cost effectively add multiple System client workstations.  • Updated DNS and firewall, IT Analyst Social Security Administration - Jamaica, NY February 2009 to March 2011 • Installed and upgraded Windows OS, applications, and entered new-hire and updated employees' information in database.  • Replaced and upgraded hardware and software for employees as instructed  • Managed vendors, carriers and coordinated inventory and accountability of equipment. Education Bachelor of Professional Studies in Network & Communications Management in Professional Studies DeVry College of New York 2012 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Security April 2015 to July 2021 CCNP January 2015 to July 2021 CCNA Routing and Switching February 2013 to July 2021