IT Specialist IT Specialist IT Specialist - Sysadmin / Infosec Lakeside, CA Work Experience IT Specialist Naval Information Warfare Center Pacific (Formerly SPAWAR System Center Pacific) - San Diego, CA August 2015 to Present • Identify and resolve network issues by reviewing firewall and router logs.  • Ensure Windows workstation and server compliance, conducting regular scans using ACAS.  • Remediate post-scan security findings and apply necessary security controls.  • Review architectural proposals to identify potential security vulnerabilities and weaknesses  • Manage customer expectations with clear, concise, transparent communications.  • Deconflict cross-project conflicts by working with multiple teams across the organization.  • Mitigate project risks by identifying duplicate efforts and critical dependencies.  • Prepare system security compliance packages for review by authorizing officials.  • Fill capability gaps by identifying tools that balance cost and performance while meeting requirements.  • Engineer solutions and conduct experimentation for the Navy's afloat networks. System & Network Administrator Patenaude & Felix, APC August 2013 to August 2015 • Maintained the WAN, LAN, server infrastructure, and workstations.  • Managed the helpdesk which serviced over 150 employees across six states and Mexico.  • Conducted regular remote troubleshooting using remote assistance tools.  • Reviewed firewall logs to identify potential attacks and security vulnerabilities.  • Supported multiple site-to-site VPNs to ensure remote offices maintained connectivity.  • Maintained PCI compliance and supported regular 3rd party audits.  • Moved the backup system from tape to Amazon Glacier.  • Managed and administered the Exchange 2013 email server. Education B.S. in Cybersecurity National University - San Diego, CA October 2019 Skills Information Technology, Network Support, Amazon Web Services (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Azure (1 year), Cybersecurity Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 Certifications/Licenses Network+ Security+ Professional Cloud Security Manager Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/suf51bowippsvds7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.