Technology Analyst II Technology Analyst II Technology Analyst II - KeyBank Sloan, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technology Analyst II KeyBank - Buffalo, NY June 2012 to Present • Provided technical assistance to customers on inbound telephone tech support calls.  • Used remote access to perform troubleshooting when needed.  • Conversion and implementation to WIN10 Operating System to entire bank  • Walked customers through step-by-step process for troubleshooting hardware issues.  • Used good problem-solving and customer-service skills for troubleshooting problems.  • Assisted co-workers with computer application questions.  • Receives, evaluates and prioritizes incoming requests from end-users experiencing IT problems  • Modifies configurations, utilities, software default settings, etc. for the local workstation  • Installs, tests and configures new workstations, peripheral equipment and software  • Maintains inventory of all equipment  • Manages PC setup and deployment for new employees using standard hardware, images and software  • Provide onsite & remote support to approximately 4000+ users.  • Perform pc/notebook/server hardware/software installations, upgrades and repairs.  • Training on new technology for first and second level support.  • Development of training documentation and knowledge base articles Systems/ Network Administrator Niagara Credit Solutions - Williamsville, NY June 2010 to June 2012 • Network & System Administration for Windows 2000/2003 platform on Dell servers.  • User Administration for login (Active Directory) & email accounts (Exchange 2007) for 30+ users.  • Monitored LAN/WAN & WiFi connections and address any issue when they arise.  • Lead on the telecom system upgrade Vertical Wave VoIP system.  • Monitoring internal servers and computers for updates and upgrades to completed as scheduled  • Documents internal procedures and policies  • Correspond and negotiate with vendors regarding contracts and services to make sure that the contracts are the most cost effective for the company  • Head of Compliance Education Bachelors of Science in Business in Business Management Medaille College 2006 to 2008 Skills Active Directory (5 years), Microsoft Office (3 years), printers (Less than 1 year), Tech Support, Comptia, Desktop Support, Helpdesk Support, Mac OS X (Less than 1 year), Comptia A+ (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ September 2018 to September 2020 Additional Information Skills CompTIA A+ Certified  HP Certification for Desktops, Workstations and Notebooks  Proficient in Microsoft Office, Windows Operating Systems and HP printers  Active Directory