System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Edison, NJ • 5 years of experience working as a Windows/IIS/Cloud support engineer with installation, configuring, deploying, trouble shooting, administration and maintenance of IIS 6.0/7.0/7.5/8.0/8.5.    • Experienced with deployments, Maintenance and troubleshooting applications on Microsoft Cloud Infrastructure Azure.    • Practical knowledge in analyzing the IIS logs to collect information about server events, server performance, and user activity.    • Worked extensively in configure NLB, managing hardware load balancing F5-BigIP.    • Expert in deploying, configuring application in Dev/SIT/UAT and Prod.    • Create user accounts, modified and delete according to the environment using user administration in Active Directory.    • Strong experience in setting up cluster environment for load balancing and high availability of Windows server.    • Well-Versed with installation, configuration, administration of Microsoft Windows 2003/2008 R2/ 2012 Servers.    • Expertise in Database security including creating logins and roles for users to access database.    • Manage security logins and worked with windows authentication, SQL server authentication and mix modes.    • Exposure with Hyper-V and System Center Virtual Machine Manager (SCVMM) tool for managing Virtual server infrastructure.    • Good Experience on PowerShell scripting and MS Web Deploy for creating website.    • Installing windows roles, features and deploying application using PowerShell.    • Good Experience with software Repackaging, packaging, deployment.    • Experience in designing and deploying enterprise wide Network Security and High Availability solutions.    • Provided support for Network Operations Center as the organizational requirement.    • Good working knowledge in providing network support, installation and analysis for a broad range of LAN/WAN communication systems.    • Good knowledge on Cisco ACS 5.x (AAA, Access policy, Network Device Filter, Local Database, MS Active Directory).    • Expert in Cisco ASA 55xx(Basic ACL, Zone, MPF, Bonet traffic filter, VXLAN, TrustSec, Simple API..).    • Known how to configure Cisco FirePower.(license, Access control policy, intrusion policy, AMP, network discovery).    • Hands on experience SD-WAN,(CPE authentication, underlay router, overlay router, DPI, Hybrid WAN, PKI server, High availability..).    • Experience in 802.11x wireless technology.  • Provide 24*7 on call support, and. Able to work in a fast paces environment, good team player.  • Experience in communicating with customers in order to accommodate custom escalations and provide quick fixes to bring the applications back to business and find root cause of the issues and apply the permanent fix in order to avoid future escalations for the same issues.    • Experience in making documentation for issues we worked on and provide knowledge transfer to other team members to share work load when we get multiple priority 0 issues at the same time.    Technical Sills? Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Bank of America - Pennington, NJ June 2018 to June 2019 Responsibilities:  • Planned, designed, audited and implemented the provision of new servers in the Azure cloud.  • Installing and configuring new servers in the environments.  • Installing and configuring .NET application on IIS 7.5/8.0/8.5 Web server on Windows 2008R2/2012 R2/2016.  • Worked in creating Certificate Sign in Request (CSR) & communicate with Certificate. Authority to get new certificate and configure them on web servers to provide security to internet facing web application.    • Done periodic patching and release.    • Install certification on servers.    • Worked on Active Directory related issues such as Logon failure, Replication issues, and authentication problems.    • Manage new hire account creation, user termination, privileges, and other user account modification in Active Directory.    • Deploy applications on multiple web servers and maintained load balancing, high availability and failover functionality.    • Create cluster on IIS web servers using Network load balancing and also managed net scale cluster including configuring cluster in Akamai global trace management.    • Working in building new environments by creating VMs, deploying windows operation system then installing platform pre-requirements, deploying application and configuring security.    • Configuring F5-BigIP for multi node environments.    • Preparing and documenting backup and recovery plans.    • Working on chase management process for application deployments, platform level, developments and monthly security patching as well.    • Good working experience with PowerShell 5.0. System Administrator Wells Fargo - Winston-Salem, NC June 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities?  • Installing and configuring new servers in the environment.    • Installed & configured .NET application on IIS 7.5/8.5 Web server on Windows 2018 R2/2012 R2.    • Building and deploying codes in various environments including higher lanes.    • Worked on periodical patching and released.    • Doing periodic patching and release.    • Installed certificate on servers.    • Planning, designing, and auditing new requirements.    • Building new environments by creating VMs, deploying windows operating system then installing platform pre-requirements, deploying applications and configuring security.    • Dynamically distributed assets to strategically placed redundant core, fallback and edge servers with Content Delivery Network (CDN).    • Monitoring application and identifying issues using monitoring tools like Site Scope, Dynatrace, AlertSite and SCOM.    • Deployed applications on multiple web servers and maintained load balancing, high availability and fail over functionality.  • Providing documentation to assist developers in using the environments and technologies.  • Good working experience with PowerShell 3.0. System Administrator R J Reynolds Tobacco Company - Wilson, NC October 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installing and configuring new servers in the environment.    • Installing and configuring .NET application on IIS 6.0/7.5/8.5 Web. Server on Windows 2018R2/2012R2.    • Installing and upgrading Siteminder.    • Running automation using Anthill.    • Ticketing and processing tick using WMS and Pac2K.    • Documentation of installation guides during platform upgrades and application migrations.    • Installing and configuring new servers in the environment.    • Installing and configuring .NET application on IIS 7.5/8.5 Web server on Windows 2018R2/2012R2.    • Building and deploying codes in various environments including higher lanes.    • Working on periodical patching and release.    • Doing periodic patching and release.    • Install certificate on servers.    • Planning, designing, and auditing new requirements.    • Building new environments by creating VMs, deploying windows operating system then installing platform pre-requirements, deploying applications and configuring security.    • Dynamically distributed assets to strategically placed redundant core, fallback and edge servers with Content Delivery Network (CDN).    • Monitoring application and identifying issues using monitoring tools like Site Scope, Dynatrace, AlertSite and SCOM.    • Deployed applications on multiple web servers and maintained load balancing, high availability and fail over functionality.    • Providing documentation to assist developers in using the environments and technologies.    • Good working experience with PowerShell 3.0. Network Engineer & System Admin Laikeda Import & Export LLC March 2013 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installing and configuring new servers in environment.    • Monitoring alerts using SCOM.    • Ticketing and processing ticket using Windows Services Manager.    • Doing periodical patching and release.  • Working on providing security by configuring SSL certificates as wells as authentication techniques.  • Working in building new environments by creating VMs, deploy windows operating system then install platform pre-requirements, deploying applications and configuring security.    • Responsible for entire LAN and WAN maintenance and troubleshooting of the company network.    • Involved in the Team of Data Center Operations to perform duties like administration and deployment of Routers and Switches according to the organization requirements.    • Worked with the data center planning groups, assisting with network capacity and high availability requirements.    • Reviewing all changes to network configuration for technical accuracy and providing solutions to Multi-Protocol Network problems.    • Configured and managed VLANs, 802.1Q Trunk, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, HSRP and LAN security for Layer-2 and Layer-3 switching domains as per the organization's requirement plan.    • Tested various BGP attributes like local preference, MED, Weight and replicated customer issues in the testing environment lab.    • Routing protocol configuration such as OSPF and BGP, Router redundancy configuration. (HSRP, VRRP and GLBP)    • Multicasting, Route redistribution, Route Filtering using Distribute list. Network Engineer & System Admin Wuhan Tongchuang Technology Co. LTD January 2010 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installing and configuring new servers in environment.    • Preparing documents backup and recovery plans.    • Working on change management process for application deployments, platform level, development and month security catching as well.    • Provide on call support for production environments.    • Provide self-services capability for developer where is feasible.    • Responsible for LAN and WAN maintenance and troubleshooting of the company network.    • Involved in the Team of Data Center Operations to perform duties like administration and deployment of Cisco Routers Switches and firewall according to the organization requirements.    • Experience working with Cisco IOS-XR on the ASR9000 devices for MPLS deployments in data center.    • Experience with setting up MPLS Layer 3 VPN cloud in data center and also working with BGP WAN towards customer.    • Reviewing all changes to network configuration for technical accuracy and providing solutions to Multi-Protocol Network problems.    • Configured and managed VLANs, 802.1Q Trunk, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, HSRP and LAN security for Layer-2 and Layer-3 switching domains as per the organization's requirement plan.  • Tested various BGP attributes like local preference, MED, Weight and replicated customer issues in the testing environment lab.  • Routing protocol configuration such as OSPF, EIGRP and BGP, Router redundancy configuration. (HSRP, VRRP and GLBP)    • Multicasting, Route redistribution, Route Filtering using Distribute list. Education Master's of Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering New Jersey Institute of Technology 2018 Bachelors of Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Hebei University of Technology 2010 Skills ACCESS CONTROL LISTS, IIS, NETWORKING, SCOM, IIS 6, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware