Network Administrator & Helpdesk Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; Helpdesk <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator & Helpdesk Administrator - Middle East Broadcasting Network Alexandria, VA Work Experience Network Administrator & Helpdesk Administrator Middle East Broadcasting Network - Springfield, VA June 2016 to Present Spearheaded IT initiatives for group with a mission to provide objective, accurate, and relevant news and information to the people of the Middle East about the region, the world, and the United States.  Responsible for installing, configuring, troubleshooting software/hardware and Cisco routers, switches and access-point for company. Monitored and upgraded network server, POS systems, workstations, and peripheral devices when necessary, Managed IT asset inventory and all software licenses while acting as main contact for daily technical assistance. Provided complex support while utilizing a ticket management system. Assisted users in a Windows environment and developed training materials for staff to follow. Information Technology Specialist January 2013 to March 2015 Global integrated security: Assist IT department in fulfilling company goal of supporting US military.  Directed IT asset inventory and performed regular data backups. Monitored and administrated computer networks and environments that contained hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations. Adept at diagnosing and resolving hardware/software issues as well as other system problems. Maintained system licenses and assisted with developing training documents. Systems Administrator TMG August 2011 to April 2013 threat management Gateway) installation and Configuration  ISA installation and Configuration  Blade Server installation and Configuration  Window Server 2008 ) installation and Configuration  Window Server 2008 Domain Deployment  Windows server 2008 (File, Application and database servers installation and Configuration )  MBSA security implementation and block unused port  DNS installation and configuration  DHCP configuration  Data Center Design  WSUS installation and configuration  Application server installation  Backup Drive installation in Linux and Microsoft operation system  Symantec Backup installation and configuration  Symantec end point protection installation and configuration  Outlook Configurations &Problems solutions  Updating Operating Systems & Packages  Antivirus Updating  Installations( Ghost Installation Attending Installation)  IP Distribution  Applying Policy Education Learning Tree International 2018