Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Greer, SC Work Experience Network Administrator South Carolina Department of Education - Spartanburg, SC June 2018 to Present • Implemented local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), intranets, extranets, & other data networks.  • Maintained network availability in multiple networking environments by administering Cisco campus-based switching environments with fiber-based and copper-based Ethernet connectivity (1gig and 10gig).  • Installs, manages, and maintains Cisco switching components to support campus, wan, and distributed core architectures. Works with Cisco chassis-based systems, internet circuit termination equipment, and advanced Cisco management tools.  • Managed Cisco Prime Infrastructure and analyze network health, workflow, access, information, and security requirements; performing router/ switch administration, interface configuration, and switching protocols.  • Experience with network routers and switches, and strong Cisco switch and router configuration experience.  • Workd knowledge of TCP/IP, DNS, 802.1x, ACLs, ARP, RADIUS, IPv6, DHCP, Intrusion Prevention, Authentication, and ISP circuit connections.  • Developed and execute test plans to check infrastructure and system performance.  • Performed network modeling and analysis.  • Defined diagrams and designs for business technology initiatives.  • Enforced policies for standardizing systems Network Technician U.S. Department of State - Washington, DC October 2014 to June 2018 Enterprise work  • Changed passwords and unlocked accounts daily or as need  • Added devices and new software/applications as need  • Troubleshoot applications freezing, printers now working and hardware.  • Actively troubleshoot level one issues and transferred call to the appropriate technicians.  • Assigned tickets to filed issues, sorted tickets and answered field daily or as need.  • Supported computer and network operating systems (O/S) to include Program of Record versions of Linux, Microsoft Windows/Server, CISCO IOS and ALCATEL XOS/AOS.  • Designed, and installed, maintained and repaired data communication links, fiber-optic and tactical fiber-optic cabling.  • Analyzed and evaluated system output, design, and manipulated database information to produce non-routine reports weekly. Aviation Logistics Specialist United States Marine Corps - Jacksonville, NC April 2008 to April 2012 • Deployed on the 26th MEU June 2010- Dec. 2010  Deployed to Al Assad, Iraq Jan 2009-Dec. 2010  Worked with buying teams to have product ordered proactively to minimize out of stock situations.  • Plan truckload stock transfers as well as order inventory to maintain healthy product levels by evaluating buying reports and sales trends.  • Tracked and managed adjustments between 3PL and HMI databases to reconcile any changes, as well as investigate and resolve any discrepancies.  • Kept 3PL web portal updated with changes and respond to alerts in a timely manner.  • Processed invoices from 3PL to ensure accurate and timely resolution.  • Maintained regular and proactive communication with 3PL team.  • Participated in buying meetings by being prepared with questions and information on SKU’s that need to be reviewed and discussed based on inventory analysis.  • Prepared monthly analysis and reporting on overall statistics.  • Offered continuous improvement ideas for the overall process as needed.  • Used forklift daily and Microsoft office daily  Managed a designated group of pack-up kit aviation assets as well as a group of designated pack-up kits to support aircraft and squadrons.  Recommend and approved which assets for stocking in the pack-up kit and recommend consumable items for inclusion.  Commutated with various customers/representatives via telephone, email or Naval Message to rectify discrepancies.  Ordered and stocked required repairable and consumables.  Approved all increases and decreases are loaded to the Stock Item Record (SIR) in the Navy, Enterprise Resource Planning (N-ERP) database and the Master Record File (MRF) in NALCOMIS database.  Ensured all picking tickets where pulled and delivered in a timely manner. Ensured that all complete orders where entered into an automated system.  Determined problems that may be affect/delay material availability and initiates corrective action.  Conducted On-load, On-board and Off-load inventories and cycle counts.  Maintained a local carcass-tracking program to accurately track and account for all parts and materials. Education Bachelor's in Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Purdue University Global - West Lafayette, IN July 2017 to Present Associate in Associates Degree in Diesel Technology and Applied Service Management Wyo Tech-Blairsville - Blairsville, PA June 2013 to August 2014 Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Corporal Certifications/Licenses 608 EPA Refrigerant Recovery and Recycling Certification Core with Type 1 and 2 April 2014 to Present 609 EPA Refrigerant Recovery and Recycling Certification April 2014 to Present Certified VSAT Installer July 2019 to July 2021 • BASIC VSAT THEORY  Course Introduction  What is VSAT?  Frequency Bands  Satellite Orbits  VSAT Link Terminology  VSAT Latency  Rain Fade  Sun Outage or Solar Transit Events  Adaptive Coding Modulation (ACM)  Linear Polarization  Circular Polarization  deciBels (dB)  DC Voltages  RF Safety  VSAT Glossary of Terms  • TOOLS, EQUIPMENT & DOCUMENTATION  Hand Tools  Cables  IT & Software  Test Equipment  Adaptors  Comms  Spares & Consumables  PPE  Documentation  Checklist  • INDOOR EQUIPMENT  Equipment Rack  UPS  SCPC Modems  Comtech  Paradise Datacom  TDMA Modems  • OUTDOOR EQUIPMENT  Low Noise Block – LNB  4Block UpConverter – BUC  RF Feed Assembly  Antenna or Sat Dish  Antenna Offset  Antenna Mounts  Non-Penetrating Mounts  RF Coax  N-Type Connector Termination  F-Type Connector Termination  Power  Grounding  • STABILIZED AND AUTO-AQUIRE ANTENNAS  Stabilized Antenna Theory  ACU Configuration  Sea Tel Antennas  Intellian  SpaceTrack Antennas  • REMOTE SITE  Site Surveys  Arrival at Install Location  JHA and Take 5’s  Work Area  • DISH ALIGNMENT  Dish Pointing  Elevation  Azimuth  Polarization  • REMOTE COMMISSIONING  Compression Point (1dB Point) Test  Cross Polarization (XPol)  VoIP  Data  Site Documentation  • FAULTS  Dish Pointing  Dish Movement  Low Rx Signal  Tx Power Problems  Slow Data  Poor Voice  Cross-Pol Issues Certified Fiber Optic Technician January 2019 to January 2022 Certified Premises Cabling Technician (CPCT) January 2017 to January 2020