Security Operation Center Analyst Security Operation Center Analyst Security Operation Center Analyst More than 9 years of combined experience in the following areas in a multi-national finance/banking, oil, & energy, forex, cybersecurity companies:    • 4 years in Network Engineer / Administrator / IT Support  • 5.5 years in Information Security / Security Operation Center    Holds a degree and industry certifications below:    • BS Information Technology  • eLearnSecurity Junior Penetration Tester (eJPT)  • Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)  • Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP)  • Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)  • ITIL® v3 Certified Work Experience Security Operation Center Analyst Techno Global Team December 2018 to April 2019 Ecotower, 32nd St., Taguig, Metro Manila    Duties and Responsibilities  • Performing daily operational real-time monitoring and analysis of security events from multiple sources.  • Triage security incidents (malware infections, unauthorized access, malicious emails, Phishing, Dark Web, Distribute Denial of Service (DDOS) attacks, etc.)  • Respond to incidents through collecting logs, conducting analysis and maintaining evidence  • Conduct and analyses network vulnerability assessments to identify incidents.  • Review and analyses Intrusion Detection System traffic for potential incidents  • Staying current on the latest Cyber threats, Attacks and Vulnerabilities  • Provide ongoing support and case investigation until issues are closed  • Identify threats utilizing multiple tools at your disposal  • Develop weekly technical reports and monthly executive reports based on templates  Professional Experience Network and System Administrator 11th Ave, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig, Metro - Manila April 2018 to December 2018 Learn to Trade  April 2018 - December 2018 2F ( 9 months) W Highstreet Bldg 28th St cor 11th Ave, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig, Metro Manila, Philippines    Duties and Responsibilities  • Perform project implementation starting from creating a design, Pre-staging of network devices, Hardware acceptance testing and Installation and configuration of network devices  • Deployments of Cisco Core Router/Switches for Learn to Trade.  • Manages network infrastructure of business and handles network devices such as Cisco ASA 5506x, 3850, 2960x, Dell x1052, & Access points.  • Configured and Implemented IP SLA, Track, Policy Based Routing with Verify availability & track, High Availability Active & Standby Failover, VLAN, URL Filtering, QOS, IPsec VPN, Layer 3 Switch Stacking & Link Aggregation Control Protocol.  • Performs IOS Upgrade and creates Network Diagram  • Administrator of Office 365, TREND MICRO Internet Security, Barracuda Email Security, NAS Synology and Active Directory.  • Installs and Configures VoIP (Telerate, Xlite, New Voice Media.)  • Perform Incident and Change management according to ITIL  • Responsible in research and development of plan and require operational enhancement Network Engineer Yuchengco Tower, RCBC Plaza, Makati City May 2017 to April 2018 Duties and Responsibilities  • Part of the team that provides 24/7 global network support, monitoring, maintenance, configuration and troubleshooting of routing and switching enterprise technologies in complex networking environments.  • Troubleshooting includes routing protocols (BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, Layer 3 Switches - Cisco 6500's, 4500's and various closet switches). Understand, administer, troubleshooting, and install security technologies (Cisco Firewall, VPN, IDS/IPS)  • Address day-to-day network issues thru BMC SDE ticketing system involving problem analysis, creation of change management document and actual implementation.  • Join Major Outage Bridge during downtimes (INTERNAL or CLIENT bridge) performs real time network changes during outages via Emergency Break/Fix.  • Change Management - Create Change request in adherence to the Change Management Process.  • Implementation of approved RFC's or approved network configuration.  • Coordination with Carries/ Service providers during outages for immediate circuit restoration.  • Major task includes monitoring of all Chevron's WAN link via Spectrum, Net flow, syslog, and Solarwinds.  • Attends to client request such as additional tool access, server access, new port access, new VLAN's/ network/ subnet, and new access-list implementation.  • Co-ordinate all logistic support for project procurement, RMA, and spares management. Information Security Analyst Citibank tower July 2012 to April 2017 Professional Experience  Information Security Analyst  Citibank N.A. - ROHQ  July 2012 - April 2017 (4 years 10months) Citibank tower 8741 paseo de Roxas, Makati City    Duties and Responsibilities  • Perform day to day review of ISA activity logs for Wintel, UNIX, Database (MySQL, Oracle, and Sybase), and Teradata & Business Application platforms and ensure all process is followed according to company security policy.  • Detect unauthorized system access and make sure no access is given without proper request  • Create management report for quality control / assessment.  • Identify and report discrepancy in the process or control for further follow-up or improvement.  • Coordinate project or task to achieve effectiveness in the function.  • Worked with numerous environment including: Desktop, VMWARE (ESXi) VSPHERE Infrastructure, Citrix XenDesktop/XenApp 5 Servers, Avaya, Cisco Phone, Mobile Wireless, Microsoft Exchange, and Citibank applications. Network Administrator TGK-Asia Consultancy Services, Inc May 2011 to June 2012 Network Administrator  TGK-Asia Consultancy Services, Inc.  May 2011 - June 2012 (1 year 2 month)3/f, Fadi building, #5 west capitol drive cor. san Rafael st. Philippines    Duties and Responsibilities  • Handle escalations from L1 Incident Management team.  • Plan and schedule major network software/firmware/hardware changes and repair activities in accordance with Change Management procedures.  • Deploy Cisco routers and switches to effectively enhance networking services.  • LAN/WAN support and administration, including configuration and maintenance of switches and routers.  • Coordination with vendor / Service Provider for problem resolution.  • Approve network changes and implement them in accordance with Project & Change Management procedures.  • Coordinates installation of routers, switches, and other network devices and effectively communicates changes to appropriate parties Network Administrator Makati Avenue, Makati City January 2010 to May 2011 2f Chinabank Bldg., Makati Avenue, Makati City 1277, Philippines.    Duties and Responsibilities  • Configuration, deployment, and maintenance of network devices and modules.  • Monitor the performance and capacity of the network infrastructure and resolve network related events and alerts from the network management system.  • Respond to, troubleshoot, resolve, and escalate network related incidents and problems.  • Implement new client LAN/WAN network topologies based on an approved network design.  • Communicate effectively with clients, fellow engineers and non-technical co-workers.  • Provide 24 x 7 IT network onsite and on-call support.  • Handling PC support, Laptop, Outlook, Windows, Mac. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science AMA Computer College 2018 to 2020 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology AMA Computer College 2015 to 2017 Skills Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Citrix, Eigrp, Juniper, Ospf, Vmware, Xenapp, Xendesktop, Exchange, Solarwinds, Security, Metasploit, Nessus, Siem, Snort, Splunk, Wireshark, Firewall Additional Information Skills:  • Penetration Testing, Vulnerability Assessment, Malware Triage, Linux, Cyber Kill Chain, Alien Vault SIEM, Intrusion Detection, Metasploit, Identify Access Management, Tenable Nessus, OpenVAS, Burp Suite, Nikto, Snort, Trend Micro Internet Security, Barracuda Email Security, Wireshark, Dirbuster, John the Ripper, Hydra.  • Cisco ( ASA 5506x Firewall, 2960x, ) DMVPN, BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, Nexus 9K/7K/5K/3K/2K, Catalyst 9K/6800/6500/4500/3850 ) Dell ( x1052), Juniper, Spectrum, Solarwinds, Splunk, Voyence, NetQos, JunosSpace, IT Service Management,  • Office365, VMWARE, Citrix XenDesktop/XenApp Servers, Avaya, Cisco Phone, VoIP (Eyebeam, Xlite Avaya), Mobile Wireless, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Server (2008, 2010, 2012, 2016). Desktop Support, Technical Support.  Additional Details:  • Notice Period: 2 weeks  • Visa Status: S Pass