Uniformed Protection Officer Uniformed Protection Officer Uniformed Protection Officer - Inter-con Security Systems, Inc Stafford, VA A self motivated professional with knowledge of network administration. Equally capable of working alone or as a member of a team, and comfortable exercising initiative and solving problems that arise unexpected. Currently serving in the United States Marine Corps Reserve as a Network Administrator Sergeant. Qualifications include:    • Network Troubleshooting • Leadership Experience • Help Desk Experience  • Problem Solving • Top Secret Clearance • Bilingual - English & Spanish Work Experience Uniformed Protection Officer Inter-con Security Systems, Inc - Washington, DC May 2018 to Present responsible for: special events, emergencies, dignitary protection and enforcement of federal regulations.  • Assist in emergency response to security alerts and civil disturbances. Provide protection and enforcement of federal regulations.  • Assists in emergency response to security alerts and civil disturbances. Provide protection and enforcement of the control of classified material and personally identifiable information  • Conduct package and vehicle inspections, physical searches of persons. And continuous surveillance-detection for indicators and warnings of pre-operational attacks.  • Plan and provide surveillance for individuals identified as possible threats by various federal state, and local law enforcement agencies.  • Enforce all rules and regulations of U.S. government-controlled property and operations Network Administrator Active Duty - Camp Pendleton, CA April 2014 to April 2018 for the United States Marine Corps.  • Worked at the battalion help desk in direct contact with higher military personnel regarding login/ network error issues.  • Trouble shot computers/phones when higher military personnel submitted a request.  • Submitted requests for port activations in buldings.  • Supervised and set up of telephones and computer systems for military field excercises.  • Maintained accountability and proper maintenance of the shops gear. Laborer McCullough Construction L.L.C - Washington, DC September 2012 to September 2013 • Supervised subcontractors on their assigned tasks ensuring completion of the job.  • Loaded and unloaded building materials used for construction.  • Monitored inventory and reported items to be restocked for each job.  • Inspected job site for any discrepancies which were out of regulation or could cause harm to personnel or the job site.  • Experience with ladders and power tools. Education Northern Virginia Community College - Alexandria, VA High School Diploma St. John Paul The Great Catholic High School Skills Security (1 year), Communications (4 years) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant April 2014 to Present I did 4 years active duty and am currently serving in the reserves.