Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Conneautville, PA To advance with a company in an Information Technology position that provides professional growth, experience and challenges. Summary I am looking to find a long-term position with a local company. I have earned a Bachelor's Degree from Tennessee Tech University in Business Administration with a Major in Management Information Systems. I have extensive experience in implementing, maintaining and managing networks and I.T. department day-to-day operations. Work Experience Network Administrator Filed Nation - Conneautville, PA September 2018 to Present This is weekly and daily contracts  • Tier 1 network support analyst.  • Provide online support for software and network.  • Manage router configurations for VPN's.  • Diagnose software issue's preventing network access.  • Deploy PC's and Printers.  • Setup and maintain Domain and servers. Network Administrator Clearsource - Sandy, UT March 2018 to July 2018 • Maintain servers in Windows 2008 & 2012 Server environment.  • Setup servers in VMware environment for testing and production.  • Establishes network by evaluating network performance issues.  • Installation and configuration of equipment; defining network policies and procedures establishing connections and firewalls.  • Manage all onsite VOIP day-to-day activities.  • Maintain installed PCs, networks, telephone systems with routine maintenance.  • Identify, log and resolve technical problems with software applications or network systems.  • Evaluate applications and software patches for desktop applications to see if they will solve desktop issues.  • Collaborate with existing vendors to evaluate the new technology that is available and make recommendations to management on using that technology. Voip / Network system analyst YipTel - Sandy, UT November 2017 to March 2018 Project lead for updating/replacing hardware, software and network infrastructure.  • Maintain and troubleshot firewalls and switches.  • Manage Zultys on site and VM PBX systems.  • Provide software for multiple OS's  • Manage all onsite VOIP day-to-day activities for over 50 companies. Field Engineer Unisys Corp - Cookeville, TN January 2017 to October 2017 • Tier 1 network support analyst.  • Project lead for updating/replacing hardware, software and network.  • Project lead on software and network overhaul.  • Manage Windows Active Directory.  • Provide software and OS support via SCCM.  • Manage all onsite I.T.  • day-to-day activities for two hundred users.  • Administrator for windows server 2008 & 2012 on physical and virtual machines.  • Part of team that maintains and troubleshoots switches, routers and wireless access points.  • Tier 3 Desktop support for hardware and all software.  • Manage office 365 for two hundred users on company and personal devices. Tier-2 Network Support Lead, Support.Com(Xfinity/Comcast) - Cookeville, TN May 2016 to January 2017 • Implement and troubleshoot small business networks.  • Implement firewall and set up VPN's.  • Troubleshoot network and Internet connections.  • Manage router configurations for VPN's.  • Diagnose software issue's preventing network access.  • Troubleshoot firewall and antivirus issues. Network Administrator DK Consulting April 2016 to January 2017 • Network Administrator for Pacesetters, in five counties.  • Manage Windows Active Directory.  • Maintain servers in Windows 2008 & 2012 Server environment.  • Setup servers in VMWare environment for testing and production.  • Deploy and maintain software via SCCM.  • Manage Active Directory.  • Manage Enterprise-wide anti-virus. Deskside Engineer Teletech Inc January 2016 to August 2016 • Provide online support for finance software and network security.  • Troubleshoot software issues for Intuit software.  • Install and setup Intuit software.  • Provide support for Intuit IOS and Android apps.  • Troubleshoot firewall and antivirus issues.  • Provide complete customer support through installation and implementation stages of software. Implementations Analyst Dealertrack Technologies - Salt Lake City, UT April 2015 to October 2015 • Manage the implementation and training for automotive dealership software.  • Install and configure software clients systems (Windows, IOS and Andriod).  • Train users, including administrators, service advisors and technicians.  • Project manager of implement personal devices in BYOD(bring your own device) program.  • Client-side liaison through implementation stages of projects.  • Manage training projects for administration and maintenance of software. Analyst SunTrust Bank - Cookeville, TN February 2015 to April 2015 • Provide online and telephone support for digital applications.  • Help users install smart phone application.  • Troubleshoot smart phone and web applications. Technician Dell - Lebanon, TN June 2014 to October 2014 • Build servers, laptops and desktops.  • Build and configure servers for Bank of America and Google Raids on new servers.  • Install windows server 2012r and build Raids on new servers.  • Diagnos issues with Servers, Workstations and Laptops. Developer Caveon - Salt Lake City, UT October 2013 to December 2013 • Created Windows 8.1 certification test.  • Design and test Windows 8.1 certification test.  • Design scenario's for security questions for windows 8.1 certification test.  • Deploy and document security options and functions to test in live environment. System / Network Engineer Smiths Group, TUTCO - Cookeville, TN August 2012 to October 2013 • Handle all day to day operations of hardware, software and security.  • Configure all software and OS upgrades on servers and workstations.  • Project manager for Windows 7 migration.  • Manage up to twelve servers and server applications.  • Maintain all PC's/Laptop's for five facilities or three-hundred and fifty users.  • Administrator of Active directory.  • Install and maintain third party software for all department.  • Manage all routers, switches, firewalls and VPN's.  • Setup and maintain CITRIX along with along with its applications. Software analyst Apex Systems - Nashville, TN August 2011 to December 2011 • Travel to newly acquired hospitals to setup and maintain Active directory for all users and file directories.  • Windows environment.  • Implement software and hardware in newly acquired hospitals.  • Maintain security for new hospitals.  • Manage SCCM for software updates and PC builds.  • Deploy PC's and Printers.  • Setup and maintain Domain and servers.  • Setup and maintain McKesson Medical software.  • Maintain security access on AS400. Education B.S in Business Administration in MIS Tennessee Technological University - Cookeville, TN 2002 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years), FIREWALLS (10+ years), CITRIX (4 years), VOIP (10+ years), WINDOWS 7 (5 years), System Administrator, Networking, Ccna, Cisco, Desktop Support, Comptia, SCCM, Help Desk Additional Information Skills  • Active Directory, DNS, TCI/IP, VPN, VOIP, firewalls, Servers, switches, SQL, AS400, CITRIX, Windows 7, Windows 8.1, Windows 10, migrations, Network Administration, network security, software installation, Cisco, software updates, project management, virtualized networks