Sr. Systems Administrator / Management Team Lead Sr. Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Management Team Lead Sr. Systems Administrator / Management Team Lead - Rockwell Automation Canton, OH Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator / Management Team Lead Rockwell Automation - Cleveland, OH July 2017 to Present • Physical Architecture / Virtual Environment migration to cloud Azure / VMWare  • Remote Monitoring Management Platform selection, development, and implementation. (SolarWindsMSP)  • Platform Integration SolarWindsMSP Project Uptime  • Managing resources in accordance with frontline and backline workloads.  • Implemented Task Scheduling process utilizing Microsoft Planner and Staff Hub.  • Team Building, Training, and Mentoring  • Performance monitoring hardware virtual infrastructure and improvement planning  • Remote Support Hardware / Software  • VMWare ESXI 3.x, 4.x, 5.x, 6.x IT Manager / Sr. Network / Systems Administrator Delta Systems, Inc - Streetsboro, OH 2015 to July 2017 Oversaw budget six figures annually.  • Oversee companywide infrastructure design, implementation, and administration for 350 users in a 24x7 manufacturing environment with approximately 20 servers (35% physical, 65% virtual); achieved a cost reduction of well over six figures annually  • Researched antiquated Cisco VoIP system and moved to Spectrum and Verizon OneTalk gaining a savings of $80K annually  • Managed IT support staff.  • Research and Development Controllers in the Cloud  • Provided support for the Window / Linux network environment including hardware, software, servers, Cisco UCS, VMWare, routers, switches, firewalls, and WAPs. Responsibilities and technology used and supported includes the following:  ? Polymer Injection Molding / Electronics Machine Attached Instruments  ? Drives, Controls Virtual Migration and Integration Cisco 2016 to 2016 Windows XP-10  ? Active Directory, Group Policy, (Disaster Recovery)  ? VMWARE 5.5,6.0,6.5  ? LAN / WAN infrastructure CAT5E, CAT6, CAT7 cabling  ? Cisco 4500 / 6500 / 802.11 / PoE / QOS / Cisco NCM  ? Cisco ASA 5520 firewall configuration and management  ? Intrusion detection / prevention  ? Port management and forwarding  ? VPN - restricted access  ? Content filtering, management, and monitoring  ? Network Address Translation (NAT) - Static routes  ? EMC storage arrays  ? PC desktop / laptop troubleshooting, repair, and upgrading  ? Database / ERP support (SQL 8-16)  ? Virtual Server Management (VMWare)  ? VoIP deployment  ? SharePoint design / administration  ? Polymer Injection Molding / Electronics Machine Attached Instruments  • Utilize computer forensics on both a weekly and monthly basis; scrutinize users' web utilizations to see how often they are visiting non-work related sites and staying on each site as a means to gauge productivity or lack thereof  • Open and close ports and control routes (Ensuring Servers are never directly exposed to the internet so regardless of which machine accesses the internet it never reveals its own IP address firewall NAT)  • Migrated physical servers to VMs and to Server 2016  • Researched ERP systems and determined move from IQMS to Microsoft Dynamics (in process, not completed yet)  • Preparing to migrate SharePoint servers to 2016  • Currently researching email cloud solutions to determine the most efficient and cost-effective tools that will match the needs of the company  • Preparing to migrate company to Office365 Field Network Engineer Supervisor Marathon Petroleum - Findlay, OH 2010 to 2015 • Led a team of 10-20 Field Engineers including Utility / Hands-on Hardware Technicians, Engineers, and Project Managers  • As Team Lead scheduled workers in the field, developed efficiencies, and determined the responsibilities / role of each team member on each project  • Designed LAN / WAN infrastructure for Marathon Petroleum when the company split into two separate companies  • Provided accurate and complete network documentation for each project completed  • Installed network equipment (Cisco routers / switches 819s) Education B.S in Information Technology Kaplan University