Cyber Security Analyst Cyber Security Analyst Cyber Security Analyst Charlotte, NC I am technology driven Cyber Security professional. My diverse experience includes working for various  organizations where I utilized strategic planning, teamwork, problem solving, leadership, data administration,  interpersonal skills and customer service. I also have experience in maintaining Cyber Security service  management framework, awareness, governance, reporting, and communication of Cyber Security services and  their objectives. Above all, my excellent work ethic and demeanor allow me to adapt to various opportunities in  and outside of the workplace Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst IDC TECHNOLOGIES - Cary, NC June 2018 to July 2019 Participate in security risk assessments and work with other team to remediate security vulnerabilities.  ? Assist with maintenance and monitoring of the Information security threat management practice, as well as  monitoring and maintaining network Antivirus and host systems.  ? Operateandmonitornetworkintrusiondetectionsystem.  ? Work with IT teams to assess weaknesses, identify solutions and develop strong security policies.  ? Firewalls and database activity monitoring maintaining confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the  network environment.  ? Provide administrative assistances during incident response.  ? Educateothercompanyassociatesonsecuritybestpractices.  ? Assisting forensic analysis and incident response activities.  ? Work with IT teams to manage the lifecycle of software tools. Facility Manager YMCA GREATER CHARLOTTE - Charlotte, NC December 2015 to June 2018 Develops budgets to support annual maintenance plans and monitors expenditures against budget.  . Define and initiate projects, work to manage cost, schedule, and performance of projects while working to ensure ultimate success and acceptance of the business  . Analyzes issues and develops viable solutions, directing the work of internal and external resources.  . Act as primary point of contact managing all incoming requests pertaining to the improvement of the facility  . Perform on-going inspection of building and grounds to continuously upgrade facility and ensure safety of members and staff  . Coordinate site appointments for any contract labor for variety of facility maintenance tasks and ongoing  care of the site's buildings and grounds to ensure quality services are performed.  . Complete needed mechanical and maintenance of systems and equipment annual inspections. Perform a variety of facility maintenance tasks to ensure a high quality experience Network Administrator OAK PARK PROPERTY MANAGEMENT - Charlotte, NC January 2012 to February 2015 Monitor and maintain network stability, configure routers, switches, firewalls and wireless networks, ensure  that updates, patches firmware are up to date  . Analyzes and responds to end user problems with personal computer hardware, mobile phones, tablets,  software, applications and peripheral devices.  . Firewall rule implementation and testing, day to day firewall policy administration maintains security  framework across the organization  . Coordinates and performs the maintenance, repair, upgrade and relocation of all office computer hardware,  and peripheral devices.  . Resolve and/or escalate issues to IT Support Analysts or the IT Support Supervisor in a timely fashion.  . Configuration and troubleshooting of Windows desktop and server operating systems.  . Excellent communication skills while being eager to develop soft skills next to technical skills.  . Perform routine computer maintenance procedures including keeping hardware/software up to date,  optimized for performance and properly configured.  . Assist users with day to day computer and networking issues.  . Execute technical projects with minimum supervision.  . Diagnose equipment problems and perform preventative and corrective maintenance.  . Proficiency in Microsoft Office Suite, including Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access configuration and troubleshooting.  . Develop, implement and maintain policies, procedures and associated plans for network administration,  usage, security and disaster recovery.  . Provides application of approved additions, changes, and deletions of user accounts, passwords, email, and the application or revocation of security permissions.  . Able to work as a team member to provide assistance to any staff member where priorities have been  assigned by immediate supervisor.  . Responsible for IT Service Desk requests and communication with the end user throughout the lifecycle of the request.  . Troubleshoots high profile network performance issues with ability to provide root-cause analysis and recommends appropriate action.  . Perform periodic reviews and identify potential reengineering / optimization efforts for in-place systems and technologies Education Master's in CYBER SECURITY University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD May 2018 BACHELOR OF ARTS IN SOFTWARE INFORMATION SYSTEMS in SOFTWARE INFORMATION SYSTEMS University of North Caroline at Charlotte - Charlotte, NC May 2015 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, FIREWALLS (3 years), TCP/IP, FTK, NESSUS, SIEM (2 years), Information Security, Nist, Cyber Security, Microsoft office (10+ years), It Security, Network Security, Cybersecurity, Information Assurance Links http://linkedin.com/in/Alex-Granados Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    . Mac OS X . FTK . Snort . LAN/WAN  . Windows . Nmap . CSS . Firewalls  . My SQL . Nessus . ASP.Net . TCP/IP  . PowerShell . Wireshark . Active Directory. Routers  . Linux/Unix . SIEM . Access Mgmt. VMware    QUALIFICATIONS    . Solid knowledge and understanding of information security practices, policies and government regulations.  . Strong understanding of Active Directory, as well as Access Management  . Excellent technical and analytical cybersecurity skills; performing vulnerability scans utilizing different tools.  . Solid knowledge and understanding of computer forensics practices, policies and principles.  . Ability to translate and present complex technical data across technical and non-technical groups.  . Strong understanding of data analysis, computer applications, IS security standards and network architecture.  . Strong organization skills, able to multi-task, and can manage time to meet frequently changing deadlines in a  fast-paced environment.  . Project management experience with ability to handle multiple priorities with minimum or no supervision.  . Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, willingness to work in a team environment, with a variety of  internal and external people in a professional manner.  . Proficiency in Windows Office Suit and other applications.  . Strong analytical problem-solving skills; able to identify problems and implement corrective processes to  achieve assigned tasks