IT Manager IT Manager Fort Myers, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager Top Tier IT - Fort Myers, FL May 2016 to Present Managed Projects for site deployments and customer maintenance. Duties would be budgeting and time management for deployments and prepping sites for WDS systems, HyperV, DHCP, DNS, Firewall Management and content filtering. Working with a team has improved my abilities in projecting labor hours and budgeting for projects to be completed. First year in position my team increased revenue and ticket closure by more than 20% Telecommunications Technician Telephone Support Systems July 2015 to May 2016 Day to day support of Analog to Voip Communications systems. Managing phone networks with Qos and Adtran products. Working primarily with Toshiba CIX and Ipedge products operating on VMware Platforms. Deploying and managing Virtual machines residing on Dell Servers with VMware Esxi 5.5-6.0. Troubleshot PBX systems from Carrier into the building and any interior wiring. Managing Voicemail and Unified messaging systems for Small to medium business. Network Administrator Computer Solutions of America January 2012 to January 2015 Duties included Installing and maintaining Computer networks for small to medium sized businesses on a daily basis. I managed the productivity of repairs while meeting deadlines throughout the month. I worked on projects Including Cabling, Server Set up, Active Directory, and Remote Support Via different applications, Computer Repairs and building computers to meet costumer's demands. Handled 24/7 Technical support for the company during and after Business hours. I also have experiences with setting up routers, Switches, and modems. troubleshooting network related issues with Wireshark and Network diagnostic tools. Education Associates in Networking Services & Technology Edison State College - Fort Myers, FL 2011 to 2014 Skills Networking (5 years), Help Desk (5 years), Computer Repair (9 years), Telecommunications (1 year), Customer Service, Network Administration, Cisco, Strategic Planning, Vmware Certifications/Licenses Adtran Networking October 2015 to Present HealthCare Information Technology solutions December 2017 to February 2019 HITS Certification specializing with Healthcare IT