Founder & Developer Founder &amp; Developer Founder & Developer - US Cash Out Doral, FL Professional IT Engineer with more than five years of experience in the Computer / Networking and Web Developer industry. I decided to join the world of web development about a year ago. Graduate from a Full Stack Web Developer Bootcamp at the University of Miami. Focus in web and mobile development with ReactJS, React Native, Node.js, Angular 2, Ionic Framework, and Responsive design. Work Experience Founder & Developer US Cash Out January 2018 to Present Build and maintain native iOS and Android applications using React Native and Redux. Developed REST API support CRUD with NodeJS & Express, and MongoDB and used Google Cloud Vision API (OCR) to extract text and One Signal for push notifications delivered. Implemented User Authentication (Token-Based Authentication) using Firebase for Facebook integration and JWT with Passport. Also developed web portal for the admin support using React.js. Network Administrator One Homecare Solutions September 2014 to Present Perform a wide range of network administration duties including installations, debugging, maintenance, and upgrades (Windows and Linux environments). Manage User Accounts on Window and UNIX Platform (Creation, Deletion, Permissions, and VPN Access). Develop organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and manage user security with group policies. Assist with technical issues via email, live chat and telephone, providing real-time support to everyday users. Web Developer & Support Logisuite Corp - Miami, FL March 2013 to September 2014 Developed and launch the Company Website. Design and developed reports in support of assigned projects (Crystal Report). Responsible of install the application to new clients, as well as create and manage new and existing users. Responsible for provided periodic backups of the data of the clients (SQL Server 2008 and 2012). Education Full Stack Javascript Bootcamp University of Miami January 2018 to August 2018 CCNA Sheridan Technical College Microsoft IT Academy Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Univ. of Havana Skills Javascript, React.js (1 year), jQuery, SQL, Linux, HTML Links https://rperezga.github.io/rogerperezportfolio/ https://github.com/rperezga https://www.linkedin.com/in/roger-perez-30467065/ Assessments Data Analysis — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hxxlvc47-u839ccp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES6), MVC, React.js, React Native, Redux, Bootstrap, Materialize, Node.js, Express, Jquery, MongoDB, MySQL, JSON, Linux, Command Line Interface, SSH, Git, Github, Heroku, Firebase, Unit Testing (Jest, Mocha, Chai), Angular 4, Typescript, Ionic4, Cordova, JWT, Passport.