Data Analyst Data Analyst Data analyst - Windstream Greenville, SC Experienced and dedicated Network Specialist who is well-versed in several legacy computer networking platforms. With 5 years management experience. Willing to work hard and long hours on complex and technical problems that need to be solved. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst Windstream - Greenville, SC November 2018 to Present Performs layer 2 and layer 3 troubleshooting and configuration on a multi-vendor core environment consisting of Cisco, Juniper, Adtran and Alcatel provider edge and network core routers  ? Responsible for analyzing, testing, isolating and repairing network issues while providing solutions for future troubles  ? Executes proactive monitoring, configuration management and fault resolution of complex voice and data services.  ? Thoroughly documents repair tickets to provide a detailed reference of incidents and resolutions  ? Collaborates with other internal and external groups on projects that help to improve the customer experience through more efficient and effective resolution of customer incidents Network Administrator GlobalVision November 2017 to November 2018 Monitor and troubleshot network configurations for remote client sites.  ? Manage Hp Procurve and MikroTik routers and switches.  ? Work in Observium and Pbx software for monitoring systems that have been implemented.  ? Set up virtual environment for testing using VmSphere NOC Technician CTS LLC - Greenville, SC December 2016 to March 2018 Implement WatchGuard policies and configure Pat for remote access  ? Monitored and troubleshot network configurations for remote client sites.  ? Dispatched technicians due to loss of connectivity, poor signal, interference, or radio silence for approximately 100 individual sites.  ? Act as Lead to onsite field technicians, providing support and advanced troubleshooting techniques.  ? Monitor and follow up with tickets via happy Fox. Education Associates in Network Administration in Network Administration Greenville Technical College - Greenville, SC January 2017 to May 2018 Certificate Cisco Academy Skills BGP (3 years), Cisco (4 years), DHCP (4 years), EIGRP (Less than 1 year), IOS (Less than 1 year), Juniper (1 year), LAN (4 years), LAN/WAN (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), MPLS (1 year), Network Design (Less than 1 year), OPTIMIZATION (Less than 1 year), OSPF (Less than 1 year), Router (2 years), Routing protocols (2 years), T1 (Less than 1 year), T-carrier (Less than 1 year), VLAN (4 years), Windows Server 2008 (1 year), Wireless (Less than 1 year), Networking Additional Information IT SKILLS  Troubleshooting skills with Juniper OS and Cisco IOS networks, Network Design, Network Management and Troubleshooting, Wireless Communications, Fundamentals of Voice Over IP, Router and Switch configuration, LAN/WAN Routing protocols (RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP), Route redistribution, MPLS, STP, VLAN/802.1Q, DHCP, NAT/PAT, T1 Configuration, Subnetting, Linux Administration, Windows Server 2008/2012