Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Self-motivated, competitive, highly organized, enthusiastic team leader. Charter Township of Clinton, MI Seeking a new opportunity in the computer environment, where I can excel in helping businesses and individuals maintain connectivity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Williams International April 2019 to Present *Helpdesk representative, completing tickets generated through ticketing system.  *Windows Server 2012R2 and Windows Server 2016 system builds and configurations.  *Setup, configure and maintain virtual server environment through VMWare.  *Computer/Server software and hardware troubleshooting and repair.  *Software and hardware installation and modification.  *Maintain network folder and file security.  *SCCM software installs and updates.  *System health monitoring through PRTG software.  *Maintain Dell switch configurations as well as port maintenance based on assignment.  *Paloalto firewall maintenance.  *Audit daily logs for network security vulnerabilities.  *Web security through third party vendor.  *Maintain ShoreTel phone system. Associate Systems Engineer Henniges Automotive - Auburn Hills, MI September 2017 to February 2019 • Call center helpdesk representative, creating and completing tickets generated through   ticketing system, email, phone calls, and personal interaction.  • Support locations throughout North America, Asia and Europe.  • Installation and configuration of Windows 10 through SCCM.  • Windows Server 2012R2 and Windows Server 2016 system builds and configurations.  • Setup, configure and maintain virtual server environment through Microsoft Hyper-V.  • Computer/Server software and hardware troubleshooting and repair.  • Software and hardware installation and modification.  • End user account creation, modification and maintenance within an Active Directory   environment.  • GPO creation and maintenance.  • Maintain network folder and file security.  • System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM); software installs, updates, re-image.  • Migration of end user mailboxes from Exchange on-prem to Office 365.  • Support Skype for Business 2015, Skype Online and integration with Polycom phone   systems.  • DPM and Azure backup.  • Policy and procedure creation based on global acceptance.Daniel Network Administrator U.S. Manufacturing Corp - Warren, MI July 2012 to September 2017 Call center helpdesk representative, creating and completing tickets generated through email, phone calls, and personal interaction.  • Installation and configuration of Windows 7 and Windows 8 workstations.  • Windows Server 2008 and Windows Server 2012 system builds and configurations  • Computer/Server software and hardware troubleshooting and repair.  • Software and hardware installation and modification.  • End user account creation, modification and maintenance within an Active Directory  environment  • GPO creation and maintenance  • Create and maintain Microsoft Exchange email accounts on Microsoft Exchange Server  • Maintain network folder and file security  • Cisco wireless access point configuration  • Cisco switch configuration.  • Cisco IP phone system setup and maintenance  • System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM); software installs, updates, re-image  • Microsoft SharePoint 2010/2013; site creation and maintenance  • Symantec Backup Exec; configuration and maintenance  • Symantec Enterprise Vault; configuration and maintenance  • Email and web security through third party vendor  • Anti-virus installation and maintenance for PC and servers  • Maintain wired and wireless connectivity  • Writing policy and procedures for workplace knowledge base. Service Engineer SMART I.T. Services, Inc - Sterling Heights, MI September 2011 to July 2012 Call center helpdesk representative, creating and completing tickets generated through web portal, phone calls, and customer's onsite visits.  • Installation and configuration of Windows 7 and Windows XP workstations.  • Windows Server 2008 system builds and configurations  • Virtual server builds and configuration  • End user account creation, modification, and maintenance within an Active Directory  environment  • Computer software and hardware troubleshooting and repair.  • Software installation and modification.  • Hardware installation and modification.  • Cisco wireless access point configuration  • Cisco and HP switch configuration.  • Creation of RDP and VPN connections  • Writing policy and procedures for workplace knowledge base. IT Department, Internship U. S. Manufacturing Corp - Warren, MI June 2011 to August 2011 Helpdesk representative, ensuring end-user communication for both hardware and software  • Install and integrate Windows 7 Enterprise from previous Windows XP Professional  clients  • End user account creation, modification, and maintenance within an Active Directory  environment  • End-user education and awareness of new software and company policies  • Software installation and modification based on end-user needs  • Hardware installation and modification based on end-user needs Education Masters of Liberal Studies in Information Security Eastern Michigan University - Ypsilanti, MI 2003 to 2008 Bachelors of Science in Network Information Technology Administrator Eastern Michigan University - Ypsilanti, MI 1999 to 2003 New Horizons Computer Learning Centers - Troy, MI 2010 Skills Windows Server 2012/2016, Windows 7/10, Active Directory, Exchange, Office 365, Software/Hardware installation and repair, GPO creation and modification, Network folder security, Cisco AP's,Cisco switch configuration, Cisco IP phone support, Microsoft SharePoint 2013, Symantec Backup Exec, Symantec Enterprise Vault, Ghost, SCCM, Anti-Virus, Email and web security, writig policies and procedures, helpdesk, azure cloud, Vmware, Active Directory, SCCM, System Administrator, Powershell, Cisco, DNS, Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Customer Service, Windows 7 Additional Information Microsoft Certified Professional  CompTIA –A+  CompTIA – Network +  CompTIA – Security +