Dispatcher Dispatcher Fresno, CA Solutions-oriented, dynamic, and service-driven professional, offering broad-based experience and hands-on skills in core IT processes information systems administration, security, technical support, data and voice communications. Decisive, take-charge professional with 5 years of worldwide experience working with physical, information and operational security. Committed to continuous process improvement. Adept at promoting positive work environments and enhancing overall organizational performance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Dispatcher G3 ENTERPRISES - Fresno, CA June 2019 to Present • Dispatch subhaulers for grape load pickup  • Provide customer service to truck drivers  • Maintain schedule of deliveries for following crush date Field Service Technician II Apex Systems - Fresno, CA August 2018 to Present • Provide on site technical support to local 100+ users  • Manage a ticket queue daily with variety of technical issues  • Utilize VMware Horizon 7 to manage virtual desktops  • Provide remote support for large scale queue covering entirety of the U.S Technical Operations Kelly Services (Apple) - Cupertino, CA October 2017 to July 2018 • Send daily reports.  • Check and verify .xml feeds.  • Maintain quality user experience on Apple TV.  • File trouble tickets for any issues that arise.  • Lead standardization of reports for uniformity. Network Analyst Apex Systems - Mountain View, CA May 2017 to October 2017 • Reimage computer assets to keep compliance.  • Utilize Dame Ware to patch assets to compliance.  • Troubleshoot Outlook issues  • Provide support for Windows 7 & Windows 10  • Utilize Active Directory for account lockouts Help Desk Technician United States Marine Corps - MCAS Yuma, AZ April 2016 to April 2017 • Provide technical support for 200+ end users on day to day basis.  • Coordinate reimage of faulty computer software in quick and timely manner.  • Install hardware such as laptops, desktops, and printers to allow for daily duties by end users.  • Manage shared drive access and functionality to allow inter-operability between sections. Network Technician United States Marine Corps - Okinawa, JP November 2015 to March 2016 • Supervise team of nine members to accomplish daily tasks.  • Coordinate creation of network site to provide connectivity with outside network services.  • Program three CISCO 3640 router's securely to provide team with network capabilities on monthly basis.  • Program 6+ CISCO 3750 POE switches to connect router with 100+ end users on monthly basis.  • Check hardware and software on weekly basis to ensure proper functionality for monthly routine. Network Administrator / IT Specialist United States Marine Corps - Okinawa, JP April 2014 to October 2015 • Manage three network infrastructures with 800+ end users.  • Manage Solarwinds network monitoring tool to allow for troubleshooting.  • Manage TACACS Server to allow remote login to Cisco devices for centralized maintenance.  • Direct control of Windows Deployment Server for asset re-imaging when necessary.  • Create GRE and IPSEC tunnel's for network connectivity to remote sites.  • Install CISCO 3750 POE switches when necessary to provide support to mission critical requirements.  • Assist in CISCO Call Manager for installation of CISCO VOIP assets.  • Troubleshoot any network degradation or loss of services to 50+ permanent networked buildings.  • Part of experienced team tasked with installation of black core routing capabilities.  • Patch CISCO devices to be secured and compliant.  • Use Windows Server Update Services to push necessary patches to all assets under domain forest including servers. Education Some college Skills CISCO (3 years), Customer Support (5 years), Deployment (1 year), Information Security (Less than 1 year), System Administration (5 years), Mac OS X (Less than 1 year), XML (Less than 1 year), Troubleshooting (5 years), Field Service (2 years), It Specialist, Desktop Support, Information Technology, Help Desk, Computer Repair, Network Support Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal April 2013 to April 2017 • Recieved honorable discharge Commendations: Joint Service Achievement Medal Certifications/Licenses Adult and Pediatric First Aid/CPR/AED March 2018 to March 2020 ID 11V4F5 Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    • CISCO  • Windows Server Update Service  • Windows Deployment Server  • System Administration  • Switch & Router Programing  • Customer Support  • Information Security  • Mac OS X  • Ticketing System