Voice/ Network Engineer II Voice/<span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer II Highly Motivated Voice/ Network Engineer Vilonia, AR Dedicated, motivated, CCNA/ACSA certified individual seeking Network Engineer position with a family-oriented company, where I can apply my 6 years of Voice/Router and Switch knowledge.     My Cisco ID: CSCO12776585 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Voice/ Network Engineer II Edafio Technology Partners - North Little Rock, AR August 2018 to Present • Manage over 10 Cisco Voice Networks with included apps such as Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Unity Connection, Unified Contact Center Express, Informacast Paging Server, and Cisco IM & Presence Server    • Experience in troubleshooting voice protocols such as MGCP, SIP, H323 - including major protocol changes from one to another    • Responsible for the complete start to finish voice upgrade for a major client of over 800+ devices - including stand up of BE6000H Servers, ESXi, and 7 Unified Communication Apps - Both Publisher and Subscriber    • Successful projects include Call Handler/Complete Call Flow rebuilds, Major Porting from one ISP to another, Standing up of Major Apps, Conversions of Protocols, and End Of Support Subscriber rebuild.    • Experienced in PRI, SIP, and Analog POTS line troubleshooting    • Success in Major SIP Dial-peer and translation-rule changes    • Rebuilt an End of Support version of CUCM as a Subscriber in relief of a failed Server    • Experience in Voicemail handling, Call Handlers, and Forward and Direct Routing Rules    • Rebuilt UCCX scripts, CSQs, and stood up complete UCCX solution for multiple Clients    • Deep understanding of Translations, Route Patterns, CTI Route Points, Hunt Pilots, Route Groups, Device Pools, Calling Search Spaces, Partitions    • Assisted In the Major overhaul of a Medical Facility with over 150 Aruba Network Devices including 2930F/M Models, 1820 Models, 3810 Models, and 8320 Models    • Experience with multiple First Hop Redundancy Protocols including VRRP and HSRP    • Layer 2 and Layer 3 experience includes - VLANs, Trunking, Port-channels, Port-security, AAA authentication, NTP, QoS, OSPF, BGP, Static Routing, NAT, VRF, and Site-to-Site VPNs    • Troubleshooting and Light Configuration of Security Platforms - including Cisco ASA and Palo Alto Firewalls    • Experience in Troubleshooting Aruba Wireless Mobility Controllers    • Light experience with ESXi (5.5/6.5) and Virtual Servers Network Administrator Dillard's, Inc. - Little Rock, AR March 2018 to August 2018 Respond to and troubleshoot routing and switching issues related to a Phase 2 DMVPN environment.     Handle day to day issues at over 300 stores from assisting end users directly to handling vendor related troubleshooting. These issues include Wireless connections(Coporate Wireless, BYOD), Physical and Data Link Layer issues (No ARP, No MAC, Port-Security Violations, etc.) VoIP issues (Phone, handset, cable, extension rebuilds, Phone unregistered, etc)    Monitor The Solarwinds application to proactively determine and begin actively troubleshooting issues at remote stores.     Tier 2 troubleshooting such as building new extensions, troubelshooting unregistered phones, and assist in the deployment and turn up of Cisco IP phones such as Cisco 8945 and 8941 series devices as well as traditional analog phones connected to Cisco VG-350s.    Built 2 Python3 applications for production use to better isolate networking issues such as finding Port-Security violations, finding end user MAC addresses, and rebooting remote Access Points with the ability to expand and handle more network related issues while also leveraging the Solarwinds database through SWQL studio and Python to build localized queries to assist in network applications.    Troubleshoot and identify issues regarding two redundant 8540 Cisco Wireless Controllers and multiple Cisco 3702 Wireless Access Points.     Build and deploy new Access Points, Switches/Routers, and IP phones, as well as assist in the test and turn up of these devices.    Assist in the overall Architecture and Deployment of New Stores, Data Center equipment, and other network related infrastructure as needed.     Troubleshoot routing Protocols (IGP and EGP) including OSPF and BGP across a Phase 2 DMVPN.     Troubleshoot NHRP, GRE, and IPSEC in relation to DMVPN.     Handle the deployment and configuration of production level Access Control Lists.     Handle yearly IOS upgrades for current Cisco Devices. Network Engineer Bank of the Ozarks - Little Rock, AR April 2016 to March 2018 Responsible for maintaining physical and logical network diagrams using Visio and keeping the diagrams current when network changes are made    Responsible for maintaining the Layer 3 and Wide Area Network (WAN)and working with Service Providers to activate, and troubleshoot new and existing BGP peering links    Ensure best practices are followed in the design and configuration of the Layer 3 network. Make sure that EIGRP and BGP routing protocols are implemented to ensure optimal routing of Bank of the Ozarks services.    Responsible for installing, configuring, and monitoring Data Center routers and switches to include the Nexus 7006, Nexus 5000/2000 series switches Cisco 4500x and 2960x switches and Cisco ASR routers.    Responsible for working with Service Providers to turn up new Data circuits. The connections include T1’s, Ethernet, and MPLS/P2P connections. Also assists with Datacenter moves and the development of Disaster Recovery sites    Responsible for the new WAN IP scheme and working with AT&T to coordinate and migrate the Banks 200 Branch network over to the AVPN network.     Work with the Telecom team to develop a QOS policy to support the new Cisco VOIP network the Bank is deploying more then 200 Branch locations.     Manages and maintains Solarwinds for active alarm monitoring of data devices and implementing new features in Solarwinds when they are released.    In times of disaster switches data and voice circuits to alternate carriers to ensure Bank of the Ozarks services are available    Tested and Turned up over 160 routers and switches on new acquisitions for the bank, including the deployment of Cisco 4331 with 2FXS/4FXO and PVDM with voice license for Cisco Phones.    Wrote Python3 scripts to easily pull critical information from multiple devices at once as well as scripts that automate terminal level tasks in multiple Cisco devices.    Act as front line for day to day end user Network issues related to Dot1x and Cisco ISE    Handled complete Active/Passive Site surveys, including Access Point placement, for multiple high profile business units within the Bank of the Ozarks. CNOC Network Analyst I Windstream - Little Rock, AR June 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities  Maintain Transport Equipment within Windstream Circuits.   Take calls from Techs to help guide maintenance of equipment.  Remotely access Cisco, Juniper, Cerent, Cyan, KDL equipment to access PMs and isolate where errors may be coming from.   Manage CNOC Tickets   Equipment is layer 1 with limited access to some layer 2.   Remote access NIDs during NID swaps for cell towers and test them.   Configure the Accedian switches to updated firmware and script.   Update MOPs for NID swaps  Run RFC tests to make sure VLANs are passing Traffic appropriately    Frontlined a complete overhaul of Accedian NID swaps in over 1000 cell towers across America    Frontlined NID Upgrades of over 1000 cell towers across America Supervisor/Lead Lasting Impressions Decorative Concrete - Vilonia, AR April 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities  Guide my crew to accomplish the job to full spec, answer any and all questions my crew may have, lead by example, make sure the job is done as safely and as effectively as possible    Skills Used  Cleanliness, work ethic, ability to get job done, supervisor skills Rig Hand Southwestern Energy - Damascus, AR January 2014 to April 2014 SWN)  gained more knowledge of the oilfield  learned how to work in extreme conditions  learned how to work alternating shifts  carried 100lbs loads and various other heavy objects Ref/Cashier T2 Paintball November 2011 to June 2013 Learned a good sense of what the job world consists of.    Skills  • Highly motivated  • Great with groups or as an individual  • Experience in Roofing  • Experience in Heating and Air  • Experience in Oil Field  • Gets to work on time and works hard throughout the day  • Great with people  • Determined to succeed  • Willing to do what it takes to advance  • Self-starter  • Ready to take on any job at hand  • Open-minded  • Physically Fit Education Studied in Liberal Arts Arkansas State University - Beebe, AR 2011 to 2012 High School Diploma in General Knowledge Vilonia High School - Vilonia, AR 2007 to 2011 Skills Routers (6 years), Switches (6 years), Wireless (2 years), PHP (Less than 1 year), Python3 (2 years), Ccna (4 years), Cisco (6 years), Voice (Less than 1 year), Networking, VPN, LAN, Unified Communications (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) May 2015 to May 2018 Recertified April 12th, 2018 passing the CCNP - Switch test Level 1 Wireless Site Survey & Design Specialist August 2017 to August 2020 AirMagnet Level 1 Site Survey and Design Specialist Aruba Certified Switching Associate (ACSA) March 2019 to March 2022 Aruba Certified Switching Associate Additional Information I am a 26 year old CCNA certified Voice/ Network Engineer II looking for an opportunity to expand my knowledge and grow as both a person and as an employee. I am very adaptable and willing to learn anything to better myself and better the company.     I have also completed the following courses:    VMWare vSphere 6.5 Training  NetScout AirMagnet Academy (AM-101) WIFI Foundations v5.05  NetScout AirMagnet Academy (AM-214) Design and Site Survey v2.1  CCNP Switch