IT Specialist/System Administrator IT Specialist/System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Specialist/System Administrator - Department of Homeland Security Cedar Park, TX Highly self-motivated IT Systems Administrator with 2 years of experience in the government administration industry. Skilled in management, technical support, and communication. I enjoy building and maintaining a robust network and love seeing technology be successfully implemented in a way that benefits the organization. Work Experience IT Specialist/System Administrator U.S. Department of Homeland Security/FEMA July 2016 to Present Use the full range of network systems (LAN/WAN) design principles, methodologies and approaches  used in developing, testing, installing, operating, managing and/or maintaining network services that  support functional requirements.  •Ensure all customers have the access they need to shared resources such as networked printers and shared network drives, mapping to devices and drives and administering Active Directory user and  computer accounts.  • Diagnose and resolve complex problems in response to customer reported incidents.  • Utilize FTK Imager software to conduct forensic captures of data from devices as directed by Security Operations Center (SOC).  • Create PowerShell scripts to help automate job functions.  • Support end users in access to FEMA system, system utilization and helpdesk support.  • Plan work to be accomplished by other IT employees, setting and adjusting priorities and workload  and identify developmental and training needs for IT personnel.  • Provide clear and concise communications with staff regarding help desk ticket status, upcoming  projects, changes to existing processes, and system outages.  • Participate in the development of plans and guidance for IT personnel.  • Performed initial setup and configuration of customer and facility hardware such as laptops, phones,  access points, switches, etc.  • Analyze installation of any new hardware or software introduced into the environment to ensure  its compatibility with existing architecture, or its reliability and functionality in relation to the organizations business requirements.  • Use Remedy ticketing system to troubleshoot IT issues to resolve and close help desk tickets.  • Create, test, run, and terminate cables.  • Evaluated locations in consideration of FEMA field operations reviewing for IT, communications and data services in support of Disaster Field Offices.  • Establishes network connectivity for FEMA users and external agencies that may be in facility.  • Train lower graded IT Specialists in account management procedures and system users on new or changed operating systems, IT equipment, software and/or the application of security guidelines.  • Troubleshoot audio/video issues on systems such as Polycom and Cisco systems. Network Support Manager Department of Homeland Security - Corpus Christi, TX October 2016 to November 2017 I served as a primary technical expert in configuring and troubleshooting devices such as laptops,  servers, mobile devices, and network hardware across 5 healthcare clinics.  • This included developing, configuring, maintaining, supporting and optimizing all new and existing  Local Area network & Wide Area Network hardware, software, and communication links.  • I provided administrative and technical IT customer support to include hardware and software  installation and troubleshooting, analyzing and adjusting configuration parameters, and developing  plans or specifications to improve efficiency of the Local Area Network and Wide Area Network.  • I recommended and implemented a new time clock system at a clinic for employees to use instead of the old punch clock. This allowed employees to log in from any PC and cut down the time HR needed to  calculate time from the punch time clock system.  • I troubleshot network performance issues, as well as analyzed network traffic and provided capacity  planning solutions, resolved wireless & local area network hardware, software problems in a timely and accurate fashion and provide end-user training where required.  • Created and maintained documentation as it relates to network configuration, network mapping,  processes, and service records.  • Conducted research on network products, services, protocols, and standards to remain abreast of developments in the networking industry in support of network procurement and development efforts.  • Analyzed clinic requirements and investigated and resolved hardware/software issues, taking  necessary corrective actions to maintain reliable information architecture.  • I also configured switches, router, monitored network performance; and performed diagnostics,  troubleshooting, or mitigation of network related issues using a multitude of tools/techniques.  • Provided clear and concise communications with staff regarding upcoming projects, changes to existing processes, and system outages.  • Where necessary, liaised with equipment vendors during installations and hardware performance  issues.  • Reviewed malfunctioning PCs, workstations, and/or associated hardware to isolate defective parts or determine whether inappropriate logical configurations are causing malfunctions.  • Provided senior level customer support such as; installing operating systems, proposing changes to the client operating environments, and/or configuring system components.  • Managed moves and installations of IT equipment to assure coordination of IT support and customer  service.  • Assisted with managing the day to day operations of the clinic with in regard to helping the front  desk, assisting patients and speaking to vendors. Campus Technology Technician Corpus Christi Independent School District - Corpus Christi, TX April 2016 to October 2016 • Assisted in technology projects including installation, migration, configuration, upgrade, etc., of the District's technology equipment.  • Provided network support, including installation of and maintenance of network hardware, software  and systems.  • Provided clear and concise communications with staff regarding helpdesk ticket status, upcoming  projects, changes to existing processes, and system outages.  • Provided preventative maintenance, troubleshooting, and safety procedures for school sites.  • Assisted the network users with problems they might encounter with the technology. Improve  customer understanding and productivity with technology.  • Provided direction for appropriate usage of network resources.  • Worked with the LAN and WAN Specialists to analyze problem data.  • Maintained appropriate records on services provided.  • Worked with campus technology teams to provide appropriate student access to information tools.  • I provided hands on IT customer support to include hardware and software installation and troubleshooting, analyzing and adjusting configuration parameters, and developing plans or  specifications to improve efficiency. Field Engineer Straight Edge Technology - Corpus Christi, TX April 2014 to January 2015 Installed and configured computer systems and peripherals. Identified and eliminated vulnerabilities  to systems and networks to include virus/malware remediation.  • Ensured confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information systems, network services, data, and capabilities.  • Provide technical support to customers via phone, WAN or on-site visit.  • Used advanced troubleshooting skills when diagnosing and solving hardware/software issues to complete tickets in a timely manner.  • Assured proper logging of problems and resolutions.  • Provided guidance and training to customers in accessing network and systems services.  • Vocalized ideas and/or solutions pertaining to client issues or network administration.  • Modified configurations, utilities, software default settings, etc. on servers or local workstations.  • Configured user accounts in Active Directory and/or Microsoft Exchange.  • Acted as a trusted point of contact to third-party representatives to assist with ascertaining a solution  to our mutual client's given problem. Education BS in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University April 2018 to September 2020 Associate of Applied Science in Computer Information Systems in Network Administration and Information Security Del Mar College - Corpus Christi, TX August 2016 Certificate Del Mar College - Corpus Christi, TX August 2016 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ July 2018 to July 2021 CompTIA Network+ July 2018 to July 2021 CompTIA Security+ August 2018 to August 2021 CompTIA Project+ June 2019 to Present CIW Web Security Associate September 2018 to Present EC-Council Certified Encryption Specialist March 2019 to March 2022