Field Tech/ Network Engineer Field Tech/ <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Field Tech/ Network Engineer Dallas, TX • A CompTIA Network certified network professional skilled with Microsoft Office 365 tasks, Skype for Business and mailbox troubleshooting.  • Support services for Microsoft related technologies: Windows Server 2008/2012, Windows Hyper-V, Windows Remote Desktop Services, Exchange, SQL Server, SharePoint, etc.  • Technical services and support at the network level: WAN and LAN connectivity, routers, firewalls, and security  • Administer windows servers: Active directory and group policy and Utilized Microsoft Office 365 tasks and exchange troubleshooting.  • Small cell installation and integration experience on Sprint, Verizon, Nokia, Samsung, and Ericsson equipment Work Experience Field Tech/ Network Engineer Samsung Telecommunications June 2018 to July 2019 • Provide support to multi-functional team. (NOC)  • Manage core networking, RF Engineering, and provide technical support to fulfill multi-technology wireless  • On-Site Field Support, testing, and troubleshooting  • Install, Integrate and commission Samsung equipment to Samsung standards  • Install, Commission and integrate Cisco CSR routers to manufacturer's and Samsung specifications  • Support troubleshooting of all T-1, ATM backbone, microwave backhaul transmission methodology  • Support RMA process tracking and documentation for MMBS equipment Lead Field Tech/Airscale Nokia Telecommunications February 2018 to June 2018 • Receive assignments and deploy to cell site locations to install, cellular, small cell and DAS equipment  • Install: Nokia/ALU RRH's, RFM, MRO. DAS headend equipment to include the following OEM's: Corning Mobile Access, CommScope and JMA/Teko.  • Install, terminate and test CAT 6 ethernet cable.  • Install and commission DC power plants.  • Using laptop and specialized software, load software and script  • Understanding of proper cable routing.  • Perform call testing and alarm clearing.  • Follow updated MOP when performing any type of small cell work.  • Responsible to pick-up cellular, DAS and small cell equipment from customer or company warehouse location and care for, scan and report on equipment disposition.  • Complete and deliver site completion report within deadline Field Tech/Airscale Nokia Telecommunications August 2017 to February 2018 • Understand the RF design of a macro cell site (RF components such as CBC's, cabling, RRU's, antennas, fiber cabling, Power Systems) and the installation, integration and testing of such.  • Order BOMs (Build of Materials) for hardware installation  • Create and follow detailed instructions on power, grounding, and fiber optic cabling.  • Maintain an updated and accurate inventory database  • Understand macro cell site BTS and RF components (e.g.: CSR's RRH's, BBU's, MMBS/BTS's, power upgrades, Network Interface Devices).  • Commissioning and integration of Smart Integrated Access Devices (SIAD) and Optical Baseband Interfaces (OBIF).  • Test fiber and Coax cables  • Commission and integrate Cell Site Routers and Switches (Cisco, ALU, Ericsson).  • Troubleshoot issues from the edge to the core of a network.  • Read, identify and change site configurations according to plans or drawings.  • Upgrade BTS equipment to current Software levels and Install licenses, create and load scripts using BTS management software.  • Provide support to switch and field technicians during installation and integration.  • Assist in the development of MOP's and procedures for commissioning, integrating and testing.  • Perform E911 and Acceptance call testing and alarm clearing.  • Perform Parameter Audit.  • Thoroughly document, report and communicate processes, procedures, and results. Field Tech/ Network Systems Lockheed Martin Aeronautics - Fort Worth, TX January 2017 to August 2017 • Modify New and existing users dependent on security clearance  • Skilled with Microsoft Office 365 tasks and mailbox troubleshooting  • Keep an inventory of standard network patch cables and cabinets parts  • Detect and remediate viruses and malware on IT hardware  • Conduct minor repairs on network patch cables and server cabinets  • Plan and deploy Laptops and Desktops to customers with a windows 10 image  • Capture users C: drive and capture image to migrate over to newer equipment with windows 10 image  • Provided help desk assistance to users  • Install and uninstall diagnostic hardware such as network sniffers  • Maintain, analyze and troubleshoot computers, printers and other peripheral devices  • Monitor network activity using network intrusion detection systems  • Administering and troubleshooting Windows client/server operating systems (Win 7,8,10, Server 2003, 2008, 2012) by utilizing DOS commands, logs and services.  • IT supports relating to technical issues involving Microsoft's core business applications, as well as virtual environments built on VMware or Microsoft Hyper-V.  • Support services for Microsoft related technologies: Windows Server 2008/2012, Windows Hyper-V, Windows Remote Desktop Services, Exchange, SQL Server, SharePoint, etc.  • Remote access solution implementation and support: VPN, Remote Desktop Services, and Citrix.  • Diagnose and correct common local-area network issues  • System documentation to include system reviews and recommendations.  • Execute the administrative tasks required in creating and tracking Service Requests  • Execute and follow the documented processes to ensure consistent and expected results from network service providers.  • Technical services and support at the network level: WAN and LAN connectivity, routers, firewalls, and security  • Implement and support backup, restore and disaster recovery solutions.  • Install and support technology for end users (hardware, software, and license.  • Support office and remote staff in a Mac and Windows environment.  • Troubleshoot hardware, software, and network issues for end users. Network/Systems Administrator Clover Telecommunications - Irving, TX May 2016 to January 2017 • Perform server troubleshooting and configure system and applications  • Add and modify new and existing user's permissions sets  • Actively complete assigned tickets through clover's ticketing system  • Perform software installations and upgrades  • Utilized Microsoft Office 365 tasks and exchange troubleshooting  • Experience with Microsoft exchange  • Administer windows servers: Active directory and group policy  • Experience with Microsoft exchange  • Provide daily reports for multiple customers using excel and outlook  • Manage multiple network alarms  • Proactively start daily task with no supervision  • Provide professional technical support  • Diagnose and correct common local-area network issues. Field Tech/Lead Network Engineer Ericsson Telecommunications - Irving, TX June 2014 to April 2016 • Level 3 Lead engineer for south central region (Dallas, Killeen, Oklahoma City, Houston)  • Install Samsung MMBS equipment, ground, and provide power  • Provide standard color-coded cable management for DUS equipment  • Provide technical support for WiMax and LTE systems  • Keep an inventory of standard network patch cables and cabinets parts  • Proactively without notification start daily troubleshooting tasks with minimal to no supervision  • Install and uninstall diagnostic hardware such as network sniffers  • Implemented Cisco switches to Ericsson cell sites  • Maintain multiple tasks at all times  • Installed and provided maintenance for existing AP's  • Manually configure Dragon Wave microwave units  • Rack and stack server and network hardware  • Responsible for logging and keeping track of cell equipment before and after installation  • Augment Sprint/Clear wire/Ericsson 3000/6000 cabinet series equipment and maintain optimum performance  • Responsible for LTE/RBS integration on Ericsson 3000/6000 series cabinets  • Explain causes of network alarms and provide fixes  • Training new hires on Ericsson 6000 series cabinets in the field  • Utilized Microsoft excel, outlook and O365 to create and send daily logs  • Maintained a daily schedule and list of remote sites visited using excel to properly document for project managers  • Diagnose and correct common local-area network issues  • Maintain, analyze and troubleshoot computers, printers and other peripheral devices  • Create and complete tickets using remedy ticketing system Field Tech/ Network Engineer Ericsson Telecommunications - Irving, TX June 2013 to 2014 • Lead engineer in the Tennessee region (Nashville, Murfreesboro, Memphis)  • Provide technical support and Infrastructure monitoring day to day operations for NOC activity.  • Install and uninstall diagnostic hardware such as network sniffers  • Provide maintenance to existing access points  • integrated Cisco technology into Ericson 6000 series outdoor server cabinet  • Managed a schedule and sent daily reports to project and area managers using Microsoft excel and outlook  • Assist in the development of NOC processes and procedures.  • Work well with team members and dispatch groups to sites to troubleshoot alarms  • Proactively without notification start daily tasks with minimal to no supervision  • Maintain multiple tasks at all times  • Utilized Microsoft Office 365 tasks and exchange troubleshooting  • Managed LAN networks at remote sites for my clients  • Responsible for the installation and maintenance of cell site equipment  • Responsible for logging and keeping track of cell equipment before and after installation  • Worked with NOC to resolve any troubleshooting issue with at a site  • Responsible for LTE/RBS integration on Ericsson 3000/6000 series cabinets  • Responsible for determining problems and fixes for every alarm that I am assigned  • Mandatory NOC training Ericsson Telecommunications - Irving, TX June 2012 to July 2013 Service Desk  • On Call support and for fellow field techs and NOC engineers within my respected region.  • Proactively supported the customer LTE, WCDMA network (ENodeB, RNC, RBS, SGSN/MME, MGW, GGSN) performance by automatically monitor and audit network availability, utilization, network bandwidth and buffer overflows for ATT/TMO/Verizon/MetroPCS with Perl/Expect scripting, SQL, HTML, and XML.  • Worked with CNS to automate the procedures to detect the hot issues encountered with new version release of LTE, WCDMA and generate the reports with the workaround solutions to customer.  • Automated proactively hourly health check, providing WCDMA RNC Sub rack KPIs alert, critical alarms, system events & exceptions, basic troubleshooting, audits, data analyzing and reporting for assigned product area/customer.  Automated the process of preparation, pre-check and after-check for emergency recovery, network deployment, migration, SW/HW upgrade.    Service Desk (NOC) Ericsson Telecommunications June 2010 to July 2012 • On Call support and for fellow field techs and NOC engineers within my respected region  • Proactively supported the customer LTE, WCDMA network (ENodeB, RNC, RBS, SGSN/MME, MGW, GGSN) performance by automatically monitor and audit network availability, utilization, network bandwidth and buffer overflows for ATT/TMO/Verizon/MetroPCS with Perl/Expect scripting, SQL, HTML, and XML.  • Worked with CNS to automate the procedures to detect the hot issues encountered with new version release of LTE, WCDMA and generate the reports with the workaround solutions to customer.  • Automated proactively hourly health check, providing WCDMA RNC Sub rack KPIs alert, critical alarms, system events & exceptions, basic troubleshooting, audits, data analyzing and reporting for assigned product area/customer.  • Automated the process of preparation, pre-check and after-check for emergency recovery, network deployment, migration, SW/HW upgrade. Education BA in Computer Information Systems Management West Texas A&M - Canyon, TX May 2012 Skills Maintenance, Networking, Troubleshooting, Microsoft Word