Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Phoenix, AZ Ms. Dominguez is a bilingual (Spanish) Information Technology Professional with over 8 years of IT experience. She can resolve complex client concerns and disputes as well as manage information systems projects. She has strong experience with network administration and technical support. She possesses solid experience with imaging computers, LAN/WAN, routers and Microsoft Windows. She enjoys working with clients and providing excellent customer service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator QUALITY HOME MAINTENANCE - Phoenix, AZ October 2017 to Present ?Performed re-architecture of existing corporate network design.  ? Implemented new hardware across multiple company locations, resulting in improved data throughput and connection reliability.  ? Designed, tested, and implemented QHM's first offsite disaster recovery system; enabling the company to recover servers and applications in the event of company wide data lost.  ? Developed, implemented, and maintained the LAN, WLAN, WAN and VPN.  ? Documented project execution/recovery plans, network topology diagrams, & IT user guides.  ? Executed administrative support for LAN switch environment, configuring ports/access/vlans etc.  ? Provided security analysis; Intrusion detection, firewall administration & threat monitoring.  ? Monitored network performance, availability and integrity.  ? Configured Network Attached Storage (NAS) to execute automated backups of files, applications, and servers.  ? G Suite administration.  ? Implemented Call Center visual dashboard resulting in 85% improvement of missed calls and saved $2000 per month average in answering service fee.  ? Created virtualized SQL server 2016 environment to support ERP system for QHM subsidiaries. IT Technician QUALITY HOME MAINTENANCE - Phoenix, AZ October 2016 to October 2017 ? Provided customer support assistance in a Windows environment.  ? Administered the company cellular plan.  ? Brought in house repairing of company's phones saving around $2000 per month.  ? Responsible for management of Avaya Telephone system and creation of hunt group, extensions, addition of incoming lines, etc.  ? Installed, upgraded, and maintained Vipre Antivirus Console and scanned client's computers for malware, adware, and spyware. Recovered infected computers.  ? Tasked with Windows Server administration and maintenance including Active Directory and Group Policy.  ? Configured end user devices such as laptops, desktops, printers, and shared office equipment.  ? Diagnosed and resolved all network related issues.  ? Managed inventory of IT assets and user account. Imaging Specialist Arizona Department of Transportation - Phoenix, AZ May 2016 to July 2016 short term contract)  ? Tasked with the deployment of Windows image using Microsoft MDT.  ? Provided IT support and Windows troubleshooting.  ? Installed Windows operating systems, software and peripheral devices. Information Security Consultant GSM - EC October 2014 to November 2015 Provided consulting and support: Perimeter Security (Sophos UTM), Kaspersky antivirus, FireEye.  ? Assumed the responsibility of deploy projects using the new portfolio of products of the company, resulting in new customers and earning of $10000 per project.  ? Provided customer support assistance in a Windows 7/XP environment.  ? Communicated thoroughly with client representatives and customers, enabling effective information exchange and efficient process management.  ? Logged calls using in-house ticketing system (Aranda Service Desk), solving them in less than 50% of SLA.  ? Installed, configured and maintained Kaspersky Antivirus. Scanned computers and server for malware, adware, and spyware. Recovered computers affected with Ransomware.  ? Management Console Kaspersky (KSC): Web Control, Application Control, Firewall.  ? Tasked with applications testing.  ? Facilitated technical training of IT personnel on company applications.  ? Configured Sophos VPN, Firewall, Application control and Traffic shaping.  ? Maintained Sophos Antivirus client / server. Network Administrator ETECSA August 2013 to September 2014 Managed Windows Server, Web, Active Directory.  ? Remote and local technical support.  ? Restructured the network, assigned IPs addresses, added new network connections and equipment.  ? Managed DNS and DHCP services.  ? LAN monitoring.  ? Virtualization of server.  ? Configured IP address on router, server, and client desktops to connect to ISP  ? Supported Active Directory user accounts, group policies.  ? Resolved complex escalated client concerns and disputes, provided support to end users, installed and configured PCs and laptops to connect to the LAN/WAN, trained end-users on computer usage. Telematics Specialist ETECSA September 2012 to August 2013 Designed and set up installation of data transmission services of xDSL and Wi-Fi technology.  ? Tasked with running service orders.  ? Responsible for operation and maintenance of access equipment (DSLAM) from different manufacturers: ALCATEL, HUAWEI, TELINDUS.  ? Managed diagnostics, performance monitoring and management of data networks via SNMP protocol.  ? Duties included installation of fiber optic transmission services, configured switches and routers, VLAN configuration and networking.  ? Responsible for monitoring, management and maintenance of telephone exchange Alcatel with TDM & NGN technology and ran CAT 5 and COAX wiring.  ? Analyzed and troubleshoot technical problems or issues. Engineering Intern CUBACEL - CU September 2011 to June 2012 Responsible for the optimization of BTS cellular network in the territory.  ? Managed execution of scheduled maintenance work to the equipment of the mobile network.  ? Tasked with end-user support and configuration of mobile terminals.  ? Provided phone support, obtain and install unlock code; configure WI-FI access to wireless network. Education Bachelor's Degree in Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering University of Oriente September 2007 to June 2012 Skills Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Nas, Virtualization, Vlan, Bgp, Dhcp, Mpls, Network design, Ospf, Firewall, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Avaya, Wireless, Html, Javascript, Oop, Windows, Networking, Vmware, Windows 7, Active Directory, Customer Service, Technical Support, Security, Microsoft Office Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching February 2018 to February 2021 Sophos UTM - Certified Engineer September 2015 FireEye Junior Systems Engineer August 2015 Kaspersky Lab Certified Professional May 2015