Devops Engineer Devops Engineer Devops Engineer - Teslagovernment Inc Vienna, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Devops Engineer Teslagovernment Inc October 2018 to Present -Design, implements and troubleshoot, network infrastructure within Amazon Web Services environments that meet Security guidelines and functional needs of government entities; U.S.  State Department and National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA)  -Support and troubleshoot aspects of CI/CD pipeline for Development team (Jenkins, Git, etc..)  -Script/automate core processes to improve efficiency and platform availability.  -Manage system monitoring and alerting tools such as Splunk, AWS tools such as CloudWatch and SNS. -  -Solve operational issues using conventional techniques, reverse engineering, and automated solutions  -Work with AWS tools, services and API's such as Lambda, IAM, EC2, S3, VPC, Security groups, EBS, etc. to improve efficiency, security, disaster recovery and daily operations within Windows and Linux environments  -Administer Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), prepare and build Red Hat RPM packages and implement Yum archives. Work within Agile method and using common tools such as Git, Jira and DevOps tools such as Ansible.  -Manage system processes: Java, Tomcat, Apache, Nginx, OpenVPN and other technologies as needed.  -Utilize network tools, ping, traceroute, tcpdump, netstat, wireshark etc., to troubleshoot and resolve connectivity and networking problem. Network Engineer Marriott International September 2017 to May 2018 Contract Position)  -Provide network support for critical operations of the Marriott International hospitality corporation  -Assist Marriott International properties and sites recover from network service outages  -Configuration of network switches routers and other supporting equipment (Primarily Cisco and HP)  -Implementation of WAN circuits  -Troubleshoot VPN's, GRE Tunnels and IPsec circuits.  -Audit router and switch configuration  -Configure router and switch access mechanisms; Port Security, VLANS, ACLs  -Access datacenter to troubleshoot and resolve basic issues with hardware  -Dispatch and coordinate field engineers to problematic sites and properties  -Assists Service desk with escalated incidents  -Create and update infrastructure and environment documentation  -Analysis of documentation, network utilities and system logs  -Utilization of monitoring tools  -Generates reports which include outage details, root cause analysis and resolution details  -Coordination of 3rd party services and Marriott International elements (Ex. ISP and Hardware Vendors) Hosting Engineer / Systems Administrator, Edge Web Hosting March 2014 to March 2016 -Assist corporate entities with implementation, administration, and problem-solving of Windows and Linux network servers  -Configure and assist users of client mail server.  -DNS/RDNS deployment, delegation and problem solving.  -Install configure and maintain VMware Hypervisor(ESXI)  -Create configure and maintain virtual machines and associated components such as NAS and SAN  -Troubleshooting Performance Issues across the board  - Implement security techniques to combat malicious software, network probing/infiltration, ddos attack.  -Design and implement scripts for internal and customer usage.  -Consult clients on design and implementation of network infrastructure and topology.  -Configuration of Cisco Access Switches  -Configuration and implementation of Cisco ASA Hardware Firewall  -MySql database management and Maintenance  -Familiarity: Datacenter operations, rack and server provisioning. Power and Bandwidth concerns etc.  -Working with Arin to assist customers domain registration and procure ip blocks  -Many additional Tasks and Duties Systems Administrator/ Network Engineer, Velocity Servers December 2012 to January 2014 Numerous duties to affect support of Data Center and NOC operations: Including hardware and and systems management. Network Specialist September 2010 to September 2012 Support University operations with task automation, provision of network services and desktop support Education B.S. in Computer Science and Engineering University at Buffalo, SUNY - Buffalo, NY Skills Devops, Jenkins, Linux, Git, Bash, Ansible, AWS