Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer - Prudential Financial-Newark, New Jersey • Proficient architecting scalable platforms, Object-Oriented Programming (OOP), database design, creating Web Services, SOAP, REST and Microservices.  • Extensive experienced in Python's modules NumPy, MatPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Strong Experience in working with. NET features like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Interfaces, Events& Delegates, Generics & Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling and Tracing in. NET applications  • Hands-on expertise in Relational Databases like MySQL, MEMSQL and NoSQL database like MongoDB.  • Professional Development experience in various applications based on Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and implementation of web and windows-based applications using Microsoft .NET technologies.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and AGILE methodologies of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing.  • Experienced in development of Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular JS, HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap and ASP.NET Entity Framework.  • Implemented MVC 5 (Model View Controller) pattern to have a clean separation of concerns and for easy testing of code.  • Strong command in leading Frameworks Team such as Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js and Node.Js.  • Experience with various MVC frameworks like Angular.JS, EXT.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, EmberJS, BootstrapJS, RequireJs, D3.JS, etc.  • Progressive experience in the field of Web Applications development on all phases of Software Development cycle using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, RWD and JSON.  • Experience in developing applications with SOAP and REST web services.  • Experience with various MVC frameworks like Angular.JS, EXT.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, EmberJS, BootstrapJS, RequireJs, D3.JS, etc. Responsible for developing the partner Homepages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, Node JS and JQuery.  • Highly experienced with DevOps technologies including Jenkins, Splunk, Chef, RabbitMQ, ELK Stack, Apache ActiveMQ, Docker, Kubernetes, Ansible.  • Experience in creating server less web application using AWS services like Lambda, DynamoDB, API Gateway, S3, Cognito.  • Experience in designing and Developing Web Services, RESTful API's for Mobile Apps using Python Django- REST and Flask Frameworks on Nginx and Uwsgi servers.  • Experienced in developing Angular directives and React components & Redux reducers.  • Created visualizations using D3.js, Chart.js and High Charts library for effectively demonstrating and analyzing data.  • Working experience on integrating back-end technologies with JavaScript and jQuery by using AJAX and JSON.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Twitter Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript)  • Good Experience in JavaScript principles and following ES5, ES6 standards and following good programming practice.  • Proficiency with Vanilla JavaScript, including prototype, scope and module concepts.  • Design Develop and support JavaScript/AngularJS based Application built to provide API and GUI for Customers.  • Experience on working with CSS background, layouts, lists and links, Positioning, Float, Align, Pseudo-class, Pseudo Elements, Dimension, Box model, texts, borders, margin, padding, and tables.  • Build some UI Services that interact with REST Layer which access/manipulate Database as per the Request from GUI meeting MVC Architecture.  • Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM)  • Used jQuery's UI features extensively to build several UI components of the web pages.  • Unit testing of Angular2 components, services using karma-test- runner and Jasmine.  • In-depth knowledge/experience of Web 2.0, JavaScript, jQuery, W3C Standards.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular2.0 framework.  • Experienced in CI tools like Maven, Jenkins to manage different versions of the source code.  • Experienced in Database Testing by accessing the data from the database using SQL, JAVA and JDBC.  • Notable experience in Java Programming Language, Object-oriented programming concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Encapsulation, Abstraction.  • Expertise in creating Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), Daily/Weekly Status Report, Defect Report and Project Report.  • Excellent work experience in agile process Jira and Sprint Planning, daily standup to sync up with Team for current sprint status.  • Hands-on experience with both White box and Black box testing. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer Prudential Financial-Newark, New Jersey - Newark, NJ September 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked on auction Single Page applications using REST principles with NodeJS, ExpressJS, Sequelize ORM, SocketCluster, XML/JSON, SQL, Agendash for scheduling jobs, Bcrypt and JWT for encryption etc. for all the API related CRUD operations for a client to analyze and process data efficiently with all security standards.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  • Create the application in .NET framework and implement logic using C# and OOPS concepts.  • Support Client side libraries like angular and database connection like mysql, Casandra, mongoDB and postgres through the Node base microservice and have them connected with Api calls.  • Complete product cycle development using AGILE methodology including design, development, unit testing, and development.  • Implemented CRUD operations and business logic using ASP .NET MVC and Entity Framework.  • Developed various test cases and validated them as part of Unit testing using NUnit.  • Used Integration Testing and Unit Testing continuously point out to defects during the development phases.  • Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  • Used VB. Net and ADO. NET to define and implement Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer.  • Extensively worked with NoSQL database like Mongo DB and relational databases like My SQL, and MEM SQL. Experience in writing complex joins and queries for generate relevant information needed for the business.  • Designed and Implemented Integration Testing Infra for Candid which works on JSON/CSV comparison.  • Automated most of the task using python scripting, RaspberryPI and Raspbian OS, and Unix/ Linux shell Scripting.  • Worked on Cloud platform engineering Kubernetes, Spinnaker, Docker, Terraform, Consul, drone Jenkins, Chef, Kitchen. Scheduled, deployed and managed container replicas onto a node cluster using Kubernetes.  • Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS nodes and Tested Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to Provide Dev Servers.  • Performed POC's on NoSQL databases. Implemented NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra in Dev/Test environment.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Developed REST APIs using Django REST Framework and Node.js with Express.js. Consumed the Django and Node REST APIs in Angular using Services.  • Used Object Oriented JavaScript concepts like Classes and Inheritance on Server-side scripting.  • Developed microservices on boarding tools leveraging Python and allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetes deploy and services.  • Installation of NoSQL MongoDB on physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS  • Make connection with using TCP/IP protocol with the help of Socket module in python to connect with .external java collector to monitor application performance.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and worked on Docker Engine, Docker HUB, Docker Images, Docker Compose for handling images for installations and domain configurations.  • Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, Jenkins for Automated Integration  • Developed Restful MicroServices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Integration with CICD (Continuous integration and continuous Deployment) Process for all microservices and serve them to external innovations.  • Designed and developed web crawler in python using Scrapy framework and using RabbitMQ as a messaging server between the microservices.  • Created a REST service using Node.js and Express.js in combination with Mongoose and a MongoDB server  • Created a Handler function in Python using AWS Lambda that can invoke when the service is executed.  • Used Spark and Spark-SQL to read the parquet data and create the tables in hive using the Scala API.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Designed and Implemented Microservices Architecture Applications using AWS ECS and Docker.  • Separated routes in Node.js REST API using the Express router in separate files for each resource.  • Used Object Oriented JavaScript concepts like Classes and Inheritance on Server-side scripting.  • By using python and JavaScript created and tested many features for dashboard and maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Developing a serverless web-based portal using AWS for better management and analysis of CMS quality measures data.  • Developed RESTful APIs using the Django REST Framework, tested the RESTful APIs using Postman and integrated the Django back end and Angular front end using RESTful APIs.  • Created a simple AWS Lambda function using python for deployment management in AWS.  • Used Python and PySpark to scrape, clean, and analyze large datasets  • Developing reusable components using React and Redux for enhanced front-end. Used Jenkins pipeline for continuous integration.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Used pandas, numpy, seaborn, matplotlib, scikit-learn, scipy, NLTK in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Reduced AWS cost of another project by altering API design.  • Handled both frontend and backend using python, Django, Angular JS, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery  • Created and demoed a Chabot using Dialogflow which gets data from external API and responds accordingly.  • Utilized Node.js with express to create the webhook fulfillment that dialogflow can interact with.  • Tested and debugged code and deployed it on firebase.  • Attended meetings and knowledge transfer sessions. Sr. Python Full stack Developer T-Mobile - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to August 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Developed Docker images to support Development and Testing Teams and their pipelines and distributed images like Jenkins, Selenium, JMeter and ElasticSearch, Kibana and Logstash (ELK) and handled the containerized deployment using Kubernetes.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Tested the RESTful API using Postman, Compass, and MongoDB Shell and tested the Django REST service and MySQL data integrity using MySQL Workbench.  • Build numerous Lambda functions using python and automated the process using the event created.  • Developed front end for the entire website using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, Angular2 and Node JS 6.  • Implemented web page using the semantic markup and page layout of HTML5 and implemented the new CSS3 border-radius property for the design layout and CSS3 transitions to change property values over a given duration.  • Redesigned the existing module with AngularJS and React JS according to the client requirements.  • URL routing handled by UI state router, allowing us to divide the application into logical modules (templates and controllers), each of which would be instantiated when its route was invoked by $Route Provider in AngularJS to route the data from one service to another server.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and Python libraries.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Django, HTML, Python Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Rspec.  • Leveraged angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Designed and implemented the MongoDB schema  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices  • Used Mongoose API in order to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Built Angular prototype application using in MEAN stack Development using MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS, Node.js.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES5 & ES6), jQuery, AJAX and JSON, SASS and React JS  • Used Python Programming language to develop a working and efficient network within the company.  • Used JSP, Servlets for developing end user interaction  • Used jQuery to make REST API calls and Designed/documented of REST APIs for collection and retrieval of high data.  • Good experience with Spring MVC, Used Spring MVC to send the request from UI to Controllers.  • Setup Jasmine for UNIT and Functional Testing of JavaScript. Python full stack Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL January 2015 to May 2017 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile/SCRUM Methodology Environment.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap and React JS.  • Created a 3-tier application that manages security set-up using NodeJS.  • Communicating with team to meet better customer expectations and desires.  • Actively speaking to other teams regarding tech stacks which will result in high quality code bases, faster sprint completions, fewer defects, and boosts in developer moral.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology in the progress of the project. Software Developer Centene - St. Louis, MO August 2013 to December 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Modified the UI screens created by web designer using HTML, JSP, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in agile story point methodologies and full software development lifecycle, designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Performed client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed front-end UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Worked with internal clients for business objectives, project scope and the requirements of the project.  • Used the AngularJS MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Debugged the application using firebug and chrome developer tools to traverse the documents and manipulated the Node JS using DOM.  • Designed Responsive Web pages using Media Queries.  • Used Responsive Web Design (RWD) approach for crafting sites to provide an optimal viewing and interaction experience.  • Created complex JIRA workflows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission scheme and notification schemes in JIRA.  • Designed CSS3 based web pages which were cross-browser compatible. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (6 years), BOOTSTRAP (5 years), DJANGO (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), PYTHON (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web technologies  HTML4/5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES5, ES6), Bootstrap, Typescript, Angular JS, Angular, Angular 4, React JS, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Node JS, Express Js.    Frameworks/Libraries JAVA, SQL, Ajax, XML, JSON, Django, Python  Servers HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Express, TCP/IP  Testing Frameworks Mocha / Chai, Jasmine, Karma, Cucumber, Protractor    Operating Systems Windows, LINUX, Mac OS  IDE Tools Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Web Storm  Source Version Control Tools GitHub, SVN, CVS  CI/CD Jenkins  Project Methodologies SDLC, Agile (Scrum), Waterfall  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2