Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Adobe System Philadelphia, PA • Extensive experience in Adobe Flex, Adobe Flash, ActionScript, and ColdFusion to build highly rich web application development sites for internal property information and gathering / entering property data.  • Real time reporting in internal SharePoint site using Adobe Flex API's along with Micro strategy API's. Involved in Adobe Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop - up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Utilize ActionScript 3.0 to develop and maintain the Flash and live-streaming components of the company's websites. Utilize ActionScript 3.0 / Adobe AIR to develop and maintain several of the company's products, including its flagship product.  • Experience in application development using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Git, Java\J2EE, JavaScript, Oracle, PostgreSQL and SQLite. Experience with ORM's such as Django and SQL, Alchamy, database design and normalization. Proficient skills of using PyUnit, PyTest for writing unit test cases.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP. Strong Experience in web-based UI design and interface development using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented design and Programming concepts using Python and Django. Involved in web application development using ASP.Net, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Knockout, Bootstrap, PHP and Action script 3.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and JSON. Developed dynamic webpages through HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX. Expertise in developing different web applications implementing the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectures using Full stack frameworks such as Django, Zope and Turbo Gears.  • Experience in using Eclipse, PyCharm, Visual Studio, Pyscripter and Sublime Text while developing different application in python. Good knowledge on SOAP and JSON web services.  • Good experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment and good knowledge of AWS services like Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Elastic Load-balancers, Elastic Container Service (Docker Containers), S3, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Front, Elastic Filesystem, RDS, DMS, VPC, Route53, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, CloudFormation, IAM. Work Experience Python Developer Adobe System - Philadelphia, PA November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and managed build and release methodologies using Witbe Tool. Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Design and develop CPD Test scripts for Droplet Generator steering system, with C, C++, Python, Linux Internal and driver interfaces.  • Developed Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based web services for different applications called User Service and other applications using Representational State Transfer (REST) based Web services.  • Developed the front end of the web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and AJAX. Decent experience in UNIX in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record. Experience in writing SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache web server and Carpathia's cloud operations. Written numerous Django views (class based) and templates for page rendering.  • Implemented the Backbone JS for DOM manipulation as this is the light web framework compared to Angular JS.  • Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3, NumPy for AWS. Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  • Implemented SOA based web services, designed and built SOAP web service interface. Created SOAP web services and SOAP handlers to store the SOAP messages. Performed Pytest and unit test on them. Extracted XML code from script for testing.  • Build JSON objects using the framework which will be used by JavaScript to control the flow of the page. Resolved performance related issues using efficient coding.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework. Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Installed Witbe, Python, Jira, test Rail as part of server setups. Built AWS server for deployment and data processing. Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, Nexus, Maven and AWS AMI's.  • Built various Flash mp3 players with ActionScript 3 reusable object code. Troubleshoot object classes for ActionScript/AMFPHP to optimize image compression.  • Worked on numerous Python modules. Built dB context, run context and other python objects that's reused by application. Optimized the code using smart pointers, profilers and C++ Standard template library.  • Build JSON objects using the framework which will be used by JavaScript to control the flow of the page. Resolved performance related issues using efficient coding.  • Converted Photoshop smart objects into animations using Actionscript 3.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Implemented AWS high-availability using AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), which performed balance across instances.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers. Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and JSON. Developed dynamic webpages through HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework. Worked on a resulting report of the application and Tableau reports. Deployed production site using Apache Servers with mod Python and AWS. Python Developer CenterPoint Energy - Houston, TX March 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Performed all financial activities to include P&L statements and management reports.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs and Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's and used NoSQL as database and followed Python test-driven development techniques.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and implemented on premise MongoDB Monitoring Service (MMS) and created dashboards for monitoring the MongoDB environment.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Restful web service calls for the validation.  • Involved in Using AWS Cloud Watch performed Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging.  • Built web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and facilitates for future applications.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Responsible for both back-end programming in PHP and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery libraries, and other technologies and developed GUI using PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Design and development of UI screens using JSP.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model.  • Worked with AJAX framework to get the asynchronous response for the user request and used JavaScript for the validation.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, jQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL on Oracle database.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Python Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY January 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Web application penetration testing process, web crawling process to detect and exploit SQL Injections Vulnerabilities.  • Wrote Test Automation Script for deployment of AWS and Company Web API, using python package, puppet configuration tool to update and check historical pumping data from AWS. Compare the existing data and historical data and create performance chart for client.  • Wrote automate Python Script for testing program to store machine detection alarm when Pump experience overloading to Amazon cloud.  • Wrote program to fetch data and from amazon cloud and send the client according their requirement.  • Passed query and wrote script to automate machine alarm data with timestamp to engineer.  • Used Python and Pandas library, built data analysis graph for documentation and record.  • Worked with Blender script, built add-on and customization of blender interface.  • Used SPSS tool for statistical programming and computational techniques for large data sets and quantitative analysis.  • Used SPSS tool for Visualization techniques for summarizing complex data analysis using Python.  • Independently developed and implemented analysis workflow and quality practices, including workflow optimization, process standardization, configuration management of analysis files and software, and verification and validation (V&V) of models.  • Using Numerical equation, built application and do 2D- finite Element analysis using python language  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and Matplotlib.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Extracted the actual data of HTML format and predicted raw data; interpreted and stored predicted one in well-organized JSON files.  • Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Maintained data with different levels of access privileges.    Additional Information's Education Master's Skills CSS (4 years), Django (6 years), HTML (6 years), JavaScript (4 years), Python (6 years), Android, MYSQL, PHP, Git, Jquery Additional Information Technical Skills:  • OS Platforms: Unix/Linux, Windows, iOS  • Programming Languages: Python, Java, JavaScript  • Modules and Frameworks: Django, Flask  • Tools: Eclipse, Notepad++, PyCharm, Sublime Text  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript  • Server Technologies: Apache  • Databases: MySQL, Mongo DB, PostgreSQL, SQLite