Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Python Developer - Dow Jones Austin, TX • Overall 7+ years of experience as core application developer with focus on core , databases, analytical and systems programming using Python, Django, SQL, Java, C++, Javascript, HTML & CSS.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, SQL & C++.    • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++    • Experience of working on MapReduce and live streaming big data processing using Apache Cassandra and Apache Spark  • Familiar with JSON based REST API using Python, Django, and Flask.    • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with both relational and NoSQL Databases.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python) Architecture.  • Experience in Python advanced packages and modules like Requests, Scrapy, BeautifulSoup, Multithreading, Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, wxPython, QT, Regex expressions, SQL Alchemy, SQL based database connectiors JDBC/ODBC and Py-Virtual Environment.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL with MS SQL Server and PostgreSQL database.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.    • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Selenium on Jenkins    • Experience with Unit testing/ Integration Testing & End to End Testing    • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing and iterative end to end testing    • Strong grip on machine learning techniques and problem solving using supervised and unsupervised learning using Regression (Linear Regression, PLR, SVM, Decision Tree) & Classification.  • Data preprocessing using Sampling techniques and Principle Component Analysis(PCA) and search trees.    • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design, etc.  • Vast experience coding in various IDEs - IDLE, iPython Notebook, Anaconda, Spyder, Pycharm, Jupyter, R Studio, R Server.  • Experience with manual testing (unit testing, integration testing and end to end testing)    • Experience of using automation testing using Selenium on Tomcat and Jenkins    • Good understanding of cloud based DAG and Apache Air Flow    • Experience of creating RESTful API using Python/Django and WSGI based Falcon APIs.    • Willing to relocate: Anywhere    • ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     Student Aide to the Webmaster    University Relations -Washington, VA - February 2009 to April 2010    Developed Java and PHP/MySQL code using the Google Calendar    API for use on the UMW website.    Programmer    University Relations - Virginia-May 2009 to July 2009 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Python Developer Dow Jones - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developed the application for data warehouse and business intelligence platform for dashboard reporting.    • Ensure smooth data warehouse operations including ETL routines and delivery of canned reports, OLAP cubes and ad-hoc queries of Business and Marketing departments.  • Wrote Python scripts for downloading files from 1000+ sites and Network nodes    • Wrote Python script for validating external data after downloading    • Extensive usage of SQL Profiler and Analytics for query optimization and maintenance    • Raw Data Extraction, Cleaning, Transformation from 1000+ nodes in XML format    • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading    • Involvement in software development Life cycle (SDLC) and participated in scrum meetings with team    • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs on python and other codes.    • Created a database using MySQL and wrote various queries for the extraction of data from the database.    • Collaborated with team of QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.    • Used AJAX in UI in order to avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions.    • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.    • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.    • Developed an application in Linux environment and dealt with all of its commands.    • Tuned the code Performance and consistency being the main factors of consideration.    • Worked actively as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  Environment: Python 3.4, Django , Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, Eclipse. Python Developer Ford Motor Company - Chicago, IL November 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate tasks.    • Developing scalable and reusable database processes and integrating them.    • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.    • Using python NLTK tool kit to be used in smart MMI interactions    • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.    • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.    • Debug application deployments on Multiple-levels    • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization / debugging at the deployment stage.  • Used Django & Flask framework for API creation and application development.    • Used private Git for the version control.    • Designed Data Quality Framework to perform schema validation and data profiling on Spark (Pyspark)  Environment: Python 3, Django, Django Rest, Apache Tomcat, MS Team Foundation Server, Java Script, jQuery, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSON, XML, JIRA, Linux, PyCharm, Cassandra Developer/Systems Engineer Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications - Virginia April 2013 to November 2015 Member of a small team of developers dedicated to supporting existing security components for other development teams within the company. Focus was on Perl and shell scripting with some experience in TripWire software. Released patches for software in a rapid release cycle and organized tasks via the Scrum methodology.  • MSB CVC - Helped provide updates to an existing Minimum Security Baseline Compliance Verification Checker (MSB CVC) on HP-UX and Solaris platforms for production use. The software required a working knowledge of Unix systems and was implemented via a robust Perl engine supported by Korn Shell scripts and an XML "rule file."  • RHELMSB CVC - Primary developer responsible for migrating existing CVC code (see previous bullet point) onto the RedHat Enterprise Linux platform. Responsibilities included attending regular update meetings with project manager, proactively reporting impacts to estimated time of delivery based on anticipated requirements changes, weekly interactions and cooperation with a testing team,and making design change choices based on needs of customers and project manager.  • Oracle 12c MSB CVC - Similarly to the RHELMSB CVC, I was the primary developer responsible for meeting deadlines and providing deliverables to the testing team and project manager. Responsibilities were comparable to RHELMSB CVC, but the timeline was significantly accelerated, and thusly required teaching new team members the common engine/API and giving them the tools they needed to independently help the team achieve project goals.    • Other responsibilities:    • Mentored interns yearly and provided assistance in completing assigned tasks.    • Served as an ongoing bridge between VA office and Malaysia office in bringing newcomers    • up to speed on products my team supports.    • ? Coordinated efforts to prune and maintain team backlog of outstanding change requests for products. Quest Diagnostics, Quest Diagnostics - Madison, NJ August 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement study, Analysis and Design.    • Designed and developed JScript, GUI for user interface with various Server Controls (textbox, labels, data grid, data list, validations controls).  • Developed Custom User Controls to reduce the Complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel.  • Used Java Script for validating client side data entry screens.    • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for maintaining appearance of Web Pages.    • Developed a desktop based application in C# .NET to keep record of customer, production, sales and marketing data. MS SQL Server used as database to store records.  • Designed and developed logical and physical database models. Designed logical database model (Entity-relationship diagram) using ER Studio.  • Analyzed existing Java-based application to identify weakness and opportunities for improvements, to outline system modification requirements, and to develop recommendations towards the development of new codes and reuse of existing codes.  • Responsible for providing support and analysis to the existing MS SQL server. Created Database objects like Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, and Rules etc. Created tables and provide constraints and user defined rules in the database.  • Wrote code using SQL Programming to perform database tasks such as inserts, updates, joins, and deletes in order to keep updated the existing ERP system in timely manner.  • Provided functional recommendations, training, and advanced documentation and data analysis support to project implementation teams throughout SDLC process such as planning, development and integration.    Environments: SQL Server 2012, SQL/T-SQL, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005, .NET Framework 3.5. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Mary Washington Skills HP-UX (2 years), Solaris (2 years), SQL (3 years), Unix (2 years), UX (2 years), Python, Flask, Django, Java, Javascript Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS    HP-UX (3 years), Solaris (3 years), SQL (1 year), Unix (3 years), UX (3 years)    Operating Systems: RHEL (6 and 7), Windows (XP, Vista, 7), Ubuntu (various versions), HP-UX 11.31, Solaris 10  Applications: SQL Developer, MySQL Workbench, MS Office, NetBeans, Eclipse, WordPress, Subversion, ClearCase, Jet Brains products