Frontend Developer Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend Developer - Brillio, LLC Santa Clara, CA • Over all 8 Years of professional experience in Applications design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Implementation, testing of various client/server, N-tier and web application and its design, using various UI- Technologies.  • Experienced in all stages of Software development life cycle (SDLC) starting from gathering Business specifications, analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of projects using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile.  • Expert in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, XUL, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, XML, JSON and Ajax.  • Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including model view controller(MVC), event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Expertise in developing various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Knockout.js, Express.js, Underscore.js, React.js/Redux, Vue.js, D3.js, Ember.js, Ext.JS, Responsive web design. (RWD).  • Experience in various mobile frameworks like Ionic, phone gap/Cordova for mobile hybrid applications in both IOS and Android.  • Expertise in using all the new features in HTML5 and CSS3 in creating the markup and the styling of the pages.  • Experienced implementing Web Services using Apache SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RESTful API, restful and UDDI.  • Experience with Devops Deployment tools such as Puppet, Chef and Docker.  • Experience in SQL Database like Apache and MongoDB.  • Experienced in using Text editors like Espresso, eclipse, Text Wrangler, Sublime Text, NetBeans, XAMPP, Notepad and Notepad++.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online  services with Flash/Flex.  • Developed Servlets and Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  • Skilled in working with CSS preprocessors like SASS, LESS and have aesthetic sensibility on Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Animations, Text, Borders, Padding, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Experience in working with RESTFUL web services using POSTMAN and called Rest web services through Angular Js to get JSON object and modified the response object to display on web pages.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Experience in JavaScript build tools like Grunt/Gulp, Node.  • Good Knowledge in using Dojo Components and integrating back-end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front-end using OO JavaScript framework.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test-Driven Development (TDD). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Frontend Developer Brillio, LLC - Santa Clara, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, requirement analysis, defining scope, and design by reverse engineering the existing application.  • Involved in Agile software development life cycle (SDLC) with SCRUM methodology.  • Working as UI Developer assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications.  • Implemented ES6 features, Used Babel, Web pack with ES2015, React JSX presets, Backbone Marionette JS.    • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and JSP making use of Bootstrap framework.    • Used Angular 4 for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.    • Worked on Bootstrap CSS framework for Responsive Web Design; Used LESS Preprocessor for CSS preprocessing.    • Implemented data-binding and MVC using Angular for front-end development of a current web application.    • Used D3.js to bind the arbitrary data to a Document Object Model (DOM).    • Used Vue.js events distribution and parent chain for parent-child component communication.    • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end Developed    • Developed applications using Angular single page applications SPAs to improve page performance.    • Used React Components on the view layer, Backbone Js for business logic.    • Extensively used React. Js and Redux, library of JavaScript, and used Forms, Events, Keys, State, Props, Flux, and Web pack.    • Used Grunt for build tool for configuring tasks, Karma, Jasmine for Unit Testing    • Worked on React Native Framework to develop mobile user interfaces which is highly responsive.    • Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS. My Specialty is large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity.    • Created a CSS framework for using a 12-column grid preferred by the designers as well as implementing parts of Object Oriented CSS to cut down on repetitive code.    • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.    • Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site.    • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers    • Designed and implemented sharable and re-usable software service API's.    • Experience in creating test suites using JASMINE.    Environment: HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Mongo DB, Angular 4, ReactJS, Node.js, Vue.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, Web pack 2.0, MVC, SVN, AJAX, XML, Eclipse, MySQL, Scrum ReactJS Developer Tiva Systems, Inc - San Jose, CA December 2015 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of application development through requirement analysis, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Working on all the latest technologies like HTML5, CSS3, etc. Tackled various issues related browser compatibility to accommodate these advanced and fast technologies.  • Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for the front-end development such as web pages, graphics and multimedia's.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Participated in making Responsive Web Designs using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Performed a lot of DOM manipulation using native JS and jQuery for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  • Experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Worked for backward compatibility to support browsers like IE6, IE7, IE8.  • Developed Smooth scroll effect for page scroll with JQuery.  • Used JavaScript MVC to load data from pre-populated text file.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Worked on performance tuning for JavaScript, to load pages quickly.  • Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  • Used JQuery UI for dialogs, tabs, date picker, model pop up's and advanced components to implement UI model.  • Using tools like GIT for version controlling, chrome developer tools for Debugging and Jenkins for deploying the code to different environments.  • Developed test scripts for service calls and rendered data through XML files.  • Worked closely with cross-functional teams (QA, BA, PM, Product Owner) as a part of AGILE environment.  • Participated in Agile sprint planning, sprint review, sprint retrospective, daily scrum meetings to deliver quality code.  • Dealt with the Bug life cycle phases like Defect analysis, bug tracking and Retesting is performed and maintained the status of reports.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, ReactJS, DOM, XML, DHTML, JSON, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, SOAP, GIT, Jenkins and Windows. AngularJs Developer Fabergent - Mahwah, NJ October 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in web designing using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and extensively used Table-less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Created popup forms using Bootstrap version 3.0.0 Models, AngularJS Models and AngularJS Controllers.  • Designed and made views of this app including UI, send and receive data from server, Ajax by using Sencha touch and JavaScript, HTML, CSS  • Used Validator framework of the struts 2 for client side and server-side validation.  • Used Tomcat and MySQL in an MVVM model, developed the database wrapper functions for data staging and modeled the data objects relevant to the mobile application  • Develop graphical view of the network present in the inventory using SVG. Used Knockout.js to build rich user interface and used jQuery, Ajax features to make dynamic pages with high performance.  • Involved in writing automated typescript for AngularJS application using protractor and Javascript.  • Fiori Package Configuration on SAP Gateway & Backend ECC App Configuration.  • Maintain consistent CSS usage and styles. Introduced to the company Grunt, SASS, and Compass.  • Running reports on active directory Exchange Server, Windows server, office 365 and ESX Server using PowerShell  • Created Full trust cloud hosted apps using MVC (Angular) and MVVM(knout js) frame works to support future integrations.  • Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces using material design components in polymer js.  • UI Screens were developed using HTML5, Java Scripts, Ajax, JQuery Custom-tags,polymer.js Kendo UI components and CSS3.  • Worked on proof of concept using Google web toolkit to create the personal card application site. Designed and implemented Report Module (using Jasper Report framework)  • Used SCSS and Twitter Bootstrap to develop tabbed user interface for better user experience.  • Used SQL/PLSQL to create procedures and CRUD, DDL, DCL,TCL operations  • Mobile app UI design experience. Used ANGULAR JS and consumed Restful Web Services and which are created out of Node API. Good understanding in implementing web application using Angular JS framework.  • Replaced existed Angular JS code with Angular JS2 code, which decreased number of lines of code for a web application.  • Experience in the Agile Development Process using SCRUM methodology and usage of TDD and Jira  • Used Bootstrap framework and SASS preprocessors to custom styles and layouts.  Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, Angular.js, Node.js, Express.js, Backbone.js, React.js, Redux, underscore.js, pdf.js, Require.js, Ext.js, JSP, ASP.NET, AJAX, SOAP, XML, Joi, XPATH, Adobe Flash, GWT, Photoshop, TFS, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows UI Developer Preston-Hunter, Inc - Chicago, IL August 2013 to October 2014 Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, XML, AJAX, MySQL, Git, JIRA, PHP    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering of requirements, designing, developing and testing of applications.  • Developed web pages using PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX for client-side validations.  • Created various forms, image galleries and other interface with PHP.  • Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Implemented CSS and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  • Developed web pages layouts using CSS mechanism to include different box model, colors, layout, width, height, font size, Image size to the web pages.  • Extended Bootstrap classes to build custom front-end controls; example candidate isotopes. Worked extensively on web 2.0 migration from conventional web Frame work to AJAX driven framework.  • Used SQL queries in PHP scripts to access customer information and modify their accounts and set up basic relational database to hold account information.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and tables in MySQL database.  • Used the Mozilla Firefox extension, Firebug to view and debug HTML, DOM and JavaScript.  • Participated actively in fixing the bugs reported in Test, UAT and Production environments.  • Created Github repository for code collaboration and worked on JIRA issue management to track Sprint Cycles. Python Developer InterActiveTel - Cypress, TX June 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database models, APIs, and Views utilizing Python technologies to build web based applications.  • Used Django framework and created website interface for users to interact easily with effective templates.  • Used Python modules such as requests, URLlib, Beautifulsoup for web crawling.  • Wrote Test cases and tested Python 2.7 applications using PyUnit.  • Developed front end applications with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery. Wrote custom user defined functions in JavaScript to validate functionalities and features.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data into the database  • Provide code reviews, testing and debugging for the on-going web application development projects in Python Django framework.  • Created database schema for MySQL Database and developed ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Parsed XML documents and stored data in databases by writing scripts in python.  • Experience in creating forms for customers through online to store their data.    Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js, SQL, Web service using SOAP, JSON and AJAX. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License