Python Django Backend Web Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Django Backend Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Django Backend Web Developer - El Al Columbus, OH ? Software Engineer with around 8 years of experience as a Full Stack Python Django / MEAN Stack Developer in all phases of web applications development lifecycle and 4 years of programming experience as Oracle EBS and PL/SQL Developer.  ? Expertise knowledge in building web applications using MVC framework Python Django for data processing, MySQL / PostgreSQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Strong Python knowledge, extensive experience with back-end databases, proficiency in developing database schemas (Oracle, PostGreSQL, MS SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB, Neo4J).  ? Experienced in the development of Single Page Applications (SPA) using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular 2+, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS.  ? Experience in building RESTful APIs with Django Rest Framework and Express Node.js. and MEAN stack applications using MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular 2+, Node.JS.  ? Good experience in working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  ? Hands-on experience in Bash Shell Scripting and deployment and maintenance of Apache Web Server, MySQL, PosgreSQL and MongoDB on AWS Ubuntu Plain Server and Bitnami Launchpad.  ? Deep understanding of Object Oriented concepts (in Java and Python), principles of highly flexible reusable code, Data Structures, Algorithms, Time and Space Complexity.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, procedures, functions, tables, views, materialized views, schemas, triggers, indexes and collections to implement customers' business logic.  ? Designed and developed application components following Agile development methodology, implemented Unit Test of Angular Web applications with Karma-Jasmine, used the version control tools like Git, CVS, SVN.  ? Good Knowledge in implementation of the following Machine Learning Algorithms: Confusion Matrix, Linear models, Naive Bayes for Spam Classifier, K-Nearest Neighbors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Django Backend Web Developer El Al - New York, NY August 2018 to Present Description: El Al is a major airline company serving over 50 destinations worldwide. Due to the stringent security procedures El Al stations worldwide employ. Between 2015 - 2017 the company implemented a payroll system. I was a Backend Django Developer on the project of implementation of a web system to manage shifts schedule for corporate employers and attendance. The main objective of this project was to help employers manage personal information, to register for weekly shifts, to trade shifts, to register day-offs and seek-leave days, to calculate overtime. The application provides an efficient means to analyses, request and record overtime hours, enabling managers to quickly assign employees to shifts weekly based on: preferences, sick leaves, days off and roles' certifications. Project Go-live was split into two phases: Phase 1 - implementation of employer shifts management and overtime system, Phase 2 - implementation of interfaces with ERP Payroll Module.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle for requirements analysis, development, testing, deployment and maintenance.  ? Developed web applications using Django Web Framework and defined the underlying database structure using Django's ORM for MySQL and MongoDB.  ? Designed and implemented in and out interfaces with a Payroll ERP module APIs.  ? Implemented User Login, Authorization and Authentication extending built in Django Administration.  ? Created responsive web design with HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  ? Developed back-end RESTful API using Python Django Framework for server-side data retrieval.  ? Deployed development, clone and test environments on AWS Bitnami and launched a production environment on AWS Ubuntu Plain Server.  ? Implemented a scalable API using AWS Gateway, S3, Lambda, used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk to deploy project into AWS.  ? Built accounting system using Django Framework and MySQL, implemented data migration programs between Oracle and MySQL databases.  ? Wrote and executed MySQL database queries from python using Python - MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Tested RESTful APIs with Robo 3T, Postman, carried out unit testing with Python Unittest module.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, Django, MySQL Workbench, MongoDB, AWS Bitnami, AWS Ubuntu Plain Server Python Django, Angular Full-Stack Developer Lab Corp - Secaucus, NJ July 2015 to August 2018 Description: LabCorp is in-network for all major national plans, as a preferred national in-network provider of laboratory services for all commercial and Medicare Aetna members and continuing as a national, in-network clinical laboratory provider for all UnitedHealthcare members. With LabCorp Patient Web System, patients can schedule appointments for specimen collection and to get confirmation with appointment and location details, access test results online, view and pay lab bills, register into the system upon arrival and to get updates, manage health information for dependents and manage profile preferences. My role was to develop a front-end application using Angular and to build backend with Python Django and Express Node.js, to implement RESTful APIs with Django Rest Framework.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle: requirement analysis, design, development, testing and maintenance following Agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  ? Implemented MVC architecture and built back-end for Web Applications with Python Django Framework and PostgreSQL Database.  ? Developed front-end web clients and components to consume the API using Angular 2+, HTML5, CSS/Bootstrap.  ? Implemented RESTful APIs using HTTP protocols using Python Django Framework with PostgreSQL Workbench.  ? Built backend for web application using Express.js, Node.js, MongoDB and Mongoose library for server-side data retrieval.  ? Implemented Angular Components , Services (observable and promises), Angular Routing, Directives and Pipes using TypeScript.  ? Worked extensively with CSS3 media queries and Bootstrap while working on responsive web design.  ? Tested RESTful APIs using Postman and Robo 3T and carried out unit testing of Angular 2+ application with Jasmine & Karma Framework.  ? Implemented Unittest Python module for automated testing to validate Django test-execution framework and assorted utilities, extended built-in Django User Authentication Model.  ? Worked with Jira to manage development phases tasks following Agile Project Management Methodology, used Git as a version control tool.  ? Involved in deployment and launching of a web application to Apache Web Server on AWS Bitnami Launchpad.  Environment: Python Django, Angular2, Express.JS, Node.JS, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, AWS Bitnami, CVS, HTML5, CSS3, Visual Studio TypeScript, Mongoose, Postman, Robo 3T Drupal Developer NBC Universal - Stamford, CT June 2011 to July 2015 NBC Universal is an American multinational media conglomerate. NBC Universal is one of the world's leading media and entertainment companies in the development, production, and marketing of entertainment, news, and information to a global audience. The main purpose of this project is to build and maintain content management where customers could have more fancy interfaces and better user experience. This project has four modules, news, video, microblog, and event explore modules. Designed and developed Restful Web Services based web application with Plugins to facilitate access for multiple client devices.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented front-end layout and behaviour with HTML, JavaScript and AngularJS and CSS.  • Responsible for development and maintenance of all company websites, web server administration (IIS on Windows platform), database design and administration (SQL), content management and maintenance (Drupal 7.x and 8.x), Custom PHP development, migrating pre-existing static web content(Non-Drupal) to Drupal.  • Lead agile meetings (Scrums, Sprint Planning), requirements, use cases, and development sprints.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap CSS 3 and jQuery 1.11.1 Scripting  • Supported web servers and other servers via scheduled maintenance, performance tuning, and monitoring  • Provided feasibility reviews for potential new projects, including development effort estimates.  • Built applications to agree upon specifications within the required timeframe and budget  • Implemented AJAX and jQuery on front-end to make the web page more dynamic  • Architected new features in the Drupal CMS and managed the implementation of all CMS features  • Demonstrated deep understanding of LAMP performance and configuration  • Created Custom Drupal Modules for Client Server Password Lookups, Internal Workstation / License Management, Billing & Forecasting, Company Directory With Risk Scores Associated With Each Customer, configuration based social network share links to articles and/or a blocks  • Extended the Wordpress Google Analytics plugin by providing the ability to include extra JavaScript snippets for analytic tracking code based on the current site path  • Implemented JQuery plugins like date time picker, multi select and editor. Implemented complex SQL queries, views, database alerts and stored procedures  • Received a Backlog of Use Cases and high level Stories, then lead and participate in sprint planning meetings, going over detailed tasks, and setting deliverables and delegating them balanced among the team. Specialized in large scale CRM integrations like SalesForce.  • Utilised the jQuery Mobile framework, CSS3 Media Queries and LESS CSS to build responsive website optimised for multiple mobile and tablet devices (iOS and Android).  • Designing and building infrastructure using AWS (EC2, VPC, RDS, ElastiCache, etc)  • Working with sites hosted on Heroku & AWS, using a variety of technologies such as Varnish, Apache, Nginx, PHP-FPM, MySQL, Puppet, memcache, redis, and more  • Created custom WordPress plugins, WordPress themes and custom functionality, WordPress Multisite implementation, extensively worked on Custom Post Types, Understanding of RESTful Web Services technologies such as JSON, SOAP, and HTTP  • FTP server implemented in Node.js. Features basic UNIX authentication, SSL support, and support for the majority of FTP commands.  • Performed Client side validation using JavaScript and Ajax based Single Page Applications.  • Designed and Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, Media Queries  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Developing semantic markups and Wireframe development. Web application prototyping and development using Dreamweaver and Fireworks.  • Extensively involved in Class method chaining and binding, Cleanly implementing business logic requirements and rules to transactions.  • Created Wordpress plugin for Access management designed to integrate membership sites where certain pages, posts and custom post types only available to members.  • Writing custom modules and view templates using object oriented PHP programming language and Drupal functions.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework as well as using Restful services.  • Create complex JIRA workflows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission scheme and notification schemes in JIRA.  • Created continuous integration builds using Maven and Harvest control.  • Production support and troubleshooting other Drupal 7.x based websites  • Responsible for code reviews, module upgrades, Drupal core updates and making recommendations for the site architecture and PHP and other library upgrades.  • Modifying and updating the existing custom Drupal themes and view templates  • Responsible for installing and configuring Apache Solr Search in Drupal 6 and Drupal 7.  • Working on the user interface using HTML, Javascript, jQuery and CSS in Twitter Bootstrap framework.  • Developing the application using PHP, RESTful APIs, AJAX & other technologies.Using Git / SVN Workflow.    Environment:  Drupal 7.x, Drupal 8.x, MySQL 5.5, Unix, Windows 7.0, Apache 2.4.4, PHP 5.4.16, Netbeans IDE 7.2.1, Sublime Text 2, GitHub, Drush 6.0, Apache Solr-4.6.0, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, JIRA Education Bachelor's in Computer Science City University of New York, Brooklyn College - Brooklyn, NY August 2018 to Present Skills Visual studio, Django, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js