Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Engineer Gainesville, GA I'm a Go-Getter with a thirst for knowledge and technology. I am looking to enhance my knowledge to become a full-stack software developer, utilizing leading technologies, tools, and experience gained throughout my career and personal projects.    Technical Skills Inventory  Python, Django, Agile Methodology, Stormtest, JIRA, Pycharm, Eclipse, GIT, Bit Bucket, PostgreSQL, REST, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQLite, Microsoft Office Suite, IBM RQM, HP Quality Center Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Horizon Dreams Aviation - Gainesville, GA June 2019 to Present Currently building a brand new custom website for a local flight school. The sites backend is being built with Python/Django. For the front end of the site I am using Bootstrap 4, HTML, CSS, and some JavaScript. The site has full screen responsive background videos and images. The site is being deployed using Heroku.  Python Developer Tin Roof Software - Atlanta, GA September 2017 to Present As an Developer with Tin Roof, I have been a part of multiple projects for their clients. At NCR I worked on upgrading the automation code for testing and building POS systems. Previously I worked with Cox Communications and used Python to build out the Stormtest backend framework for cable user experience, the framework is then used by the scripters to automate the manual testing for regression tests and future tests. All of the code is stored using Git to push the code to a Bit Bucket repository. While on the project at Cox I helped to move the team and project from waterfall methodology to Agile methodology. On a regular basis I work with the manufacturer overseas on the Stormtest hardware and software to identify and help resolve any bugs that might be discovered during different upgrades. Python Developer Accenture - Atlanta, GA April 2015 to September 2017 As an Developer with Accenture, I have been a part of multiple projects with different clients. The first few projects focused solely on PeopleSoft upgrades and implementation. For these projects I was responsible for creating and executing tests for the clients that would stress the implementations. I worked directly with the developers on my findings during the testing to better improve the software for the client. The clients included the State of Connecticut, the University of Connecticut and the State of Texas. The next project was a pure Agile development project for Capital Group, which focused on custom built financial software. I was a part of an Agile team and my role was the test lead that developed the tests and worked with Automation on the best possible methods for implementing them. At Cox Communications I worked on a Stormtest project developing the framework code and helped others to develop the testing scripts. Stormtest uses Python as the framework and scripting language. Web Development Internship University of North Georgia - Oakwood, GA August 2013 to December 2015 The goal of this internship was to create tools for analyzing data through deployed websites that allows users to choose, view, and download data. All of the sites were developed using the Python/Django web-framework with PostgreSQL databases. The websites also allowed the user groups to upload additional data directly. The sites were designed in stages, the first stage was the initial deployment of the websites and the second stage was for updating code to allow for more types of data. Python/Django Developer Ready2020 - Gainesville, GA August 2014 to April 2015 Ready 2020 is a web-based SaaS software for the apartment turnkey process. I developed the backend using a PostgreSQL database and created the Restful APIs for the front-end JavaScript developer and helped to work on the front end when needed to meet deadlines. Initial prototype launched in January 2015. The site was deployed using Heroku.  Education Bachelor's in Environmental Spatial Analysis IT University of North Georgia - Oakwood, GA August 2008 to December 2014 Skills Python (5 years), Django (3 years), Agile (4 years), Git (5 years), CSS (1 year), HTML (1 year), Bootstrap (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/willcox1