Sr. Full Stack Python Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Full Stack Python Developer Seattle, WA • 8+ year experience in all phases of SDLC including design, development, testing, enhancement, support and Implementation of various web, client-server enterprise applications using Python (V 2.6, 2.7. 3.6). Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework and experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Experience of writing SOAP and RESTful web services for a web claims applications and experience of managing API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Experienced in developing API services Python/Tornado while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Experience of Build & Deployment phase and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools, build configuration, change history for releases, Maintenance of build system, automation & smoke test processes, managing, configuring, and maintaining source control management systems.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on DevOps tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Expert in Chef/Puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate the repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and enthusiastically managed the changes.  • Experience in creating Docker containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, Bitbucket. GitHub.  • Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework. Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.4/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular.JS, Node.js, backbone JS, Ext JS, D3 JS etc.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM and have good knowledge on Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  • Experience in the design and implementation of Embedded /Software Systems and strong exposure to software development tools like Toad, ClearCase, eclipse, SVN Tortoise, putty etc.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra and PostgreSQL.  • Experience in writing Python packages or modules along with Several libraries experience: Requests, Scrappy, wxPython, SQLAlchemy, Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, Pyglet, pyQT, pyGtk, pywin32. nltk, nose, SymPy, I Python.  • Experience in Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD) and used Aws Lambda.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and strong knowledge in frameworks Iron Python, C python.  • Extensively worked on Apache Kafka's and file beat for log streaming.  • Expertise on working with the Networking protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS.  • Good knowledge of .NET Framework features including Namespace, Inheritance, and Delegates.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, Python Scripter, Spyder, and Python Studio.  • Working experience on several python packages like NumPy, matplotlib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Python Side, Python Tables etc.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE and Dev Centre.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS)  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Having good experience in SALT Stack and Puppet for Deployment on Multiple platforms.  • Experience in working with deployment tools like Microsoft Azure, Heroku and Jenkins.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux, Fedora).  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, python charm, Emacs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Python Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Managed large datasets using Pandas API ecosystem to analyze the different segments of customers based on Location.  • Implemented or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC and Apache Kafka. Developed Rest API's with python with Django framework, mongo DB for front end team.  • Support an Agile CI/CD Environment with Devops where we make the Atlassian tools (Jira and Bitbucket) and also provide layer 3 support on these tools if there are any issues  • Designed DynamoDB pipeline for routing/storing of email bounce handling records.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for local timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and storing it into MongoDB.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation. Design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular-JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON and Gulp. Used Python Query for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML. Developed Single Page applications using angular JS2, DHTML, CSS, Semantic UI libraries.  • Handy experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev for Eclipse.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, jQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end and experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stock.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed various web components for screens using React.JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Used Python for data analytics, data wrangling and extracting data using Pandas, NumPy and SciPy.  • Added support for Amazon AWSS3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Our Continuous Integration stack consists of GIT, Jenkins, CI/CD, the Docker Trusted Registry and OpenShift Enterprise.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Python charm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Worked on Setup Git revision control system on Atlassian Bitbucket and local development environments.  • Successfully migrated the DynamoDB from PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Designed, Refactored and maintained the SERVICE GUI system of the Kiosk.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 instance to deploy Django project into AWS. Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2. Worked in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Django Peewee Linux AWS. Worked in AWS S3 buckets, instances using python boto3.  • Worked on AWS SDK gem, including utilities that initialize local application environments mirroring Beanstalk environments.  • Utilized Jenkins, Git for deployment on test servers and to move towards CI/CD.  • Created Lambda functions and python scripts to automate the AWS environments.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch for performing Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging and successfully completed the task in using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configure Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Implemented SQL Alchemyas ORM mapping tool for complete access and Wrote SQL queries and maintained PostgreSQL RDBMS in the local development environment.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Sr. Python Developer Oakland, CA - Lendup January 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  ·        Developed entire frontend and backend modules using  Python on Flask Web Framework. Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  Refactored  Python/Flask modules to deliver certain format of data.   ·        Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.   ·        Constructed RESTful API's using PHP, Node.js, and MySQL/PostgreSQL.    ·        Experience with build architecture and automation, CI/CD, and troubleshooting complex dependency graphs.  ·        Worked on creating different type of indexes based on different collections to get good performance in MongoDB.  ·        Good Knowledge in NoSQL databases HBase, Mongo DB, Cassandra and relational data modeling, object-relational integration (ORM), physical design/tuning.  ·        Extensively worked on writing UNIX shell scripts for scheduling the sessions for my testing process of ETL.    ·        Designed test cases and test plans, and developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python.    ·        Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, and Mongo DB as well.  ·        Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using    Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.    ·        Used  Python and Flask to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.   ·        Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Flask, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.   ·        Developed website based on Flask CMS Used Flask to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ·        Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting best practices.    ·        Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture. Creating AWS S3 buckets, instances by using terraform tool.   ·        Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Mainly used  Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity,  Python -twitter, Python Side, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  ·        Build back-end application with  Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  ·        Used  Python programming and Flask for the backend development, Bootstrap and Angular for frontend connectivity and MongoDB for database.   ·        Worked on infrastructure with Docker containerization, experience in installing Docker using Docker toolbox. Contributions to various other open source projects on GitHub/bitbucket.  ·        Designed web UI components for various modules using, and used JavaScript client-side validation.  ·        Experience in bash and python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  ·        Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ·        Worked on Python Modules and Packages and Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  ·        Involved in in writing complex SQL queries, Sub Queries, Crystal Reports, Stored Procedures, Functions and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on SQLite3, MySQL and PostgreSQL database. Used Spring JDBC template for persistence with database.  ·        Implemented different  python libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, python tables, matplotlib,  python-twitter, Pandas data frame and urllib2 in various tasks.   ·        Used AWS SDK to connect with Amazon SQS for bulk email processing. Closely analyzed the database tables using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  ·        Used Flask configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.   ·        Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in  Python and Bash.   ·        Involved in building stable React.JS components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ·        Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  ·        Developed Business Logic using  Python on Flask Web Framework.   ·        Developed views and templates with  Python and Flask’s view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.   ·        Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  ·        Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in  Python and Bash.    Sr. Python Developer Flexport - New York, NY October 2013 to December 2015 ·        Developed the presentation layer using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX. Utilized  Python libraries wxPython, NumPy, Pandas, Twisted and mat Plot Lib. Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file using Python Library Beautiful Soup.  ·        Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MSQL, MS-SQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  ·        Configured high availability using geographical MongoDB replica sets across multiple data centers.  ·        Developed dynamic web pages using  Python, Django Frameworks.   ·        Worked on Django API's for accessing the database Employed JDBC in persistent service to connect to MySQL and perform database operations.   ·        Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis, flexible reshaping and pivoting of data sets.   ·        Created entire application using  Python, Django, MySQL and Linux. Created Several XML Schemas and Developed Stored PL/SQL Procedures and Packages to automatically create and drop table indexes.   ·        Generated  Python Django forms to record data of online users and used Python Test for writing test cases.   ·        Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.   ·        Created specific images using  Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book   ·        Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.   ·        Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.   ·        Experienced  in Model-View-Controller (MVC) frameworks for developing web applications.  ·        Created and configured GitHub Enterprise and Atlassian Bitbucket code repositories.  ·        Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  ·        Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.   ·        Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system. Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.   ·        Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using  Python 2.7.   ·        Built the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django,  Python, and AngularJS while integrating with infrastructure services.  ·        Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.          Python Developer Docker - New York, NY June 2012 to September 2013 ·        Created a  Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ·        Used python packages like pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  ·        Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.   ·        Developed the React Web UI components using Atom IDE and made backend REST calls.  ·        Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ·        Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML.  ·        Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ·        Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ·        Used SVN and GIT sub version control tools to coordinate development of team.  ·        Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support.  ·        Designed and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science RGPV Bachelor's Skills JQuery (4 years), Angular js (5 years), web application (5 years), Django (6 years), Mongo DB (6 years), My SQL (5 years), flask (5 years), XML (5 years), HTML (5 years), SDLC (5 years), CSS (5 years), Ajax (5 years), JDBC (5 years), XSLT (5 years), CVS (5 years), Cassandra (5 years), Shell scripting (5 years), SOAP (4 years), Restfull API (6 years), Servelets (4 years), Node, React, Angular