Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Federated Wireless Charlotte, NC • 4 years of industrial experience working as a core Python Developer and Front end/UI Developer responsible in developing interactive web applications with valuable & intuitive user experiences.  • Experience in analyzing data using Python, R, SQL, Microsoft Excel, Hive, PySpark, Spark SQL for Data Mining, Data Cleansing, Data Munging and Machine Learning. Hands on experience in Designing and developing API's for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, and NodeJS.  • Experience with Requests, NumPy, Matplotlib, SciPy, PySpark and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Good working Experience in client-side development with HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, json, jQuery,  Ajax, Angular 4. Primary experience in developing API's for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, and NodeJS.  • Used python decorators, generator, list comprehensions, list, JSON, cache, pandas and NumPy for building python functions for processing of data.  • Hands on Apache Spark jobs using Scala in test environment for faster data processing and used Spark SQL for querying.  • Experience in performing in-memory data processing and real time streaming analytics using Apache Spark with Scala, Java and Python. Experience in AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB (NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQSand Jenkins CICD.  • Good knowledge and hands-on experience on installing, configuring and maintaining multi-node clusters on various environments and distributions of Hadoop.  • Experience in web-based applications with extensive use of Python 2.7, Python 3.3, Python 3.4 Django 1.4/1.3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML.  • Experience in Automation scripts by using Selenium and Win Runner also used Test Director/HP ALM to manage the entire Automation testing process.  • Experience in Web development with Python and Django, with good understanding of ORM and SQLAlchemy, SQL, ETL, Linux, Asynchronous task queues with Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Hands-on experience in developing web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Federated Wireless - Arlington, VA November 2018 to Present • Involved in developing web-based application using Python, Django, JavaScript, Express, ReactJS, Node JS, Express, AJAX, CSS, and HTML.  • On SWNG application initiate TDD (Test Driven Development) approach to update Rest API from DRF (Django Rest Framework) to Rest API.  • Designed and developed an entire module called CDC (change data capture) in python and deployed in AWS GLUE using PySpark library and python.  • Responsible for all client-side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection Angular.JS 2.  • Supported development of Web portals, completed Database Modelling in PostgreSQL, front end support in HTML/CSS, jQuery.  • Experience in Installing Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Installed and Configured Apache Hadoop clusters for application development and Hadoop tools like Hive, Pig, HBase, Zookeeper and Sqoop. Golang, Infrastructure Teams and Engineering Productivity utilizing Kubernetes, Docker, influx DB Ansible, Spinnaker.  • Responsible for designing and developing REST web services in Python using Flask and flask-restful framework.  • Developed Scala, R Python for regular expression (regex) project in the Hadoop/Hive environment with Linux/Windows for big data resources.  • Worked on AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB (NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQSand Jenkins CICD.  • Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and denormalization in MYSQL.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Wrote a Python library built on NumPy and sklearn to detect errors on daily reports. Debugging the spark code using local and in cluster mode.  • Worked on implementing Spark Framework a Java based Web Frame work. Worked and learned a great deal from AWS cloud services like EC2, S3. Python Developer Mercedes Benz Credit - Reston, VA August 2017 to October 2018 • Created an Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching HADOOP Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts and Experience in managing and reviewing Hadoop log files  • Developed scalable front-end user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  • Worked on analyzing Hadoop cluster and different big data analytic tools including Map Reduce, Hive and Spark.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Created EC2 instances and implemented large multi node Hadoop clusters in AWS cloud from scratch.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.JS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Followed Agile testing methodology, participated in daily Scrum meetings and tested each Sprint deliverables.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, SciPy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Involved in using Python, MongoDB and ReactJS for the design, development, and deployment of the application.  • Involved in working with Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, and SQLAlchemy).  • Built a delta file from full file by identifying only INSERTS, UPDATES and DELETES by using python and PySpark modules and store it in S3.  • Automated a reporting process, using Python, Luigi (library for task workflow and dependencies), and another API's.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Maintained the Selenium and Python code and resources in source control like CVS, SVN over the time for improvements and new features. Python/Django Developer Dell Computer Corporation - New York, NY May 2015 to August 2017 • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Python and Django. Utilized Jenkins to deploy the Django application and run unit tests.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypieweb Framework using Git, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS and JavaScript.  • Extracted log from Git using Python and performed data cleaning using regex to generate the Changelogs for comparing different software versions.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3).  • Processed the Web server logs by developing Multi-Hop Flume agents by using Avro Sink and loaded into MongoDB for further analysis. Extracted files from MongoDB through Sqoop and placed in HDFS and processed it using Hive.  • Developed API's in python with SQLAlchemy for ORM along with MongoDB, documenting API's in Swagger docs and deploying application over Jenkins.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  • Developed Spark Script with PySpark, Java using PyCharm Spring Boot IDE that performs the internalization process.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Python 3.X (NumPy, spicy, pandas, scikit-learn, seaborn) and Spark 2.0 (PySpark, MLlib) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purposes.  • Used React.js to specifically breeze the code by using a specific syntax called JSX in which Html and the JavaScript mixed making code simple. Python Developer Johnson & Johnson - New Brunswick, NJ March 2012 to May 2015 • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and other web technologies.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, SQL server and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models. '  • Developed web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for Big data analysis and using PySpark.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture. Maintain measurement website application UI with pandas and NumPy.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on GCP (Google Cloud Platform). Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploys.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyDev, PyCharm and Sublime Text.  • Involved in design and implementation of Selenium WebDriver automation framework for smoke and regression test suites (TestNG).  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server. Education Master's Skills Git, Javascript, Jenkins, Python, Numpy, ASP, CSS, Jquery, PHP, Android, HTML 5, MYSQL, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Spring, Java, Hibernate Additional Information SKILLS  • Languages: Python, JavaScript, XML, SQL.  • SCM Tools: Subversion, Perforce, Jenkins/Hudson, Sonar, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, GIT, GitHub.  • Python Libraries: NumPy, SQLAlchemy, PyGame, PyGlet, PyGtk.  • Database: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, MYSQL and, Oracle, DB2, ODBC.  • Application Servers WebLogic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS.  • Issue Tracking Tools ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis, Service Now.  • Automation Tool: Salt stack, Chef & Puppet.  • Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows, DOS.