Role - Sr. Python Developer Role - Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Role - Sr. Python Developer - Dealer Socket Dallas, TX ? 7 years of professional experience as a Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid and client-server technologies-based applications, RESTful services, AWS, JAVA, React JS, Angular JS, HTML/CSS , JavaScript and SQL.  ? Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management, and Implementation of various standalone and client-server enterprise Python/Django based web-applications.  ? Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Created a Python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  ? Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, React JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  ? Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and, React JS, Angular.js, Node.js.  ? Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  ? Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Good at automating repetitive work through Shell scripts and Python.  ? Extensively worked with automation tools like Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) and to implement the End-to-End Automation.  ? Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  ? Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  ? Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development, PyCharm, Atom, Spyder, Jypyter Notebook, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, and Sublime Text.  ? Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  ? Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  ? Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Role - Sr. Python Developer Dealer Socket May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and used advanced features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications to deploy into angular with tools/platforms such as JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Elasticsearch.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) on Amazon EC2.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and demoralization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected Continuous Integration (CI) system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Visualize, interpret, report findings, and develop strategic by python libraries (NumPy, Pandas, SciPy, and Scikit-Learn)  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Creating Tenacity build jobs ( Python, custom Docker images).  • Mainly used Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, AWS, API Gateway, REST API, Spring framework, React JS, HTML, CSS, Amazon S3, Cloud Watch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins. Database/ Python Developer E2open Inc - Dallas, TX March 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created Python script to monitor server load performance in production environment and horizontally scale the servers by deploying new instances.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Restful API's with JSON, XML to extract Network traffic information.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and PostgreSQL.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Designed conceptual data model based on the requirement, interacted with non-technical end users to understand the business logics.  • Modeled the logical and physical diagram of the future state, Delivered BRD and the low-level design document.  • Discussed the Data model, data flow and data mapping with the application development team.  • Creating the API with the Serverless framework, in Python 3.6.  • Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Automated project requests by writing Perl and Unix Shell scripts.  • Analyzed requirements for internal build tools developed using Perl.  • Extensive experience working in Object Oriented Programming using Perl language.    Environment: Python 3, Django, Jenkins, Linux, React JS, HTML, CSS, JSON, Restful Web Services, JavaScript, Serverless framework, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Docker, Perl Role - Database Developer Sun Pharma Advanced Research Company Ltd - Vadodara, Gujarat 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designing Tables, Constraints, Views, and Indexes etc. in coordination with the application development team.  • Developed PL/SQL Procedures, Functions and Packages and used SQL loader to load data into the database.  • Developed Database Triggers to enforce Data integrity and additional Referential Integrity.  • Created Ad-hoc reports for Bulk loans and month end financial accounting.  • Involved in the Project design discussions, development, testing and production support.  • Completely involved in Performance tuning of multiple SQL queries and PL/SQL blocks using Explain Plan, Hints and SQL Trace.  • Involved in the design and development of Datamart for various Groups.  • Extensively used Erwin for data modeling and Dimensional Data Modeling by ERWIN.  • Used EXPLAIN PLAN to tune SQL queries.  • Good knowledge of performance tuning with the huge tables.  • Monitored, tuned and maintained the development database objects.  • Involved in creating Technical Specification Document (TSD) for the project.  • Enforced compliance within databases and physical models for required standards and policies.    Environment: Oracle10g/11g,Windows NT/2000/XP, UNIX,SQL,PL/SQL,SQL*Loader, JAVA,Clearcase, Erwin 4. software Developer Mercury Laboratories Limited - Vadodara, Gujarat March 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Dealt with administrating a server system using a mobile device.  • Involved in developing code, utilizing the object-oriented design principles, Unit and Integration Testing and Developed and maintained Perl/Ant scripts for build and release tasks.  • Was part of writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, involved in modifications to the existing database structure.  • Expertise SVN as the version control tool for the Code to commit and fetch.  • Used Core Java and J2EE for developments and Modified ANT scripts to build the JAR, Classes.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT (Build.XML) files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements and Developed remote network administration application for the R&D department.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Involved in gathering initial software requirements for the application.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, and JDBC.  • Developed executable Java code to process the work flows.  • Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  • Involved in developing Login, Registration, Logout, Listeners, JSP's.  • Wrote JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Designed and developed the original prototype for a highly-complex, interactive, graphical, web user-interface using standards-compliant JavaScript.  • Involved in developing JS for the JSP pages developed.    Environment: Java, Jenkins, Java/J2EE, REST Services SVN, GIT, Apache Maven, Tomcat, Spring Framework, SOAP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, XML, MYSQL, DNS, Junit Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, PHP, MySQL, Android, ASP