Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer PayPal - San Jose, CA January 2017 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Managed large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems. Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues. Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.Worked on a package of Azure Machine Learning Workbench that is forecasting package. The Azure Machine Learning Package for Forecasting (AMLPF) is a python package for creating end-to- end forecasting pipelines integrated with Azure Machine Learning. Python Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA November 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Created JIRA Work flows for multiple projects as per business needs.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  • Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch. Python Developer GE Energy - Seattle, WA June 2012 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE, XML, Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  • Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework. AJAX forms are created for update operations.  • Backend development with PHP, MYSQL, BASH, LINUX, UNIX  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications. Python Back End Developer Copart INC - Dallas, TX June 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Develop automated software which manages infrastructure without human intervention on top of Kubernetes  • Responsible for defining, developing, and evolving software in a fast paced and agile development environment using the latest software development methods and infrastructure  • Working in a multidisciplinary development team  • Knowledge of technology trends, including but not restricted to front end & back end technologies, Rapid Prototyping, Behavior Driven Development, trends in Social Networking/Media, Video and Streaming  • Provide thought leadership to the team around new approaches, workflows and technologies  • Collaborate with system engineers, data scientists, frontend developers and software developers to implement solutions that are aligned with and extend shared platforms and solutions  • Design, develop, troubleshoot, debug, test, ensure browser compatibility, and implement website code by using Microsoft SQL Server and Microsoft .NET, C#, and ASP.NET M Education Bachelor's in Engineering Texas A&M university - College Station, TX June 2011 Skills PYTHON (5 years), AJAX (4 years), BASH (2 years), CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years) Additional Information Skills  AJAX, Apache Cassandra, ASTERADATA, Cassandra, Django, PHP, MYSQL, BASH, LINUX, UNIX, .NET, C#, ASP.NET M, J2EE, XML, Ajax, Servlets, JSP., Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Angular.JS 2, Java Script, LESS, HTML, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, NoSql, MongoDB, PySpark, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, AWS, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, MYSQL, LAMP, PUPPET, Cassandra, and Oracle.