Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer with Extensive 6+ years of experience looking for a opportunity Omaha, NE PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  ? Extensive 6+ years of experience developing web applications with Python using web framework like Django and Flask.  ? Experience with Object Oriented Programming, full Software Development Lifecycle, and major aspects of the technological projects including Design, Development, Database Design, Testing, Debugging, Deployment and Application maintenance.  ? Used Python’s Model View Template (MVT) framework for developing clean and modular applications.  ? Worked with Django’s ORM library and Django Rest Framework for development.  ? Proficient with relational databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Proficient in the development of JSON based REST web services and XML based SOAP web services.  ? Knowledge of continuous development using Jenkins.  ? Extensively used development methodologies like Agile (scrum).  ? Good experience with Amazon AWS, EC2 and simple storage service S3.  ? Worked with web technologies like JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, XML, Ajax and Bootstrap.  ? Experience using version control like Git, SVN and Bitbucket.  ? Experience using python libraries like NumPy, Pandas and SQLAlchemy.  ? Development experience using various python integrated development environments like PyCharm, Sublime and VS Code.  ? Good command on CRUD operations create read update and delete.  ? Good amount of experience using Linux / Unix Environments.  ? Familiarity with development practices such as code reviews, unit testing using PyUnit and debugging the application to find bugs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Applied Underwriters - Omaha, NE March 2018 to Present Applied Underwriters provides financial solutions and workers compensations for all small to mid-sized businesses. Designed and Developed Python based Rest API’s to track all the sales made by the company and perform analysis of the sales made.    Responsibilities:  ? Back end web application architecture design and development in python using Django framework.    ? Created REST APIs using Django Rest Framework.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and  MySQL dB package.  ? Used JIRA for project monitoring, creating use cases and bug tracking.  ? Used PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework for unit testing of the application.   ? Deployed the application into AWS - EC2 instances and used S3 for storage.    ? Used Git as the version control for the project.  ? Worked on Linux and Unix environment.  ? Used Agile methodology with scrum as the framework and delivered new features on time each sprint.    Technologies: Python, Django, MySQL, PyUnit, Git, Jira, AWS Python Developer VMware - Mountain View, CA September 2016 to February 2018 Worked on the VMware virtual volumes which is a management framework for external storage.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django and  PostgreSQL.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Django Database API&#39;s to access database objects.    ? Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction.    ? Created database using PostgreSQL, wrote several queries and used Django to extract data from database.    ? Deployed the application into AWS- EC2 instances and used S3 for storage.    ? Used Jenkins for automating to build Docker containers.    ? Used GitHub for Python source code version control.    ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    ? Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.      Technologies: Python, Django, AWS, PostgreSQL, Jenkins, Git, JavaScript, JSON. Python Developer Sparksols - Vadodara, Gujarat August 2015 to August 2016 Sparksols designs and develops websites for the clients based on their design requirements and provide solutions to the clients. Worked on the development of various web applications using python and Django based  on the requirements of the clients.    Responsibilities:  ? Used Django framework to design and develop the application.    ? Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.    ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MongoDB.    ? Debug application deployments on multiple environments.    ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.    ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.    ? Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB    ? Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.    ? Used GIT for the version control.    ? Used Agile methodology to deliver all features on given time.    Technologies: Python, Django, Panda, MongoDB, Git Python Developer Techstern Solution - Ranchi, Jharkhand March 2013 to June 2015 Techstern provides solutions to clients and specializes in web design and development like e-commerce website design, mobile and web development. Designed various web applications using Python, Django and flask.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects  including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging,  and Application Maintenance.    ? Developed the entire backend modules using Python’s Flask Web Framework.    ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript    ? Worked on various development methodologies like Waterfall and Agile (Scrum).    ? Used Git for version control.    Technologies: Python, Flask, PyTest, MySQL, Agile, PyCharm, Sublime text, Git. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra May 2009 to May 2013 Skills Git, Jquery, Javascript, CSS, MYSQL, Agile (6 years), Framework (6 years), Debugging (6 years), Scrum (5 years), MySQL (4 years), Restful (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Ajax (4 years), HTML (4 years), UI (4 years), Software Development (4 years), Amazon S3 (3 years), Amazon EC2 (3 years), API (3 years), HTML 5