Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst - PNC Pennsylvania * Over 7 years of experience in IT industry on analytical programming using Python, R programming, Django, Flask , Database design and agile methodologies.  * Over 4+ years of experience with Statistics, Data Analysis, Machine Learning using Python and R language.  * Experienced in SQL programming and creation of relational database models.  * Experienced in creating cutting edge data processing algorithms to meet project demands.  * Experience in Data collection, Data Extraction, Data Cleaning, Data Aggregation, DataMining,  Data verification, Data analysis, Reporting, and data warehousing environments.  * Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, PHP.  * Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  * Experience and Technical proficiency in Designing, Data Modeling Online Applications, Solution Lead for Architecting Data Warehouse/Business Intelligence Applications.  * Expertise in designing Conceptual, Logical and Physical Data Models for various environments and business processes.  * Strong understanding of the System Architecture and the data flow from various systems. Used Visio for creating process and data flow diagrams.  * Extensive experience in designing Normalized Data Model by business process by use cases.  * Performed Data mapping between source systems to local systems, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data.  * Expertise in usage of Django Framework for developing web applications. Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  * Worked with Developers and DBAs for requirements gathering, analysis, and testing to implement fixes for identified data and customer issues, metrics and project coordination.  * Define project requirements by identifying project milestones, phases and elements; forming project team; establishing project budget.  * Monitor project progress by tracking activity, resolving problems, publishing progress reports; recommending actions.  * Prepare technical reports by collecting, analyzing and summarizing information and trends.  * Contribute to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed strategic and business planning within the various departments and programs of the client group  * Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, PySpark, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, asyncio, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs -sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, pytest.  * Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO. Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  * Good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  * Worked with Chef to aid with deployment process and migrating in house systems to Amazon Cloud Services.  * Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database. Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  * Developed and optimized ETL workflows in both legacy and distributed environments. Work Experience Data Analyst PNC Pennsylvania October 2018 to Present * Understood and articulated business requirements from user interviews and then convert requirements into technical specifications.  * Setup storage and data analysis tools in Amazon Web Services cloud computing infrastructure.  * Used pandas, NumPy, seaborn, SciPy, matplotlib, scikit-learn in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms.  * Involved in executing test cases to validate the data from source to target, evaluating test results and preparing test summary reports.  * Wrote test cases, developed Test scripts using SQL and PL/SQL for UAT.  * Identified issues within the data by querying the source data and identifying the data patterns.  * Visually plotted the data using matplotlib and Seaborn after performing analysis with pandas.  * Using pandas DataFrame performed Groupby, merging and joining operations like in SQL  * Read date from different sources like CSV file, Excel, HTML page and SQL and performed data analysis and written to any data source like CSV file, Excel or database.  * Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  * Created(Extract ,Transform ,Load) ETL design mapping sheets , data reconciliation strategy, data archival strategy- ETL framework ,stored procedures and built SQL query objects to detect data loss.  * Performed data testing, tested ETL mappings (Transformation logic), tested stored procedures, and tested the XML messages.  * Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database, also worked on Python ETL file loading and use of regular expression.  * Worked on data pre-processing and cleaning the data to perform feature engineering and performed data imputation techniques for the missing values in the dataset using Python.  * Used extracted data for analysis and carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python library - NumPy, SciPy.  * Data wrangling and scripting in Python, database cleanup in SQL, advanced model building in R/ Python, and expertise in data visualization.  Environment: Python, AWS, PostgreSQL, ETL, R studio, Scikit-Learn, Seaborn, Numpy, SciPy, MySQL. Data Analyst CPS Energy San Antonio September 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  * Experience working in project with machine learning, big data, data visualization, R and Python development, Unix, SQL  * Performed exploratory data analysis using numPY, matplotlib and pandas  * Expertise in quantitative analysis, data mining, and the presentation of data to see beyond the numbers and understand trends and insights.  * Experience analyzing data with the help of Python libraries including Pandas, NumPy, SciPy and Matplotlib.  * Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  * Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  * Creating complex SQL queries and scripts to extract and aggregate data to validate the accuracy of the data and Business requirement gathering and translating them into clear and concise specifications and queries.  * Prepared high-level analysis reports with Excel and Tableau. Provides feedback on the quality of Data including identification of billing patterns and outliers.  * Identify and document limitations in data quality that jeopardize the ability of internal and external data analysts and Wrote standard SQL Queries to perform data validation and created excel summary reports (Pivot tables and Charts) as well as gathered analytical data to develop functional requirements using data modeling and ETL tools.  * Read date from different sources like CSV file, Excel, HTML page and SQL and performed data analysis and written to any data source like CSV file, Excel or database.  * Experience in using the Lambda functions like filter (), map () and reduce () with pandas Data Frame and perform various operations.  * Used Pandas API for analyzing time series. Creating regression test framework for new code.  * Developed and handled business logic through backend Python code  * Created templates for page rendering and Django views for the business logic.  * Used DjangoREST framework and integrated new and existing API's endpoints.  * Utilized PyUnit for unit testing of the application.  * Performed data analysis using goggle API's and created visualizations such as pie charts, waterfall charts and displayed in the web application  * Extensive knowledge in loading data into charts using python code.  * Using High charts, passed data and created interactive JavaScript charts for the web application  * Extensive knowledge in using python libraries like OS, Pickle, numPY and sciPY.  * Used Bit bucket for version control and coordinating with the team.    Environment: Python, PyQuery, HTML5, CSS3,Apache Spark, Django, SQL, UNIX, Linux, Windows, Oracle,NoSQL, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as PySpark, Numpy,AWS. Business Analyst OC Tanner UT December 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  * Translate stakeholder requirements such as functional specifications, user cases, user stories, workflow, process diagrams, data flow and data model diagrams.  * Evaluate risks related to requirements implementation, testing processes, project communications.  * Engage client to gather software requirements, business rules, and ensure alignment with development teams.  * Identify and reconcile errors in client data to ensure accurate business requirements.  * Draft and maintain business requirements and align them with functional and technical requirements.  * Facilitate monthly meetings with clients to document requirements and explore potential solutions.  * Monitor project progress by tracking activity, resolving problems,publishing progress reports; recommending actions.  * Evaluate risks related to requirements implementation, testing processes, and project communications.  * Identify and reconcile errors in client data to ensure accurate business requirements.  * Draft and maintain business requirements and align them with functional and technical requirements.  * Facilitate monthly meetings with clients to document requirements and explore potential solutions.  * Identified and replicated intricate and inconsistent issues, analyzed them, prepared root cause analysis (RCA) reports, found the root cause and fixed them after proposing the solution to client.  * Provide input into developing and modifying systems to meet client needs and develop business specifications to support these modifications.  * Liaise between business and technical personnel to ensure a mutual understanding of processes and applications.  Environment: Database,SQL Server,Linux,Unix,Excel,Oracle,Tabealu. Python Developer Accenture Minnesota MN - Minnesota, MN, US January 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  * Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  * Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  * Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python.  * Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  * Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  * Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  * Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  * Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  * Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  * Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  * Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  * Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  * Test-Driven Development approach was used and Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database. Worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Lite.  * Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  * Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  Environment: Python, Celery, Django, Angular, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MsSQL server, T-SQL, Jasper, GIT, Reports, REST ful, Linux. Python Developer HSBC - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  * Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high level design documents.  * Have used Python libraries like NumPy/ SciPy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  * Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  * Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture (MVC).  * Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  * Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  * Experience with working on software changes based on the natural call flow with the customer, instead of letting the system dictate the call flow.  * Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time and using Golang.  * Experience with automation of linear call flows, instead of static so the agents have access to an adaptive user interface.  * Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  * Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database and also used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  * Responsible to set up REST API frame work using Django, Flask.  * Developed, designed, managed dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, PostgreSQL API calls.  * Performed some operations, visualization on Oracle DB using libraries like MatPlotlib, Pandas.  Environment: Python,NumPy,SciPy,Pandas,Matplotlib,PostgreSQL,HTML,CSS,PySpark,BootStrap, Javascript,JQuery. Database Developer Sitel - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to February 2013 * Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  * Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python. Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  * Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  * Building complex SQL queries for data analysis and data extract.  * Defining problems, collecting data, establishing facts, and drawing valid conclusions.  * Participated in the creation of technical documentation and training materials  * Determining where data sets should be loaded for application use or reporting.    Environment: Python,HTML, XML, MsSQL server, Excel, CSS. Education Masters in Business Administration in Business Administration University of the incarnate word Bachelor's in Commerce in Commerce Osmania University Skills DATABASE, DB2, JDBC, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER