ROR Developer ROR <span class="hl">Developer</span> ROR Developer - Digital Mojo San Diego, CA • 5 years of Experience in developing web applications using web frameworks like Ruby on Rails (RoR), Angular.js, Backbone.js, Django, Node.js, Geddy.js, Twitter bootstrap, Django and Databases like MySQL, Postgres and nosql databases like MongoDB, Redis.  • My interest and expertise are in the areas of enterprise architecture/SOA, backend complex requirement solutions.  • Proficiency in Programming Ruby, Python, Javascript, C, C++, JAVA.  • Proficiency in Front End technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, Sass, twitter Bootstrap, foundation, SASS, Coffee-script, HAML, Liquid, jade etc.  • Experience creating and using RESTful JSON APIs for mobile clients.  • Fluent in version control systems like git, svn.  • Implemented Agile methodologies, RESTful coding and following best secure coding practices, priority to Test Driven Development.  • Experience with Heroku, Site5, Amazon EC2 for deployment.  • Proven expertise in setting up Development environment.  • Demonstrated ability to satisfy upper management through reliability, commitment and problem resolution. Recognized as very dedicated and focused  • Strong technical background with solid history of delivering outstanding customer service. Genuine commitment to quality and customer satisfaction Work Experience ROR Developer Digital Mojo - San Diego, CA May 2014 to Present Requirement:  Development of user interface using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript/jQuery/CoffeeScript, JSON, HTML, and CSS/Sass.  • Used Dependency injection in Spring for Service layer and DAO layer.  • J2EE Architecture was implemented using Struts based on the MVC2 pattern.  • Written Servlet and deployed them on IBM WebSphere Application server.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Development of the Java classes to be used in JavaScript and Servlets.  • Used Hibernate for persistence to Oracle Database  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  • Worked with PL/SQL scripts to gather data and perform data manipulations.  • Used JDBC to retrieve data from Oracle database.  • Developed build scripts using Ant.  • Developed stored procedures in Oracle.  • Used Test Driven Development approach, and wrote many unit and integration test cases.  • Troubleshooting and coded corrections for production issues discovered in the application ROR Developer Geico - Fredericksburg, VA April 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:    Implemented application using Ruby and basic MVC architecture HTML and CSS/Sass.  • Developed stored procedures compatible with MySQL and MongoDB supportive in Ruby.  • Implemented productive and efficient search and filters for bulk data.  • Analyzed and improved application efficiency by optimizing queries even for bulk data.  • Implemented efficient UI and client-side features using JQuery, AJAX.  • Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript along with Angular.JS to describe webpages.  • Worked closely with management and the design team to rapidly implement new features.  • Extensively involved in bug fixing, code refactoring and peer-reviews.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Used Capistrano for web application deployment.  • Worked under Agile Methodology.  • Configured server-side to secure sensitive data using https/SSL.  • Used RSpec and Cucumber to create test driven development (TDD) . Experience with all of the RVM, Bundler, GEMS and libraries for this version of the ruby/rails.  • Managing code versioning with Github.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the Back end web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Used Restful API to gather sales related data for products. Python Developer Intuit - Mountain View, CA July 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:    • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Software Engineer Accenture - Chicago, IL March 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:    • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.    Environment: C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Maharashtra Institute Of Technology - Pune, Maharashtra 2008 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming  • Ruby on Rails, JQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PostgreSQL, NoSQL (MongoDB), Perl, Shell, SQL, Assembly, Flash, Agile, KnockoutJS    Other computer skills  • Object-Oriented Programming, Test-Driven Development, MVC, REST, JSON, XML, Unix, Linux, Amazon Web Services, Git, Clearcase, Visio, SIP Protocol, S-CSCF, Heroku    • Testing RSpec, Capybara, Bamboo, Jenkins, Jasmine, E2E