Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Centene Corporation New York, NY • 2+ years of experience as a python developer with fine understanding of trending and complex technologies.  • Experienced in working with various python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, Spyder and PyDev.  • Experienced in various python libraries like NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, Matplotlib, Pandas, SQL Alchemy, Beautiful Soap and urlib.  • Experience in Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift  • Experience in web technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, Json, Java script, J2EE, XML.  • Experience with container-based deployments using Docker and Kubernetes.  • Experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as Django, Flask, Bottle, MVC.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer Centene Corporation December 2018 to Present Centene is leading healthcare provider. This project is to develop web application using python, Django and React.js for health insurance marketplace. The frontend of the application was designed using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Utilized python libraries like NumPy, PyTables, Matplotlib and Pandas. The development and the testing were done in the Agile environment. I am also involved in writing the application level code to interact with the third-party APIs and web services. Application lifecycle was managed using the Docker container and Docker Consoles. Implemented SQL Alchemy for complete access over SQL Python developer Capital One, Plano January 2017 to November 2018 This project was based on data maintenance and recovery. A web application was built using python Django framework for data storage, backup and recovery. Used Django Restful API for database access and the cleansing data was generated from weblogs with automated scripts in python. Used PostgreSQL database for storing the information. Maintained main source of data for both customers and internal team. Used Multi-threading to distribute the learning process back testing and other process. Worked on Element tree XML API to parse XML documents and load the data into database Python developer Proquest June 2016 to December 2016 I was primarily responsible for developing and maintaining web application framework which also includes web scraping, automated test framework using python Django and Flask. Created monitors and notifications using EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch. Used Pandas for statistical Analysis, flexible reshaping and pivoting of Data sets. Deployed microservices including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible. Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services. Education Bachelor's