Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Cox Automotive Hackensack, NJ • 6+ years of professional experience in I.T Industry with strong hands on analysis, design and development of enterprise applications using Python, Django, Flask technologies.  • Equipped with the knowledge of various software's, organizing technical demonstrations with sound understanding and skill of creating new software & systems, designing, analysis, testing, database development and coding for modules while structuring customized solutions to meet customer's specific needs.  • Experience in application development using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite and Git.  • Designing and developing full-stack applications across multiple platforms using modern industry-adopted languages and frameworks.  • Worked on a new web app built in React and Redux using ES6.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code.  • Strong knowledge and experience in Object-Oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  • Hands-on experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a fast-paced environment.  • Experience in developing REST Web Services and using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications in Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Good knowledge of Apache server, Apache Server Tomcat, and Web logic in application servers.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  • Created EBS volumes for storing application files for use with EC2 instances whenever they are mounted to them.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Designed and developed presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in writing PERL script to extract data from text files, web automation and converting the file formats.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.    TECHNICAL CREDENTIALS  • Programming Languages: Python, shell scripting, SQL, C++  • Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  • Web Technologies: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON  • Frameworks: Django 1.3/1.4, Flask, Pyramid, Struts  • Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, NoSQL, PostgreSQL, DB2, MongoDB, and Cassandra  • Web Services: AWS, RESTful Web Services, SOAP  • Version Control: Git, GitHub, SVN, CVS, Endevor  • IDE's/Development Tools: PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, NetBeans  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP, NetFlow, SFlow  • Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins  • Testing Tools: Selenium and Junit  • Mainframe Technologies: ISPF, IDCAMS, SPUFI, QMF, SPUFI, File AID, Endeavour, Xpeditor, BMC, Platinum, Stored Procedures, File Manager, MQ Series, CICS  • Methodologies: Agile, XP, Scrum and Waterfall Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Cox Automotive - North Hills, NY January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Analysed and gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with product owner and understanding business requirement specification documents.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Material CSS and Bootstrap.  • Developed Views using Django's view for the Web application.  • Developed the keyboard signature by using HTML Canvas element and JavaScript.  • Developed RESTful services using DRF.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  • Implemented mashup layer in the Django application for the orchestration of restful service calls and core logic for consuming the services.  • Exposed and consumed restful API's through API connect.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Used Charles tool to rewrite the API response, which helps for the parallel development and testing process.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of the project.  • Written alembic scripts to make changes to the database  • Worked with mongo dB to create documents or packages for various context.  • Worked with docker to setup the environment for the development.    Environment: Python 2.7,3.6Django 1.9, Oracle, MySQL,Git, Linux, Macos, JSON, JQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, REST, Rally, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJs, Material CSS,API connect,Charles, Docker, Agile, GitHub, PyUnit, PyCharm, SQL Developer, Robo3T, Jenkins,MOCK, Mongo DB, Docker, Redis, PyTest. Python Developer Bank of America - Hackensack, NJ September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, business analysts, systems administrators, to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for developing Python REST API framework using Django MVC architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Implemented User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Designed Docker proof-of-concept using Nomad and Consul.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to build a new Docker container automatically.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, DOM, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MySQL, GitHub, LINUX Python Developer T-Mobile - Richardson, TX June 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing business side of the application and its integration and in the complete software life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Developed the application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Designed Database Model for the entire application Creating tables, Views and Stored procedures.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front-end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  • Worked on Python Scripts to create Excel and CSV files for documenting the Statistical Reports.  • Used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities.  • Used GitHub for Version Control System and deployed the project code into Heroku.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JIRA, jQuery, JavaScript, MySQL, XML, Git, Pandas Python Developer Mass Mutual - Springfield, MA January 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Python Full Stack Developer.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects, used Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation. Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate manual tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Responsible for creating company's internal platform called DCAE by using python to develop and test the components.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  • Used Python IDE PyCharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, IntelliJ IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework and created UI Screens for initiation and validation.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX Mainframe Developer Merrill Lynch - New York, NY October 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Estimate Analysis Design Development Testing and perform the implementation of the requirements sent by the clients.  • Translate customer business requirements into functional requirements and detailed design documents establish specific solutions and programming testing that makes client acceptance of the results.  • Development Testing and deployment of associated software components and executable jobs through COBOL JCL DB2 CICS Expediter PLATINUM and Endevor tools and implementing the same in Production  • Resolving production failures within the timeframe which adheres to the service level agreement SLA.  • Writing/Reviewing test cases and performs testing to verify if the final product is as per the specification or not follow quality management system processes as per IBM standard.  • Prepare various status, monthly metrics and SOX compliance reports.  • Deliver new and complex high-quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements with quality.    Environment: COBOL, JCL, VSAM, DB2, CICS, Stored procedures, CICS, Endeavor, MQ Series, SYNCSORT, File Manager, BMC, DB2, IBM Utilities Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License