Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - XPO Logistics Austin, TX • Over 6+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Have 5+ years of deep Python coding skills and expertise in using HTML, CSS, JavaScript HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and other languages from C to Scala and worked on Framework, JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com.  • Design and Develop RESTful web services that will allow a presentation layer to submit query request to Elastic Search.  • Designed automated tools for indexing DB content into Elastic Search indices  • Design and Implement End to End Search service Solution using Elastic Search.  • Build and produce REST service for custom Search service on Elastic Search.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3 and Redshift.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Good Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts & PowerShell.  • Experienced in working with server-side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python / Django / Flask Framework for developing backend of applications  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Used pandas analyze data with Python and used it as the tools in data munging/wrangling.  • Also done the work for creating the Python objects with rows and columns taking the data (like a CSV or TSV file, or a SQL database)  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Used NumPy as a library for the Python programming language, adding support for large, multi-dimensional arrays.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery.  • Effectively involved in handling releases, managing merges and deployments. Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython.  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer XPO Logistics - Richland, TX June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  • Experience in setting up Elastic Load Balancers (ELB's) and Auto Scaling groups on Production EC2 Instances to build Fault-Tolerant and High Availability applications.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Good knowledge on installation and compilation of different CPAN PERL modules for PERL upgrades.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL/cx ORACLE connector and MySQL dB and ORACLE packages.  • Extensive experience in debugging and troubleshooting complicated production issues using tools like GDB and implemented corrective solutions.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Forms using Perl CGI, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Created Django web-based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Performed Web application development using Python 2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Experience in handling XML file manipulation using PERL and Python.  • Created a web tool for customers to view their claim status reports and to track their transactions using HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap with PERL CGI.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy, and PostgreSQL.  • Build and produce REST service for custom Search service on Elastic Search.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Good Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts & PowerShell.  • Worked with Perl, JavaScript, Oracle database as the back-end developer on a Linux, Windows platform.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Version control using GitHub.  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders, and other involved groups.  • Experience of software development with Python and various libraries of Python, python-twitter, Pandas, Data frame, MySQL dB for database connectivity), Regular expression, File IO etc.  • Knowledge of NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Working knowledge with application server - Apache Tomcat 6, 7, 8.  • SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures were used to create access to data and deployed them to Oracle and SQL server databases.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, WAMP, LAMP, MYSQL, AWS, Pandas, PyUnit, MS Visio, HTTP, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Java, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, PL/SQL MYSQL, GitHub, Apache Tomcat, LINUX. Sr Python Developer T-Mobile - Richardson, TX September 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Written Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resourcing.  • Build application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs alsousing RDS for Oracle DB.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Performed Coding in Unix Shell, OOP PERL and Oracle.  • Design, development and testing of the Perl and Shell Scripts.  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed. S3, ELB, RDS, Ubuntu configuration and monitoring, Munin, Supervisor, Redis MQ, Ansible, Fabric, Docker  • Designed and developed MVC applications for OpenStack.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile experience).  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • The methodology used here will be to introduce in a simple and abbreviated manner the components of the Jython language most likely to be used in wsadmin scripts.  • Worked for demonstrating the capabilities and functioning of Jython.  • Working knowledge of GUI frameworks - Jython, Pyjamas.  • Experience on python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB.  • Created Unix shell and Perl utilities for testing, data parsing and manipulation.  • Created Test script in Perl/Unix from automation and Ran the Test and validated results.  • Development of REST APIs using Perl modules, the interfaces to oracle database (Data Modelling) to allow data to insert, delete, update in a restricted manner.  • Also worked on the Worked on PyCharm - Python IDE for professional Web development with Django framework.    Environment: Python, Perl, Shell Django, AWS, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, PyCharm Linux, Shell Scripting, jQuery, WAMP, Redis LAMP, MYSQL, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Jython. Python Developer Nike - Portland, OR September 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked in comprehending and examining the client's business requirements.  • Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic webpages.  • Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  • Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, Object Oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string  • Involved in designing database Model, API's, Views using python to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  • Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQLdb.  • Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  • Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system,  • Maintained and Updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement    Environment: Python, Django, Tableau, Beautiful soup, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, Eclipse. Python Developer Cox Auto - New York, NY February 2015 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD)  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, Script, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Script, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Philexin Data Solutions - IN May 2014 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Administration of Continuous Integration tool in Jenkins.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark analytics.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.  • Developing test automation framework using python and See Test APIs.  • Developing Requirement Traceability Tool using python.  • Coordinating with the development team for any assistance in issue reproduction and testing.  • Executing test scripts using Visual Studio, MTM and See Test tool.  • Involved in Code reviews and Test Case reviews.  • Prepare any risk mitigation plans if in case any delays are foreseen.    Environment: Python, Django, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, MySQL, PySpark, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Software Developer Infodat Technologies - IN May 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed & developed the application using Spring Framework  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Designed DAO objects for accessing RDBMS  • Developed web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts Framework, JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures, and triggers) using Oracle SQL/PLSQL.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Performed Web application development using Python 2.7, Django 1.3, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.    Environment: RDBMS, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JSTL, JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL, Oracle SQL/PLSQL, Python, Linux, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Education Master's Skills Django, Git, Html, Bootstrap, Perl, Python, Svn, Xml, Jdbc, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Ajax, Css, Tomcat, Apache, Linux, Red hat, Angularjs, Soap Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Frameworks: Django, Zope, PyJamas, Python, Cloudera (CDH 5.5.2), CSS Bootstrap SDETs  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS.  Programming Languages: Python, C, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies: JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS  Version Control: SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  Analytic Tools: JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  Application servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss  Databases: Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Amazon EC2.  Testing Tools: Bugzilla and JIRA.