Sr.Salesforce developer Sr.Salesforce <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr.Salesforce developer Newark, NJ • 9 year experience with all phases of requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, troubleshooting, testing and deployment of SDLC with Sales, Service, Marketing, Communities cloud and Force.com Platform.  • Worked on Salesforce Communities and created VF pages for Communities.  • Strong development experience with Apex programming using Apex Classes, Triggers, Batch & Schedule Classes, Controllers, Visualforce pages, Components and Web Services (SOAP and REST).  • Good experience with salesforce query language - SOQL, SOSL, relationship & aggregate queries and tuning queries to save governor limits in Triggers and Apex classes.  • Hands on experience working with Apex Triggers and Apex Classes, controllers and controller extensions, Components, Test Method and Application design and development on multitenant Force.com platform.  • Experience in developing Custom UI with AJAX functionality using Visual force pages, Visual force Tags, Attributes and Controllers.  • Experienced in analyzing business requirements, Entity Relationship diagram and implementing them to Salesforce custom objects, Junction objects, master-detail relationships, lookup relationships.  • Experienced on Lightning, which includes the Lightning Component Framework and involved in building lightning component using the aura framework and experienced with Locker Service with Lightning Components.  • Experienced working with salesforce.com sandbox and production environments, also with Eclipse IDE Force.com, ANT migration tool Plug-in environments.  • Work within SalesForce.com and Apttus, Contract Lifecycle Management (CLM) to assist with configuration and advanced workflow processes.  • Hands on experience of Salesforce Web Services API like REST, and SOAP.  • Experience with databases such as Oracle, MS SQL Server, MS Access and MySQL.  • Experience in Data Migration, Synchronization, Data-Modeling, Data Extraction, Transformation, Data Loading, Scheduling, Monitoring, and Reporting using ETL tools like Apex Data Loader, Informatica Power center and Informatica.  • In-depth understanding of CRM business process like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Order Management, Account Management and Case Management.  • Implemented Security and Sharing Rules at Object, Field, and Record Level for different users at different levels.  • Implemented various fields such as Lookups, Junction Objects, Picklist, Dependent Picklist, Multi-Picklist & Custom Formula Fields, and Master Detail Relationships.  • Hands on experience of using declarative features like Validation Rules, Field dependencies, Workflows, Dynamic Approval Process for satisfying complex business process automations.  • Experience working on data model and SOQL, SOSL, DML statements and methods, SObjects, asynchronous apex and Governor Limits.  • trong experience in writing Apex unit test classes for Apex classes, Triggers, Batch and Schedule classes and developed test factory class to generate test data for various objects and targeted for 90% for code coverage.  • Good experience working with IDE's - Eclipse with Force.com plug-in, Force.com IDE, Developer Console, Workbench and integration tools like Dell Boomi, CastIron and Informatica ETL tool.  • Good experience with Sales, Marketing and Service cloud, customized and configured Web-to-Lead, Email-to-Case, Assignment rules, Escalation rules and Auto-assignment rules.  • Working on Service Console, CTI integration with Five9 adaptor for salesforce call center users.  • Proficient with data analysis and migration from legacy system to salesforce using Data Loader, Command Line Interface, Mulesoft Anypoint Studio and CastIron integration tools.  • Experience with Git, Subversion and SVN version control tools and Jenkins build tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Salesforce developer Comcast - Moorestown, NJ July 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Integrated salesforce with external web applications application by invoking REST URL by using HttpRequest, HttpResponse, HttpClasses and handled exceptions.  • Worked on customization of standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Opportunity Products, Campaigns, Campaign Members, Cases, Knowledge, Activities and custom objects.  • Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case, Assignment, Escalation rules on Case objects for different business groups.  • Worked on customization of Objects Pick lists, Dependent pick lists, Page layouts, Search layouts, Custom links, Global actions, related lists, Lookup, Master-detail relationships and validation rules.  • Worked with a set of related objects and complex set of interconnected fields in those objects.  • Developed Triggers that would account for deletion, bulk-safe and with exception handling and wrote respective test classes with a minimum of 85% code coverage.  • Experience developing solutions for the Apttus Contract Lifecycle Management (CLM) system including x-author for Word/Excel, development of clause libraries and contract templates.  • I also worked on Apttus Advanced Workflow approvals; Apttus order management, created agreement wizards, validation rules, and contract templates.  • Worked on Apttus products when interfacing with engineering and product development team members.  • Created Many-to-Many relationships and created Junction objects between the existing Group and Persons account to classify Persons Account based on their employment status at an organization.  • Worked with field & page layout customization for the standard and custom objects like tabs, fields, pick lists, rollup summary as per the business need.  • Utilized Draw loop to Create DDP (dynamic document package) that would merge all the required fields into account specific forms for every individual account based on their Service contract, entitlement, Group account and which class the account would fall under.  • Hands on experience on Salesforce Lightning for Customizing Reports and Dashboards for business use.  • Written Apex REST web service classes using @RestResource, @HttpPost, @HttpGet and @HttpDelete annotations and provided REST URL to the consuming applications.  • Developed apex test classes and targeted for 90% of code coverage across each Apex Class & trigger.  • Used Eclipse with Force.com plug-in, Developer Console and Sublime tools to develop Apex Classes, Visualforce Pages, Triggers and customizing meta-data (Field Labels, Layout changes, Profile permissions).  • Worked on salesforce configuration task - Creating Users, Roles, Profiles, Permission Set, Public Groups, Queues, Sharing rules, Communication templates and Outlook Configuration.  • Worked on declarative configuration tasks like creating Workflow rules, Approval Process, Process Builder and actions like Email Alert, Field update, Update child records, creating tasks and outbound message.  • Rewritten most of the workflow rules on various objects with Process builder.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Enterprise Edition, App Exchange, Translation Work Bench, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Data Management, Lead processes, Record types. Salesforce Configurator/Administrator/ Developer Apex Systems, Inc - Alpharetta, GA September 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Integrated salesforce with ERP application using Mulesoft to access data from oracle apps.  • Developed apex REST web service classes for inbound calls to salesforce and performed apex callouts to SOAP web services by generating Apex classes from the WSDL file.  • Written apex unit test classes and targeted 85% of code coverage for all Apex classes and Triggers in the organization.  • Used Eclipse (Force.com IDE plug-in), Force.com Explorer, Developer Console for developed Apex classes, Trigger and Visualforce pages.  • Performed administrative work of created Users, Roles, Profiles, Public groups, Queues, Sharing rules and daily day-to-day production configuration requests from the business.  • Worked on customizations of Salesforce standard objects Accounts, AccountTeams, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Solutions, Knowledge and Articles.  • Extensively involved in moderating JAD sessions with different business units and application development team.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams and Use Case Specification documents based on requirements gathered.  • Created the company profile, set up new users, defined roles and set up public groups, involved in setting up field level access for each custom object created based on the user's role within the Organization.  • Utilized Apex Classes, Controllers and Apex Triggers for various company specific functional needs in the application.  • Developed Triggers with bulk-safe and exception handling and have a minimum of 85% code coverage  • Used Data Loader for Data Migration in force.com platform.  • Involved in Implementation and Design of Campaigns, Cases, Issues, Product and Orders Management and Product Rejection module.  • Configured visual workflows for price quotes.  • Generated Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard and Custom reports.  • Worked with Approval processes that used Email Approvals and Parallel Approval steps.  • Used Process Visualizer to study Approval steps.  • Created Dashboards and Dashboard Components, implemented multiple levels of Dashboards, and scheduled Dashboard refresh.  • Created Many-to-Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes, Auto-Response and Escalation rules for automating business logic.  • Created Workflow rules, Approval process and created related Tasks, Email alerts and Field updates.  • Customized and configured standard and custom objects Pick lists, Dependent pick lists, relationships - Lookups, Master-Detail relationships, validation rules and Formula fields  • Hands on experience on Salesforce Lightning for Customizing Reports and Dashboards for business use.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Worked on Case Management automation to create cases using Email-to-Case and Web-to-Case on Case Object.  • Analyzed existing data and performed Data cleansing using Oracle as staging database and loaded data in to salesforce using Data Loader.  • Developing several custom Report types and build Reports, Dashboards for higher management for better data visibility and created Report & Dashboard folders and provided folder visibility settings.  • Customized Dashboards to provide daily forecasts and track opportunities, deal registrations and customer engagement.  • Deployed changes across various sandbox and Production instances using ChangeSets and Eclipse; Used SVN as source control for code base.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, APEX Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-ins. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Tephra Inc - Roseland, NJ May 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Configured and customized Salesforce CRM supporting Sales, Marketing and Technical Services by creating groups with separate custom profiles and custom page layouts.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed Visual Force Pages according to the functional Requirement.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created workflow rules, defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates, and Mapping them to the existing functionalities and Objects.  • Imported Excel-based customer data into Salesforce using Data Loader.  • Translated Email templates, visual force pages, custom objects/fields using Custom labels and Translation workbench.  • Created Custom Objects and fields for transactional and contractual information.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto- response Rules for automating business logic.  • Extensively worked on customizing case management by creating Assignment rules, Auto response and escalation rules.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookup, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Involved in Migrating Configuration, Data between Two Sales force production organizations.  • Integrated Sales force CRM with Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Office to import contact information and Reports.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of their sales teams.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Security Controls, Sharing rules, relationships, Web service, XML, Force.com IDE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apex Classes, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Data loader. Sr. Python Developer Beacon Hill Technologies - Wayne, PA October 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities  • Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  • HTML 5, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user- Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string  • Wrote advanced friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Involved in designing database Model, Views using python to build an interactive web based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  • Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Working on AT&T plugin components like Authentication and Authorization, Cookie based Authentication and login, developed logging mechanism to dashboard to keep all logs for application.  • Integration with CICD (Continuous integration and continuous Deployment) Process for all microservices and serve them to external innovations.  • Support Client side liberaries like angular and database connection like mysql, Casandra, mongoDB and postgres through the Node base microservice and have them connected with Api calls.  • Created Polymer.js , ES6 application to make UI by Dragging and Dropping the web components, where each component contains different microservice and make UI after combine all microservice together. Developed ES6 web components for the multiple uses in the UI.  • We setup the development environment using Node.js, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, git.  • Essentially worked on Message Routing and Kafka Broker implementation in node.js.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy and matplotlib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database, Node.js as the backend.  • Developing custom HTML elements using angular. js 2.0 directives.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and matplotlib.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front end development frameworks including Bootstrap, flexbox algorithm to make consistent page layout.  • Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data. Styling pages with CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.    Environment: Python, Django Framework, Azure APIs, Shell Scripting, Spark, ReactJS, Google APIs,SOAP, REST, Hadoop, RBAC,ACL, Pandas, NVMe,Docker,Postman, node.js, MySQL, Selenium ,Scala, Flash, AWS, Windows, unix Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Design/development, Html, Javascript, Visio Certifications/Licenses Driver's License