Sr. Python Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Kellogg's • Seasonal Software Professional of IT industry experience as a Python developer, systems deployment engineering, AWS and DevOps in CI/CD, Build/Release management and Systems Engineering.  • Full SDLC experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, C, in various domains.  • Good knowledge on implementing discretization and binning, data wrangling, cleaning, transforming, merging and reshaping data frames  • Good knowledge on several python packages like NumPy, SciPy, pytables etc.  • Increased speed and memory efficiency by implementing code migration to convert python code to C/C++ using python.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, node JS, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JDBC, XML, Python, Django.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Net Beans and Sublime Text.  • Good Knowledge in setting up Python REST API Framework using Django.  • Good knowledge on Design, Development, Testing, Automation, Enhancement of Applications and Tools.  • Experience in Centos / RHEL/Unix system Administration, System Builds, Server Builds, Installations, Upgrades, Patches, Migration, Trouble shooting, Troubleshooting Server issues.  • Involved in migrating physical Linux/Windows servers to cloud (AWS) and testing  • Involved in working with build tools like Apache MAVEN for the building of deployable artifacts such as war & ear from source code.  • Good knowledge to deploy JAVA/J2EE applications through Tomcat Application servers.  • Good Knowledge on CI (Continuous Integration)/CD (Continuous Delivery), software development, pipeline stages like Commit, Build, Automated Tests, Deploy etc.  • Experience in documenting and automating the build and release process.  • Good Knowledge on DevOps Configuration Management Tools Chef and Puppet.  • Design highly available, cost effective and fault tolerant systems using multiple EC2 instances, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs.  • Define AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach  • Configured S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files and archive files in Glacier.  • Configured Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) with EC2 Auto scaling groups. Created triggers, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Provide highly durable and available data by using S3 data store, versioning, lifecycle policies, and create AMIs for mission critical production servers for backup.  • Spinning up AWS resources by using terraform.  • Experience in Database Administration, development, design, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration.  • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experience with Build Automation Tool Maven for writing the SCM Tools like Git, GitHub.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Knowledge on working with Continuous Integration development practice using Jenkins.  • Good knowledge in Python programming for deployment of Java applications.  • Build Back-end support for Application from ground up using Python, Shell scripts & Perl.  • Experience in working with Project Planning/Management/Bug/Issue.  • Good Knowledge in Installing, Configuring and Monitoring using NAGIOS, Cloud Watch.  • Good Knowledge in Virtualization technologies like VMware, Amazon EC2 and containerization technologies like Docker.  • Designed web forms with various controls like Grid View, Data List, Textbox and Dropdown.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Kellogg's - Battle Creek, MI February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Created MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Used Django for framework for accessing various Clinical Trial Data from various sources.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Involved in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script and Node.js.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication, and schema design.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.9, HTML, CSS, Node.js, JavaScript, jQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, Oracle, Mango DB and Windows. Python Developer Macy's - Atlanta, GA June 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Soap, UI, Node.JS, MySQL, SOAP, REST, jQuery, JavaScript, Bash, Agile. Python Developer Techno soft - IN August 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with an agile team to develop, test, and maintain web-based applications built on JAVA.  • Worked on web designing tools like Bootstrap, HTML, and CSS and JavaScript.  • Prepared reports, manuals and other documentation on the status, operation, and maintenance -of the Web Application.  • Involved in various phases of SDLC such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and QA.  • Implemented validations for webpage and assisted in the unit testing.  • Implemented OOPS concept (Inheritance) for developing Parent classes.  • Developed the user screens using JSP and servlets.  • Implemented business logic using servlets.  • Worked in Waterfall software development methodology.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate.  • Written Web services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Implemented the front-end user interface using JSP and HTML and validation using JavaScript.  • Developed Servlets and java files for controlling the business processes in the middle-tier.  • Developed Java classes that provide JDBC Connectivity for the application with SQL database.  • Application hosted under Tomcat and deployed using Eclipse IDE.  • Design, Develop, and Unit test applications in accordance with established standards.  • Developed Unit Test Cases in JS.  • Developing, Refining, and tuning integrations between applications.  • Analyzing and resolving technical and application problems.    Environment:Java, HTML, CSS, Java Script, UI, Bootstrap, Web Logic, JDBC, JSP, XML, Servlets, Hibernate, Tomcat. Education Auburn University at Montgomery March 2016 to May 2016 Skills CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), JAVA (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Java, C, Python  Web Frameworks: Flask, Django, WebApp2, Express  Scripting languages: JavaScript, CSS, Shell Scripting  Markup languages: HTML, XML, JSON  Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, open stock, Restful  Databases: Oracle, My SQL  Operating systems: Windows [ ], Linux, And UNIX  Revision Controlling Systems: CVS, Github  Methodologies & tools: Agile Scrum  Software: Linux, MySQL, Eclipse, and visual Studio