Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Quest @Apple Santa Clara, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Quest @Apple - Sunnyvale, CA March 2019 to Present 94085    Responsibility:  * Involved in enhancement of iDaa tool to run the DQM for multiple applications.  * Bash shell-scripts to run the python script on server and executed the bash file through python.  * Created a wrapper script to run the iDaa codebase in different clusters.  * Analyzed and created the view on the oracle database for Tableau requirement.  * Involved in creating Tableau dashboard for view the status of the rules being run in iDAA framework.  * Involved in complete ETL process for the data flow from Hadoop• Cassandra • Oracle•Druid.  * Used Amazon S3 to store the event details along with Kafka producer and consumer to insert the data into druid.  * Modified existing scala code to connect different system and database.    Technology: Python 2.7, PyCharm, GitHub, Oracle, Hadoop cluster, apples standard tools (GBI filos, Radar, Espresso, Quip), Git hub, apache Kafka, Cassandra, Data Scientist Google - San Jose, CA August 2018 to February 2019 95131.    Responsibility:  * Collaborated with stakeholder in the Local Inventory Ads (LIA) team to understand business analytics requirements, design and develop tools to analyze, monitor and visualize the key business performance matrices.  * Steered dashboard requirement gathering and created prototype to give clear picture of the assortment on Google Express that leads to capitalizing lost opportunities.  * Analyzed and verified the data quality for inventory, product and store related information from LIA feed provider by creating the predictive modeling and analysis.  * Saved 10+ man hours bi-weekly with creation of automated report generator and reusable templates by using JavaScript and python.  * Worked with the partner solution teams to develop tools that address their technological and business needs and identify opportunities to grow Google's partner business.  * Investigates and troubleshoot issues/bugs and provided technical support for LIA operation.  Technologies: Python, Rest API, Google Plx (Script, workflow, table), google internal tools, DremelSQL, GoogleSql, Excel, JavaScript. Software Engineer Zebo Technologies Inc - East Palo Alto, CA December 2017 to July 2018 Responsibility:  * Integrated 3rd party APIs (Google, Facebook, Stripe, PayPal, Google's Natural language API) for Zebo bot platform and app.  * Created Visualizations using Tableau, Advance Excel Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  * Build the web app by using the Vue.js framework, the Bootstrap plugin for Vue (includes JavaScript/CSS/HTML) Created the API with the Serverless framework, in Python 3.6.  Technologies: Cloud9, AWS S3 and Cloud Front, AWS lambda, Python3, PostgreSQL, bit bucket. IT Analyst Tata Consultancy Service Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2015 to June 2017 India.  Job role for Client: - Data Engineer.    Responsibility:  * Collaborated and extracted the structured and unstructured data from various system and performed EDA for statistical modeling.  * Conducted data cleansing, variable identification, univariate analysis, outlier detection and treatment, missing value treatment, variable transformation and creating analytical dataset for further analysis.  * Visualized descriptive analytics KPIs through charts and dashboards using tableau for customer churn and brand forecasting for Marketing and Sales team.  * Worked on developing various python code for automating model results.  * Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  * Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB  * Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers.  * Worked on automation, setup and administration of build and deployment tools such as Jenkins  * Used RESTful API with JSON for extracting Network traffic/Memory performance information.  * Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  * Building a relevant business story out of every model and selling it in a presentable form.  * Understanding the business sense based the drivers and their relationship with the category and the divisions and build business sense out of every forecast.  Technologies: Python 2.7, Django1.4, MongoDB, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, Vue.js, JavaScript, Apache, JavaScript. Software Engineer Tata Consultancy Service Ltd. (Client - Virgin Australia) - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2013 to October 2014 India.  Job role for Client: - Python Developer.    Responsibility:  * Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology along with experienced in Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  * Designed the Web Application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and flexible, implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  * Used MVC framework to build modular and maintainable web applications.  * Created and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  * Maintained and improved the security level of data and Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  * Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  Technologies: Python 2.5, Django1.0, JavaScript, HTML, MySQL, Eclipse, Jenkin, Perforce. Education Master of Science in Business Analytics in Data Science Saint Mary's College - Moraga, CA July 2017 to December 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Biju Patnaik University of technology June 2008 to July 2012 Skills Git, MySQL, Javascript, Data Analysis, Python, Scala, java, Cassandra, Oracle Sql Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/priyanka-padhy07 http://@Apple