PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - INTUITIVE INSURANCE Nashville, TN • Over 6+ years of experience as an Application developer in software development and design using Python, Django, Flask, XML, HTML, DHTML, Oracle PL/SQL.  • Experienced with Python programming and Python libraries for data science including Anaconda distribution, NumPy, Pandas. Python packages like, SciPy, tables etc.  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, strong experience in Database designs.  • Agile methodologies, coding, testing and IDE's such as PyCharm, Sublime Text and NetBeans.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side application Django.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in Flask, SQLite, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, PyTables etc., for generating complex graphical data.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python.  • Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  • Experience as a PL/SQL Developer and Data Analyst too.  • Good experience in writing complex queries with Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MongoDB.  • Experience in developing web services (SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • A detail oriented and multitasking professional with exceptional coding techniques.  • Comprehensive knowledge of primary development languages for instance Python and special talent of writing highly competent programs and Test cases.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Experience in developing AWS clouding system and making heavy use of asynchronous processing with Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVT architecture.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python C, C++.    Environment: Python, PyUnit, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, MySQL, NoSQL, Bootstrap, Git, JIRA, Soap, SQL, Machine Learning, Tableau, QuickView, JMP, Segmentation analysis, Agile, Windows and Linux. Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER INTUITIVE INSURANCE - Nashville, TN November 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and scipy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several Python Packages like Matpoltlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy, and sockets.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  Utilized standard Python modules such as robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Using Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.    Environment: Python Libraries, SOAP, MYSQL Database. PYTHON DEVELOPER XPO LOGISTICS - Greenwich, CT January 2017 to October 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Implemented machine learning schemes using python libraries like sci-kit-learn and SciPy.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing Framework jobs.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of webpages for front end applications.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for responsive web pages.  • Implemented a presentation layer using a CSS framework, Wire-Framing, and HTML5.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Open Stack.  • Building and supporting libraries in the test automation infrastructure.  • Created tools in Python and R perform Web scraping, Data Mining, Sentiment Analysis, Machine Learning, Document Comparison, Data Compression, and other NLP analyses.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like MySQL.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, implementation and support based on the requirement.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Good Understanding of the Database Schema, Data Dictionary, Data Models for testing the data in an ETL process.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open Stack.  • Worked with the product development team in building the necessary infrastructure to support the development, test and production of the product.  • Involved in Managing tables, Indexes, stored procedures and user defined functions of HMIS Database.  • Worked on PowerShell for the purposes of automation and also made use of command line shell and shell scripting.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Formation and Terraform API to create infrastructure on AWS as a code.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, AWS etc. PYTHON DEVELOPER YASH TECHNOLOGIES - Pune, Maharashtra July 2013 to November 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in Python.  • Developed user interface using CSS, PHP, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and developed Use-Cases, Classes and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Shading, replication, schema design.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  • Worked together with team during testing of data warehouses.    Environment: Python Modules, Frameworks. Education Master's MSITM in Campbellsville University December 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Science Chalapathi Institute of Engineering & Technology 2009 to 2013 Skills HTML (3 years), JavaScript. (3 years), jQuery (4 years), MySQL (4 years), PYTHON (5 years), Javascript (4 years), PHP (2 years), HTML 5 (3 years), Git (4 years), Mongodb (4 years), Django (4 years), Google Cloud Platform (4 years), Flask (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • Programming Languages Python, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL  • Python Frameworks Django, Flask  • Python Libraries NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, SQL Alchemy  • Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, JQuery  • Databases MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, MongoDB  • SDLC Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  • JavaScript Frameworks Angular JS, Node JS  • Operating systems Windows, Linux/UNIX  • Google Cloud Platform