RPA Developer RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA Developer - FREDDIE MAC Fairfax, VA ? 5+ Years of RPA and Python developer experience in IT industry  ? Worked with Robotic Process Automation RPA tool namely UiPath to develop software robots  ? Experienced to automate the Web, Windows & citric Applications  ? Experienced in Python using NumPy and pandas for data analysis and data visualization  ? Experienced on working with SQL Server Data base and creating stored procedures  ? Experienced in managing UiPath Robot Work Queues  ? Worked on Business process diagrams and process flow charts with RPA tools  ? Worked closely alongside Account managers, and RPA Specialists, etc. to ensure requirements are delivered on-time and to-specification  ? Extensively used UiPath process studio and object studio to develop and test the robot based on given business process model  ? Actively participating in validating the Client requirements and identifying the various Scenarios for Automation Development  ? Maintained Login credentials for all the Live Robots, developers and ensure to reset for expiration periods  ? Problem solving issues that arise in day to day running of automation processes and providing timely responses and solutions as required  ? Coordinated with multiple stakeholder and teams to get the project delivered without slippage  ? Acted as a think-tank to provide out of the box solutions and reduce turn around time on various projects Work Experience RPA Developer FREDDIE MAC January 2018 to Present Tysons, VA Jan 2018 - Present  Freddie Mac is a company which makes homeownership and rental housing more accessible and affordable. Their mission is to provide liquidity, stability, and affordability to the U.S. housing market in all economic conditions extends to all communities from coast to coast.  RPA Developer - UI Path  • Worked with the Business Analysts in Identifying and Defining the requirements  • Involved in End to End development of Business Process using Robotic Process Automation  • Interacted with SAP Automation in GUI Scripting  • Worked on using Excel and CSV activities with UiPath as well as experience in using Send Email activity for Email reports and errors  • Used PDF activity to perform operations in PDF document while taking PDF document data as input  • Implementing the exception handling when needed within the process  • Used RetryScope Activity as long as condition is not met, or an error is thrown  • Worked with File Related Activities, Screen Scrapping, Recording Types, Email Automation and Error handling  • Used orchestrator for UiPath robots in executing repetitive business process  • Used Jobs for the execution of a process on one or multiple activities  • Worked with schedules to execute jobs in a pre-planned manner  • Used Assets for storing credentials to encrypt them with AES 256 algorithm  • Implemented Queues to store multiple types of data such as invoice information or customer details RPA Developer/ UiPath QUEST DIAGNOSTICS August 2016 to November 2017 Aug 2016 - Nov 2017  Quest Diagnostics is the world's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services that patients and doctors need to make better healthcare decisions.  RPA Developer/ UiPath  • Involved in Email Sending Process  • Involved in Task bot and Meta bot Creation  • Used Excel activity to perform operations in excel sheet while taking excel sheet data as input  • Actively participating in validating the Client requirements and identifying the various Scenarios for Automation Development  • Extensively worked on debugging application for fixing bugs and Production support  • Understanding design document and accordingly create process automation solution  • Able to support and drive change management of existing process as per new requirements  • Extracted data from web and windows applications, PDF, Images, Web pages etc. and exported the output data to database/Excel  • By studying their existing process and business rule deeply, designed and develop fully automated system  • Fetched data from multiple sources and perform read, write and update operations based on business rules on files  • Experienced in using UiPath credential manager for maintaining, securing and retrieving the user credentials  • Experienced in managing robot's workloads using Uipath work Queues Python Developer/ Data Analyst QUEST DIAGNOSTICS May 2014 to August 2016 May 2014 - Aug 2016  Sky Scale systems is the company that provides business consulting, information technology and outsourcing services.  Python Developer/ Data Analyst  • Built multifunction readmission reports using Python pandas and Django frame work  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soap, NumPy and SQL Alchemy  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Collect, analyze and report data to meet customer needs  • Performed Basic Statistical analysis for projects and reports  • Identified new sources of data and methods to improve data collection, analysis and reporting  • Experienced with visualization tools like ggplot, matplotlib and Tableau  • Experienced in drawing business insights from data and communicate those insights across multiple organizational levels  • Proficient with MS-excel, MS-SQL, and Tableau BI software  • Proactive in calling clients and display superior customer service skills Education M.S. in Information Technology University of Potomac - Potomac, VA B.S. in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills .NET, HTML, PYTHON, XML, MYSQL Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS    RPA (Robotic Process Automation) UiPath  Programming Languages Python, C, .Net, java  Databases MongoDB, MySQL, Oracle  Web Technologies XML, HTML  Operating system Windows, Linux/Unix