Research Technician Research Technician Research Technician - University of Arizona Tucson, AZ Critical thinking Professional demonstrating superior data gathering and analysis skills. Astute professional knowledgeable in laboratory terminology, procedures and statistical methods. Ready to join a new organization collaborating with other professionals in a laboratory environment. Work Experience Research Technician University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ July 2018 to Present Perform standard laboratory procedures such as western blotting, maintaining  cell cultures  • Small animal handling and care, maintenance of the transgenic animals  • Assist in performing surgeries and dissections of animals which includes setting  up equipment and supplies, preparing animals for surgery, anesthetizing and monitoring heart rate of animal and harvesting tissue samples and readily  accessible organs  • Operate laboratory and experimental equipment such as multi-plate reader, image station, microscopes, spectrophotometer, centrifuges, pH meter,  analytical balances etc.  • Follow established procedures to prepare solutions, media and reagents using  arithmetical calculations for measuring; performs library research to find  appropriate procedures, as required  • Assist with basic mathematical and statistical analyses  • Compile data and assist in routine preliminary analyses; maintain research data  in laboratory notebook, write summary reports and present findings to investigator  • Coordinate the lab day-to-day activities  • Organize supplies, materials or equipment and sets-up equipment for laboratory  experiments  • Perform clerical tasks such as filing, typing, labeling and billing; inventories  and requisitions supplies and materials Senior Medical Representative Pfizer LLC - Izhevsk, RU September 2016 to July 2018 • Researched and compiled statistical data to support cost control and care improvement initiatives.  • Kept accurate log of all requests for medical information and records.  • Used classification manuals to gain additional knowledge of disease and diagnoses processes.  • Communicated effectively with staff, patients and insurance companies by email and telephone.  • Interacted and communicated easily with department personnel and public.  • Prepared relevant SRM documents in conformance with Safety Management System (SMS) order.  • Managed quality assurance program including on site evaluations, internal audits and customer surveys.  • Monitored social media and online sources for industry trends.  • Performed various administrative functions, including filing paperwork, delivering mail, sorting mail, office cleaning and bookkeeping.  • Visiting physicians on responsible territory and providing medical information  • Sales analysing on responsible territory  • Working with opinion leaders  • Participating in medical conferences  • Organization of medical conferences on responsible territory Supervisor Around Group Sales and Marketing - Izhevsk, RU October 2014 to July 2018 • Adjusted job assignments and schedules to keep pace with dynamic business needs, factoring in processes, employee knowledge and customer demands.  • Applied strong leadership talents and problem-solving skills to maintain team efficiency and organize workflows to meet any daily demand.  • Enhanced training programs to strengthen employee knowledge and promote new managers from within.  • Interviewed, hired and trained new employees for Sales Manager, Promoter, Merchandiser positions.  • Handled customer complaints, resolved issues and adjusted policies to meet changing needs.  • Identified individual employee's unique work styles and adapted management methods.  • Created efficient work schedules for each team member to maintain deadlines and keep shifts properly staffed.  • Evaluated employees' strengths and assigned tasks based upon experience and training.  • Prepared and managed work schedules, vacation and sick time accurately on monthly basis.  • Performed monthly evaluations and reviews for 10 employees.  • Monitored employee performance and provided coaching and constructive guidance to address areas of concern.  • Data analysis  • Travel up to 80% Internship in Radiology Izhevsk State Medical Academy - Izhevsk, RU 2017 to 2017 281 Kommunarov Street, 426034 Izhevsk (Russia)  Knowledge:  • X-ray, MRI and CT methods  • Physics of X-ray, MRI and CT  • Various radiologic equipment  • Radiologic safety    Research project:  2017 " Stages of tuberculosis on X-ray" Medical Representative KRKA LLC - Izhevsk, RU December 2015 to June 2016 • Showcased product features to customers and discussed technical details to overcome objections and lock in sales.  • Visited customer locations to evaluate requirements, demonstrate offerings and propose strategic solutions for diverse needs.  • Collaborated with vendor representatives and company customers to set up optimal delivery schedules.  • Remained knowledgeable in CPT and ICD-10 coding principles, government regulation, protocols and third-party billing rules.  • Kept accurate log of all requests for medical information and records.  • Interacted and communicated easily with department personnel and public.  • Researched and compiled statistical data to support cost control and care improvement initiatives.  • Communicated effectively with staff, patients and insurance companies by email and telephone.  • Reviewed charts and flagged incomplete or inaccurate information.  • Used classification manuals to gain additional knowledge of disease and diagnoses processes.  • Visiting physicians on responsible territory and providing medical information  • Sales analysing on responsible territory  • Participating in medical conferences  • Organization of medical conferences on responsible territory Internship in Internal Medicine Izhevsk State Medical Academy - Izhevsk, RU 2015 to 2015 I received skills and knowledge in following disciplines:  • Cardiology  • Internal Medicine (Therapy)  • Nephrology  I received skills:  • Analysing and working with medical documentation  • Managing of an ICU patients  • Patient survey (anamnesis)  • Physical examination of a patient Python Developer Prosto LLC - Izhevsk January 2014 to June 2014 • Translated technical concepts and information into terms all parties could easily comprehend.  • Adjusted software parameters to boost performance and incorporate new features.  • Evaluated potential software products based on new and existing system development and migration requirements.  • Maintained existing applications and designed and delivered new applications.  • Developed code fixes and enhancements for inclusion in future code releases and patches. Nurse Emergency Medical Service Station - Izhevsk, RU July 2011 to June 2012 • Communicated with lucid patients to gather incident and medical history information.  • Administered tests and medication to stabilize patients in field or in transit.  • Monitored patient status during ambulance transport and transfer.  • Evaluated patient vital signs and status to determine care needs.  • Conducted equipment and vehicle checks to maintain continuous and safe operation.  • Assessed situation severity of emergent medical incidents and provided care accordingly.  • Developed and maintained rapport with coworkers and local hospital staff to facilitate efficient patient care. Education Doctorate in Medicine Izhevsk State Medical Academy - Izhevsk September 2008 to June 2014 Skills MRI, X-RAY, Medical Terminology (10+ years), Medical Records (10+ years), Cardiology (3 years), Office Applications (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Research (2 years), ELISA (1 year), Western Blotting (1 year), PCR (1 year), Python (2 years), Physical examination (7 years), Cell culture (1 year), FACS (1 year), Lab animals handling (2 years), Lan animals surgeries (2 years), Case Management (3 years), Patient Care (5 years) Additional Information Digital skills  • MS Office  • Web site development  • Adobe Photoshop and similar (eg. GIMP, Krita, etc)  • Adobe Lightroom and similar  • Python programming language  • Java programming language  • Unix/Linux systems  • Knowledge of computer and some non-computer hardware, can diagnose and in  some cases repair it  • OSX systems