Self-Employed Self-Employed Software Engineer Orange, CA I specialize in the design and implementation of both the architecture and inner details of a modern user experience using current web technology. My work includes both complex user interaction in the frontend and intricate engineering feats on the backend. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Self-Employed Independent Consulting December 2015 to Present Python Developer (Onsite Contractor) MobileMoney - San Clemente, CA May 2016 to August 2016 ? Architected the framework for a data processing module in Python, finished Python implementation of a XML RPC packet format, encryption and decryption of packets.  ? Created graphics showing key parts of application architecture using wireframes and whiteboards wherever necessary.  ? Created visual diagrams of the UI/UX of a large company product using Sketch.  ? Created mockups of software using a wireframe tool.  ? Contributed to a Django-based payment platform for payment analytics.  ? Extended and used extensively an internal JavaScript frontend framework: a custom fork of a javascript  framework used by many well known companies built on top of backbone.js and underscore.  ? Implemented transaction tokenization using Redis.  ? Integrated a module with a XML-based secure transport architecture used by the company.  ? Responsible for engineering a multithreaded request library for use with a micro service architecture for  ATM transactions.  ? Reported directly to the CTO, a former twenty year researcher at DARPA. Python Developer (Onsite Contractor) Side Studios February 2016 to February 2016 * Contributed tests for various source code modules.  * Contributed to a well-established ecommerce django codebase and extended the CMS.  * Fixed long-standing issues with the codebase in the backend using Python and in the frontend using JavaScript/JQuery, HTML5, and CSS. Web Developer ProBoards February 2015 to October 2015 Contributed to and extended the main source code repository of the largest forum  software host in the world as a full stack contributor on both the enterprise solution of their software and the consumer, ad-based solution.  * Dealt with security issues on a daily basis, testing code after every commit to ensure  quality control.  * Experienced having to deal with the ramifications of hosting a website at massive  scalability.  * Experienced optimizing code structures and maintaining a codebase that has been in development since the early 2000s.  * Experienced engineering issues facing most web framework developers maintaining a  custom web framework.  * Fixed user reported bugs and issues with the forum software and main webpage.  * Learned Perl within the first week and became active in development using Pivotal  web tracker and Slack messenger for team communication.  * Picked up libraries and various tools alongside the rest of the stack.  * Reviewed other developers' code using strict syntax guidelines and used Git version  control on a daily basis.  * Trained in web development methodology and practice under an established firm during a two week training round shadowing other employees and their process.  * Used JavaScript and JQuery to complete tasks involving UI tweaks, optimizations,  frontend enhancements, and major revisions of the existing logic.  * Used Perl to refactor existing modules and create code structures working with SQL  data that is of massive proportion.  * Used LESS CSS preprocessing to style and modify stylesheets for a global reaching  communication platform.  * Worked in an Agile-based environment and familiarized myself with Scrum and its  process. Skills PHP (3 years), Python (5 years), HTML 5, JQuery, Javascript (5 years), SQL, Django (3 years), Flask (Less than 1 year), CSS3, Angular.js (2 years), C, Perl (1 year) Additional Information Skills  * Adept in analyzing code structures for system testing and debugging using practices  such as Behavior-Driven-Development and has worked in an Agile-based team  environment.  * Applies elegant, commonly preferred, and performant development methodologies  along with clean syntax practices.  * Applies an elite and well-studied creative vision to prospective new technologies,  doesn't like reinventing the wheel. Is always open to learning and adopting new tools  and guidelines using an objective perspective in the logistics of an operation.  * Capable of designing and implementing scalable web architectures using DRY (Don't-  Repeat-Yourself) principles.  * Creates web applications with scalability in mind using RESTful APIs with experience  using modern web technologies and open source libraries.  * Designs efficient code architectures using Object-Oriented Programming and Design  Patterns.  * Efficient in designing and implementing MVC (Model-View-Controller) structures in  applications.  * Experienced in both front-end development and back-end development with multiple  frameworks.  * Familiar with the intricate details of the memory layout and efficient optimizations  involving various data structures and algorithms.  * Familiar with Big-O notation and the modern application of Computer Science to  apply and manage code for complex engineering on the backend, including data  analysis and mathematical methods like asymptotic analysis.  * Familiar with Context Free Grammars and Automata theory, as well as the concrete  fundamentals for Functional Programming in languages such as Haskell.  * Fully experienced in the structure of a modern frontend to a web application, using  tools such as the Bower package manager and other frontend command line tools.  * Has used dynamic scripting languages such as Perl, Python, JavaScript, PHP, and  HTML5 to create web applications for over 4 years.  * Has built web applications from start to finish with Python and the Django web  framework.  * Has created secure authentication and user account registration using CSRF (Cross-  Site-Request-Forgery) protection.  * Has designed intuitive user experiences and user interfaces while studying UI/UX  theory.