Project: Python symbols/signs search engine Project: <span class="hl">Python</span> symbols/signs search engine San Jose, CA 5+ years of programming experience in Java, Python, C Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Project: Python symbols/signs search engine self employed - Sacramento, CA January 2016 to April 2016 Created a search engine searching exclusively for the meaning symbols (@, *, {,  \) and how to use them properly in programming languages(java, python ) through the Internet. Base on python and django (regex, sqlite3, json, xml ). (  http://fangkun.pythonanywhere.com/searchengine/ ) Python web developer self employed - Sacramento, CA November 2015 to March 2016 Motivated by Python's clean style, explicit syntax, powerful and widely  usage, I inspired myself digging into python and its related technologies, such as web crawler, big data manipulation(Panda), search engine  algorithms(constant web crawling, indexing, documentation, user  customization) ecommerce website(https://github.com/fangkunjnsy  /Django-multi-fuctional- website) Software developer Phenetics.Inc - Gainesville, FL February 2014 to September 2014 Established PHP/Drupal 7, html, CSS based website, developed Android  mobile apps including login/register, UI design, social media data  visualization.  Set up working schedule for team working arrangement.  Apache, Tomcat, Cyberduck server and SQL database administration.  Planned and executed Skype meeting with team members including  specialists in IBM(US), Italy, China and India, which resulted in heightened group morale.  Projects development process control(ER, UML, etc) and efficiency  enhancement.  Analyzed social media market data and communicated with potential  customers and investors.  Collaborated with team of business publication which led to tremendous amount of Linkedin, Twitter, Facebook connections and  followers.  Participated in IBM's Watson project and worked with IBM's specialists,  creating Android based voice recognition functionality. Mobile Apps Developer China Minsheng Banking Corp.ltd - ??? February 2013 to July 2013 Beijing  Participated in Minsheng's Android mobile applications development for financial/investment products.  Collaborated with sales representatives with no technical background and transfer clients' requests into.  software development documentation.  Introduced financial products and associated mobile apps to clients. Education Master of Science in Information Systems and Operations University of Florida ? Gainsville 2015 Bachelor of Science Beijing Institute of Technology ? Beijing - ??? 2013 Additional Information SKILLS  Python, C, Java, Html, Http/Https protocal, xml, lxml, MySQL, SQLite,  JavaScript, JSON, MongoDB, Linux/Unix, Django, Multi-thread programming,  Asynchronously task executing