Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - MasterCard • Having 4 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Flask.  • Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Expert in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Java.  • Worked on several python packages like NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, PyTables etc.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, Spyder and Intellij.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications Flask.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Development and implementation of various standalone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Expertise in creating RESTful and SOAP web services.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Python, Bash Shell scripting.  • Good Knowledge over Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python.  • Front end development experience using HTML, CSS, Jquery and JSON.  • Experience in Agile development techniques.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and LINUX Kernels.  • Hands on experience in SVN, GIt, JIRA, and Bugzilla.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Worked in the team and faced challenges during the project development and production process.  • Excellent communication and time management skills. Work Experience Python Developer MasterCard - O'Fallon, MO August 2015 to Present Responsibilities  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Created entire application using Python, Flask, MySQL and Linux.  • Writing programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Used petl package to extract, Transform and Load tables of data.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created RESTful web services.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Accessed database objects using Flask Database APIs.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Exported/Imported data between various data sources.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Identified several hidden bugs caused by complicated multithreading issues such as race conditions caused by asynchronous events and resolved them.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Took part in the entire project's lifecycle which includes Design, Development and Deploying, Testing, Implementation and support.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  Environment: Python 2.7, Flask, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MySQL, Linux, Heroku, Bootstrap, GIT, NumPy, SQLAlchemy. Python Developer NetCORE solutions - Bangalore, Karnataka July 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soap, NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robot parser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  Environment: Python 2.7, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MySQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT, flask and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy, MySQL DB, Automation framework, Jenkin. Python Developer HSBC - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities  • Created Data extract jobs using Python/SQL.  • Thorough use of third-party packages, such as Fabric.  • Coordinated with product owners and technical team members for preparation and review of solution based documentation.  • Developed scalable infrastructure solutions and related components in collaboration with technical leads.  • Worked with the stakeholders to gather requirements.  • Designed User Interface for data selection using Python.  • Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  • Ensured quality by versioning with Git.  • Created UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Deployed the application on cloud using AWS.  Environment: Python, CMS, Mezzanine, S3, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Linux. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University August 2014 to December 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering JNTU September 2007 to May 2011 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Python 2.7, Flask, Java, C++, Bash Shell Script, SQL  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, XML, JSON, Jquery  Database Technologies MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle  SDLC Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, and Hybrid  Operating system Windows, Linux, OS X