Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Boston, MA • Over 4+ years of professional experience as a Python developer with broad range of expertise in web based applications.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Expertise in Backend Web Technologies using Python, Django, Flask, Java and REST API.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced with Python frameworks like Webapp2 and, Flask.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Excellent hands on experience in developing web based applications using Django and Flask which  involves MVC Architecture.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good Experience in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Bootstrap, JQUERY, JSON, and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Familiarity with developing for and deploying to cloud-based environments, specifically AWS and EC2.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Sound Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MYSQL.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL database MongoDB.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN and GIT.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Sun Life Financials - Boston, MA October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Scipy, Pandas, PyTables etc.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Design and documentation of REST APIs using Django Rest framework for collection and retrieval of high volume data which is results of search query.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like Angular.js.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Implemented multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with roboust reliability.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status, thus implementing Agile (Scrum) Methodology with Test Driven Development.    Environment: Python, Django, PHP, Numpy, Pandas, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, XHTML, DOM, AWS, JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, MongoDB, GitHub, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer CVS Health Care - Scottsdale, AZ August 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Using Django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Used Python plotly, numpy library to visualize data point using interactive charts. Designed data visualization to present current impact and growth.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and to track sales and perform sales analysis using Django and PostgreSQL.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS, JQuery and JSON.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, PyQt, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, PyUnit, Numpy, Angular.js, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Rest, Apache Web Server, HTML, JSON Numpy and Windows. Python Developer Vision InfoTech Pvt Ltd August 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Pandas package to retrieve and analyze data.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments, and global team remote collaboration.    Environment: Python, Django, C++, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Github, MySQL, Apache Web Server, Linux. Education Master's Skills DJANGO (4 years), HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), MYSQL (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x/2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django, Webapp2, Flask  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants