Python Unit Tester <span class="hl">Python</span> Unit Tester Open for web developer position Miami, FL Recent graduate with a Bachelors in Science with a technical and medical background. I posses a wide range of technical skills, with focuses on JavaScript, HTML/CSS, Adobe, JQuery, and computer hardware. Recognized as a hard-working individual who is trusted with leadership roles, I am passionate about opportunities to expand on my computer science knowledge and make impactful contributions in a team environment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Unit Tester Best Wedding Miami - Miami, FL March 2019 to Present Help the senior developer by testing the python codes provided by him.   Test were made using 'pytest'. Full Stack Developer The Poker Society - Miami, FL November 2018 to Present Build responsive web application for a company or person ? Manipulating back-end data using back-end services such as wordpress, django, sql, etc.  ? Engaging sites through React Javascript along many other tools  Use PHP WORDPRESS REACT JS w/ STORE JS Boostrap Flux Sales Specialist Apple - Miami, FL October 2018 to January 2019 • Demonstrated substantial knowledge in the services and products' benefits offered by Apple as well as some third party products to provide the customer with a complete solution in order to enrich their lives • Aiding on any apple related technical difficulties. IT Technician Amhsa Marina, Puerto Plata, DR September 2017 to August 2018 Response to oversee, with the help of mentor, all IT operation revolving the hotel.  ? Utilized active directory to retrieve keys, and update machines ? Execute remote assistance to the office outside Phyassist Scribe - Fort Lauderdale, FL May 2017 to August 2017 past medical history, lab results, procedures and physical examination.  ? Interacted daily with the physician to ensure detail summary for the patient symptoms. Education Full Stack Developer Certificate in Web Development 4Geeks Academy - Miami, FL July 2018 to October 2018 Bachelor of Science in Biology in Biology University of Miami - Coral Gables, FL May 2017 Skills HTML (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Javascript (3 years), React.js (3 years), Wordpress (3 years), Django (2 years), Pyhton (2 years), Flux (2 years), Redux (1 year), Java (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), React, Python, Nodejs, PHP, AWS, Node, Microsoft Word Links http://linkedin.com/ixaxtav http://github.com/ixaxtav Additional Information Willing to relocate anywhere in the United States.