Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - New Age Technologies Louisville, KY • Over 4 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing various stand-alone and client-server  architectures-based enterprise application software on different domains.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Panda, Pyramid,  Cherrypy, Turbo Gears and Tornado frameworks.  • Good Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving AWS Cloud platforms.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Bash, Perl, Python, PHP, XML, DHTML, XHTML, Ajax,  JOOMLA, CSS, HTML, JSON, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Working Experience on various Python packages such as Celery, NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Beautiful soup, Pickle, PySide,  PyMongo, SciPy, PyTables, PyUnit  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Redis and Cassandra and relational databases like SQLite,  PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB, MariaDB and MySQL databases.  • Good Experience in MVC frameworks like AngularJS, NodeJS and jQuery.  • Experience in Linux Bash shell scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Working knowledge on Hadoop, Spark, Pig Big data Technologies.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and worked on Celery Task queue and  service broker using RabbitMQ.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication, schema design.  • Created multiple databases with sharded collections and choosing shard key based on the requirements.  • Efficient knowledge in using different version control systems like Git, Perforce and GitHub.  • Good knowledge in developing Mobile Applications.  • Developed intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Tornado and MongoDB.  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tool JIRA.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing and experience in designing the  Automation frameworks.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Integrated AWS-RDS Oracle and Aurora DBs to AWS-Hive EMR using DynamoDB.  • Experience in writing reusable and in test driven development using Unit Testing and Selenium.  • Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Chef, Ansible, Heroku and Jenkins.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask and Pandas.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's  come from the developer.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using Elasticsearch. Work Experience Python Developer New Age Technologies - Louisville, KY October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using  server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS and Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's  come from the developer.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Worked on multiple python frameworks including Pyramid and Tornado.  • Vast experience coding in various IDEs - PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime Text, Spyder.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing  CRUD operations.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects and created  and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged  virtual environment using Docker.  • Worked in all areas of Jenkins setting up CI for new branches, build automation, plugin management and securing  Jenkins and setting up master/slave configurations.  • Working Experience on various Python packages such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Beautiful soup, Pickle, PySide,  PyMongo, SciPy.  • Expertise in working with NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Redis and relational databases like SQLite,  PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB, MariaDB, Server, Oracle and MySQL databases.  • Integrated AWS-RDS Oracle and Aurora DBs to AWS-Hive EMR using DynamoDB with direct connect. Python Developer Pig Big data Technologies - Chicago, IL December 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with client and understanding business  requirement specification documents.  • Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, XML, HTML5, AngularJS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Designed Data Quality Framework to perform schema validation and data profiling on Spark.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Completed basic backup/restore and implemented security functions for various applications using MariaDB  (MySQL).  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing  Python.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and working with continuous  integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed/Developed Oracle DB/Application monitoring scripts using bash shell.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Developed mobile cross-browser web application Angular JS, JavaScript API.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Created Automation test framework using Selenium.  • Responsible for design and development of Web Pages using PHP, HTML, JOOMLA, CSS including Ajax controls  and XML.  • Developed intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Tornado and MongoDB.  • Expertise in developing different web applications implementing the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectures  using Full stack frameworks such as Turbo Gears.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using Elasticsearch.  • Strong experience in building large, responsive based REST web application experienced in Cherrypy framework,  Python.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Experience in Linux Bash shell scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Working knowledge on Hadoop, Spark, Hive, Pig Big data Technologies.  • Efficient knowledge in using different version control systems like Git and GitHub. Jr. Python Developer HCL Technologies - Houston, TX July 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for SDLC process in gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Rewrite existing Python 2.7 modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS,  JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Development, focused on requirements definition, design and delivery of Products using small teams. Strong  analytical abilities and experience in troubleshooting business critical Environments.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of Python project.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Created a Python based GUI application for Freight Tracking and processing.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used Mongo DB Database API's to access database objects.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication, schema design. Created  multiple databases with sharded collections.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask and Pandas.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  • Experienced with Python frameworks like WPebapp2 and, Flask.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and MVC Struts. Education Master's Skills CSS (3 years), Django (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), MongoDB (3 years), MySQL (3 years), HTML 5, Git, PHP, jQuery