DevOps engineer/Ansible Developer DevOps engineer/Ansible <span class="hl">Developer</span> DevOps engineer/Ansible Developer - BNYM, DXC Technology Richardson, TX • Around 7 plus years of experience in IT industry and gained expertise as Linux Administrator, build engineer and Release Management, Automating Software Configuration Management (SCM), Applications through Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) and Managing Cloud Services.  • Experienced in end-to-end project management & Cloud Computing Microsoft Azure & Amazon AWS, Application Life Cycle Management and Application Security & Compliance.  • Ability to architect and implement transition to Docker and develop distributed cloud system using Kubernetes.  • Implemented Micro-services using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) platform build upon Spring Boot Services and created workflows on TeamCity for setting up automated pipelines for CI/CD with PCF.  • Competence in designing AWS Cloud models for Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS).  • Implemented on AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability including Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, OPS Work, Security Groups.  • Worked with AWS Cloud Formation templates, Terraform templates along with Ansible to render templates.  • Created Security groups and worked with Access Control Lists (ACLs), snapshots and Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) of the instances for backup and creating clone instances.  • Ability in deployment, Build scripts and automated solutions using Python, Perl and Shell scripts.  • Expertise in all areas of SCM processes, including version, build and issue management, build and release management.  • Experience with build tools ANT and MAVEN for writing build.xml and pom.xml respectively.  • Worked on testing and automation tools like Selenium, Junit Framework and Cucumber.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins and Bamboo for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Expertise in Deploying and troubleshooting the J2EE Applications (WAR & EAR) in WebSphere Application Server.  • Experience in working with databases like Oracle, MongoDB and MySQL.  • Expert in deploying the code through web application servers like WebSphere/Web Logic/ Apache Tomcat/JBOSS.  • Installed and Deployed Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x/7.x, CentOS and installation of packages and patches for Red Hat Linux Servers.  • Knowledge with Ansible for an infrastructure orchestration and automation, installation of the packages using playbooks.  • Experience in orchestrating environment deployment from OS all the way through the application layers of a solution, using tools such as Docker, Jenkins.  • Installed and configured Kubernetes for Orchestration of Docker Images and Cluster Container management on AWS using Kubernetes Operations (KOPS).  • Configured and setup ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana) to collect, search and analyze log files across the servers and monitored the servers using Cloud Watch and ELK for Network and Log Monitoring.  • Expertise in Configuring and troubleshooting various Networking, Hardware & Linux/ UNIX server's services issues and performing preventive maintenance.  • Experience working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, creating Docker images, Compose, Docker Registry and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations.  • Expertise on creating playbooks and handlers in Ansible and technologies dealing with Microservices. Work Experience DevOps engineer/Ansible Developer BNYM, DXC Technology - Plano, TX September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing the automated scripts, promote the scripts to various environments, functionally Test to specifications, coordinate with development team and architect per the plan.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage infrastructure, created Playbooks to automate the configuration setups, Established Ansible Best practices approaches to system deployment with tools with Vagrant and managing Ansible Playbooks as a unit of software deployment and independently version controlled.  • Expert in creating modular roles for ansible modules which can be reusable to automate the deployment without errors.  • Managed Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Ansible.  • Extensive experience on configuring Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing IAM and Security Groups in Public and Private Subnets in VPC and other services in the AWS.  • Use CloudWatch to keep track of servers.  • Maintain GIT Repositories, Handled Releases and Branching activities for GIT.  • Managed Code Repository by, maintaining code repository in GIT, Improve practices of branching and code merge to custom needs of development team.  • Develop the Jinja2 templates and pushed into Artifactory to deploy on servers using automation tool Ansible.  • Used Ansible-Vault to Encrypt and Decrypt the file and Deployed on Client servers using AWX.  • Implemented Infrastructure automation through Ansible, for Auto provisioning, Code deployments, software installation and configuration updates.  • Build the RPM packages for Linux and Chocolaty packages for windows as per the requirements.  • Customize the Choco packages with using Power shell script.  • Expert in working with PowerShell, Shell scripting and Yaml for developing the customer requirements.  • Used Jenkins to automate most of the build related tasks.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins CI/CD pipeline jobs for end-to-end automation to build, test and deliver artifacts and Troubleshoot the build issue during the Jenkins build process.  • Deploy the packages and install the applications using the AWX as ansible tower in multiple servers at a time and troubleshoot immediately.  • Manage and migrate physical servers (Linux, Windows) to Cloud and VMware such as AWS, Docker and ensure they operate properly.  • Support designing and dev. groups with onboarding/sending cloud, virtualized administrations/or potentially empowering automation.  • Coordinate with Architects and Project Manager for the Build, Release and Operations of the Projects to maintain typical requirements.  • Worked on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies such as Agile and SCRUM.  • Develop and support the software Release Management and procedures.    Environment & Tools: Ansible, VMware, Putty, Mobaxterm, Linux Server RHEL-6,7, windows 2012R, Windows 2016, Power shell, GIT, Chocolatey Packages, RPM packages, AWS, AWX, App Engine, Docker, Apache Tomcat. DevOps/AWS Engineer Newegg Inc - Industry, CA June 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Deployed full Angular, Java Spring boot Application War files in Kubernetes clusters on a Docker container using Shell scripts.  • Build tested and deployed MongoDB, Express, Angular and NodeJS multi container application on the Amazon web services Elastic Container Service.  • Configured Docker Containers by creating Docker-Compose Files and pushed the Docker-Images into EC2 instances from Docker-Registry to deploy the applications using Docker Swarm.  • Detected problems in production servers, bugs & server crashes using OverOps, Splunk & log stash  • Maintained GIT Repositories, Handled Releases and Branching activities for GIT.  • Built Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing Terraform code to deploy different Applications infrastructure for Dev, QA and Pre-prod based on the requirement from different teams.  • Created CI/CD pipeline in the Jenkins and ran the build by integrating with GitHub repository by using build and deploy scripts. Stored the build Artifact to S3 bucket in AWS cloud.  • Setting up continuous integration and builds using Jenkins with Maven and Tomcat repository.  • Administered Tomcat repository to deploy the artifacts generated by Maven and to store the dependent jars, which are used during the build.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using apache Maven as build tool in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments and automated builds using Maven and Ant for creation of build artifacts like war or ear files.  • Worked on the Integration of Jenkins with the Nexus repository to store the logs, reports and generated artifacts.  • Developed Maven build scripts for maintaining test automation builds & Java based library to read test data from XML & Properties files using Junit and loading it into Selenium.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage infrastructure, created Playbooks to automate the configuration setups, Established Ansible Best practices approaches to system deployment with tools with Vagrant and managing Ansible Playbooks as a unit of software deployment and independently version controlled.  • Implemented the setup for Master Slave Architecture to improve the Performance of Jenkins. Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat application server.  • Development automation using Kubernetes cluster with Ansible, writing Playbooks.  • Buildup of Forwarders and perform Software installation upgrades and upgrading Splunk as and when required using automation tools.  • Performed Splunk Indexers Heads up gradation, installation and configuration of Splunk Apps.  • Generated and enhanced Splunk Dashboards, Reports, and Alerts.  • Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Data Base subnet group for isolation of resources within AWS RDS.  • Utilized AWS CLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets, EBS and create nightly AMIs for mission critical production servers as backups.  • Implemented AWS solutions like EC2, S3, IAM, Elastic load balancer (ELB), EBS, security groups, Auto scaling using CloudFormation/Terraform templates.  • Extensively Worked on Docker service rolling updates to implement zero downtime PROD deployments. Worked with Docker Trusted Registry as repository for our Docker images and worked with Docker container networks communications using Docker Weave.  • Coordinate with Team and Project Manager for the Build, Release and Operations of the Projects to maintain typical requirements.    Environment & Tools: Java Spring boot Application, MongoDB, Express, Angular and NodeJS, OverOps, Splunk & log stash, GIT, Jenkins, Terraform, CI/CD Pipeline, Maven, Nexus, Selenium, Ansible, Tomcat, Kubernetes, Cookbooks, Shell Script, Splunk, AWS CLI, EC2, S3, IAM, ELB, EBS, Docker and Docker Swarm. DevOps Engineer The Coca-Cola - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Managed Code Repository by, maintaining code repository in GIT, Improve practices of branching and code merge to custom needs of development team.  • Setting up continuous integration and formal builds using Bamboo with Art factory repository.  • Resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in Bamboo and JIRA.  • Performed integration of Code Quality Analysis techniques - Check style, Find bugs with Bamboo.  • Converted and automated builds using ANT. Scheduled automated nightly builds using Jenkins.  • Responsible for automated Scheduled Builds/Emergency Builds and Release using ANT scripts for Enterprise application (J2EE).  • Managed the Maven Repository using Nexus tool and used the same to share the snapshots and releases of internal projects.  • Installed Ansible Agent and configuring the Setup in the target Server.  • Used Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users, Mount points and Packages.  • Performed security related tasks such as timely updates, patching, and configuration changes. Implemented the Docker for wrapping up the final code and setting up development and testing environment using Docker Hub, Docker Swarm and Docker Container Network  • Automated the Applications container deployment in Docker using Python and monitoring of these containers using Nagios.  • Configured Nagios to monitor Linux servers with Ansible automation.  • Monitoring Applications and Servers through Nagios, Web Servers Administration on NGINX.  • Independently built application designed the API structures with Node.js running on NGINX.  • Using Azure AD Connect, Active Directory Federation Service ADFS and DirSync tools.  • Migrating Existing Active Directory and Exchange users to Microsoft AD.  • Worked in dealing with Windows Azure IaaS - Virtual Networks, Virtual Machines, Cloud Services, Resource Groups, Express Route, VPN, Load Balancing, Application Gateways, Auto-Scaling, Traffic Manager.  • Worked on high-volume crash collecting and reporting system, built with Python.  • Developed unit and functional tests in Python.  • Worked closely with developers to pinpoint and provide early warnings of common build failures.    Environment & Tools: GIT, Bamboo, JIRA, ANT, Bamboo, Nexus, Ansible, Docker, Nagios, Nginx, Azure, Azure AD, IaaS, Python, Putty, WebSphere and Perl Scripts. Build and Release Engineer OS Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design and maintenance of the Subversion (SVN) Repositories.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Tortoise SVN.  • Maintained build related scripts developed in ANT, Python and shell. Modified build configuration files including Ant'sbuild.xml.  • Worked with development team to migrate Ant scripts to Maven.  • Automated the build and release management process including monitoring changes between releases.  • Installed packages using yum and Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) on various servers.  • Implemented Infrastructure automation through Puppet, for Auto provisioning, Code deployments, software installation and configuration updates.  • Developed and maintained integration and release processes.  • Created multiple Python scripts for various application level tasks.  • Experience with Build Management tools like Maven for writing build.xml to Pom.xml.  • Worked with Oracle Database Admin to keep all the specified tables as assigned by developments in sync for every release.  • Improved the development and version control of Chef Cookbooks, testing of cookbooks using Test kitchen and running recipes on nodes managed by Chef server.  • Worked on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies such as Agile and SCRUM.  • Developed and supported the software Release Management and procedures. SVN, RedHat, Puppet, Python Scripts, Maven, Oracle DB, Chef Cookbooks, Agile and Scrum GGK Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to February 2014 Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to February 2014  Linux Administrator    Responsibilities:  • Performed Linux administration tasks in test and production environments with installing, configuring and troubleshooting the client applications on the UNIX servers.  • Experienced in automating different tasks using Windows Power shell and managed patching for LINUX and Windows servers.  • Set up user and group login ID's, printing parameters, network configuration, password, resolving permissions issues, user and group quota.  • Participated in trouble shooting issues for user/group authentication and authorization issues and browser issues.  • Performed Linux backup/restore with tar including disk partition and formatting.  • Worked extensively in using VI editor to edit necessary files writing shell script.  • Worked in Administration, maintenance and support of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) Servers  • Responsible for configuring and connection to SSH through SSH clients like Putty and Cyber duck.  • Remote system administration using SSH and FTP.  • Adding servers to the domain and monitoring them using Spectrum.  • Experienced in troubleshooting critical hardware and software issues and other day-to-day user troubling tickets.    Environment & Tools: Linux, Unix, Windows, Power shell, SSH clients, Putty, Cyberduck and Spectrum. Skills DOCKER, Git, GRADLE, GROOVY, HTML Additional Information Technical Skills:    SCM Tools Subversion (SVN), GIT and Bitbucket  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Gradle  CI Tools Jenkins, Bamboo, Teamcity  Virtualization Vagrant, Oracle Virtual Box and VMware ESX  Configuration Tools Ansible, Puppet  Clustering Tools Docker, kubernetes, OpenShift  Monitoring Tools Splunk, Nagios and Datadog  Bug tracking Tools Jira, Remedy, ClearQuest  Cloud Platforms AWS, Azure, OpenStack  AWS Services EC2, ELB, VPC, RDS, IAM, CloudFormation, S3, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, SNS, SQS, SWF, EBS, EMR, ELK, Dynamo DB, Redshift  Database System MySQL, MongoDB  Languages Python, Ruby, Perl, Shell Scripting, Power Shell, Groovy Script, Java, HTML, JavaScript.  Servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBOSS  Platforms UNIX, Linux, Centos 6.5,7, Red Hat, Windows NT/2003/2008, Microsoft windows Vista/XP/2000