Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Shopko Chicago, IL • 3+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management, and Implementation of various standalone, client-server, web-applications.  • Strong Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile Methodologies.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, WebApp2, LAMP, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python), WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architectures.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and its usage in Python.  • Good familiarity in working with Python libraries such as Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python- twitter, Pandas DataFrame, Network, urllib2.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django, Webapp2 and Flask Web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments (IDE) like NetBeans, PyCharm, Sublime Text and Python-IDLE.  • Has good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, and MongoDB.  • Proficiency in writing SQLqueries (T-SQL, PL/SQL programming), tables, view, functions, triggers, stored procedures using relational databases like MySQL, MSSQL, SQL Server, Oracle, RDS, PostgreSQL.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like Python, DJango, AngularJS, Node JS, React JS.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, Rest Web Service for interoperable software applications.  • Experience in maintaining all the tools like Jenkins, JIRA, and GIT.  • Good Experience in C/C++development of multi-threaded applications in a Linux Environment.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing using various Testing Tools/Frameworks such as Robot, PyBuilder, Selenium (Selenium Web driver, IDE), Appium, PyTest, and Nose.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, Linux (Ubuntu) and UNIX.  • Experienced in Shell scripting (Bash, ZSH, KSH, etc.) and UNIX commands.  • Good experience in handling Errors/Exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Shopko - Ashwaubenon, WI September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Agile.  • Implementing Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, Python -twitter, PySide, Pandas, urllib2, and MySQL dB for database connectivity,  • Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Django, Pandas, REST, and SOLR).  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy, Scipy and SQL alchemy.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment and Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in jQuery and provided dynamic functionality using AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Django and PHP  • Created Angular.JS controllers, services and used Angular.JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and Using NumPy for Numerical analysis and managing large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Wrote and maintained automated Selenium/Appium tests to test the web and mobile UIs of each of our clients.  • Developed web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Involved in producing and consuming web services using both REST and SOAP.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Participated in Version controlling process using GitHub, Git.  • Used Robot Test automation framework for Testing of the GUI of the application.  Environment: Python, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, MVT HTML5, Angular JS, CSS3, DOM, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Django, Celery, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, Scipy, NumPy, SQLalchemy, GitHub. Python Developer Royal Savings Bank - Chicago, IL July 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP concepts.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture  • Developed a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Used Angular.JS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  • Use of Python Frameworks for data analysis including SQLAlchemy.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Responsible for providing support and analysis to the existing MS SQL server. Created Database objects like Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, and Rules etc. Created tables and provide constraints and user defined rules in the database.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Programming UNIX shell scripts (bash, sh, ksh, etc.)  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, PostgreSQL, HTML, XHTML, Angular JS, CSS, AJAX, SOAP, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Python libraries, UNIX. Python Developer SPEC India - Gujarat, IN September 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Used HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON and Java script for front end applications.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Selenium and TestNG.  • Developed Python /Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, AJAX, GIT, RESTful, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript