Python API Engineer <span class="hl">Python</span> API Engineer Python API Engineer - Pizza Hut Austin, TX Work Experience Python API Engineer T3 March 2018 to Present Backend engineer on the Pizza Hut loyalty rewards program using Python, Django (Rest  Framework), Celery, PostgreSQL, Ansible, and AWS.  ? Spearheaded infrastructure upgrades to migrate Ubuntu Server 14.04 to 18.04, Python 3.4 to  3.6, and Django 1.11 to 2.2.  ? Built NFL Game Day Django app to send customized weekly emails to over four million users.  ? Built Tier Django app allowing administrators to define user specific behavior from GUI.  ? Built reusable HTTP request logging Django middleware to analyze traffic flows and catch bugs.  ? Built integrations with external analytics systems and provided ad-hoc SQL reporting.  ? Organized Server Side Lunch and Learn series to share information on internal projects. Web Developer Texas Advanced Computing Center October 2017 to February 2018 Contract)  ? Contributed Python and JavaScript development for DesignSafe, a web application built for natural hazard researchers to interact with high-performance computers.  ? Refactored backend Django routes to be more RESTful and increased test coverage.  ? Added features to AngularJS app while refactoring to reduce lines of code.  ? Wrote automated scripts to detect and report broken links in applications using Nightwatch.js. Operations Analyst WorldQuant May 2016 to September 2017 Validated daily, monthly, and quarterly profit and loss statements for a quantitative hedge fund  with billion+ dollars in assets under management (AUM).  ? Validated daily firm equity and futures/commodity positions with brokers and business partners  before the start of market trading in multiple global regions.  ? Managed technical operations using cron jobs and Perl/ Python scripting. Responsible for synchronizing jobs, improving time efficiency, catching errors and slowdowns.  ? Introduced git workflow to analyst team to track previously non-version controlled scripts.  ? Wrote ad-hoc scripts using Python and SQL to respond to support portfolio managers. Database Developer Texas Association of Community Health Centers May 2013 to April 2016 Integrated thirty healthcare clinics using multiple database and software systems into a single, star-schema data warehouse for business intelligence reporting.  ? Implemented a denormalized analytics server that significantly improved reporting time.  ? Profiled health centers based on key performance indicators (like patients at risk for diabetes).  ? Implemented an HL7 messaging system connecting health centers to regional data exchanges  using Mirth Connect and JavaScript. Data Conversion Specialist VersaSuite November 2011 to May 2013 Migrated medical information for new clients from old databases into VersaSuite's EHR system. Education Bachelors of Science in Mathematics in Statistics The University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX May 2011 Skills API, DJANGO, DOCKER, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, POSTGRESQL, SQL, REST, MVC, EBS, EC2, REDIS, LINUX, TOOLING, ARCHITECTURE Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages Infrastructure Tooling  Python (2.7, 3.x), SQL, JavaScript, Go Ansible, Docker, AWS (EC2, RDS, EBS,  Backend Development CloudFormation), Google Cloud, git, Linux  Django (Rest Framework), Celery, PostgreSQL, (CLI), bash  Redis, MVC architecture, API integrations