Remote Contractor Remote Contractor Python Developer Houston, TX I have years of experience working on the (converging) macos/iOS front end as well as prior experience (in PHP) and recent experience in ( Python with Flask/Django) as a web developer. I'm accustomed to doing my own backend "plumbling" for my mobile apps with Python and earlier Java, and even earlier PHP. I am proficient with both Objective-C and Swift. I have enough experience with JavaScript to consider myself a full stack experience. I have over 15 years experience working with MySQL. Work Experience Remote Contractor UpWork May 2019 to Present Stealth-mode" SaaS startup in a niche industry without many players. Utilizing Django and my open source BI tool to come up with what might be something of "lifestyle business" as  this segment might now return the 10x growth that venture capitalists are demanding year over year. Technology stack Python/Django fine grain access control, Flask for business analytics.    SOGETI USA LLC, Senior Consultant    3/2019-4/2019    Worked on integrating highly secure CI/CD (Jenkins) pipeline between California and Austin, TX  offices of Cylance during its merger with Blackberry. Facilitated technology transfer of codegen  utility which generated Tornado based micro-services from Swagger files. Wrote unit tests in Python 3.6 for code generated by an internal tool that generated Python 3.6/Tornado code and  SQL code automatically. Also manually corrected the inevitable corner cases that result from codegen. Full Stack Python Developer (Remote Contractor) XSCOATING, Malta, EU June 2018 to January 2019 Wrote white paper, "Bringing Transparency to Customer Loyalty Programs using the Ethereum  Blockchain" for CryptoInvestSummit in Oct. 2018. XSCoating was a sponsor of the convention.    Designed, deployed, managed Ethereum nodes for implementation of proposal outlined in the white paper (basic ERC20 'security token'). Designed entire backend for provisioning and  securing tokens using cloud based architecture separate from Ethereum nodes to evade  attackers and protect Ethereum reserves.    Developed system to identify cars using TensorFlow. Quickly developed backend using Flask to utilize offshore labor to "train" the system using pictures of cars from E-Bay. Developed iOS  app in Swift for image acquisition.    Developed various applications using Python 3/Flask for various web based marketing  endeavors including blockchain technology, mobile apps, and artificial intelligence for the car  care industry    FREELANCE PYTHON WEB DEVELOPER, Central, Texas    Developed applications for various small real estate businesses, network automation systems, etc. to build my skill as Python developer. Also utilized PySerial library to control Arduino based  micro-controllers via Raspberry Pi..    FREELANCE PYTHON WEB DEVELOPER, Bogota, Colombia    Developed applications for various small real estate businesses, network automation systems, etc. to build my skill as Python developer. Also utilized PySerial library to control Arduino based  micro-controllers via Raspberry Pi. Lead Software Engineer S&P GLOBAL - New York, NY January 2012 to November 2016 Transitioned the legacy C# codebase from a company S&P acquired to Java EE (the C# was  actually a migration from VB6), which was the standard technology using SOAP to communicate between the two platforms. Worked on integrating mobile application event  notification into the proprietary business intelligence platform. Developed smartphone/tablet  apps for iOS using Objective-C and Swift. Managed team of 10 offshore developers. My  experiences with Java after Oracle bought it was what really got me into Python. Lead Systems Architect SPARKSIGHT, INC - Austin, TX June 2011 to December 2011 Worked as a front-end JavaScript developer for a software as a service offering known as leading reach. The company was transitioning from a Flash based system to a more modern  HTML5 system. Wrote an iPad app to interface with the backend, using multithreaded network  code I wrote to demonstrate the benefits of threading, versus the JavaScript single thread  model. The Objective-C driver which was later distributed by the backend vendor. Lead Programmer INGZ, INC - Austin, TX May 2010 to April 2011 Developed iPhone front end and PHP backend for an app called TouringZ which would read  narration when you reached a GPS location. Redesigned the database after the initial design  was not performant at over 10,000 records. Wrote an extremely rudimentary business  intelligence system in PHP, which was perhaps the most popular website at the office. Education B.A. in Economics University of Texas - Dallas, TX 2009 Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES (10+ years), DJANGO (5 years), PYTHON 3 (5 years), FLASK (5 years), SWIFT (3 years), Java (5 years), Objectice-C (10+ years), Git (10+ years), Jquery (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), CSS, Javascript (10+ years), HTML 5, PHP (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Docker, Android Links http://nouveaupg.com http://picoevent.io Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rykk2dkmq5ongbxu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.