Junior Back End Developer Junior Back End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Back End Developer - VIRTUSA CORP New Windsor, NY Work Experience Junior Back End Developer VIRTUSA CORP - Hartford, CT October 2018 to Present Worked with Aeronautical customers to understand requirements and provide exceptional web app  based solutions.  Fast passed environment with strict deadlines.  Implemented python based solutions  Used Python, Flask, Oracle for back end microservices solutions. Freelance Python Developer WOLTERS KLUWER - Kingston, NY January 2018 to October 2018 AWS Redshift database, Flask framework deployed on EC2 as backend and an Angular front end.    Fixed duplicate records and memory buffer issues in redshift.  Implemented CSV report generation.  Implemented Python-based testing features to use on final product.  Used Python2.x  Gathered business requirements and implemented logical and physical data using Python.  Implemented the test algorithms in focused tool with self-checking methodology.  Development in Proficiency in Python 2.x and SQL.  Collaborated with other programmers to design and implement features.  Quickly produced well-organized, optimized, and documented source code.  Debugged existing source code and polish feature sets.  Tested and maintained software products to ensure strong functionality and optimization. Junior Developer LIVETECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS, INC - Tuxedo Park, NY January 2017 to December 2017 Created i18n Java Spring translations for Russian users.  Used JSP/Servlet/Spring technology to make sure site's i18n internationalization was integrated  properly  Utilized Google API to create a creative content source.  Wrote and implemented scripts to enhance user experience and integrated scripts.  Strengthened developmental methodologies by creating documentation.  Debugged and modified software components.  Experience in project deployment using DigitalOcean/Heroku and using web services like Amazon  Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3. Account Manager STATE FARM INSURANCE - Brooklyn, NY April 2015 to June 2017 Sold Auto, Home, Life and other insurance financial services products.  Identifying prospective customers using established lead methodologies for new business.  Developing and maintaining business relationships. Personal Banker JPMORGAN CHASE - New York, NY February 2011 to April 2015 Resolving customer service issues.  Providing other convenience services.  Opening new accounts and assisting with Teller transactions as needed.  Complying with all policies, procedures and regulatory banking requirements.  Partnering with your branch team and Specialists to connect clients to experts who can help with specialized financial needs. Education Liberal Arts Purchase College - Purchase, NY 2007 Skills bi-lingual (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Django (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), Jquery (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Python (1 year), SQL. (Less than 1 year), HTML 5, MYSQL Links http://www.trucksearch.us