Cloud Architect Cloud Architect Cloud Architect - Thomson Reuters Work Experience Cloud Architect Thomson Reuters January 2019 to Present Team Lead/Sr.Cloud Solution Architect and Migration Thomson Reuters 2018 to Present PROJECT OVERVIEW:  Aim of this project is to design AWS infrastructure and migrate the infrastructure of Thomson Reuters from on premise to AWS cloud.    ASSIGNMENT:  Migration of on premise infra to AWS cloud using tools like SMS, DMS, VM  import-export and third party migration tool like CloudEndure  Designing and managing AWS infrastructure through cloud-formation scripts to automate creation of infrastructure resources of AWS.  Responsible for designing AWS infrastructure, developing python  automation scripts using boto3 libraries to work on various AWS services.  Managing monitoring and logging of client's AWS accounts.  Migration of on premises servers to Cloud using DMS, VM import/export,  SMS, DMS and CloudEndure.  Creating ALB, CLB and NLB. Consultant Capgemini India April 2017 to Present AWS Python API Developer/DevOps Capgemini India April 2017 to December 2018 PROJECT OVERVIEW:  Create enterprise server-less application architecture applications for Data- scientist and Agriculture products.    ASSIGNMENT:  Implement RESTful APIs service design and implementation using python.  Experience on Parsing Data formats like JSON, CSV, TXT, XLSX and XML using  python Libraries like Pandas, ElementTree, and XMLtoDict.  Implemented REST APIs using flask, and used SQLAlchemy ORM for model.  Experience implementing solutions in AWS for implementing data pipelines,  computation, and building services for retrieving and storing data.  Hands on experience in Relational database management systems -  PostgreSQL.  Hands on Experience in python Unit test - using tools like Unit test, Pytest,  mock etc. Cloud Automation Engineer AWS TLI January 2018 to February 2018 PROJECT OVERVIEW:  Aim of this project was to developing automation scripts to launch/create  various AWS services, so that can be use at infra level to structure them at any point. These scripts can be use at region failure to launch the whole  infrastructure again and start the environment. These scripts will require  minimum manual efforts, end user just need to run these scripts using cloud- formation stack and pass them the parameter values, then this script will  automatically create/launch respective AWS service.    ASSIGNMENT:  Responsible for developing automation scripts using AWS cloud-formation in  JSON/YAML to automate creation of various AWS services at network layer,  including VPC, subnet, security groups & NACL with their traffic rules entries,  route-table, internet gateway and NAT gateway. Ability to automate AWS  auditing services like cloud-trail and cloud-watch for usage or any event  occurred on specific AWS service (EC2, RDS, etc.).  Able to automate peering between 2 or more AWS VPC with their PCX entries in main route-table.  Ability to make automated communication between cross AWS automation  scripts using import and export service of AWS.  Responsible for writing cloud-formation scripts to automate creation of IAM  services like IAM users, roles, groups including their permission policies. Sr. Software Engineer Emerson June 2016 to April 2017 System Engineer Cybage Software Pvt Ltd February 2015 to June 2016 Noc L1 Engineer December 2013 to January 2015 Business Associate CMC Limited March 2013 to December 2013 Capgemini Engagements  I have worked on 3 different Projects: 1. ThosmsonReuters 2. Predictive Ag, 3. AWS TLI Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Mumbai University - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2008 to 2011 Diploma in Computer Engineering Mumbai University - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2006 to 2008 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/saif-b-19887625 Additional Information Expertise:  • Build architecture blueprints and detailed design documentation for all solutions developed.  • Mentor, train and lead the team to adopt development and QA processes, best practices/standards on  AWS cloud.  • Experienced in automating AWS services (Cloud infrastructure, Monitoring & logging, Network Security).  • Expertise in Cloud-Formation-Template (CFT) automation scripts (JSON/YAML scripting language).  • Expertise in AWS CLI & Python Scripts to automate various AWS services using boto3, AWS Python SDK's.  • Hands on experience on Aws cloud related services like cloud related services like Cloudformation, Lambda,  Step function, Batch, VPC, VPC peering, (IPsec) VPN connections, Cloudfront, ALB/NLB/CLB, SNS, SES, IAM,  Code Commit, Code Pipeline, Code deploy, RDS, EC2, S3, Route53, cloud watch, Auto scaling, EBS, NAT, NACL  etc.  • Experienced in Event-driven and Scheduled AWS Lambda functions to trigger various AWS resources.  • Experienced in versioning tool like GitHub, Bitbucket, Jira Tool, confluence.  • Experienced in CI-CD Tool TeamCity and Octopus.  • Experienced in Linux System Administration e.g. CentOS & Ubuntu.  • Experienced in on premise to Cloud Migration using CloudEndure Tool, SMS, DMS, VM import/export  services.  • Experienced in Database PostgreSQL, MySQL.  • Experienced in project deployment (Sandbox, QA, UAT and production environment).  • Experienced in Virtualization - VBox, VMware ESXi.  • Monitoring Tools - PagerDuty, Copper Egg, Nagios, CCM.net, Cloud watch, Stack Driver  • Disaster Recovery Solutions - Storage Craft, BareMetalRecovery, RAID Implementation and NAS.  • Python Development - RESTful API Development using Flask, Pytest, mock, flask, and SQLAlchemy    Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter comfortable managing systems, projects and teams in a range of  IT environments    Date of Print 2019-01-14    Capgemini Public