Sr. Python, Django Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span>, Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python, Django Developer - Dish Technologies Englewood, CO Work Experience Sr. Python, Django Developer Dish Technologies - Englewood, CO April 2017 to Present Project scope was to develop an application that fetches the reports and other data from the website and fills that data into the respective tables into the database. Analysts can use that data to generate reports and other visualizations.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing.  ? Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture along with Django's ORM model.  ? Worked on cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.  ? Loading, analyzing, and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python.  ? Parsing various format of files like XML, JSON format files and load into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules.  ? Wrote modules in Python to connect to MongoDB with PyMongo and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB.  ? Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  ? Worked on migrating data to Amazon AWS. Used AWS products like EC2, IAM, RDS, Log Monitor, Lambda, REST API Gateway etc.  ? Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  ? Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and JSON.  ? MySQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? A Django dashboard with a custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  ? Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  ? JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  ? To build and populate DB and to ensure the standards the team of QA was also collaborated.  ? To avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions, AJAX in UI was used.  ? For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.  ? Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  Environment: Python 3.5/3.6, Django, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, jQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, AWS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, PyCharm Python Developer GE Transportation - Miami, FL October 2014 to March 2016 Project scope was to build an interaction between front-end user-friendly customer UI and back-end frequent data analysis to keep track of user responses, customer Feedback and allowances and generate various kind of reports.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  ? Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in the database.  ? Used jQuery for the data manipulations on client side.  ? Leveraged CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  ? Worked on deployment of the project on to Amazon S3.  ? Worked on integrating C/C++ code with Python using SWIG.  ? Used GIT version control and deployed the project to Heroku.  ? Used Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through objects.  ? Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment with shell.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript Python Developer Cat Media - Tucker, GA November 2012 to September 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Effectively followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework  ? Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change  ? Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi-datacenter Cassandra cluster  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python modules like math, glob, random, Itertools, Functools.  ? Installed, Configured, administered, and monitored multi Datacenter Cassandra clusters  ? Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  ? Evaluated and tuned data model by running endurance tests using JMeter, Cassandra Stress Tool and OpsCenter.  ? Provided support for Linux servers and workstations in Department of Physics  ? Worked on installing & configuring NIS servers to authenticate between Linux, Apple, and Windows environments.  ? Wrote Bash Shell Scripts on local setups to automate jobs.  ? Designed front end using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application  ? Responsibilities included site maintenance, new feature development and user support.  ? Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, PyQT, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.JS, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, Python Libraries such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy Python Developer Global Wireless Solutions - Dulles, VA November 2011 to October 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Handled overall database schema design and Oracle stored procedure implementation.  ? Implemented several REST-based web services for reporting queries.  ? Created a triggered event email notification system.  ? Created a distribution/publishing/serving system.  ? Created several Oracle extension modules.  ? Worked on various Google integration efforts post-acquisition.  ? Directly responsible for various enhancements of Equipment updates/transmission of signals on OC/STS cables.  ? Authored important Network APIs for Basic Video, developed user interface screens and solved customer reported software bugs or issues.  ? Used Purify, GDB and DBX for debugging/crash logs which helped in performance enhancement and optimization.  ? Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  Environment: Python, Linux, Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Apache Web Server Software Developer Abhi Techno Soft - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to May 2011 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Effectively involved in software development, system architecture, and project management.  ? Worked on several Facebook or Twitter applications using Python, PHP, or JavaScript.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  Environment: Python, Django1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server Education Bachelor's in Information Technology JNT University Skills CSS (7 years), MYSQL (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), HTML (6 years), LINUX (6 years) Additional Information ? IT Professional with 8+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, RESTAPI, AWS, C, C++, Java, and SQL.  ? Highly skilled on several standard python packages like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  ? Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB (2.6, 2.4).  ? Working knowledge on Hadoop, Spark, Big data Technologies & Amazon AWS S3 and Redshift.  ? Expertise on migrating data to Amazon AWS. Used AWS products like EC2, IAM, RDS, Log Monitor, Lambda etc.  ? Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  ? Hands-on experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  ? Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experience in using Caching applications for large-scale applications like Mem cached, Redis.  ? Good knowledge of deployment tools using Heroku, Jenkins, Pylint, Cppcheck and Coverity.  ? Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  ? Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large-scale applications.  ? Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments.    Operating Systems: Linux, UNIX, Solaris, Windows, Mac  Programming Languages: Python 2.x/3.x, C, C++, Java, SQL, Shell Script  Web technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XHTML, Java Script, jQuery, XML, JSON  Web server: Web logic, Apache Tomcat 5.5, 6.0, 8.0, NGINX  Databases: MySQL, PLSQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  Python Web frameworks: Django, Pyramid, Flask, .NET Framework4.5, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib  Development IDE: PyCharm, PyDev Eclipse, Vim, Net beans, MS Visio, Sublime Text, Notepad++  Web Services: SOAP, RESTful  Version Control: Git, Git-Hub, Sub Version, CVS  Cloud Frameworks: Open stack, Helion  Virtualization Platforms: KVM, HPVM, Dockers    Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall