Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Texas Instruments, Texas New Jersey Wildlife and Game Refuge, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer Texas Instruments, Texas November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:   • Have work experience with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, and Net Beans.  • Involved in development of the enterprise social network application using Python, Twisted, and Cassandra.  • Good understanding of Postgres, both database modeling and efficient querying and updates.  • Experience in Python programming using Django and Postgres.  • Solid in OOPS and Design Patterns and Linux based development.  • Ability to troubleshoot the existing application and provide root cause analysis.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy, and Postgres SQL.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Experience with Test-Driven Development (TDD) using packages such as mocking frameworks and unit test • Used Mongo DB internal tools like Mongo Compass, Mongo Atlas Manager & Ops Manager, and Cloud Manager etc.  • Designed dynamic and cross-browser compatible pages using web technologies such as • AngularJS, Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, CSS bootstrap, JSP.  • Designed dynamic and cross-browser compatible pages using web technologies such as • AngularJS, Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, CSS bootstrap, JSP.  • Experience in Mongo DB installation, patching, troubleshooting, performance, tracking/tuning, back - up and recovery in dynamic environments.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring framework using Django.  • Managed and improved the build infrastructure for global software development. Engineering teams including implementation of build scripts, continuous integration infrastructure and deployment tools.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Worked extensively with Nagios monitoring system as well as other monitoring tools.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts    Environment: Django, Git, Python oops, Linux, Postgres, Nagios Python developer City Group, New Jersey August 2015 to October 2018 Responsibilities:   • Responsible for the design, development and administration of analytical data process such as converting TERADATASQL, scripts to REDSHIFTPSQL, scripts, data validation checks, metadata review, included within those responsibilities are the areas of data access and delivery technologies.  • Includes expertise in data quality, data organization, metadata and data profiling.  • Data set sizes are usually huge (more than hundreds of millions of records), storing millions of records in csv files and excel spreadsheets.  • Leveraging Driver tables to pull data in Teradata, Redshift (UD interim and Driver).  • Mapping the true source of the fields from the table and moving the fields from S3RAW, LOAD Ready, Extract datasets to REDSHIFT using AWS CLI and Python.  • Working with AWS services like EC2, S3, IAM and REDSHIFT.  • Data ingestion to configure parameters.  • Working on FUSION UAT, BAU testing for both Teradata and Redshift.  • Understanding the PDS - BAU data workflow such from following.  • Mainframe files-> Cluster-> validation->Preproc Wrapper-> XFORM JBOS-> S3-> REDSHIFT LOAD.  • Working on FRB reporting converting and making reports using Python (Pandas, XLSX writer etc., modules).  • Converting Kohls library metric Scripts: commonly used metric scripts. Driver table scripts and others etc. from Teradata SQL syntax to Redshift PSQL syntax.  • Branded card tables and field's validation and testing from converting the shell, SQL scripts to python and PSQL in AWS.  • Demonstrated to move from one sequential assignment to the next (work environment and properties can change quickly depending on business needs).  • Ability to move data between production systems and across multiple platforms • Experience with Financial domain clients.  • Works substantially with little supervision or oversight to deliver key milestones.  • Ability to deliver highly technical information to an analyst team to support their own systems migration responsibilities.    Environment: Django, Python oops, Linux, PSQL Postgres, Build/ Python Engineer IN March 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:   • Well versed with configuration management policies and practices with regards to SDLC along with automation by using scripting languages like Shell/ Python Scripting.  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Experienced in build and deployment of Java applications on to different environments such as QA, UAT and Production.  • Build and deployment of scripts using python scripting, Shell to setup development and QA environments.  • Worked with Version Control tools like GIT.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML, json processing, data exchange and business logic implementation • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Packaging, build, Test and Deploy chain, SVN with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases.  • Hands on standard of SCM tools (Git), CI/CD (Jenkins/Maven) process • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser • Co-ordinated with developers, Business Analyst and Mangers to make sure that code is deployed in the Production Environment.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Created branches in GIT implementation parallel development process.  • Created deployment request tickets in Bugzilla for the deploying the code to Production.  • Provided on-going support and administration for Jenkins, SonarQube, fortify scan, GIT and build automations.  • Installed Jenkins on Linux machines and created master and slave configurations to implement multiple parallel builds.    Environment: GIT, Jenkins, Nexus, Django, Linux, Python/Shell script, Tomcat. Education Bachelor's Skills deployment (3 years), Django (6 years), JSON (3 years), Linux (6 years), Python (6 years) Additional Information Programming Skills Python, C, C++, Core Java  Web Development Skills HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, XML and Bootstrap. Frameworks Django and Flask  Frameworks Django and Flask  IDE(s) Geany, PyCharm, Eclipse, Android Studio, Spyder and NetBeans.  Database Oracle, SQL, MySQL PL/SQL, PostgreSQL  Operating Systems LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS  Web Services REST, SOAP and AWS  Servers Apache Tomcat and Web Logic  Version Control ToolsGit, GitHub and SVN  Development Process Waterfall, Agile and Scrum.  Bug Tracking Tool JIRA, Bugzilla  Deployment Tools Heroku Jenkins