Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Investor's Title Raleigh, NC • 8+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and applications using various technologies.  • Hands on experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask web application frameworks.  • Developed web applications, RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django; good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Solid background in Object-Oriented analysis in developing front end and back end framework using various Design Patterns.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Java, HTML, XML, KML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Working knowledge of Python ORM libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Experience in developing applications using Amazon Web Services like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, and instance storage), Elastic Load balancer ELBs.  • Strong development experience on Linux based operating systems (Debain, CentOS, RedHat and Ubuntu)  • Proficiency in writing SQL queries (T-SQL, PL/SQL programming), tables, view, functions, triggers, stored procedures using relational databases like MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle; Experienced in NoSQL technologies like Cassandra, Mongo DB.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments (IDE) like NetBeans, PyCharm, Eclipse and Visual Studio.  • Experience in using various version control systems like SVN, CVS and Git.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Investor's Title - Raleigh, NC September 2017 to Present Investors Title Company is a holding company for Investors Title Insurance Company and National Investors Title Insurance Company which write policies to protect mortgage lenders and homeowners from unforeseen claims made against title to real property. Established in 1972, Investors Title specializes in residential and commercial title insurance, 1031 exchanges, reverse exchanges, title agency management services, and trust and capital management services.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 3.4 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and Website interface is created using Django's view controller and template.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Used SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MySQL.  • Developed Restful Micro services using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Used Docker to implement a high-level API to provide lightweight containers that run processes isolation and worked on creation of customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed the images to the Docker repository.  • Used AJAX for Better interactivity for the end user and easier navigation and AJAX is compact.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system; Created Git repository and added to Git Hub project.  • An application was developed in Linux environment and dealt with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 3.4, Django, AWS, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, Git, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Senior Python Developer Panasonic - Irvine, CA July 2016 to August 2017 Panasonic Corporation is comprised of various business domain companies, from AV to home appliances, to industrial solutions and other consumer electronic products. Each company has its distinct R&D, production, and sales functions that satisfy specific consumer needs worldwide.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Provide a command line interface and XML based outputs for integration into existing build infrastructure.  • Used Graphical User Interface Testing and API driven Testing.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and matPlotLib.  • Using features that support complex data structures, first class functions by using PERL.  • Experience in working on Freeform Calculation, and Lasso and Radial Selection by using Tableau.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Pandas to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  Environment: Python 3.4, Django, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, Git, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer Caterpillar Inc - Peoria, IL April 2015 to July 2016 Caterpillar Inc. has been making sustainable progress possible and driving positive change on every continent. Customers turn to Caterpillar to help them develop infrastructure, energy and natural resource assets. The main goal of the project was to support the finance organization for budget forecast and reporting using Python based web apps.  Responsibilities:  • Full Stack developer, created a custom web application using Django, AWS (Amazon web service), REST, Json with JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX components.  • Created database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based application.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using python scripts.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Involved in Developing a RESTful service using Python Flask framework.  • Deployment and Build on various environments including Linux and UNIX.  Environment: Python, Django, Flask, UML Rational Rose, C++, Design Patterns, SVN, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOA/OOD, Shell Scripting, Git, GitHub, MYSQL. Python Developer Juniper Networks - Los Angeles, CA October 2013 to March 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. The company develops and markets networking products, including routers, switches, network management software, network security, products, and software-defined networking technology. Juniper Networks originally focused on core routers, which are used by internet service providers (ISPs) to perform IP address lookups and direct internet traffic.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  • This platform is built using a Struts framework in the presentation layer. The back end functionality is built using Oracle as data persistence layer and Hibernate as data access layer.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  Environment: Python, Django, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, XML, SOAP, GitHub, Jira, Agile, SQL, PL/SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and Windows. Software Engineer American Water - Pittsburgh, PA January 2012 to September 2013 American Water is an American public utility company operating in the United States and Canada. American Water Works Company provides services such as water line protection, sewer line protection, an in-home plumbing emergency program, electric line protection, heating system protection, cooling system protection, power surge protection and water heater protection.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed use-case diagrams, class diagrams, and object diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Linux. Programmer Analyst Global Inc. Solutions June 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Updated and maintained a web server in Unix environment  • Implementation of BI as a reporting tool to develop various reports for the analysis of Child Support Enforcement Program.  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for Inventory Management  • Involved in SQL debugging and support and Managed and support outages during urgency  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery  • Developed tables and SQL packages, procedures and functions  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python  • Worked on performance tuning and monitoring of database  Environment: Perl, DBI/DBD, SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, SQLPLUS, SQL*Loader, UNIX, HTML, JavaScript, Informatica. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (8 years), CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), Python 3.4, Django, AWS, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, Git, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. (8 years), Git, PHP, MySQL, ASP, Android Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python: NumPy and matPlotLib, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JQuery.  Web Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, Webapp2, AngularJS.  Databases MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle (8i, 9i, 10g, 11g), MongoDB.  Operating Systems & Servers UNIX/Linux, Ubuntu, Windows, Apache Tomcat.  Utilities Git, MS Visio, MS Office.    Methodologies Waterfall, Spiral, Agile.