Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Citadel, CT Citadel, CT • Around 9+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script.  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL ( Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloud watch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and jQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong at full life cycle application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing. Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Citadel, CT August 2018 to Present Description: Citadel's team stands at the forefront of data analysis and modeling. We analyze historical and current information through statistical and quantitative modeling, as well as predictive analytics, to identify opportunities. We focus on the equity, fixed income, commodities and currency markets globally, concentrating on the United States equity markets.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in the requirements gathering, development, created documentation of web-based application.  • Understanding the requirement and extracting the required data.  • Interacted with Clients for Clarifications based on the prepared Technical specification documents.  • Involved in Code Review & peer review.  • Actively participated in technical and functional knowledge sharing sessions.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, Pyspark and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects to hold values between python classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals, and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Jira.  • Used extracted data for analysis and carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python library - NumPy, SciPy.  • Experience in trouble shooting spark jobs. Knowledge of monitoring spark jobs using Spark UI.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed python scripts to extract the data from the web server output files to load into HDFS    Environment: Python, Django, jQuery, JavaScript, Backbone JS, MySQL Server, Oracle11.2, Linux, Django, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache. Sr. Python Developer Schlumberger, TX May 2015 to July 2018 Description: Worked as a Full-Stack Developer and proficient in all stages of application development, testing, and deployment. we will be responsible for managing the interchange of data between enterprise services and users by developing, maintaining integrations with other systems, and working with the designers to produce the visual elements of the application.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, and Data Modeling. Worked on high level design and detail design.  • Developed GUI using Python, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Built application logic using Python, Django MVC architecture and PostgreSQL.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Processed, validated, parsed data from XML file.  • Used Restful web services for integration with many monitoring devices.  • Developed REST/HTTP APIs for exposing geospatial applications.  • Designed and developed Forms, Models, Views, Templates, and mapped URLs using Django guidelines.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Implemented Virtual Environment to provide a wrapping layer to the application.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django: Improved page load time by 30%.  • Experience of dealing with AWS S3 object storage from Spark.  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Versatile with Version control systems including Git and SVN.  • Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and development servers).  • Installed/configured/maintained PostgreSQL database and MongoDB database.  • Performed Unit/System testing using pyTEST.  • Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks (C/C++, SQL scripts, UNIX Shell).  • Understand customer requirements and document application approach and design.  • Created a JSON update mechanism for pushing data model updates to client.  • Monitored database changes, proposed modification for subsystem-related tables, fields or indexes and developed scripts (SQL, SQL scripts, UNIX shell scripts)  • Used SVN for version control.  Environment: REST, CSS, VMware, Python, Django, HTML, HTTP, JSON, JUnit, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, pyTEST, UNIX Shell scripting, Sublime, Web Services, XHTML, Oracle, SVN Python Developer Boston scientific, CA September 2013 to March 2015 Description: Boston Scientific, is a manufacturer of medical devices used in interventional medical specialties, including interventional radiology, interventional cardiology, peripheral interventions, electrophysiology, cardiac surgery, vascular surgery, endoscopy, oncology, urology and gynecology. We develop application of the Taxus Stent, a drug-eluting stent which is used to open clogged arteries. We test and verify the hardware application by using python scripts and shell scripts.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in fring database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Hands on experience in developing ETL data pipelines using pyspark on AWS EMR    • Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, C++, Java, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Software Developer in Python Interactions, MA April 2012 to August 2013 Description: In the Interactions we handle the most critical business applications. With over a billion customer transactions annually and growing, we have to make sure that whether your applications are always running and working the way they are supposed to work.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.    Environment: Python, Django, Flex, Beautiful soup, PyUnit, Angular.js, Node.js, XML, MS Visio, MS Project, JIRA, Apache, Git, UML, SQL, Windows, and Linux. Software developer Metaminds - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2010 to November 2011 Description: Metaminds has worked with its Partners on hundreds of successful enterprise solutions deployments world-wide.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the all life-cycle design and development  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript  • Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development  • Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document  Environment: Python, Linux, Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server.XML, XSL, HTML, JavaScript, JBOSS, Oracle 10g, Windows, web services. Education Bachelor's