Contract Engineer II Contract Engineer II Contract Engineer II San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contract Engineer II Uber - San Francisco, CA September 2018 to March 2019 Environment: Python 2.7, Tornado-Flask, Javascript, React    For coordinating recruiting, interviews are planned out with a home-grown super-calendar, where all interviewers calendars are merged and conflicts are graphically indicated, notifications are send, and scorecards are balloted for barraising.    I handle backend tickets, feature and defect, against the super-calendar, in a group of 8 engineers and 2 scrum masters who develop and manage many microsystems and applications for recruiting. Contract Technical Lead, Disaster Recovery Instances Cisco - San Jose, CA May 2018 to September 2018 Environment: Python 2.7, Django, jQuery, Jenkins, Sonarcube    Cisco needs a tool for internal application owners to order the construction of disaster recover instances for either temporary replacement during platform updates or disaster recovery itself.    Quickly backfilled for departing engineer who started the project. Left when code met quality levels for deployment.    In a team of 3 contract engineers and analysts, working for a hardware company, we design and program cloud management tools for ordering the spin up of disaster recovery VM instances. Contract Web Developer, Human Resource Applications Google - San Jose, CA February 2017 to May 2018 Environment: GAE, Kubernetes, Python 2.7, 3.5, Javascript, Angular 1.5, Material Design    Google has internal HR applications in maintenance lifecycle.    In a team of 5 contract engineers, I was the go-to engineer for HR applications written Python and Angular. We worked on HR applications that augmented a massive 3rd party application called Workday.    These supplemental applications reduced load on Workday with dedicated tasking like applying for time off or maternity leave.    We had weekly triage meetings to distribute and prioritize work and by week Contract Web Programmer Pinterest - San Francisco, CA October 2016 to December 2016 Environment: Linux, Python 2.7, Django, Tornado, Jinja2, Phabricator    An immediate expansion of Pinterest's content moderation department required that an existing-open CRM for social media profiles be closed off to unauthorized people within Pinterest and pieces closed off between people in the moderation department. Contract Web Developer CRM to expose CRM differently depending on combinations of Oauth - Menlo Park, CA August 2015 to September 2016 As an independent contractor, in a team of 7 internal engineers continually integrating bug fixes and features, rewrote templates of CRM to expose CRM differently depending on combinations of Oauth.    Implemented combinations of oath roles to distinguish 4 types of user roles based on well-made specifications from stakeholders on a spreadsheet.    08/15 - 9/16  Facebook, Menlo Park, CA, IT Infrastructure  Contract Web Developer  Environment: Centos 6, Blaze, Python 2.7, 3.5, Django 1.9, SQLAlchemy, MySQL, Redis, Celery, Phabricator    The IT Infrastructure department had a requirement for a single source of truth for what had been a dispersed collection of personal engineer's open-source tools that served information for disaster recovery and notification to application owners of hardware changes.    As an independent contractor, I was charged with the proof-of-concept open-source solution before closed-source solution was implemented by Facebook engineers. The bulk of the specification was a MySQL Workbench document from a stakeholder who designed the same thing at Cisco.    • Setup schema,  • Setup pipelines to query inter-departmental databases using SQLAlchemy and SQL,  • Wrote API,  • On support rotation for the CLI that consumes the API's data for its mains purpose, aiding in reliability in severe situation,  • Supported analysts interested in using spreadsheets to make changes visible on dashboards. Contract Web Developer Gigwalk - San Francisco, CA July 2015 to August 2015 Environment: Heroku, Python2.7, Flask, SQLAlchemy, Elasticsearch  As an independent contractor, repaired API tasking software for dispatching transient workers. Documented light-weight Elasticsearch Contract Systems Integration Engineer Accellion - Palo Alto, CA March 2015 to July 2015 Environment: Debian, Python 2.7, Django, Bottle, Postgres, Selenium, Jquery, JavaScript, VMWare ContractWeb Developer Renesola - San Francisco, CA January 2015 to March 2015 San Francisco, CA, a energy efficiency technology company  ContractWeb Developer  Environment: AWS Ubuntu, Python, Django, Postgres, Redis, Mongo, Bootstrap, Coffeescript, Jquery, RabbitMQ, Fabric, Git, Nose, Excel, Chef, CakePHP 3.0    l Added discount calculator for discounting on volume purchases  l Added freight calculators  l Added price change workflow through spreadsheet upload    As an independent contractor, I wrote web-based calculators for bundled discounts and freight costs and spread-sheet uploaders to populate the backend with data like pricelists. Contract Web Developer Enlighted, Inc - Sunnyvale, CA March 2014 to December 2014 Environment: Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose    As an independent programmer, arriving daily on-site, I wrote a CRM for tracking returned merchandise from large starter customers like ATT. Contributing Software Engineer kynded.com - Stanford, CA March 2012 to March 2014 Environment: AWS, PHP 5.7, MySQL, Zend    Added features for searching course catalogs and recruiting tools like chat rooms and resume scanners..    Vidality is a startup in Stanford's startup garage that had several models. I worked for them when they ran a technical school and a recruiting services enterprise. Staff Python/Django Web Developer kynded.com - San Francisco, CA February 2012 to March 2014 Environment: Python 2.7, AWS, Django 1.5, Nginx, Postgres 9, Uwsgi, HTML, CSS, Agile, Scrum, rsync, fabric, nose    l Added registration and authentication  l Added payment gateways for charitable contributions    Staff Django developer working in a team of 4 other developers taking user stories.  Kynded is a Social Networking site that lets anyone with a mobile device or computer thank someone right in the moment, for an act of kindness, simply and quickly. Kynded's community permanently records kind acts with words, pictures and even video. Python/Django Web Programmer Carelink - San Francisco, CA October 2011 to December 2011 Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, Cent OS 5, MongoDB  l Added CNA accounts receivable package  l Added ACH payment gateway for CNA payroll  Carelink is a web marketplace connecting people needing medical care with local traveling certified nursing assistants.  Freelance Web Developer - working with international team of 8 collected from Odesk, the owner, and his IT Director. Built ACH (Automated Clearing House) gateway to pay contract health care workers. Freelance Web Developer, hired on project basis Venture Beat - San Francisco, CA December 2009 to August 2011 Education Chemical Engineering UC Berkeley 1980 to 1984