Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - The Texas Health and Human Services Commission Austin, TX • Almost 5 years of IT experience, as strong background in programming experience, committed to maintaining technical skills and to be up-to-date with industry knowledge. Have good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB and SQL databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite3.  • Proven track record of implementing data driven web back ends with Python and Django.  • Experience with objects oriented programming, full development life cycle and worked with Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Extensive experience with multiple technologies Python, PL/SQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Backend applications using Python/Flask/Django and SQL/ PostgreSQL. Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Highly efficient in working in fast paced environment and multiple issues at a time.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer The Texas Health and Human Services Commission - Austin, TX May 2018 to Present HHSC) is an agency within the Texas Health and Human Services System. Its goal is of making the Health and Human Services System more efficient and effective.  Project: Your Texas Benefits online web portal  The YourTexasBenefits.com (YTB) online web portal is a web application, which enables clients to apply for state sponsored benefits and manage their cases details online. This was used to provide User Interface to the Accounts department to help to reconcile the transactions originating from the processors daily XML extract.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Provide a command line interface and XML based outputs for integration into existing build infrastructure.  • Used Graphical User Interface Testing and API driven Testing.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and matPlotLib.  • Using features that support complex data structures, first class functions by using PERL.  • Experience in working on Freeform Calculation, and Lasso and Radial Selection by using Tableau.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Pandas to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  Environment: HTML, Python, SVN, CSS, PostgreSQL, REST, Flask, Bootstrap, Psutil, Tableau, Tomcat, Apache Python Developer CashCall Mortgage - Orange, CA October 2013 to April 2018 CashCall, was one of the nation's premier lenders. It specializes in low interest mortgage and home refinancing for borrowers with good to excellent credit. CashCall Mortgage streamlines the application and lending process, reducing their own costs and passed that savings on to customers.  Description: My project with the company was with tools and calculator. This tool allows user to get the estimate prices for getting quotes for payment, will they qualify for a loan or not, best loan for the individual and other property factors.  Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Wrote Python scripts to XML documents and load the data in the database.  • Designed and developed application front-end GUI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax.  • Designed controller and business logic using SpringMVCmodule.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all the hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Implemented SOAP using web services to interact with various devices to pull real-time data on the network.  • Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle Database with Python.  • Used standard Python modules e.g., csv, itertools, jinja for development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.  • Using Mongo DB-NoSQL database for storing the information.  • Used SVN repository for software configuration management and version control.  Environment: Django, Python, Waterfall, JavaScript, Mongo DB, XML, SOAP based web services, Apache Web Server, Hibernate ORM, Tomcat. Education Master's in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Stratford University Skills Javascript, MYSQL Additional Information Technical Skills:  OS Platforms: Unix/Linux, Windows, iOS  Programming Languages: Python, Java, JavaScript  Modules and Frameworks: Django, Flask  Tools: Eclipse, Notepad++, PyCharm, Sublime Text  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript  Server Technologies: Apache  Databases: MySQL, Mongo DB, PostgreSQL, SQLite