Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - EOG Resources Houston, TX • Around 7 years of IT experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software using various technologies, analyzing complex business requirements & mapping them to system specifications.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9/1.7  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems.  • Have excellent knowledge on python collections and multi-threading.  • Skilled experience in python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments.  • Implemented different python libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, pytables, Jasy, Pickle, PySide, Pandas data frame, Pyvmomi, Fabric,Anaconda3x and urllib2 in various tasks.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Experienced in working with various Python Frameworks Django, Flask, Web2py, cherry,  Bottle.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model Template View architecture using Django web application frameworks  • Experience on web development using HTML4/5 CSS/CSS3, Java Script, JQUERRY, Angular Js, Ajax , Bootstrap.  • Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with Restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic, Jenkins, Heroku  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, Cloud Front, Route 53.  • Experience in working with Amazon web services Amazon EC2 and Amazon s3  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views and triggers.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Couch DB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Good Experience in debugging the issues using pdb  • Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test driven development methodologies.  • Most of the applications were developed with Python, Django, and PostgreSQL using JIRA (Agile) methodology. Work Experience Python Developer EOG Resources - Houston, TX May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Generated REST API using Flask,Django Frame works  • Follows MVC pattern using Django frame Work  • Worked on Different databases like (Mongo,Postgress,Mysql,oracale)  • Using Different type of python libraries like pymongo, pymysql, cxoracle, pandas, flaskcors, Flaskrestful, Sqlalchemy,google-cloud-pubsub.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Publishing data to google cloud pub and subscribing the data fron google cloud pub sub  • Worked on Differeant platforms Centos, Ubuntu,Debian,Rhel  • Deploy each and every Script on Docker Container  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Created Data tables utilizing flask-sqlalchemy to display welldata and policy information and add, delete, update Well records.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap,javascript,React for development of Web applications.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.    Environment: Python, MySQL, Jupyter Cassandra, Flask, Linux, HTML, Java script, Windows ,Linux Python Developer Kmart January 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used Python to develop website functionality.  ? Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data  ? Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  ? Worked on Several python libraries like Python, numPY and matPlotLib and used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer information to the Credit Monitoring Systems.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Managed Docker orchestration and Docker containerization using Kubernetes.  ? Used Kubernetes to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  ? Involved in development of a Map based application for integral analysis purpose.  ? Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  ? Worked on Pandas ,Anoconda3x Libraries to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Involved in development of a Map based application for integral analysis purpose.  ? Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, bootstrap  ? Implemented REST API for storing in Redis, which allows different users and roles to store, security access, and elastic search JSON data.  ? Designed data converting and storing for large-scale JSON files using Redis, where users can add, delete, update, batch and query the dataset from API; added ETag for cache efficiency  ? Used Celery as task queue and Rabbit MQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  ? Implemented Model Template View architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  ? Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PyMongo module.  ? Proficient with container systems like Docker and container orchestration like EC2 Container Service, Kubernetes, worked with Terraform.  ? Design and Developed and maintained PostgreSQL database architecture and used SOAP and Restful API for information extraction  ? Involved in migrating the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Performed data modelling and data manipulation using SQL on Oracle, MySQL, and PostgreSQL  ? Maintained Puppet for testing various unit/system automation schemes and worked on Using Jenkins to deploy your Django application and run unit tests.  ? Managed deployment automation using Chef, Custom Puppet modules and created test scripts using Selenium Web driver using Page Object Model.  ? Involved in SDLC methodologies like AGILE and SCRUM Process.    Environment: Python3.2, MySQL, HTML, Django, Flask, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX, Cassandra. Python Developer TransAmerica - Cedar Rapids, IA August 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 3.4, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to ApacheCassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, DevCentre, Datastax Opscenter.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQueryUI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Pythonmatplotlib library.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Pythonbug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Deployment of the web application using the Linux server.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum standups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, RESTful, MS SQL Server, MongoDB, Elastic Search, Ubuntu server, Apache CQ, TFS, Amazon s3, Jenkins, pytest, Robot, GitHub, Linux, and Windows. Python Developer Santer Bank - Boston, MA December 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and REST API calls.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Used Python to extract weekly bed availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Responsible for generating and delivering the complete test status reports of each patient.  Environment: Python, MySQL, Django, Flask, PHP, Linux, XML,HTML, Java script, Windows. Python Developer HealthAsyst Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Used Celery as task queue and Rabbit MQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Deployment of the web application using the Linux server.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in data base on a chronological basis  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Automated Production tasks.  • Updated and maintained Jenkins for automatic building jobs and deployment.  • Used Apache CQ, Team Foundation Server for the content management.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Cassandra, RabbitMQ,SoapUI, REST API, Bash, MySQL, CSS ,Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, Linux, Shell Scripting. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, OBJECT ORIENTED, Javascript, PHP, Jquery, MYSQL Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating systems Windows, Linux, MAC, UNIX  Languages Java, C, C++, Python 3.3/2.7/2.4, Ruby  Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL,MVC3  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON,Bootstrap  Servers Apache Tomcat, SOAP, open stock, RESTful web services  Databases Oracle, My SQL, Postgress, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Phycham, Pgadmin, SQLite  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, GitHub  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, PPTPlex