AWS DEVELOPER AWS <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> AWS DEVELOPER - UNILEVER Los Angeles, CA ? Over 5+ years of professional experience as software professional industry comprising of delivery management, design, development, deployment and cloud implementation with thorough knowledge in AWS (Amazon Web Services), Hybrid Cloud, VMware virtualization/ Windows, and related technologies.  ? Focused mainly on focus on Automating, Building, Deploying, and Releasing of code using Amazon Web Services (AWS) in a DevOps through Continuous Integration (CI) & Continuous Deployment/Delivery (CD) as an iterative process and Automation of Infrastructure as Code.  ? Experience in all Phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile methodology and CI/CD pipeline  ? Used SAM (Serverless application model) to deploy serverless applications into AWSenvironment.  ? Strong CloudFormation skills to automate the build. Worked on YAML scripts to prepare the CloudFormation template.  ? Experience in automating application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container Service and Code Build  ? Experience in working with core AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic Load balance, EBS, ECS, ELB, Autoscaling, RDS, CloudFront, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SQS, SNS, Route 53, IAM, CloudFormation, VPC, ECS, DynamoDB, API Gateway.  ? Experience on setting up the life cycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 to AWS Glacier, Worked with various AWS, EC2 and S3 CLI tools.  ? Used advanced features of Code Deploy to create hooks in the Appspec File during the deployment lifecycle to deploy applications to EC2, Lambda and ECS.  ? Knowledge of other core AWS services like Elastic ache, Kinesis, SQS, SNS, SWF, CLI etc.  ? Experience in project deployment using Google Cloud/Jenkins, Elastic Search and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Expertise in DevOps, Release Engineering, Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure, Automation. It includes Amazon Webservices (AWS), Ant, Apache Maven, Jenkins, SVN, GitHub, Tomcat, JBoss, and Linux etc. and work on source controller tools like GIT, GITHUB.  ? Experienced in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GIT on Linux platforms.  ? Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  ? Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST service hosted on AWS using API Gateway and used DynamoDB.  ? Experienced in creating User/Group Accounts, Federated users and access management to User/Group Accounts using AWS IAM service.  ? Experience in working with deployment tools like AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker and Kubernetes.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid, and Zope Python web application frameworks.  ? Managed and automated all aspects of our AWS infrastructure (compute, storage, network, permissions, cost) using configuration management tools like Ansible, Cloud Formation and shell scripts.  ? Analytical skills with ability to capture minute details and an effective team player, my strength lies in ability to interact with developers, coordinate and manage the tasks assigned, backed by strong technical knowledge. Work Experience AWS DEVELOPER UNILEVER - Los Angeles, CA May 2018 to Present Assist in designing, automating, implementing and sustainment of Amazon machine images (AMI) across the AWS Cloud environment  ? Worked on AWS API Gateway, Rest APIs and NoSQL data-stores like HBase, Cassandra  ? Created and modified Cloud Formation templates to create/upgrade EC2 instances to support specific needs.  ? Used advanced features of Code Deploy to create hooks in the Appspec File during the deployment lifecycle to deploy applications to EC2, Lambda and ECS.  ? Involved deeply in writing YAML scripts in CloudFormation for AWS Automation.  ? Built a highly scalable AWS architecture using EC2/RDS/ELB/ASG via cloud formation.  ? Used CloudFormation Helper scripts to automatically install, configure, and start applications on Amazon EC2 instances.  ? Used SAM (Serverless Application Model) to deploy serverless applications into AWS environment.  ? Managed Container using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  ? Knowledge of creating highly scalable and reliable AWS environment.  ? Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Config, Auto scaling, CloudFront, IAM and DynamoDB  ? Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for the files stored.  ? Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  ? Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  ? Optimized SQL queries used in batch processing and Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  ? Designed RabbitMQ/MongoDB pipeline for routing/storing of email bounce handling records.  ? Used AWS created and queried data using DynamoDB and created a Web interface allowing users to dynamically  ? Knowledge of security groups, network ACL's, internet gateways and route tables to ensure a secure zone for organization in AWS public cloud.  ? Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  ? Worked on ECS (Elastic container service) to deploy docker images in AWS environment.  ? Worked on keeping up and looking at log archives using monitoring tools like Splunk, CloudWatch.  ? Configured the Cloud Trial on the AWS console and created the Cloud watch events to receive SNS Notifications when someone terminates the EC2 instance. Developed multiple chef cookbooks from scratch.  ? Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the Postgres DB.  ? Worked on standard python packages like boto and boto3 for AWS.  ? Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL  ? Worked on Production support and have knowledge of deployment using AWS, Heroku and Jenkins.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux and developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash. Managed Ubuntu Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWSEC2 using Puppet.  ? Implemented Chef Cookbooks for OS component configuration to keep AWS server's template minimal.  ? Managed and automated all aspects of our AWS infrastructure (compute, storage, network, permissions, cost) using configuration management tools like Ansible, Cloud Formation and shell scripts. PYTHON/AWS DEVELOPER JANRURY - Los Gatos, CA 2017 to March 2018 AWS Cloud management and Chef automation. Worked on Infrastructure Development and Operations, involved in designing and deploying utilizing almost all the AWS stack like EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, LDAP, VPN, RDS, SES, ELB, Autoscaling, CloudFront, CloudFormation, Elastic beanstalk, CloudWatch, SNS, Route 53, LDAP, VPN.  ? Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, VPC, Auto scaling groups.  ? Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Jfrog, Maven & Nexus in Linux Environment. Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plug-in to deploy into AWS.  ? Allotted permissions, policies and roles to users and groups using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).  ? Worked on AWS EC2, EBS, ELB scaling groups, Trusted Advisor, S3, Cloud Watch, CloudFront, IAM, Security Groups, Auto-Scaling.  ? Used Amazon S3 to backup database instances periodically to save snapshots of data.  ? Writing AWS Terraform templates for any automation requirements in AWS services.  ? Created database objects in AWS Redshift. Followed AWS best practices to convert data types from oracle to redshift.  ? Developed and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  ? Created functions and assigned roles in AWS Lambda to run python scripts, Used AWS Lambda with java to perform event driven processing. Created Lambda jobs and configured Roles using AWS CLI.  ? Built complete Configuration Management for the Microservices using Kubernetes, Docker and Ansible.  ? Supported application deployment in IAAS Cloud platforms like Rackspace, AWS and Google Compute engine and was responsible for resource planning of various virtual compute engines.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface. Migrated applications to the AWS cloud Environment.  ? Proficient in working on with REST and SOAP Web Services handling XML and JSON data.  ? Developed a modular API for minibot and interchangeable modules for Raspberry Pi  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution. Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction.  ? Developed supporting data analysis projects using Elastic Map Reduce on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud.  ? Developed project to interface with extensive database via cloud-based API utilizing GitHub, AWS/RDS servers, and continuous integration with Codeship.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  ? Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Analyzed current legacy infrastructure, established business case, and build consensus for virtualized IaaS/ PaaS near term strategy with SaaS mobile cloud services end state.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Used Apache CouchDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  ? Worked in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  ? Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy their code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible.  ? Developed data modeling for analytics by building queries using Map/Reduce (pymongo/mongo dB) and implementing for visualization using Elastic search, Kibana and Logstash on Apache server. FINRA, WASHINGTON - SOFTWARE DEVELOPER FEBRURY 2014 to December 2015 Create the AWS Code pipeline, AWS Code Commit, AWS Code Build and AWS Code Deploy services to build and deployment process.  ? Understanding of secure cloud configuration, (Cloud Trail, AWS Configuration), cloud-security Technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems (IAM).  ? Migrated present Linux environment to AWS/CentOS/RHEL by creating and executing a migration plan per scheduled timeline to complete the migration.  ? Deployed JSON template to create a stack in Cloud Formation which include services like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon VPC, SQS and other services of the AWS infrastructure.  ? Used Identify and Access Management (IAM) to assign roles and to create and manage AWS users and groups, and user permissions to AWS resources.  ? Working with best DevOps practices using AWS, Elastic Beanstalk and Docker with Kubernetes.  ? Wrote Chef Recipes for various applications and deployed them in AWS using Terraform.  ? Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python.  ? Automated the cloud deployments using chef, python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty pie Web Framework using Git.  ? Have implemented chef provisioning for creation of on demand instances and instance infrastructure using the chef-client and bootstrapping using plugins against AWS EC2.  ? Dynamically add and remove servers from AWS production environment.  ? Worked on analyzing Hadoop stack and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase database and DynamoDB.  ? Used Apache CouchDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  ? Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and PyMongo.  ? Identifying distribution and packaging mechanism for the python package of the solution.  ? Working on project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS.  ? Created alarms and trigger points in Cloud Watch based on thresholds and monitored logs via metric filters.  ? Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  ? Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in CloudFormation JSON templates.  ? Manage AWS EC2 instances utilizing Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancing and Glacier for our QA and UAT environments as well as infrastructure servers for GIT and Chef.  ? Used Amazon IAM to grant fine access of AWS resources to users. Also managed roles and permissions of users to AWS account through IAM.  ? Used CloudFront to deliver content from AWS edge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end servers.  ? Wrote python scripts for deployments on AWS and Continuous Integration provisioning.  ? Management of SaaS product development activities using a variety of services such as Amazon Web Services (AWS). SOFTWARE DEVELOPER ACCENTURE - IN April 2011 to November 2013 Developed web applications in Python Django with client-specific customizations.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PySpark, PyQT to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used several Python libraries like Python, NumPy and matplotlib and was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  ? Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  ? Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Managed Container using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  ? Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files.  ? Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing and for continuous integration and deployment.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. Responsible for the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  ? Used GIT for the version control and deployed project into AWS.  ? Create, develop and fine-tuned SQL objects: Tables, stored procedures, views and triggers.  ? Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  ? Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  ? Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  ? Responsible for managing large databases using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX request.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  ? Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing and for continuous integration and deployment.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Responsible for the project monitored on JIRA (Agile). Education Master's