Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - SunTrust Bank California City, CA ? Over 5+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing various stand-alone and client-server Architectures based enterprise application software on different domains.  ? Expertise in developing web-based applications using Bash, Perl, Python, PHP, XML, DHTML, XHTML, Ajax, JOOMLA, CSS, HTML, JSON, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  ? Expertise in various Python packages such as Celery, NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Beautiful soup, Pickle, PySide, PyMongo, SciPy, PyTables, PyUnit.  ? Efficient knowledge in using different version control systems like Git, Perforce and GitHub.  ? Proficient intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Tornado and MongoDB.  ? Expertise in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tool JIRA.  ? Expertise in Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  ? Expertise in reporting tools like Grafana, Kibana (ELK) for setting up charts and graphs for better visual representation of test results.  ? Expertise in Machine Learning algorithms like Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, knn, SVM, Neural Networks, CNNs, LSTMs, RNNs, xgboost and machine learning libraries like  tensorflow, pytorch, Theano.  ? Expertise with AWS services like S3, ELB, EBS, Auto-Scaling, Route53, Storefront, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS.  ? Expertise in Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  ? Expertise in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP. Expertise in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  ? libraries such as NumPy, SciPy and Pandas for data analysis and numerical computations.  ? Proficient in web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  ? Proficient in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  ? Expertise infrastructure from inhouse servers to AWS cloud. Used Docker Container, EC2, IAM, RDS, Route 53, REST API gateway and Lambda of AWS.  ? Expertise in setting up, configure, manage and scale Amazon Elastic Search cluster and used Log Stash along with Kibana (ELK Stack) for centralized logging which stores logs and metrics into an S3 bucket using Lambda functions, utilized Glacier for storage for setting up and maintenance of Auto-Scaling of AWS stacks.  ? Expertise in Python Development and Scientific Programing and using Numpy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation.  ? Expertise in entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Expertise with most of the web scale services on Amazon Web Services (AWS). Expertise in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  ? Expertise with Querying RDBMS such as My SQL, SQL server and SAS.  ? Expertise in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django and MYSQL.  ? Expertise on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, Spyder and IntelliJ.  ? Expertise in JavaScript frameworks to replace frontend of a Flask application and began implementing a React solution.  ? Expertise with automation tools such as Puppet or Chef.  ? Expertise in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Expertise in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django and MYSQL.  ? Expertise in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL database.  ? Expertise in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds.  ? Expertise in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse.  ? Expertise with agile development methods like agile/scrum, TDD, BDD, peer code reviews, continuous integration.  ? Developed responsive web product features using React JS, SASS, on Golang with REST.  ? Proficient in SQL and databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, no-SQL, Mongo DB.  ? Expertise in PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and J-Query.  ? Expertise working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Expertise in deployment tools using Jenkins, rpm, dpkg, Python Packages.  ? Expertise working in both Water fall and agile software methodologies.  ? Expertise building mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Expertise in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups and Code review.  ? Expertise in User Interfaces using JSF (Primefaces), AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery and CSS.  ? Expertise in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.7/1.8, PHP, Angularjs, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Expertise in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  ? Expertise in UNIX shell scripts for business process and loading data from different interfaces to HDFS.  ? Expertise in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  ? Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  ? Expertise in using Scikit-Learn and Statsmodels in Python for Machine Learning and Data Mining.  ? Expertise in NLTK, OpenNLP & StanfordNLP for Natural Language Processing and sentiment analysis. Work Experience Python Developer SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to Present Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Expertise in configuration management automation tools such as Chef, Puppet and Salt, Good coding experience with scripting languages like Perl, Ruby and Bash.  ? Proficient with structures, semi-structured and unstructured data, using a broad range of data science programming languages and big data tools including R, Python, Spark, SQL, Scikit Learn, Hadoop Map Reduce.  ? Designed recognition models for both handwritten and text-based characters capable of continuous learning using deep neural networks leveraging both Keras and TensorFlow machine learning frameworks in addition to NumPy.  ? Proficient working with Bot Frameworks, IBM Watson, Google Cloud Platform/Tensor Flow, or Amazon Web Services / Sagemaker, and open source.  ? Designed RESTful Web services using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTPAuth with HTTPS.  ? Built Elastic search, Log stash and Kibana (ELK) to store logs and metrics into S3 bucket using Lambda function.  ? Extracted, transformed and loaded data from various heterogeneous data sources and destinations like Access, Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat files using connectors, tasks and transformations provided by SSIS.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Developed python script to compare performance between support vector machine and deep neural network using Scikit-learn and NumPy.  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible  ? Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  ? Used GO lang scripts for uploading a file to S3 and deploying them an d creating GO serverless application and deploying it to AWS lambda.  ? Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  ? Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  ? Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  ? Used Jenkins to deploy web services and run unit tests, REST API test  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using Pytest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  ? Proficient in specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation. Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boot & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates  ? Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  ? Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web- based solutions.  ? Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  ? Built development environment with Kubernetes and Docker in AWS using JupyterHub.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  ? Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts  ? Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  ? Used Django API's to access the database.  ? Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code. Bentonville KS - PYTHON DEVELOPER Walmart February 2016 to November 2017 Designed JQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  ? Used Go Lang to create backend servers. Developed Micro services using Go language and developed corresponding test cases.  ? Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Application of various machine learning algorithms and statistical modeling like decision trees, text analytics, natural language processing (NLP), supervised and unsupervised, regression models, social network analysis, neural networks, deep learning, SVM, clustering to identify Volume using scikit-learn package in python, Mat-lab.  ? Designing and evaluating business using historical & current data from Google Analytics.  ? Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  ? Executed Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Anisole.  ? Managed worldwide data in Omniture for data collection and analysis and also worked on the library like pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Docker.  ? Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  ? Wrote with object-oriented Python, AWS,Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  ? Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  ? Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Implemented business logic using Python Web frame work Django.  Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  ? Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  ? Installed, configured and managed the ELK (Elastic Search, Log Facilitated Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc. Stash and Kibana) for Log management within EC2/ Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for Elastic search  ? Developed Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets.  ? Designed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Proficient in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python pandas libraries.  ? Uses Edward is a Python library for probabilistic modeling, inference, and criticism. It is a testbed for fast experimentation and research with probabilistic models.  ? Designed and implemented open source AI frameworks - Pytorch, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, Apache Open Source (Kafka, Storm, Spark) for NLP and ML Algorithms.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  ? Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and denormalization in MYSQL.  ? Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information. PYTHON DEVELOPER Hewlett-Packard Software Company July 2013 to June 2016 Created an Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  ? Used scikit-learn in modeling various classification, regression and clustering algorithms including support vector machines, random forests, gradient boosting, k-means.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Aggregated the CPU and GPU temperature for the model as the model was using TensorFlow as bank-end.  ? Implemented Machine Learning, Computer Vision, Deep Learning and Neural Networks algorithms using TensorFlow and designed Prediction Model using Data Mining Techniques with help of Python, and Libraries like NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, scikit-learn.  ? Led the design and development of Converged Enhanced Ethernet features to ensure traffic will be lossless within the Microsoft Azure Stack in a layer 2 and layer 3 environment.  ? Built a delta file from full file by identifying only INSERTS, UPDATES and DELETES by using python and pyspark modules and store it in S3.  ? Experience working on Python Nameko, decorators, generators, list comprehensions, list, tuples, cache, pandas and NumPy.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Used Chef, deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.  ? Implemented in Jenkins for Continuous Integration and for automating all builds and deployments and Build Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code and Installed and Administered Jenkins CI for Maven Builds.  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Django, Pyramid.  ? Responsible for designing and deploying new ELK clusters (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Graphite Kibana, beats, Kafka, zookeeper etc.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  ? Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  ? Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  ? Worked on Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  ? Worked with a team on planning, designing, configurations, deployments and support of LAN/WAN/WLAN infrastructure.  ? Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  ? Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and denormalization in MYSQL.  ? Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  ? Creating and modifying web services and stored procedures to implement new requirements using Python. Exposing services as RESTful service in JSON format for AdminUI which is developed using Django.  ? Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  ? Implemented unit testing using PyUnit, and tested several RESTful services using SOAPUI.  ? Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Performed various fine-tuning tricks on my own CNN as well as VGG16(Data Augmentation,  Transfer Learning) implemented in Keras and Tensorflow. Achieved a testing accuracy of 96%. Skills AWS (5 years), Chef (5 years), CSS (5 years), Django (5 years), Git (5 years)