Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Scottsdale, AZ • Excellent Good Experience with Python web frameworks Django and Flask.  • Have work experience with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm and sublime text.  • Expertise in handling Django ORM.  • Experienced in developing User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Experienced in developing applications using Agile Methodologies and Scrum stories in a python-based environment  • Knowledge in Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks.  • Installed various packages in python using pip and easy install.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX and WINDOWS.  • Experience in handling REST Web Services.  • Experience in using various version control systems like Gitlab.  • Having knowledge on deploying applications by using Jenkins that provides Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment.  • Design and maintain databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Django models and PostgreSQL.  • Effective communication and business analyst skills worked with end users, architects and DBAs across the enterprise and worked in R&D team which helped with sequencing the project activities by conducting the feasibility analysis and brain storming sessions. Work Experience Python Developer Advinow Medical January 2018 to August 2018 • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • For the development of the user interface of the website used HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Expertise in developing consumer-based features and applications with Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Modify the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Have work knowledge on JIRA(Agile) for the bug tracking of the project.  • Worked on deployment on AWS EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage  • Used Django-celery with the help of RabbitMQ message broker for large processing  • Worked on Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Developed full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Platform and its features which includes EC2, S3, EBS  • Integrated Redis-Cache with Django Rest Framework for reading the data faster  • Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Implemented the application in LINUX environment and comfortable with all its commands. Python Developer Lucent Systems Inc February 2017 to December 2017 • Worked on Django for web application development.  • Experienced in developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Python and Django.  • UI interactions are done with the help of jQuery.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web Services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and Application Parameters.  • Written Python Scripts to parse json documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized Jenkins to deploy the Django application and run unit tests.  • Worked on Virtualenv for sandboxing and application isolation  • Re-designed various modules for executing changes and made efficient system  • By utilizing Python on Django Web Framework developed entire frontend and backend modules Python Developer GlobalLogic Technologies April 2013 to July 2015 • Developed web pages using advanced HTML5 and CSS3 techniques, backed by jQuery to enable optimum user experience throughout the site.  • Customized FullCalender.js, implemented concept of context menu and made it specific to the application. Also, handled jQuery context menu changes with respect to time.  • Used concepts of local storage in HTML for no network scenarios.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django.  • Implemented Sessions and Cookie logic to achieve uninterrupted user experience  • Designed the front end of the application using Python.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Knowledge of data structures, algorithms, OO design, web application design.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release Education Master of Computer Information Science in Computer Information Science Southern Arkansas University - Magnolia, AR September 2015 to December 2016 JNTU-Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2008 to May 2012 Skills DJANGO (3 years), HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), JSON (1 year), PYTHON (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Ubuntu  Databases PostgreSQL  Languages Python, JavaScript  Framework/Tools Django, Flask  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON, Restful Services.  Interested Technologies Machine Learning, NLP