Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Nike Beaverton, OR Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Nike July 2018 to Present Part of D.A.M engineering team. The term is focused on delivering an Asset Management  Service which provides a platform for solutions requiring the persistence, search, and distribution of digital assets.  Responsibilities: • Develop high performance micro-services (Node.js) running in Kubenetes cluster.  • Design of API's Follow RESTful standards.  • Implementation of EFK stack (fleuntD, elasticsearch, Kibana) for cluster Observability.  • Use of AWS services for data storage, dynamoDB and s3.  • Automated tests and deployment with Jenkins pipelines.  • Work closely with product and business partners.  • Code reviews.  • Help maintaining and extending existing code.  • Help new team members on boarding.  • Always ready to help anybody at anytime.  Software Engineer Cloud Engineer Nike November 2017 to July 2018 Contract) - Nov, 2017 to jul 2018    Team focused on creating the foundations/skeletons of all application development/AWS deployments.    Responsibilities: • Responsible for some very high profile projects critical to the success of all App dev and AWS   deployments across the Nike enterprise.  • Stack: Python, AWS, Terraform, Circle CI.  • Contribute to the technical vision, architecture and implementation for the next generation platforms (NGP); including Data & Analytics, Application, Integration and Continuous Delivery.  • Works closely with Product, Business and Technology partners to ensure technical platforms are sustainable, feature-rich, consumable.  • Contributes to the architectural standards, documentation and operational strategy with the NGP engineering leadership.  • Engages as needed with product engineering teams to refine and design for customer requirements.  • Technical lead for an engineering software team or domain of expertise.  • Partners with Reference Architecture to ensure architectural consistency across all platforms. Sr. Application Developer American Airlines August 2016 to November 2017 American Airlines is going through a merger with US Airways to become the world's largest airline. We are going through a large integration effort that is going to affect all different teams.  My team specifically is responsible for safety and security. The safety system they use is ETQ which is proprietary to AA in which this resource is going to do Python development as well as UI development for Front End functionality.  Responsibilities: • Application development with Python, SQL, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS.  • Lead and mentor less experience co-workers.  • Development and implementation of a new framework.  • Design and implement new standards for developing new applications.  • Help design the infrastructure for future migration of older application.  • Managed code versioning with Git and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Helped Maintain existing code.  • Wrote complex SQL queries to provide clients with easy to comprehend reports.  • Development with Python, SQL, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS. Python Developer / DBA(Marketing Database Administrator) Yavapai and Bucky's Casino January 2013 to July 2016 Responsibilities: • Worked on designing developing micro services with flask.  • Developed custom dashboard and data visualization using D3.js (JavaScript library.  • worked with SQLAlchemy for data extraction and processing.  • Used Pandas and NumPy libraries for data structuring and Analysis.  • Developed a recommendation engine utilizing machine learning algorithms.  • Provide deep insight of user behavior to serve marketing campaigns.  • Implementation of new demographics statistics to serve reports.  • Developed custom player tracking and profile graphical application based on behavior.  • Use of Anaconda environment, Spider IDE, Ipython, Ipython Notebook.  • Worked with Microsoft sequel server, Access and Tableau. Full Stack Web Developer March 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities: • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript   • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Write existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML Education engineering Universidad Nacional de Cuyo (U.N.C) Skills Kubernetes, Python, PHP, Node.js, SQL