Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Clouds Kitchens Los Angeles, CA • 6+ years of experience in software development using Python 2.7/3.x, OOPS, SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, Java, JSP, PHP, HTML, CSS, MVC4.0, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Oracle 12, LINQ, AJAX, Web Services, Web API, SSRS, Django, Flask, AWS.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis(OOA) and Programming concepts in Python and Java.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Vast experience with Python using most of the advanced features of Python including, ORM, Django, Flask, Pyramid, Tornado.  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries  • Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Strong front-end UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Ext Js, Angular Js, DOM, JSP, JQuery Plug-ins.  • Experienced in Automating, Configuring and deploying instances on AWS, Azure environments and Data centers, also familiar with EC2, Cloud watch, Cloud Formationand managing security groups on AWS.  • Experience with SaaS (Software as a Service), PaaS (Platform as a Service), and IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service) solutions.  • Hands on experience in AWS provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Glacier, ELB, RDS, Redshift, IAM, Route 53, VPC, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, Security Groups.  • Experience with Version Control Systems like GIT, CVS, SVN (Subversion), ACCUREV, Perforce.  • Extensive experience in developing Microservices using Spring Boot, Netflix OSS (Zuul, Eureka, Ribbon, Hystrix) and followed domain driven design.  • Experience in using build/deploy tools such as Jenkins, Docker and OpenShift for Continuous Integration & Deployment for Microservices.  • Migrating the coding from Hive to Apache Spark and Scala using Spark SQL , RDD.   • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in using Caching applications for large scale applications like Memcached, Redis.  • Knowledge of deployment tools using Jenkins, rpm, dpkg, Python Packages.  • Experience working in both water fall and agile software methodologies.  • Participated in best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  • I have a Deep understanding of Micro service based architecture. Work Experience Senior Python Developer Clouds Kitchens - Los Angeles, CA October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using JavaScript, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • AWS Cloud management and responsible for code build, release and configuration on Amazon EC2.  • Use of AWS including deploying new server instances through automation with CHEF and Jenkins.  • Worked as Devops Engineer for project teams that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases.  • Experience with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker-registries and Kubernetes.  • Converted a monolithic app to microservices architecture using Spring Boot using 12-factor app methodology. Deployed, Scaled, Configured, wrote manifest file for various Microservices in PCF.  • Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP and Spring Actuator.  • Implemented Zipkins for distributed Micro Service Monitoring. Integrated Swagger UI and wrote integration test along with REST document.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system andoperations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all micro services builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on GCP (Google Cloud Platform). Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Involved in writing automation scripts using Python-Selenium to test the functionality of the web pages and also written Socket programming scripts to bridge communication in between Client-Server.  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing.  • Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries numpy.  Environment: Python 2.7, 3.x, Django 1.6.5, Flask, JavaScript, SQL, Ajax, Html-5, CSS-3, Bootstrap, Web services, Mongo DB-3.2, Xampp, MySQL, XML, JQuery, AngularJS, REST, JSON, Eclipse, Git, DevOps, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Agile, Scrum. Python Developer Walt Disney - Burbank, CA January 2018 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the web application.  • Used spring configuration server for centralized configuration and Splunk for centralized logging. Used Concourse and Jenkins for Microservices deployment.  • Experience and good knowledge in AWS (Amazon Web Services) services like EC2, S3, Glacier, Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), RDS, SNS, SWF, Cloud watch, Route53 and Lambda.  • Performed AWS Cloud administration managing EC2 instances, S3, SES and SNS services.  • Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for files stored.  • Developed microservice on boarding tools leveraging Python and Jenkins allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetes deploy and services.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Hand full experience on LINUX operating system.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Used extracted data for analysis and carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python library - numpy, scipy.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library  • Maintained technical documentation for resolved issues for future reference.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Red hat Linux, Apache, Agile. Python Developer Forge Ahead - Pune, Maharashtra July 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdB package to retrieve information.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  • Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, JQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JQuery and REST Services  • Hosted GPU based Apache spark jobs using Scala for faster data processing and used spark SQL for querying.  • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  • Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other JavaScript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Software Engineer TMF Group - Pune, Maharashtra June 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed and maintained Python ETL scripts to scrape data and load cleansed data into a DB.  • Involved in understanding and analyzing the clients business, requirements for the system.  • Participated in the requirements analysis and technical assessments.  • Developed class diagrams/sequence diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  • Used Struts2 framework and J2EE components to develop Action classes, backend processes, complex reports and database interaction.  • Configured and worked with Apache Server.  • To ensure cross-browser compatibility including IE 8, Firefox 3.5, Safari 4 and Chrome 4.0.  • Developed code obtaining bean references in Spring IOC Framework.  • Developed the application under J2EE architecture using JSP, Struts, Java Beans, iBATIS Data mapper.  • Involved in designing components with design patterns like Factory, Singleton, Front Controller, Business Delegate, DAO, DTO, and Façade.  • Involved in designing & coding of business logic using Spring IOC, Pure MVC & AOP features.  • Installed, configured, and maintained a continuous integration (build) server.  • Designed and developed Session beans to implement business logic.  • Designed and developed data persistence mechanism using Hibernate in Struts2 applications.  • Created SQL's from views and queries to interact with multiple systems for data.  • Developed a robust administration and security system for access control and restrictions at application and user level.  • Develop Web pages using Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSF and XML that interact based on events.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using IBM WebSphere Application Server on Windows and Linux.  • Used Web Logic and WebSphere Application server for Transaction management and hot code swapping.  • Developed deployment descriptors and scripts.  • Used PL/SQL for writing stored procedures.  • Used Bugzilla tracking tool to track bugs.  • Developed Junit test cases to unit test the business logic.  Environment: Python, Java, J2EE, JDBC, XML, JSF,MVC, java beans, java Servlets, EJBs, Oracle, HTML, PL/SQL, Web Sphere, WSDL, SOAP, Spring Frameworks, Eclipse, Struts, JDK 1.6, JSP, Servlets, XML, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, SOAP 1.2, WSDL, UML, JMS, JDBC, Shell Scripting, Apache Tomcat, Oracle EBS R12, Oracle 11g Database, Unix/Linux, Agile, EJB 3.0. Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, DJANGO, DOCKER, Git, GRADLE, JENKINS, PERL, PYTHON, FLASK, Ruby, Subversion, SVN, CACHE, DB2, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, INTELLIJ IDEA, APACHE