JIRA Administrator, Python/Groovy Script Developer JIRA Administrator, <span class="hl">Python</span>/Groovy Script <span class="hl">Developer</span> JIRA Administrator, Python/Groovy Script Developer - AT&T Atlanta, GA • 8+ years of experience in building both n-tier static and interactive web applications & eBusiness projects using Cold Fusion 16.0/11.0/10.0/9.0/8.0/7, CFMX, Python, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 and ColdFusion Application Server and Java.  • 2+ years of experience in JIRA Administration, analysis, design, development, Project management, Agile methodologies, Collaboration tools, Continuous integration.  • Experience working with JIRA management tools, Crucible and confluence pages development.  • Demonstrated competency and extensive experience in working closely with end users for gathering requirements and specifications needed to build applications in ColdFusion.  • Good knowledge and hands on experience with various "Open Source" technologies and programming languages. Specific languages include: COLDFUSION, XML, HTML, CSS, SQL, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Knowledge in Design and Development of Interfaces, User Controls and Custom Controls using ASP.NET and C#  • Experienced in all steps of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of web projects, focusing on requirement specification to product release in E-Commerce, Web Applications and Application development in Coldfusion in coordination with Oracle and MS SQL.  • Thorough knowledge of Python, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JavaScript, MS SQL Server, object database and standard database API, Python Rest APIs, Django, SOAP UI, Windows and Linux OS  • Good understanding of PHP and ASP, .NET technologies.  • Extensive experience in using C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, Web Forms and Web Controls  • Expertise in creating the clustered environment, configuring the mail server, setting the ColdFusion development environment using ColdFusion Administrator and Expertise in configuring in web Servers (IIS and Apache) and App servers.  • Solid working Knowledge of advanced ColdFusion with Allaire Spectra and ColdFusion Fuse Box Methodology.  • Expertise in developing applications using CFML on both Windows and UNIX Operating Systems.  • Works effectively in independent and in cross-functional team environments.  • Flexible and ability to balance multiple projects at one time in a fast-paced environment.  • Ability to solve complex programming or application issues as well as provide technical support to end-users and team members. Work Experience JIRA Administrator, Python/Groovy Script Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA August 2017 to Present • Integrated an application called CBIT containing financial information of Go&s organization with JIRA using REST API, also to connect to the MySql db. using Python.  • The integration involved the development of workflows triggered by events, Post functions from other systems.  • Data Processing Automation using Python.  • Backend Modules developed using Python for CBIT on Django web framework 2.0.4.  • Create complex JIRA workflows including project workflows, field configurations, screen schemes, permission schemes and notification schemes.  • Integrate User with Microsoft Active Directory.  • Helping Scrum master across the company to customize JIRA for their requirements.  • Work closely with stakeholders to successfully complete IT infrastructure projects.  • Take the overall responsibility for the Jira configuration and be the go-to person for any Jira issues, enhancements or best practice question.  • Serve as a technical advisor and the primary implementer for new capabilities in JIRA.  • Create team specific Agile process flow in JIRA to move tasks from one activity to another.  • Installation and configuration of continuous Integration servers.  • Create customized dashboards for teams.  • Developing confluence pages.  • Configuring & managing development & testing sandboxes; routine application upgrades; new product evaluation  • Provide teams and stakeholders with documented guidance  • Document results of JIRA workflows and process audits  • Assisting staff users with wiki design, integration & authoring  • Develop guides and documentation for JIRA features and best practices  • Develop processes and improvements around tools administration  • Provide User Management and support for 2000+ local and remote users, manage system access across groups to ensure compliance, and maintain best practices  • Create and manage security schemes, permission schemes and configurations  • Interface with development groups within organization as the IT liaison for Development Cycles/Software  • Manage and administer JIRA/Confluence/BitBucket add-ons, plugins, and extensions  • Management of other reporting and collaboration tools in the engineering environment  • Maintain and manage Automation Build Environments such as Jenkins  • Implement Atlassian Tools upgrades, and partner with other IT staff to coordinate infrastructure maintenance and system migrations  • Maintain a master schedule of all software releases, including key post-development milestones  • Work closely with Software Engineering team to oversee and manage change control over complex codebase managing updates and enhancements to defined release packages  • Develop, maintain, improve, and enforce release management standards as a common core across all solutions  • Assist with the administration of our Atlassian tools  • Coordinate production releases and send release status to relevant distribution list  • Monitor external system updates that could have an impact on Technology Services software solutions, identifies risk, and coordinates testing or mitigation  • Coordinate the delivery of all software releases  Environment: JIRA, MS SQL, UNIX, MS OFFICE, Pycharm, Django framework 2.0.4  Team: EASE  About the Project at At&t  I worked on enhancements, bug fixes and developed new features to legacy websites like EASE (Employee Automated Scheduling Environment), ROSTER (Real-Time Operational Scheduling Tool for Enterprise Resources) and iWMP which were mostly written in older versions of cold fusion code.    I used tags from the Coldfusion 16 version for example <cfscript> for safe navigation. Also generated reports to download using <cfpdf> tags to migrating the code to be more current for better import, export of Meta data, annotations, comments.    Worked on developing code according to the project requirements and also provided guidelines for application to make it acceptable as per recommended company standards, worked with team members and QAs in making highly performing code which can run in minimum time and maximum efficiency.    Started working on ROSTER project which involves building applications in Java Spring Boot Building Data Transfer Objects and REST controllers which were previously in cold fusion code in addition to some new functionalities.    Apart from the above my daily responsibilities at At&t included trouble shooting of various tickets pertaining to UI, and working on different issues concerning the Permissions Manager which is a tool that determines the accessibility of the users logging in to EASE website.    Roles and responsibilities:    • Used ColdFusion version 16, Java Spring Boot to code and fix the existing bugs  • Modified existing ColdFusion components to work with existing code.  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and all were coded using ASP.NET  • Prepare/Monitor/test the CF applications for new patches/versions to OS and Databases.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, triggers and functions on the SQL Servers.  • Designed the front-end screens using HTML, CSS, CF templates, ColdFusion and client-side scripting in Java Script, JQuery, and Ajax.  • Built a Drill-Down Interfaces using Dynamic URL Parameters.  • Developed Lookup dispatch Action, form beans to map the form elements.  • Developed action classes to process the user requests with the help of Data Access Object and Value Object forwarding the response to appropriate view extending Action servlet.  • Worked on database schema and stored procedures, functions in, MS SQL Oracle 11g (PL/SQL).  • Enhanced existing user interfaces.  • Creation Managed bean used to instantiate backing beans used in a JSF application and stores them in a Scope.  • Developed Enterprise Java Beans  • Interact with the clients and BA's and gather the requirements.  • Involved in uploading files, parsing data, manipulating lists, processing queries and transaction in ColdFusion.  • Created ColdFusion Components, UDFs, Custom tags.  • Involved in Production support.  • Testing and Documentation.    Environment: ColdFusion 16/ ColdFusion 11, Java Spring Boot, jQuery, JSON, JSP, Ajax, Java beans, JavaScript, SQL Server 2012, HTML 5, CSS.</cfpdf></cfscript> ColdFusion Developer Western Health Advantage August 2016 to July 2017 Roles and responsibilities:    • Designed, developed, and tested in-house proprietary solutions for Web Services and Data Exchange Services using Cold Fusion 10/11, and/or VB.NET  • Developed Reports using ColdFusion Report Builder in PDF and Excel formats.  • Collaborated with a team and worked on making their external website ADA (Americans with disabilities Act) compliant.  • customer facing web application development, troubleshooting, deployment and application tuning  • Worked on modifying/designing cold fusion code to enhance the internal and external website on various issues.  • Worked in JIRA to track the status of bugs, issues and project management.  • Developed cold fusion code using MURA CMS (Content Management System).  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment.  • Worked on stored procedures, triggers and cursors in Oracle.  • Participated in Daily scrums and Retrospectives.  • Designed the front-end screens using HTML, CSS, CF templates, ColdFusion and client-side scripting in Java Script, Ajax.  • Done enhancements to the existing applications as defined by the business partners.  • Closely involved in the development and testing process for integration of different application modules.  • Interacted with business to understand the business process and problem statements for multiple projects and operational improvements.  • Partner with Business Analysts to understand requirements/user stories, and design/develop/test solutions required under different programs and projects.  • Worked on FACETS Data tables and created audit reports using queries. Manually loaded data in facets and have good knowledge on facets business rules.  Environment: ColdFusion 10/11, MURA CMS, FACETS, JIRA, jQuery, JSON, JSP, Ajax, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, HTML 5, CSS. C#, VB. NET. ColdFusion Developer Technicolor, GA March 2016 to August 2016 Roles and responsibilities:    • Worked in all stages - requirements gathering, analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Involved in modifying/designing cold fusion templates and performance tuning the complex queries in cold fusion templates and stored procedures.  • Involved in the developing various Hibernate mapping files; XML configuration, EJB for abstracting business logic and provide dependency-injection in Spring.  • Implemented MVC design pattern using JSF framework.  • Designed a flexible Role/Group based Security for the application which enables the Administrator to specify which user has access to which reports  • Working with a team Using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Working on writing queries, triggers and creating stored Procedure in MS Sql.  • Closely involved in the development and testing process for integration of different application modules.  • Developed the business logic using java Beans and Session Beans.  • Developed view pages and Java Beans (JSP, Java Beans, HTML, SQL).  • Developed web-based applications using ColdFusion, DHTML, CSS, CFML, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Documented the process and risks involved in near future while fixing the issues.  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment.  • Converted front-end .cfm/.cfml pages to JSONP/AJAX calls to .CFC  • Conducted end user testing sessions for user acceptance and trained the users  • Done enhancements to the existing applications as defined by the business partners  • Migrated applications to new plants and trained the users  • Worked on stored procedures, triggers and cursors in MS SQL Server 2012.  • Developed Reports using ColdFusion Report Builder in PDF and Excel formats.  • Involved in the creating of database objects like tables views, stored procedures, functions, packages, DB triggers and indexes using MS SQL Server 2012.    Environment: ColdFusion 10/9, jQuery, JSON, JSP, Ajax, Java beans, JavaScript, SQL Server 2012, HTML 5, CSS, C#, ASP.NET. ColdFusion/.Net Developer Expo Logic, PA March 2015 to March 2016 Roles and responsibilities:    • Worked in all stages - requirements gathering, analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Upgraded/Developed current application from CF 8.0/ CF 9.0/10.0 to 11.0 version.  • Involved in modifying/designing cold fusion templates and performance tuning the complex queries in cold fusion templates and stored procedures.  • Designed a flexible Role/Group based Security for the application which enables the Administrator to specify which user has access to which reports  • Worked with a team Using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Worked on writing queries, triggers and creating stored Procedure in MS Sql.  • Designed a flexible Role/Group based Security for the application which enables the Administrator to specify which user has access to which elements in the project  • Closely involved in the development and testing process for integration of different application modules.  • Developed the business logic using java Beans and Session Beans.  • Developed interfaces using HTML, JSP pages and Struts Presentation View.  • Developed web-based applications using ColdFusion, DHTML, CSS, CFML, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Used MACH II Framework for development of web-based application.  • Responsible for MS SQL Server 2012, configuration, tuning and provide 24 X 7 dedicated support to all Production, development servers.  • Developed view pages and Java Beans (JSP, Java Beans, HTML, SQL)  • Writing the CSS class and build the Html layout.  • Used ASP.NET AJAX and updated web pages to implement the AJAX functionality to enhance the application  • Used fuse box and Cold spring frameworks extensively and appropriately.  • Implemented JSF core/HTML tags for views.  • Developed code using ASP.Net and C# using SQL Server 2012 as database  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment.  • Conducted end user testing sessions for user acceptance and trained the users  • Done enhancements to the existing applications as defined by the business partners  • Migrated applications to new plants and trained the users  • Worked on stored procedures, triggers and cursors in MS SQL Server 2012.  • Developed Reports using ColdFusion Report Builder in PDF and Excel formats.  • Involved in the creating of database objects like tables views, stored procedures, functions, packages, DB triggers and indexes using MS SQL Server 2012.  • Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test  Environment: ColdFusion, jQuery, JSP, JSF, Ajax, Java beans, JavaScript, SQL Server 2012, HTML 5, CSS, C#, ASP.NET. Cold Fusion Developer Wells Fargo Bank, PA May 2013 to February 2015 Roles and responsibilities:    • Worked in different stages - design, development, and testing.  • Involved in modifying/designing cold fusion templates and performance tuning the complex queries in cold fusion templates and stored procedures.  • Designed, Developed, Implemented, and Supported existing and new applications  • Supported a variety of web-based Manufacturing applications  • Developed web-based applications using Cold Fusion, DHTML, CSS, CFML, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Upgraded/Migrated current application from CF 8 to CF 9.0/10.0 version  • Developed web-based applications using ColdFusion, DHTML, CSS, and CFML.  • Done enhancements to the existing applications as defined by the Specification Documents.  • Worked on stored procedures in Sybase  • Involved in the creating and loading of database objects like table views, stored procedures, and indexes using SQL dbx.  • Implemented business logic using EJBs in the middle tier, developed java beans and helper classes to communicate with the presentation tier, which consists of JSPs, Servlets and Java Applets.  • Used fuse box and Cold spring frameworks extensively and appropriately.  • Worked on stored procedures, triggers and cursors in Oracle  • Developed technical design documents and UML diagrams using MS Visio  • Used ColdFusion reports for integrating with websites, also for analyzing data.  • Creating animations on Adobe FLASH, with appropriate Action script and incorporating with FLEX for exceptional Webpages.  • Creating Flex AIR desktop applications, with the use of XML, Photoshop, flash etc.  • Integrating FLEX applications with COLDFUSION.  • Developed Pages using ColdFusion Report Builder in PDF and Excel formats.  Environnent: Cold Fusion 9.0, Sybase 6.0, HTML 5, XML, JSF, JSON, JQuery, Fuse box, Tortoise SVN, Java Script. Sr. ColdFusion/.Net Developer Amway, MI February 2013 to August 2014 Roles and responsibilities:    • Worked in all stages - requirements gathering, analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Involved in modifying/designing cold fusion templates and performance tuning the complex queries in cold fusion templates and stored procedures.  • Designed a flexible Role/Group based Security for the application which enables the Administrator to specify which user has access to which reports  • Designed a flexible Role/Group based Security for the application which enables the Administrator to specify which user has access to which elements in the project  • Closely involved in the development and testing process for integration of different application modules.  • Developed the business logic using java Beans and Session Beans.  • Developed web-based applications using ColdFusion, DHTML, CSS, CFML, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Upgraded/Migrated current application from CF 8 to CF 9.0 version  • Used MVC Framework for development of web-based application.  • Responsible for MS SQL Server 2012, configuration, tuning and provide 24 X 7 dedicated support to all Production, development and clustered servers.  • Developed view pages and Java Beans (JSP, Java Beans, HTML, SQL)  • Writing the CSS class and build the Html layout.  • Used ASP.NET AJAX and updated web pages to implement the AJAX functionality to enhance the application  • Implemented JSF core/HTML tags for views.  • Implemented JSF MVC framework to make separate behavior and presentation in application.  • Developed code using ASP.Net and C# using SQL Server 2012 as database  • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment.  • Conducted end user testing sessions for user acceptance and trained the users  • Done enhancements to the existing applications as defined by the business partners  • Migrated applications to new plants and trained the users  • Used fuse box and Cold spring frameworks extensively and appropriately.  • Worked on stored procedures, triggers and cursors in Oracle  • Developed technical design documents and UML diagrams using MS Visio  • Integrating FLEX applications with COLDFUSION.  • Developed Reports using ColdFusion Report Builder in PDF and Excel formats.  • Involved in the creating of database objects like tables views, stored procedures, functions, packages, DB triggers and indexes using Oracle 11g.  • Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.    Environment: ColdFusion, Java, J2EE, struts, jQuery, Ajax, Java beans, JSF, JavaScript, SQL Server 2012, Oracle 10g, HTML 5, DOJO, AngJS, CSS. C#, ASP. NET Sr. ColdFusion/.Net Developer Fifth third Bank - Cincinnati, OH August 2011 to January 2013 Roles and responsibilities:    • Used ColdFusion version 9 to code and fix the existing bugs  • Modified existing Cold Fusion components to work with existing code.  • Used Photoshop cs3 to modify and edit the images to fit and use in the website.  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and all were coded using ASP.NET  • Prepare/Monitor/test the CF applications for new patches/versions to OS and Databases.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, triggers and functions on the SQL Servers.  • Designed the front-end screens using HTML, CSS, CF templates, ColdFusion and client-side scripting in Java Script, Ajax.  • Built a Drill-Down Interfaces using Dynamic URL Parameters.  • Developed Lookup dispatch Action, form beans to map the form elements.  • Developed action classes to process the user requests with the help of Data Access Object and Value Object forwarding the response to appropriate view extending Action servlet.  • Worked on database schema and stored procedures, functions in Oracle 10g (PL/SQL).  • Enhanced existing user interfaces.  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and all were coded using C#.  • Creation Managed bean used to instantiate backing beans used in a JSF application and stores them in a Scope.  • Developed Enterprise Java Beans  • Interact with the clients like Eloqua and gather the requirements.  • Involved in uploading files, parsing data, manipulating lists, processing queries and transaction in ColdFusion.  • Created ColdFusion Components, UDFs, Custom tags.  • Involved in Production support.  • Testing and Documentation.  • Used Fuse Box Methodology.  • Used clear case as version control tool to perform checking-out and checking-in of codes from the repository.  • Configuring and administering Database Mirroring on SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in loading the data using import and export on the SQL Server 2008  • Documented the process and risks involved in near future while fixing the issues.    Environment: ColdFusion MX 9.0, Eclipse SDK 3.5, Json, jQuery, J2EE, Java beans, Struts JSF, Java Servlets, XML, HTML, ColdFusion Reports, AJA, Jnuit, Adobe Photoshop cs3, Java Script, MS SQL, TIBCO, HP quality Center, JIRA Perficient. Education Master's Skills cold fusion (7 years), Css (7 years), Html (7 years), Java (7 years), Jquery (7 years), Javascript, XML, Linux, Sql Server, SQL Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS UNIX, WINDOWS 2007/10.  LANGUAGES CFMX, Java, Python, PL/SQL, C, C++, C#  WEB TECHNOLOGIES  COLDFUSION 5.0/MX6.0/7.0, 8.0/FLEX 2.0/3.0, Adobe PageMaker, Adobe  Acrobat, MS Office, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Image Ready, Home site 5, Fireworks/Dreamweaver MX, ASP2.0, OOAD, Fireworks, Photoshop 7.0, Macromedia Flash MX, jQuery, JSP, JSON, Java beans, JSF, FrontPage 2000/XP, DHTML, FLASH, CSS, PHP, FTP, Telnet, SOAP, VB.net, ASP.net, Visual Studio.net, Visual age COM, MTS, Visual Source Safe, APIs. Graphic Design, Shockwave, HTML, Hibernate, XSLT, XML, Java Spring Boot.    FRAMEWORKS MVC, FUSEBOX 2.0/3.0, COLDSPRING, MODEL GLUE, MACH II  SERVERS ColdFusion Application Server 4.5/5.0, IIS 5.0, Tomcat.  FRONT ENDS VISUAL BASIC 6.0, DEVELOPER 2000, MS OFFICE XP  REPORTS Crystal Reports and Business Objects