Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Huntington National Bank Cincinnati, OH Python Developer Work Experience Python Developer Huntington National Bank - Cincinnati, OH March 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Worked with server-side production code for application those are robust and high volume.  ? Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, REST and SOLR).  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  ? Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, Matplotlib, Scipy, Pandas and PyTables etc.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  ? Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  ? Troubleshoot ETL failures and performed manual loads using SQL stored procedures.  ? Implemented new metrics on the Mede Analytics Software as a Service (SaaS) Patient Access Analytics platform.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and Flask.  ? Worked on PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  ? Used PowerShell for DevOps in Windows-based systems.  ? Involved in various projects related to Data Modeling, System/Data Analysis, Design and Development for both OLTP and Data warehousing environments.  ? Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and to track sales and perform sales analysis using Django and PostgreSQL.  ? Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS, JQuery and JSON.  ? Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJS.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  ? Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.  ? Involved in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.  Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Flask, REST, DevOps, Data E, SOLR, Jira, Bugzilla, PyTest, PyChecker, PyLint, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, HTML, CSS, PostgreSQL, Agile, LINUX and Windows Python Developer Great West Financials - Overland Park, KS November 2016 to February 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Worked with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented Programming, database design and agile methodologies  ? Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Wrote small code to test their behavior and web-based desktop applications.  ? Implemented Microservices architecture in developing the web application with the help of Flask framework.  ? Worked with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM and have good knowledge on Project management tools. Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  ? Used Apache to deploy production site.  ? Developed and delivered training presentations on logical data modeling, application process modeling and metadata management for business units (underwriting, claims, actuarial).  ? Work with the database modeling manager to identify the requisites of a project.  ? Used Web Services and API's in python.  ? Developed Python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  ? Involved SQL databases MySQL and PostgreSQL.  ? Performed DevOps for Linux Mac and Windows platforms.  ? Involved in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and C++.  ? Worked with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, Pycharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  ? Worked with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Involved in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.  ? Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Worked with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  ? Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  Environment: Python, Django, DevOps, Flask, BitBucket, GitHub, AWS, Eclipse, Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Scipy, HTML, CSS, UNIX, LINUX, Agile and Windows Python Developer Milwaukee, WI September 2015 to October 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Design and documentation of REST APIs using Django Rest framework for collection and retrieval of high volume data which is results of search query.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status, thus implementing Agile (Scrum) Methodology with Test Driven Development.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, AJAX, GitHub, DOM, SQL, Oracle, Agile and Windows Python Developer InfraSoft Technologies Limited October 2014 to August 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and Flexible.  ? Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript.  ? Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications  ? Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  ? Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  ? Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making.  ? Maintained and improved the security level of data.  ? Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  ? Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS/HTML framework.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  ? Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  ? Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the project.  Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL, LINUX, Windows Education Master's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology New England College - Henniker, NH 2018 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Allahabad - Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh 2014