Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Nike Portland, OR ? Over 9 years of experience in the field of software development. Proficient in developing applications using Python.  ? Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  ? Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  ? Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  ? Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  ? Experienced in using Python, Django, PHP, C++, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  ? Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  ? Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  ? Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  ? Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  ? Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  ? Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results.  ? Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Nike - Portland, OR April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM,  ? Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Worked on several python packages  ? Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  ? Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  ? Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  ? Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  ? Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  ? Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  ? Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  ? Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports developmentWeb development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to using Git for source control  ? Used Github repository for version control.  ? Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  ? Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  ? Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Oracle, , PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux Python Developer P.H Glatfeter - York, PA December 2014 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high level design documents.  ? Used Python libraries like NumPy/ SciPy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  ? Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  ? Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture (MVC)  ? Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  ? Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time.  ? Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database and also used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Responsible to set up REST API frame work using Django, Flask.  ? Developed, designed, managed dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL API calls.  ? Performed some operations, visualization on Oracle DB using libraries like Ox oracle, Matplotlib, Pandas.  ? Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  ? Worked with Network related python libraries for transferring the files and connecting remotely to the servers.  ? Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data using integration of Python with C and C++ libraries.  ? Developed Python classes and used decorated methods to create the dependency graphs for the business logic and core applications that are pre-built using C++.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria and developed a GUI for a Java script product.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Designed and developed Restful API internally in the company using Python Virtual environments, Flask and Requests.  ? Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, and Matplotlib.  ? Involved in the environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  ? Built all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, MySQL, JIRA, JQuery, SQLite, SQL Server, Haystack, Virtualenv, pip, GIT, RESTful and Linux, Karrigell, Pylatte, Glashammer, Zope2, wheezy.web, Reahl, Pylons, Giotto, TurboGears Python Developer eBay Enterprise - King of Prussia, PA September 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  ? Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  ? To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  ? Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  ? Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python library.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jerkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  ? Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  ? Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts).  ? Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  ? Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  ? Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware    Environment: Java, J2EE, Python, Django, Hibernate, Spring, Angular.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JSP, Struts, JDBC, WSAD WebSphere Studio Application Devloper, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Javascript, XML, Servlet, WEBSERVICES, Websphere, SOAP, PL/SQL, JSF, PHP, JMS, Junit, EJB, DB2, CRUD, MongoDB, MySQL MS SQL, Oracle, Apache CXF, REST, SOA, Python Developer Hudson Insurance - Alpharetta, GA May 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Experience in working with different python packages like Pandas, BeautifulSoup, Numpy, Matplotlib, SciPy.  ? Experience working on with Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) like PyCharm, and Sublime text.  ? Experience working on with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon EC2 instances, Load Balancing, Amazon Dynamo DB.  ? Experience in developing Web Applications based on MVC architecture using Python, Django, Flask.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django.  ? Proficient in implementing PEP8 coding standards for all the projects.  ? Expertise in HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Node.js, JSON and XML using XML Schema Definition (XSD)  ? Expertise in developing Bar-plots, Boxplots, histograms, Grouped plots and Scattered plots.  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB and relational databases like SQLite, MySQL databases.  ? Worked on Version Control Systems like GitHub, SVN.  ? Experience working with Big Data and exposure to distributed computing platforms like Hadoop.  ? Experience working with Restful Web Services.  ? Have good experience on working with relational databases (RDBMS) and NoSQL Databases like MongoDB.  ? Experience working with SSH client on the Linux Operating System.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development, Load Testing.  ? Worked on writing unit testing code using Py-Test and integrated the test code with the build process.  ? Proficient in working on with REST and SOAP Web Services handling XML and JSON data.  ? Expertise on working with the Networking protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS.  ? Experience working with Issue tracking tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  ? Experience in Agile Development (Iterations and standup meetings etc).  ? Used the best practices of test-driven development, SCRUM, continuous integration, refactoring and code standards.  Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Education Bachelor's Skills MYSQL, Javascript, PHP, Git, CSS