Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Pet Supermarket Sunrise, FL • Around 8 years of experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries-  • Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, urllib2,  • MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, NetBeans, PyCharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio.  • Hands on experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Django, Flask web application frameworks.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux,  RedHat Linux, Fedora.  • Extensive experience in developing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Cursors,  Collections (Nested tables and Array's), Records, Object types and Database Triggers.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Different testing methodologies like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing were performed.  • Familiar with Hadoop Ecosystem such as HDFS, Map Reduce, Hive and Spark  • Good knowledge on Cloud and Virtualization environments such as Azure, AWS, Google Cloud  Engine.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle, no-SQL, MongoDB.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using  S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Have good idea about development tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft.  • Experience in Data Modeling, Data Collection, Data Cleaning, Data Mining, Machine Learning, Data Visualization and Statistical Modeling.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business  Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Expertise in continuous integration and continuous deployment using build tools like Git, Ant,  Maven, and Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Nagios, and Docker.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python Developer Pet Supermarket - Sunrise, FL December 2017 to Present Description: Pet Supermarket Inc. is an American supermarket chain that specializes in selling pet care food and supplies. It also sells products online and also it provides animal care and pet adoption services.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed Data Base management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient front end for client web application.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  Environment: Python, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer Mansfield, MA January 2016 to November 2017 Description: Samsonite, is one of the most well-known travel luggage brands, acquired American Tourister, High Sierra and Hartmann brands. Samsonite wants to expand its presence in the high end luggage and leather goods market.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • C++ and Python development of back office reporting developments using summit RPT- BASE framework.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to July 2015 Description: VKR projects is one of the main organizations in the field of Turnkey projects transmission line ups in India. As an EPC contractual worker, our extent of work incorporates configuration, testing, and development exercises from review, common works/establishment, erection etc.  Responsibilities:  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Worked on selenium testing framework.  • JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing were performed. Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, SQL Server, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, Wing, AJAX. Python Developer Tetrasoft - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to June 2013 Description: Terasoft is an IT administrations organization offering world class IT Consulting, Outsourcing, Testing, Product Development and Maintenance administrations. We keep up high administration principles and offer our clients' top-quality items in our areas of expertise.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC of the project and Started with the preparation, architecting of the high level and detailed design documents and VPC is created for instances using Subnets alongside SGs and Network ACLs on UNIX/ LINUX OS in Agile environments.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Managing and troubleshooting of Python Django and Flask projects.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, and Cloud Formation.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Worked with networking team in understanding the limitations of firewall, domain controllers, load balancers and switches.  • Used HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications, Confluent Kafka  • Created outstanding 'MySQL failover' Linux OS bash scripts encapsulating logic of failover in the execute-before option, performed masterpiece tuning of various PL/SQL queries after analyzing join costs.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Restful, UNIX and Windows. Python Developer/ Build Release Engineer Becton Dickinson - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to December 2011 Description: Responsible for Business Development, Solution Design, and Managing Service  Partners, Lead Generation, Proposal Development, and Develop BOM & SOW on Site Meeting,  BOM, Managing POCs, and Training Delivery.  Responsibilities:  • Created a portable fully automated test tool, allowing 24/7 integration support for two development sites around the world and decreasing code turnaround time from 4 hours to 1 hour.  • Automated the daily and weekly build process to allow us to build daily builds twice a day for faster turnaround time for submitted code changes.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, PL/SQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and ReactJS. Implemented a review process in integration automation using Review Board and Gerrit that eliminated the need for a 5 hour per week daily approval meeting.  • Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed a mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the codebase  • Created modern, REST APIs from existing information assets.  • Designed the UI using HTML5, Angular JS, J-Query and CSS.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scale, highly available, and fault tolerant systems to AWS.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful  • Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Build PL/SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bugzilla, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Education Masters of Computer Science and Software Engineering in Computer Science and Software Engineering University of Detroit Mercy 2015 to 2017 Bachelor's of Computer Science and Software Engineering in Computer Science and Software Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2006 to May 2010