Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Goldman Sachs San Francisco Bay Area, CA • Over 7 years of experience as a Web Application Developer using Python and Django, FLASK  • Experience with Django, high-level Python Web frameworks.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based RESTWebservices  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Hands on Experience with parallel computing, multithreading, Experience with JSON based REST Web services  • Experienced in developing WebServices with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and MongoDB database.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Python Developer Goldman Sachs - San Francisco, CA March 2018 to Present Developed REST interfaces for matching trades and flagging alerts for flown trades between Applications.  Responsibilities:  • Back end web application architecture design and development in python using Django framework.  • Developed UI using HTML/CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Used Python for server-side development.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and used Django to extract data from database.  • Worked on automation, setup and administration of build and deployment tools such as Jenkins  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control.  • Used Jenkins for automating to build Docker containers.  • Deployed the application into AWS- EC2 instances and used S3 for storage.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked closely with engineering design and product management teams to achieve critical milestones and ensure timely product delivery.  • Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment. Python Developer Sunnyvale, CA June 2016 to March 2018 Environment: Python3, Linux, GIT, Docker, Django, JavaScript, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JSON, Restful Web Services, Jenkins.  Simply Hired Inc, Sunnyvale, CA June 2016 -Mar 2018  Python Developer  Worked on development and automation of their application.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework to design and develop the application.  • Used HTML5/CSS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript for UI development.  • Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.  • Used Restful API's with JSON, XML to extract Network traffic information.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used GitHubfor Python source code version control, Jenkins for automation.  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements of in-house applications.  • Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.    Environment: Python 2.7,3, Django, MySQL, Jenkins, AWS, Linux, HTML, CSS, JSON, Restful Web Services, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. CapGemini - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to May 2016 Worked on Development of various applications of their insurance client (CNA).  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used FLASK framework for application development.  • Utilized PyTest, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB  • Deployment and Build of various environments including Linux and UNIX  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in UNIX.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Worked on automation, setup and administration of build and deployment tools such as Jenkins  • Used RESTful API with JSON for extracting Network traffic/Memory performance information.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and used FLASKto extract data from database.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.7,3, MongoDB, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (5 years), Css (5 years), Html (6 years), Javascript. (6 years), Mysql (6 years) Additional Information Technical Proficiency    • Languages: Python3/2.7/2.4.3, JavaScript.  • Database: MYSQL, SQLite, MS SQL Server, MongoDB  • Framework: Django, Flask  • Web technologies: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, jQuery, AJAX, CSS    • Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux  • Web Frameworks: Django  • Web Servers: Apache  • Versioning Tools: GIT, Docker  • Development IDE's: PyCharm, Visual Studio, Eclipse