Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> More than 6.5 years of experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based platform, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Excellent communication skills with Several Appreciations from clients. Work Experience Python Developer TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES - Cincinnati, OH March 2015 to Present Project Responsibilities:  • Gathered Requirements for all the business units through one on one meeting with the subject matter experts.  • Performed Source system analysis to understand the sources and data flow.  • Analyzing the source data coming from different sources (SQL Server, Oracle, Sales force and also from flat files like Access and Excel) and working with business users and developers to develop the Model  • Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and • Conversions.  • Worked with pre and post sessions, and extracted data in Excel.  • Involved in Business requirements, Data analysis, and System design meetings.  • Used Pandas ( Python library) for Stastiscal Analysis. Python Developer TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES November 2010 to Present Python Developer TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES - Lancaster, SC February 2014 to March 2015 Project Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to testing many automated process.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Develop weekly, monthly nightly job process through Unix shell scripting.  • With using of python OS module on Unix environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Thoroughly used UnitTest python library for testing many python programs and block of codes.  • Also have rich experience on testing REST Full API like Twilio, Facebook, Twitter. Python Developer TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES - Pittsburgh, PA April 2012 to February 2014 of a web-based, distributed risk modeling application built to run on the global Manufacturing proprietary platform across multiple lines of business. The application provided a web view and basis for various stakeholders to make better business decisions.  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools,  • Was responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python, best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Deployed Engineering bill of material (EBOM) on cloud based platform (Heroku) and to automate calculation of items cost from different source of database.  • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in Developing.  • Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process. python Developer TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES - Jacksonville, FL November 2010 to March 2012 Project Description: The aim of the project was to reduce cost and optimize using open source python libraries.  Project Responsibilities:  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Analyzed promotions given to customer on Telemar applications  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used and created business rules for data analysis.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using python libraries.  • Used UnitTest framework for calculations of promotion codes for customer Python Developer EURONET WORLDWIDE January 2010 to September 2010 Project: Core banking system (CBS)  Project Responsibilities:  • Wrote many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Applied EMV card algorithms to system via python programs. Python Developer EURONET WORLDWIDE September 2008 to September 2010 Python Developer EURONET WORLDWIDE - Jakarta September 2008 to December 2009 Project Description: Card Management System (CMS) - CMS system can issue the smart cards, maintain the smart cards while in use and finally take the smart cards out of use (EOL). Chip/smart cards provide the foundation for secure electronic identity, and can be used to control access to facilities, networks or computers  Project Responsibilities:  • Web based application developed for creating Debit card numbers with CVV & PVV.  • Tracked ATM transaction faults from CMS application.  • Generated new card numbers based upon Thales Theorem.  • Web based application was provided to the client to manage CMS bulk data in manage through Python application to parse XML and CSV format. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Rajiv Gandhi Technical University 2007 Additional Information SKILLS: Primary Languages: Python  Python Automation Testing: UnitTest, Nose  Python Packages: JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Python Framework: Django and Flask  Source version Control: GIT  Database: Sqlite3, IBM DB2, MongoDB  Operating System: Linux (Ubuntu), Apple Mac (Leopard, Lion, Mountain), IBM System I  Continuous Integration/Deployment: Jenkins  Text Editor/IDE: Sublime Text2, PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev  Software Development Lifecycle: Agile Methodology, Scrum framework.  Ticketing System: BMC Remedy, JIRA