Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Pro Quest Inc New York, NY 5 years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, java script and client-server technology based applications.  Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Geany.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Working knowledge on Hadoop, Spark, Big data Technologies  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, BootStrap and XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, andPython/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in Python with Django framework and Object oriented design with experience of application development for L2 support automation and working through complex code bases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Pro Quest Inc - Ann Arbor, MI January 2015 to Present Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.    • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.    • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.    • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.    • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries fromPython using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.    • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.    • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.    • Developed Python/Django application for Analytics aggregation and reporting.  Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.    • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users    • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Python Developer Rockwell Collins - Cedar Rapids, IA January 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities  • Gathered requirements from stakeholders, worked on design documents.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server.