Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Capital One Bank Edison, NJ • Over 7 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django, Java, C++, HTML.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced with Python frameworks likeWebapp2 and, Flask.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, QT, C++, XML, CSS, JSON, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Sound Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MYSQL.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Capital One Bank - Richmond, VA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Designed and implemented Model-View-View Model pattern for many components in the project (Contracts, Products, Search Sales, Employees, BackOffice Admin).  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.    Environment: Python, Django, Couchbase Python SDK, PHP, C++, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, XHTML, JavaScript, XML, JSON, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Affinion Group, OH June 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, Couchbase Python SDK, PyQt, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django. Python Developer First Data - Melville, NY September 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Built a GC analytic tool using Python, to help clients analyze data and profile risk against a wide spectrum of reinsurance options.  • Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Key performance index and filtering of displayed columns to help customers understand the analytics data that is provided by GC.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.    Environment: Python, PyQT, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Ajax, agile, Web Services (SOAP), XML, PL/SQL, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer State farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL November 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.  • Trained users and did production support.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Python Developer Santander - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2010 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  • Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework withCSS / HTML framework.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands.  • Undergone training on C/ C++ / Linux.  • Worked on Socket communication layers and multithreading on Linux.  • Implemented Test Driven Development(TDD) strategy for the project.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Store Procedures, Triggers and functions in MySQL Databases.  • Analyzing, designing, developing and testing the shell scripts from the scratch.  • Interacting with business users for resolving the issues in timely manner.  • Checking the database connectivity from the UNIX servers then connecting and executing the SQL queries and PLSQL procedures as and when required as part of developing and testing the Python scripts.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.    Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science SRR Engineering College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2006 to 2010 Skills HTML (7 years), MYSQL (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), SQL (6 years), LINUX (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x, 2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django, Webapp2, Flask  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery, JSON  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants