Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Walgreens Portland, OR • Over 8 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio,PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • In-depth Cisco technology knowledge in design, administration, implementation and support.  • In-depth knowledge of deploying and troubleshooting IP protocols.  • Experience in using Jenkins/Hudson as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Ant/Maven  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Developed and executed White box test cases of the Java API using Test NG framework & Eclipse.  • Extended Testing framework by adding some helper classes and methods.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications. Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modelling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity and Security and Database applications.  • Experience in analysing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9i (9.2.0.8), 10g (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4, 10.2.0.5) and 11g (11.2.0.3, 11.2.0.4).  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Day-to-day server support for clients from our office in Midtown Manhattan.  • Build, upgrade and maintain servers on Solaris and Linux platforms.  • Write, maintain and improve automation scripts in Perl, BASH, PHP & Python.  • Troubleshoot client/server application issues.  • MySQL, Postgres and Oracle maintenance.  • The methodology used here will be to introduce in a simple and abbreviated manner the components of the Jython language most likely to be used in wsadmin scripts.  • That introduction will then be illustrated with a few example demonstrating the capabilities and functioning of Jython.    • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jytho  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behaviour Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla andJIRA.  • Shares expertise throughout the organization and may provide user training for products  • Evaluates engineering approaches and risks to produce development plans that ensure high quality, low cost products and systems  • Identifies and keeps abreast of novel technical concepts and markets  • Authors technical reports, papers, articles, patents and presentations when needed  • Participates in relevant project technical reviews and audits  • Reviews, mentors and coaches, while defining and promoting use of standards, best practices and lessons learned. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used  • Python/Django based web application, Post gresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Test and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and PostgreSQL.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Anticipated potential parts of failure( database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Debug of custom software running on Windows and Linux operating systems.  • Cygwin and Linux operating system knowledge  • Professional minded with the ambition to advance both the product as well as themselves.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Rockwell American - Phoenix, AZ July 2014 to April 2015 Description: A Leading Manufacturer and distributor of Quality Trailer Products  Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server(TFS).  • Tested and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Conducted scrum meetings and generated custom dashboards.  • Designed and developed MVC applications for OpenStack.  • Created and implemented SOA services utilizing SOA programs.  • Prepared automation test cases and developed data stage jobs.  • Generated reports with iTExt tool and conducted unit testing.  • Developed and executed stored procedures and PL/SQL scripts.  • Documented and maintained use case diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Implemented web components utilizing JSP and server side components.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Python Developer Vertical Ops - Orem, UT December 2013 to June 2014 Description: VerticalOps is a dedicated Business Solutions Company tailored to the needs of our clients. We pride ourselves on our unique, industry-leadingunderstanding of your business which produces quality sales, amazing customer service  Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongo dB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose  • Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Extracting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Web application development using Python 3.2/2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Extensively used Python / Django / Flask Framework for developing backend of applications.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Center Python Developer Mazda - Irvine, CA March 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Use of Python Frameworks for data analysis including Sqlalchemy.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  • Experience in Data warehousing (ETL), DB Administration using Teradata.  • Have extensively worked in Teradata Tools.  • Involved in Logical & Physical Database Layout Design.  • Created table structure for data marts in Netezza.  • Created data load process to load data from OLTP sources into Netezza  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Involved in analyzing Business Requirement Documents and Technical Specification document and developed test plan and test cases for testing the application.  • Prepared Test Matrix to keep track of the requirements and the test cases.  • Identified test cases to automate. Automate those test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Junit and Java technologies (Eclipse IDE). Contributed in framework creation.  • Extensively used Page Objects design and page navigation framework for readable test script and easy maintenance from developer perspectives.  • Developed test automation scripts using Selenium WebDriver for regression and performance testing of the various releases of the application.  • Performed manual testing of each build and then regression testing on each builds using Selenium WebDriver.  • Performed UI testing and front end testing using Selenium.  • Used Firebug to do web based application testing with selenium for the commands and locator application.  • Worked on Cross Browser testing through Selenium WebDriver by testing the website on different browsers like Chrome, IE and Firefox.  • Performed build acceptance testing and smoke testing using Cucumber automation tool.  • Developed Test Framework in Selenium for UI Regression Test Automation and when necessary and potentially execute Unit Test automation (Java/Junit).  • Involved in writing unique XPath using firebug and fire path to identify web elements.  • Developed data driven test scripts to check the same functionality with multiple sets of data.  • Created the tests that have no user interaction as a set and executed them as Batch tests using ANT.  • Performed data driven testing by using JDBC as a data source in SOAP UI and configured SQL queries to fetch data from the Oracle database.  • Conducted System Testing and User Acceptance Testing for every client and Conducted Backend testing writing extensive SQL queries.;  • Performed the testing of Restful web services for mobile apps for the Using SOAP UI.  • Conducted backend testing using SQL queries to validate data for database and Used SQL queries for retrieving data from database for executing user specific test cases.  • Involved in documentation as to how to maintain and run scripts for future enhancements. Responsible for testing the application against different environments in QA, staging and production.  • Developed and maintained innovative, repeatable QA test plans as well as performance test plans based on functional requirements, use cases, user interface designs, system design documents and domain knowledge  • Worked on WinRunner 7.6, LoadRunner 7.5, Test Director 7.6 and QTP.  • Analyzed the business requirements, developed test plans and created test cases in Quality center, a test management tool.  • Environment: Java, Selenium Web Driver (2.37.0), Junit, Jen.  Environment: Python, Django, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, XML, SOAP, GitHub, Jira, Agile, SQL, PL/SQL, MYSQL, Oracle, Netezza and Windows. Python Developer HSBC - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh July 2008 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • BuildSQL, NOSQLqueries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server, NO SQL. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, Zope, PyJamas, Jython, CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS.  Programming Languages Python, C, PERL,SQL and PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  Version Control SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  Application servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss  Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio and Sublime Text.    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2  Testing Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.