Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Ohio Department of Education ? 8 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management, and Implementation of various standalone and client-server enterprise Python/Django based web-applications. (Developed web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Python 3 Django 1.4/1.3).  ? Experienced in statistical analysis by using SAS and Python.  ? Experienced in Cobol for creating interfaces for mainframes.  ? Good experience in Front end development using Ajax and other web front end technologies.  ? Extensive experience in Text Analytics, developing different Statistical Machine Learning, Data Mining solutions to various business problems and generating data visualizations using SAS, Python and Tableau.  ? Experienced in developing web applications using Django, Pyramidframeworks.  ? Analyze Business problems from data and create predictive models Using Machine learning  ? Good knowledge of TLS,TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH and SSL protocols.  ? Worked with several python packages like Numpy, Matplotlib, Scipy, PyQt, wxpython, PyTables.  ? Good working experience in using version control systems Git and GitHub.  ? Good experience in working with web services like Amazon AWS EC2.  ? Worked extensively with Unit testing/ Test Driven Development(TDD), and Load Testing.  ? Write, maintain and improve automation scripts in Python  ? Designing of Physical Data Architecture of New system engines.  ? Hands on experience in implementing LDA, Naive Bayes and skilled in Random Forests, Decision Trees, Linear and Logistic Regression, SVM, Clustering, neural networks, Principle Component Analysis and good knowledge on Recommender Systems.  ? Proficient in Statistical Modeling and Machine Learning techniques (Linear, Logistics, Decision Trees, Random Forest, SVM, K-Nearest Neighbors, Bayesian, XG Boost) in Forecasting/ Predictive Analytics, Segmentation methodologies, Regression based models, Hypothesis testing, Factor analysis/ PCA, Ensembles.  ? Expertise in transforming business requirements into analytical models, designing algorithms, building models, developing data mining and reporting solutions that scales across massive volume of structured and unstructured data.  ? Strong experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements Analysis, Design Specification and Testing as per Cycle in both Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  ? Experience and Technical proficiency in Designing, Data Modeling Online Applications, Solution Lead for Architecting Data Warehouse/Business Intelligence Applications.  ? Highly skilled in using visualization tools like Tableau, ggplot2 and d3.js for creating dashboards.  ? Understanding and implementation of text mining concepts, graph processing and semi structured.  ? Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new Knowledge.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Work Experience Python developer Ohio Department of Education June 2018 to Present Ohio Department of Education calculates and processes approximately $8 billion of school funding annually. The data processing systems used are a mix of COBOL and SAS programs, running on an OpenVMS mainframe; reading from Oracle databases, SAS datasets, and flat files, and writing to SAS datasets and flat files. The Department seeks to modernize this data processing environment by reworking the system to utilize modern technologies, specifically replacing COBOL and SAS on OpenVMS with Python on Windows and better leveraging databases where appropriate.    Responsibilities:  • Design a new data processing system and architecture to perform multiple recurring, time sensitive, and mission critical funding processes, each involving multiple programs, calculation steps, and/or data sources.  • Replace all COBOL and SAS code with Python 3 code, potentially augmented with ODE owned reporting tools (e.g. Tableau).  • Make most data calculations reusable across multiple payment processes (e.g. as a Python package)  • Make the processes configurable so that simple changes (such as constants or multiplication factors that may change each budget biennium) can be changed at run time without requiring code changes and a formal software release  • Identify, recommend, and assist with implementing a Python 3 distribution (CPython, Anaconda, etc.) appropriate for ODE's needs.  • Work with ODE personnel to review existing legacy COBOL and SAS code to document business rules, system process flow and identify process re-engineering opportunities.  • Replace legacy COBOL and SAS code by writing Python programs to implement the business logic within the context of the new reusable and configurable system architecture.  • Creating a front end for the Payment processing system using Ajax and other front end technologies.  • Assist and/or replace legacy COBOL code that generate dynamic financial reports on the ODE web site with modern technologies (e.g. Python, Tableau).  • Mentor ODE programmers as they make the switch from COBOL/SAS to Python, assisting them as needed in rewriting legacy COBOL and SAS code and assisting with establishing Python 3 team development standards.  Environment: Python3.x (Scikit- Learn/Scipy/Numpy/Pandas/Matplotlib/Seaborn),SAS, VISUAL STUDIO 2017,SQL server management studio, Spark (Pyspark, MLlib, Spark SQL), AJAX, Informatica 9.0, ODS, OLTP, Oracle 10g, , MS Excel, Miscrosoft IIS 6.0. Python developer DXC Technologies - Columbus, OH October 2015 to June 2018 OHIO Department of Taxation and DXC Technologies as implementation partner has successfully developed a web application for online tax filing called State Taxation and Revenue System (STARS). Converting over 26 tax types from traditional form based tax filing system to online web portal to help the people of Ohio with better service and speed up the process of tax filing.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  ? Designed Docker proof-of-concept using Hashicorp's Nomad and Consul.  ? Used Consul for Service Discovery and to create Key-Value pair.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  ? Worked with SAS and Python for data analysis and visualization purpose to get a better understanding about the data.  ? Migrated the SAS code to Python for the better use of python visualization and analytical models.  ? Created own algorithms to predict the Tax payers behavior which will be helpful for future purpose.  ? Involved in development using Python, bug fixing.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  ? Combination of these elements (future prediction & multi-dimensional segmentation) would enable the department to design better web platform and have a vision for the future Taxation.  ? Used Python 3.X (numpy, spicy, pandas, scikit-learn, seaborn) and Spark 2.0 (PySpark, MLlib) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purposes.  ? Deployed GUI pages by using JSP, JSTL, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX.  ? Configured the project on WebSphere 6.1 application servers  ? Developed a Machine Learning test-bed with 24 different model learning and feature learning algorithms.  ? Used SAX and DOM parsers to parse the raw XML documents  ? Used RAD as Development IDE for web applications.  ? Develop and plan required analytic projects in response to business needs.  ? In conjunction with data owners and department managers, contribute to the development of data models and protocols for mining production databases.  ? Develop new analytical methods and/or tools as required.  ? Contribute to data mining architectures, modeling standards, reporting, and data analysis methodologies.  ? Conduct research and make recommendations on data mining products, services, protocols, and standards in support of procurement and development efforts.  ? Work with application developers to extract data relevant for analysis.  ? Provide and apply quality assurance best practices for data mining/analysis services.    Environment: Python3.x (Scikit- Learn/Scipy/Numpy/Pandas/Matplotlib/Seaborn),SAS  Spark (Pyspark, MLlib, Spark SQL), Informatica 9.0, ODS, OLTP, Oracle 10g, Hive, OLAP, DB2, Metadata, MS Excel, Rational Rose. Python Developer Shipcom Wireless - Houston, TX May 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python.  • Creating Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration (CI) to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap,CI, JQuery, PHP, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra, Azure Automation cloud services. Python Developer Intelepath pvt ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to November 2013 India  Responsibilities:  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Provided Database Administration support for high volume production Oracle 11g ,12c Databases.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Created data access modules in python.  • Developed API endpoints in Scala. Used functional programming, data aggregation with pagination, and parsing using Jackson library.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance  • Used PySpark Data frame for creation of table and performing analytics over it.  • Participated in developing view pages using HTML5, CSS3, and Tag Libraries.  • Experienced the server-side Java Script like Node.js, The creation of Web servers and Package    Environment: Machine learning (KNN, Clustering, Regressions, Random Forest, SVM, Ensemble), Linux, Python 2.x (Scikit-Learn/Scipy/Numpy/Pandas), R, Tableau (Desktop 8.x/Server 8.x), Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, Hive, Pig, HBase, Sqoop, Flume, Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2012 Python developer First Indian Corp Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to October 2012 India  Responsibilities:  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Created interfaces usingv COBOL for the mainframes.  • Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Have expertise with an in depth understanding of the wide range of AWSservices like EC2.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  • Knowledge of Chef/Puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage change.  • Experience working with Puppet Enterprise and Puppet Open Source.  • Integrated data from multiple applications using ETL tools like SSIS, Informatics.  • Migration of Test Content to Automation Tool using Python and XML.  • Worked in developing the screens for delete, Edit, Enable, Disable and Impersonate Users in web application.  • Created and implemented SOA services utilizing SOA programs  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server(TFS). Education Masters in Computer in software Engineering University of Houston Clear lake - Columbus, OH 2015 Masters in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Jntu Kakinada 2011 Bachelors in Computers in Statistics in Computers Andhra University 2008