Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Citibank Irving, TX ? Around 7 +years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python.  ? Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, java, C++.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Java, XML, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Proficient in Front end development using HTML, XML,0020CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  ? Experience with Web Development, Python and the Django framework.  ? Involved in entire life-cycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  ? Experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django framework and SQLAlchemy.  ? Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  ? Experienced in Python modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  ? Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, SOAP, XML.  ? Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js and Projects UI Designing Team.  ? Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT)MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting.  ? Web application development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap.  ? Experienced in working on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.  ? Experience with RESTful APIs and queues like RabbitMQ.  ? Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  ? Knowledge in Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery.  ? Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle and MySQL.  ? Created the Node JS - Express JS Server to build MVC framework from front-end side Angular 2 to back-end.  ? Experience with event-based and message-driven distributed systems like Celery, RabbitMQ.  ? Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  ? Experience in using various version control systems like Git, GitHub.  ? Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks.  ? Executed asynchronous tasks with help of Celery.  ? Developed and maintained mostly Python and ETL scripts to scrape data from external web sites and load cleansed data into a MySQL DB  ? Experience with Requests, NumPy, Matplotlib, SciPy, PySpark and Pandas python libraries during development life-cycle.  ? Experience and knowledge in AWS data lake storing and data analytics and spark data frames for processing and manipulating very large data files. Work Experience Python Developer Citibank - Irving, TX June 2018 to Present Description: Citibank is the consumer division of financial services multinational Citigroup. Citibank was founded in 1812 as the City Bank of New York, and later became First National City Bank of New York. Citibank provides credit cards, mortgages, personal loans, commercial loans, and lines of credit    Responsibilities:  ? Use Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  ? Develop Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  ? Manage data-sets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front-end and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angularjs, and AJAX. Managed large data-sets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  ? Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  ? Develop and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  ? Clean data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverable within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy and matplotlib.  ? Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance  ? Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  ? Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and Yeoman, essentially developed microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client side libraries through microservice.  ? Worked on NPM packages and published them to nexus repositories, Developed Gulp, grunt task runner or application and involved in to write Unit test cases.  ? Essentially working to develop restful Apis and invoke Soap Apis in Express.js and Hapijs, validating Apis with swagger.  ? Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.    Environment: Python, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, JavaScript, DOJO, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JSP, JSON, Jquery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, React.js, ES6, TypeScript, Polymer.js, Docker, kubernetes, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, Core Java, UNIX, Linux, Sybase, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, MySql, MsSql, Toad, CRUD, Eclipse, REST, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Tomcat, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile Python Developer Google - Mountain View, CA July 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Instigated user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy and matplotlib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design database.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Installed, setup, and configured Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi.  • Hardware installation of patch panels and fiber optic connectivity, hubs, cabling of cat5 and RJ45 connectors.  • Setup and configured DHCP on Windows 2003 for external wireless clients and mobile PC kiosks within the hospital.  • Installed and configured Windows XP workstations using standard software configuration and configured TCP/IP and network interface cards.  • Managing internet security and acceleration throughout the network using Microsoft ISA server.  • Written functional test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, XML base services, and MongoDB.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and matplotlib.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used third party jQuery-based plug-ins like Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, jQuery, JavaScript, PyCharm. Python Developer Fiserv - Dallas, TX May 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web  • Used python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for creating company's internal platform called DCAE by using python to develop and test the components.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  • Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Seaton India IT Pvt. Ltd September 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python) Architecture.  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the Model View Control architecture.  • Written Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Performed efficient code delivery based on Test Driven Development (TDD) principles and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Created an entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Deployed the application in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Production Websphere environment.  • Used jQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Involved in developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Actively worked as a team member with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib1, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis & NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Managed large data-sets using Panda data frames and MySQL and implemented configuration changes for data models.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4/1.5, FLASK, Web2py, MySQL, MAC OS X, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, GIT, SVN, Apache. Python Developer Yellow Adworks India Pvt ltd June 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high level design documents.  • Have used Python libraries like NumPy/SciPy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  • Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture (MVC).  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  • Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with working on software changes based on the natural call flow with the customer, instead of letting the system dictate the call flow.  • Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time and using Golang.  • Experience with automation of linear call flows, instead of static so the agents have access to an adaptive user interface.  • Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database and also used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Responsible to set up REST API framework using Django, Flask.  • Developed, designed, managed dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, Splunk, Hadoop, Apache Hive, PostgreSQL API calls.  • Performed some operations, visualization on Oracle DB using libraries like Ox oracle, MatPlotlib, Pandas.  • Continuous Integration and Continuous Development (CI/CD) was taken care to Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, Celery, and Jenkins.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria and developed a GUI for a Java script product.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.    Environment: Python 2.7, NumPy, SciPy, Scikit, PySpark, Dockers, Pandas, C++, JSON, Oracle DB, MySQL, DB2, PL/SQL, NoSQL,Splunk, Hadoop, Apache Hive, Redis, Service now, SIEM systems, Palo Alto, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django 1.4 Education Master's Skills DJANGO, DOCKER, Git, JAVASCRIPT, PERL, PHP, PYTHON, Ruby, SCRIPTING, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, CSS, SHAREPOINT, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, ANDROID