Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Irving, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer NEC - Dallas, TX October 2015 to Present Roles and responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding and analysing the client's business, requirements for the system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. Assisted the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data.  • Experienced in automation and continuous integration process with Cloud bees Enterprise Jenkins.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Used Jenkins for automating Builds and Automating Deployments. Used Jenkins for the continuous integration process , automation and assisted in the code coverage and analysis by generating reports  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project and used JIRA to keep track of the development changes.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Managed builds and wrote Build scripts for JAVA and WebSphere based applications.  • Create and setup automated nightly build environment for Java projects using Maven.  • Performed the development in using LAMP and WAMP open source web service stacks.  • Engaged in understanding PHP Code and re-build the code in Python.  • Worked on serializing data using Serializers in Django Rest Framework.  • Built Vagrant Boxes for Development, UAT and Production Environments.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access particular features of the site.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening, Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per some projects requirement.  • Performed unit testing and code reviews.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Build and maintain code libraries to support analytics.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Update, maintain and change the current web applications as per the project requirement.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Beautifulsoup, HTML5, AWS, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful Webservices, Apache, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse. Python Developer Erie Insurance Group - Erie, PA February 2014 to September 2015 Roles and responsibilities:    • Participated in meetings to gather and analyze the requirements to present the UI in an effective manner.  • Developed backend of the application with Python, Django, Oracle DB.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system for our client.  • Developed Views, Templates using Python and Django's view controller and templating language.  • Involved in the maintenance of the web application, worked on code enhancement to achieve reusability.  • Built Restful APIs using Django and Django Rest Framework.  • Handled few of Django admin template changes to support additional functionalities  • Automated performance calculation tasks by writing Python scripts using Numpy and SQL alchemy.  • Wrote Python scripts to manipulate files and update the content in the database.  • Involved in profiling the application using Python profilers.  • Developed logics to perform complex calculations on Python Dictionaries and Lists.  • Implemented business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its framework Django.  • Performed various data exploration tasks using Pandas.  • Used JIRA to keep track of the project related tasks.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Worked closely with front end team for data consumption from Backend.  • Experienced in using Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML Page Layout.  • Worked on code enhancement to achieve reusability.  • Developed test scripts and performed Unit Testing on the applications using Django Tests.  • Performed CRUD operations such as Update, Insert and Delete data in multiple Database.  • Provided effective IT solutions by creating new and modifying existing software applications.  • Involved in preparing technical design documents in parallel with the development process.  • Excellent co-ordination to ensure all the project activities are achieved and documented properly.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, Django Rest, Oracle 11g, Jira, Eclipse, PyDev, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, LAMP. Python Developer Virgin America - Burlingame, CA January 2013 to February 2014 Roles and responsibilities:  • Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Generated various report using Python Report lab and sent to Business users to improve their decision making.  • Worked on creating responsive webpages for various types of devices using the Twitter Bootstrap.  • Analyzed data using Excel VBA scripts and Macros and Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plot lib library.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed multi-page applications from beginning to end.  • Collaborate in system and network security installation, configuration, and review.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Used Bugzilla to track the issues raised when moving the code.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Did Content Management through front end, live search and normal search features.  • Profiled Python code for optimization and memory management.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  Environment: Python 2.7, Flask, Bugzilla, Report Lab, SVN, HTML, CSS, C++, Core Java, Java script, Jquery, PL/SQL, Oracle 9g, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting. Python Developer HSBC January 2011 to January 2013 Roles and responsibilities:  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed High level design Detail design documents.  • Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, Javascript and jQuery and jQueryUI.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed rich UI web application using javascript libraries like jQueryUI, datagrid, jscolor, highcharts.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Used Mysql as backend database and Mysqldb of python as database connector to interact with Mysql server.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.  Environment: Python 2.4, Django, C++, HTML Restful API, Mysql, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Unix, Linux. Python Developer IMation, IN August 2009 to January 2011 Roles and responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server, NO SQL. Skills Django (7 years), HTML (7 years), Python (7 years), SQL (7 years), QA (5 years), SVN (4 years), Git (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY:    • 7 Years of professional experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client-server applications in Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Have excellent knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments  • Good experience of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Worked on several python packages like numpy, scipy, pytables etc..  • Good client facing experience and expertise in understanding Business Requirements and Solution Implementation.  • Closely worked with Business Users and accepted challenging requirements to provide Technical Excellence.  • Well versed with Agile and Waterfall Development Methodologies.  • Excellent knowledge on JIRA tool for software development.  • Worked with various Integrated Development Environments such as PyCharm, PyDev, Sub Lime Text, Eclipse and Notepad++.  • Good knowledge on Algorithms, Data Structures, OOPS concepts, Flowcharts and Database Design.  • Extensive working knowledge in relational databases such as Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server and IBM DB2.  • Strong experience in writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Sub-Queries and Triggers in MySQL database.  • Having good domain expertise in developing applications/tools using Perl and programming in C, C and Java.  • Having experience in developing GUIs using Tcl, Tk and Java.  • Good Experience in C/C development of multi-threaded applications in a Linux Environment.  • Resolved all issues/bug fixes within Service Level Agreement(SLA) and provided quality of support.  • Contributed individually in the implementation & support of systems in a production environment.  • Performed Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) of data from various external sources.  • Extensive knowledge of working on support activities including Server Maintenance, Incident Handling and other Monitoring Activities.  • Good Experience in debugging the issues using debuggers like gdb, pdb.  • Development of Applications/Tools for validation of next generation IA32 Enterprise Processors.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Perl and Shell scripting.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Experience with Version Control, ideally SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and also to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Core Java, PL/SQL  Frameworks Django, Flask, CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XHTML, XML, JQuery, JSON  Tracking tools JIRA, Bugzilla  Scripting Perl, Python, Shell  Application servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere  Testing Tools QTP, HP QC, Selenium  Databases MySQL, Microsoft SQL server, Oracle, Mongo DB  Version Control Tools GIT, CVS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows and Mac OS