Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Johnson & Johnson Titusville, NJ • Around 4 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, Ruby, REST API, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and developed web - based applications using Python, CSS and HTML.  • Worked on applications and developed them with XML, JSON, XSL (PHP, Django, Python, Rails).  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Good experience of software development in Python and IDEs: PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev, sublime text, Jupyter Notebook.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python using HTML/CSS for server-side rendered applications.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Worked on Anaconda Python Environment.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Experience in implementing python alongside using various libraries such as mat plotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL Db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Experienced in using python libraries like BeautifulSoup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, NetworkX, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity and IDEs - Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use Case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling.  • Extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagram and sequence diagrams.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, XML.  • Exceptionally solid background in composing API's along with Web Services over Python.  • Experience in using Adobe Flash, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA, GitHub and CVS.  • Experience working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experience with Unit Testing / Test Driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  • Experienced in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/GitHub and issue tracking tools like Jira and Bugzilla.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  • Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripts for business process and loading data from different interfaces to HDFS.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application.Server.  • Good Knowledge in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  • Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types.  • Experiences with File Handling and SSH (Secure Shell).  • Working knowledge of errors and exceptions handling debugging using PDB, Eclipse and PyCharm.  • Experience with Docker, deployment of application inside software containers. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Johnson & Johnson - Titusville, NJ November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs and created User Model for application.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Experienced in using advanced PostgreSQL/MYSQL features like table partitioning and diverse types of oracle indexing. Backup and Restore experience with PostgreSQL/ MYSQL database backups and point in time recovery.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture along with Django's ORM model.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, SciPy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Built Random Forest based models using PySpark on Databricks for predicting profile field prediction.  • Implemented NLP classifier using Keras CNN for faster case resolution of user complaints.  • Developed anomaly detection cronjob on Google Analytics data using Python, Pandas and Jinja2.  • Developed RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Designed database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  • Used data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Build a TensorFlow Object Detection transfer learning model for custom dataset of client.  • Built data pipelines and data transformation jobs using Boto, Pandas, NumPy for Google Analytics Data and Amazon Redshift Data.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's. Python Developer The Motley Fool - Alexandria, VA December 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands. Python developer Rackspace - San Antonio, TX December 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  • Successfully implemented Django framework to design server applications.  • Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  • Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  • Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met. Python Developer IBM - Armonk, NY February 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used jQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Using GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for Debugging, Problem Solving, Optimization and Testing Skills using GitLab  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (Less than 1 year), Aws (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Css (1 year), Django (4 years), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript (2 years), Jira (1 year), Linux (2 years), Mongodb (1 year), Mysql (3 years), Natural language processing (1 year), Nlp (1 year), oracle (1 year), Python (4 years), Restful web services (2 years), Sql (1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year), Web services (3 years), Xml (2 years), Git, PHP