Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - TARGET Minneapolis, MN • Over 8 years of experience as an Application developer, software development and design using Python, Django, Angular JS, React, Node JS, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Java, MySQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Postgres.  • Experience in AWS, DevOps, Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment and Cloud Implementations.  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, CSS. Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, Spyder and Visual Studio.  • Experience with Django and Flaska high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience with Requests, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with automation/configuration management using tools like Ansible, Puppet, Chef and Salt Stack.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Django  • Experience working with notebook technologies like Jupiter and open Source distribution Anaconda.  • Worked with python libraries from Python Package Index (PyPI).  • Experience with Jenkins and Enterprise GitHub. Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Good Experience in Tableau Analytics. Build Dashboards for clients using Tableau.  • Experience in end to end design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations with Drill Down and Drop down menu option and Parameterized using Tableau.  • Worked on Loading and transforming large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Bigdata concepts.  • Proficient in SQL databases MSSQL Server, MySQL (RDBMS), Oracle DB, Postgres and MongoDB.  • Working experience on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Such as EC2, Lambda, ELB, SQS (Queuing Services), VPC and cloud watch.  • Hands on Experience on Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Hands-on experience on Apache Spark, Kafka.  • Hands on Experience on message Queuing with RabbitMQ  • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Knowledge in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shellscripting.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support  • Hands on experience with Agile project management tools such as JIRA, VersionOne  • Created an Test Automation Framework with Selenium for test automation process  • Unit testing for the entire code and fixing bugs in unit testing  • Installed, setup, and configured Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu Linux and UNIX. Work Experience Python Developer TARGET - Minneapolis, MN December 2016 to Present Description: Target Corporation is the second-largest department store retailer in the United States. Me and our team worked to develop and upgrade the applications and its user interface.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Responsible to create organized responsive design and developed user interaction screens using React, Django, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux and MySQL for database.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  • Model View Component (MVC) architecture implemented for development of the project and used Django Rest Framework to develop REST API.  • Used different python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, and Pandas to create models for predictive analysis.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Using the Django framework developed models, customized admin page, views, templates and effective ORM implementation with My SQL.  • Worked on building of Tableau desktop reports and dashboards toreport customer data.  • Built and published customized interactive Tableau reports and dashboards along with data refresh scheduling using Tableau Desktop.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience in consuming web services (REST) with python programming language.  • Using REST Web services to integrate agile tool and XL release for SDLC in the project.  • Wrote python to get all stories and tasks from VersionOne(ALM) to XL release.  • Worked on JSON and XML data of web application assets and its attributes.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage the infrastructure. And worked on Jenkins cloudBees for CI/CD in production environment.  • Worked on Docker containers.  • Automation (Ansible) and Deploying on AWS environment(EC2).  • Experience working with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Creating Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services and configuration of launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Created arepository and pushed the code to GitHub Enterprise.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in Python  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  Environment: Python, Django, React, HTML/CSS, Java, MySQL, REST Web Services, JavaScript, Jupiter, Anaconda, Docker, XL release, PyPI, NumPy, Pandas, JSON, PyCharm, Linux, Shell Scripting, TDD, Ansible, GitHub, Tableau, VersionOne (ALM), GIT, AWS,PySpark Python Developer Whole Foods - Austin, TX April 2015 to November 2016 Description: Whole Foods Market Inc. is an American supermarket chain that specializes in selling organic products. The project deals with accepting both web and mobile payments. This system allows the client or customer to make payments with vault. It focuses on making the payment process easier and more secure.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology for developing application.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information  • Worked on Docker CE and curl.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Performed database operations and queries using MySQL.  • Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration to build code and deploy into remote servers.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by configuring and maintaining for continuous integration and for end to end automation for all build and deployments.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Worked on Apache spark for processing multiple datasets.  • Responsible for third party tool integration  • Wrote and executed automated test cases with selenium to automate manual testing solutions.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unittest, resolving bugs and other defects.  • Used JIRA to assign, track the stories and tasks.  • Worked on GitHub enterprise.  Environment: Python, Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, pyBuilder, unit test, Web Services, AWS, S3, Spark, Selenium, RedHat Linux, Jupiter, NumPy, Pandas, JSON Python Developer Whirlpool Corporation - Stockton, CA August 2013 to March 2015 Description: Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system for Whirlpool. This is a Post sales and Customer feedback and complains management system.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the system requirement specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks and Used Django APIs for database access.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Designed and implemented an application for managing customers, purchases and invoices.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • End to end testing of the applications.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  Environment: Python, Django, RESTful, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, Shell, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer WPS Health Solutions - Monona, WI November 2011 to July 2013 Description: This project involves testing of WPS Health Solutions Mobile application on Android, and iOS devices. WPS Health Solutions is medical apparatus and equipment for use in electronic acquisition, capture, processing, presentation, storage and transmission of patient's medical and physiological data for use in programming, monitoring and testing implanted cardiac devices.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for setting up networks through Design and Development.  • Created web journal with Django Framework and Flask.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used the Model View Controller architecture in creating web application using Python Django framework.  • Authored important Network APIs for Basic Video, developed user interface screens and solved customer reported software bugs or issues.  • Used Purify, GDB and DBX for debugging/crash logs which helped in performance enhancement and optimization.  • Maintenance of Oracle, PostgreSQL databases.  • Responsible for loading data files from various external sources like ORACLE, MySQL into staging area in MySQL. Utilized python, SQL, Unix shell to load data.  • Responsible for optimizing and reengineering some of the ETL jobs by improving SQL query performance and improving table projections in multi TB Vertica database  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files.  Environment: Python, Django Framework, Flask, CSS, Oracle DB, Vertica, MySQL, LAMP, WAMP, jQuery, Apache web server. Python Developer Vantage Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2009 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using the Java I/O functionalities to display the output using the Stream-Readers both the Input and the Output Features.  • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on JAVA applications.  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Flaskand Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management systems using MySQL databases.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the JSON data and load into database.  • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Client-side validations and manipulations are done using JavaScript and JQuery  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application.  • Working on Web Scraping, used Beautiful Soup modules, Pandas for data analysis.  • Developed and worked the inventory management system. Demand forecasting visualization with analytics  • Utilized Subversion control tool to coordinate team work.  Environment: Python, Django, UNIX, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Pandas, Beautiful Soup Skills HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PYTHON (9 years), MYSQL (9 years), CSS (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Ubuntu, Solaris, Windows and MacOS  Programming Languages Python, PL/SQL, Java, CSS,HTML,JavaScript  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Tools PyCharm, PL/SQL Developer, Spyder, Visual Studio, Visio, IBM WebSphere, Tableau Analytics, Apache Spark  Integration Tools Jenkins  Message Broker RabbitMQ, IBM MQ  Web Server Apache Webserver  Defect Tracking JIRA and VersionOne  Cloud services AWS, Microsoft Azure