Python Programmer <span class="hl">Python</span> Programmer Python Programmer Philadelphia, PA • Qualified Python Developer with 6+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python.  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask and Spring web application frameworks.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Cassandra with MySQL, Bootstrap and jQuery  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Good knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in working in many Unix platforms.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Understanding of Python Best Practices (PEP-8).  • Expertise on working with the Networking protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS.  • Implemented various Networking Concepts, Router Architectures, and HTTP & FTP Services.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PL SQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on time.  • Involved in Unit testing, Test driven Development(TDD), Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Programmer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web  Framework.  • Created User Interface (UI) using JavaScript, bootstrap, Cassandra with MySQL and HTML5/CSS.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web  applications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and  JavaScript.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django. Worked with millions of database  records on daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and Cassandra.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building  graphs.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplot library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main  applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build Cassandra queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update,  read and delete, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html  page layout.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones and Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  Environment: Python 3.3, Django, HTML5/CSS, Cassandra, JavaScript, PyCharm, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, Vagrant, Docker, Confluence. Python Developer American Express, AZ February 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Opscenter.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, Node.JS and Oracle dB while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, J Query and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated Rabbit MQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)..  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Cassandra with MySQL, Java script and J Query to optimize the user experience.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python mat plot lib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Cassandra, Rabbit MQ, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, HTML5, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Cassandra with MySQL, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, SQL server, JavaScript, Eclipse, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting, Visual basic. Python Developer Paradigm Outcomes, CA October 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities  • Part of Core team implementing API design and Development in integrating different components  • Developed libraries implementing business logic related to client/patient profile data and search features  • Extensively used regular expressions and core features in Python using lambda, map, reduce etc and effectively implemented logging feature using python logging library and profiling using cProfile  • Developed RESTful API implementations in Django and integrated with Cassandra with MySQL.  • Developed unit test cases using Python and automated tests in Linux using internal tools.  • Developed UI screens and modules on patient search feature in Cassandra with MySQL using components such as Service and Provider.  • Provided production support for issues related to backend services as well as UI related issues  • Experience with bug-tracking through JIRA, source code management and team collaboration software such as GIT, SVN etc  • Responsible for system debugging in UAT, performance improvement for customer issues and field trials. Solved numerous customer issues.  • Collaborated with development, program management, Scrum and testing teams to develop product features and sprint releases - automated tests.  • Used python pip to install modules and PEP8 code styling practices  • Working in agile environment. Daily scrum meetings with the Agile team on updates and improvements.  • Extensively experienced with server debugging activities for any issues during UAT and Prod fixes using Linux commands such as egrep, find, piping, ls, vi features etc  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions  • Experience with multiple software development tools for source control, code review, code quality, bug tracking and functional testing.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts for batch jobs as well as testing the application.  • Worked on Continuous Integration of Centralized equipment system, which is primarily responsible for design components for using Python.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.    Environment: Python 2.7, Cassandra with MySQL, pyUnit, pytest, JIRA, SVN, UNIX, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, Selenium, JSON, Open stack etc Python Developer DNC Technologies - IN September 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS, complex Flash integration.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Maintenances PHP/MySQL (primarily Joomla), Classic ASP/MSSQL. Communicating and interfacing with previous developers on a regular basis.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  • Rewrite existing Python/C++/ Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, PHP, C++, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, Cassandra with MySQL, JQuery, Json Python Developer Caliber Technologies - IN July 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities  • Created Data extract jobs using Python/SQL.  • Thorough use of third-party packages, such as Fabric.  • Coordinated with product owners and technical team members for preparation and review of solution based documentation.  • Developed scalable infrastructure solutions and related components in collaboration with technical leads.  • Worked with the stakeholders to gather requirements.  • Designed User Interface for data selection using Python.  • Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  • Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.  • Created UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Deployed the application on cloud using AWS.    Environment: Python, CMS, Mezzanine, S3, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Linux. Education Masters in Computer Science Governors State University - University Park, IL Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills LINUX (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), SQL (5 years), CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating systems Windows, Linux Ubuntu  Languages C, C++, Python, Java  Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java Script, jQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, open stock, RESTful web services  Databases Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL/SQL  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Github  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, PPTPlex