Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Google Seattle, WA ? About 7+ years of Professional IT experience in Analysis, Design, Database Development using python and Django  ? Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Highly experienced in web application development using Python, Django and web technologies (HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, XML and JavaScript) to create scalable and robust common components which can be used across the whole framework.  ? Experience in Magento and Sony Dadc CMS(Content Management System).  ? Experience in Application Development and Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  ? Hands on experience programming with Python, Django.  ? Significant understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in Python.  ? Designed and developed corporate and Entertainment websites using the Django framework.  ? Expert knowledge in advocate of MVC/MVT concepts.  ? Understands Database Application Designs and Implementation using MySQL and SQL Server.  ? Very strong experience with command line/Linux.  ? Work as part of agile team operating in a scrum based development approach  ? Managed Linux systems, both hardware and software from racking servers to OS installation, monitor and maintenance.  ? Good knowledge of High level language like Perl.  ? Experience designing and configuring Application and Server.  ? Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, SQLite.  ? Create unit test cases and create mock objects to test developed code.  ? Experience in debugging and troubleshooting the existing code.  ? Experience with social network Integration.  ? Experience in manipulating data in JSON, XML, CSV, XLSX.  ? Analyze, integrate, develop, and then direct the operationalization of new data sources.  ? Knowledge on Shotgun and RV player.  ? Experience with Cloud Computing Service (AWS).  ? Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner, organized, and self-motivated.  ? Strong analytical and problem solving skills, ability to work on multiple tasks in a fast paced environment independently and in a team.    Github Link: https://github.com/Deepak-Saluja Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Google - Seattle, WA March 2018 to Present Google is an American multinational technology company that specializes in Internet-related services and products, which include online advertising technologies, search engine, cloud computing, software, and hardware. The company leads the development of the Android mobile operating system, the Google Chrome web browser, and Chrome OS, a lightweight operating system based on the Chrome browser.  Project Description: Working on project call EPM-Upgrade.The objective of this project is to upgrade the current version of Essbase-Planning, as part of a full EPM upgrade, from 11.1.2.2 to 11.2.2.4 to comply with Google standards.  Responsibilities:  * Part of a team building one of the highest volume corporate ticketing apps on the planet at Google.  * Worked on python scripts to retrofitted and fit for run on Linux platform.  * Used smtplib module that is used to send email to a machine with SMTP listener daemon.  * Created a script for error files generation during the ODI jobs execution, zip & email them to the distribution list.  * Used Critique for code submission and reviewing process.  * Worked on Google tools like buganizer ,Moma, GUTS, Code search, Code labs on G3, Blaze, Protocol Buffers, GRPC, Google Tensorflow etc.  * Developed both internal tools for employees and web pages served to end users  * Involved in development of multiple features on Google's internal CRM system.  * Built a python backed load testing Django framework for comprehensive stress testing of the group's servers.  * Created a script which parses through the log searching for LDAP & Native users within the archive logs.  * Used bugnazier and kanban for tracking the progress of various issues.  * Responsible for designing, developing implementing and deploying web applications based on the business requirements and analysis.  Environment: Python, Django, Oracle Database,buganizer ,Moma, GUTS, Code search, Code labs on G3, Blaze, Protocol Buffers, GRPC, Google Tensorflow Critiq, piper, Windows, Linux. Python Developer Nokia, Naperville - Chicago, IL September 2017 to February 2018 Nokia is a major contributor to the mobile telephony industry, having assisted in the development of the GSM, 3G and LTE standards, and is best known for having been the largest worldwide vendor of mobile phones and smartphones for a period. The company is viewed with national pride by Finns, as its successful mobile phone business made it by far the largest worldwide company and brand from Finland. Nokia is now also the owner of the Alcatel mobile phone brand, which continues to be licensed to TCL Corporation.  Project Description: Creating a Web app Called VAMS which is used to check the vulnerability attack for NOKIA products(small cells, 5G n/w, Routers etc). VAMS (Vulnerability Assessment and Management System) is an application which enables the easy tracking and reporting of vulnerabilities in Nokia products. Creating a upload scanner Report data and parse and store into database. Reports received in .zip format which converts later in Json format(After mapping).  Responsibilities:  * Working on VAMS (Vulnerability Assessment and Management System).  * Working on scanners and generating json from xml data.  * Working on Amazon web services features like S3 bucket.  * Designing and developing test cases.  * Worked on MySQL database with Python/Django.  * Working with various Python packages using pip install - ujson, xlrd, virtualenv, lxml, etc.  * Experiencing in Agile scrum development techniques, sprint releases and TDD.  * Using SVN for code maintenance.  * Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related with deployment of Django based applications.  * Working in the entire project's life cycle which includes Design, Development and Deploying, Integration, Testing, Implementation and support.  * Working on front end technologies like AngularJS, HTML, CSS, bootstrap.  * Using Jira and Fisheye for code submissions and review process.  * Trained extensively in Agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum standups, discussing and implementing requirements with Product Owners.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, MySQL, JIRA, SQLite, Bootstrap, Virtualenv, pip, SVN, RESTful and Windows 7. Python Developer DreamWorks Animation - Glendale, CA April 2017 to August 2017 DreamWorks Animation is an American film production label of Amblin Partners marketed and distributed by Universal Pictures. Movies like Shrek, Kung-Fu Panda, Madagascar, and How To Train Your Dragon to name a few where DreamWorks Animation spreads it's love to world. DreamWorks creates and innovates 3D animated feature films, original TV series, and shorts. It is recognized as one of the most admired family entertainment brands in the world.  Project Description: DreamWorks animation project is to convert SOAP API (Old legacy code) into REST API prefers python version 2.7.Controlling and monitoring and optimizing the performance of multiple user access database like RDBMS like MysQl, Postgres, Oracle and Nosql databases like MongoDB.  Responsibilities:  * Working on conversion of SOAP into REST services.  * Designed and developed test cases.  * Wrote and executed unit test to ensure the working of SOAP and REST API.  * Working Knowledge on supervisord.  * Experiencing in Agile scrum development techniques, sprint releases and TDD.  * Commit projects to GitHub Enterprise using the GIT version control. (Command Line)  * Using Jira and Crucible for code submissions and review process.  * Knowledge on Shotgun and RV player.  * Improve software build and deployment infrastructure.  * Working on Critiq Development(Web tool for Artist).  * Understanding of common web stacks (apache, nginx, etc.)  Environment: Python, Django framework, Redis, GIT, JIRA, Confluence, Crucible, Linux(RHEL 6.7 (Santiago)). Python Developer Group 1200 Media - Flower Mound, TX June 2016 to March 2017 Group 1200 Media is a next-generation independent studio engaged in multiple aspects of digital and physical entertainment, delivering young adults the content and products they want, when and where they want it. Group 1200 Media is the parent holding company of subsidiaries Funimation. Entertainment, Giant Ape Media, and Group 1200 Consumer Products. In addition, Funimation and Universal will act as distributors for Crunchyroll's home video catalog.  Project Description: Worked on SEO(Search engine optimization) to help business growth of a company. Managed the CMS(Content Management system) like Ven.ue for modification of digital content. Funimation also have website where they sells their products and much more in online.  Responsibilities:  * Practical experience building and consuming RESTful APIs.  * Working in an Agile Development environment.  * Working on Magento eCommerce, user interface and interactive concepts regarding Search Engine Optimization (SEO).  * Handled all the client side validations, slideshow, hide and show controls, drop down menus and tab navigation using JQUERY  * Communicating and sharing ideas with other team developers by using Slack.  * Build web applications in Python/Django, including front-end (user interfaces) and back end.  * Design and implement elegant and scalable APIs and web services.  * Working on Entertainment website designed by Django framework.  * Using Redis to store pieces of data in a much more structured, durable and robust manner.  * Working Knowledge of version control with GitHub/Bitbucket and JIRA.  * Build high performance web services, using languages such as python.  * Interchanging the data built by Sony into application.  * Experience in Ven.ue CMS(Content Management System).  * Reporting bugs, inconsistencies, or inaccuracies found during daily work.  * Manage SEO titles, Keywords and Description for specific pages.  * Actively participate in design discussions and code review and created Dynamic pages using python/Django framework.  * Experiencing manipulating data in JSON, XML, CSV, XLSX.  Environment: Python, MySQL, Mustache js, JavaScript, XML, Django framework, Redis, GIT, JIRA,AWS Magento, Sony Dadc, Slack, Confluence, Windows and Mac. Python Developer BNSF - Fort Worth, TX December 2014 to May 2016 BNSF Railway (reporting mark BNSF) is one amongst the biggest freight railroad networks in North America, second to the Union Pacific Railroad (UP) (its primary rival for Western U.S. freight), and is one amongst seven North American category railroads. It has 48,000 workers, 32,500 miles (52,300 km) of track in twenty eight states, and over 8,000 locomotives.  Project Description: Worked on a Internal App which is used by other team who went out for locomotive inspection. They have to fill a form which was created with the help of python and django framework also designed models and forms accordingly.  Responsibilities:  * Web implementation for website (landing pages) with Flask and Python.  * Managed CRS (Citizens for Rail Security) server.  * Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  * Generate Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  * Created a Test suite by running the Py.test command.  * Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  * Performed documentation and user training.  * Built key modules including photo gallery, blogging system, forums, profiles, articles, newsletters and email.  * Builted AWS server for deployment and data processing.  * Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  * Used MongoDB to stored data in JSON format.  * Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  * Written complex SQL queries and maintained code using SVN.  * Developed scalable infrastructure solutions and related components in collaboration with technical leads.  * Performed Flow Control, response to Front-End Request using Python /MySQL/AJAX  * Created tables, stored procedures, triggers and views for data access and manipulation.  * Created table-less design using CSS.  Environment: Python, MySQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, Django framework, GIT, Linux, Windows and Mac. Python Developer Intuit - San Diego, CA September 2013 to November 2014 Intuit is an American software company that develops financial and tax preparation software and related services for small businesses, accountants and individuals.  Project Description: Successfully Implemented unit tests, functional tests and fixed web applications, microsites,landing pages and Python related bug issues. Provided guidance and troubleshooting support across team.  Responsibilities:  * Managed over 80 domains, and develop the project use Django.  * Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  * Used GitHub to maintain sync with entire team of developers.  * Python2.7  * Used Django APIs for database access.  * Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  * Worked on Csv files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  * Successfully migrated Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  * Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  * Extensive experience in working with AngularJS to implement Single page applications(SPAs)using Directives, modules, Expressions, Routers, views , model, SQL and Controller  * Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  * Used Python for Socket programming, creating graphics, XML processing and networking.  * Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  Environment: Python, Django Framework, Angular, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML5/XHTML, CSS3, XML. Python Developer Ameriprise Financial Inc March 2012 to August 2013 Ameriprise Financial is a global financial leader. It committed to giving back to their communities by supporting organizations whose shared goal is to improve the lives of individuals from all walks of life.    Project Description: Worked on a web based Python application, created to help online users for insurance plans. The Developed Website offers a variety of insurance plans, as well as tools to help you choose the plan that's right for users.    Responsibilities:  * Worked in a team, Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of the company.  * Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  * Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  * Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  * Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  * Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  * Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  * Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  * Improved user experience by creating and designing new web components and features.  * Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  * Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  * Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Chrome) on both Windows.  * Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  * Coded Javascript for page functionality and Lightbox plugins using JQUERY.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Tomcat Apache, JQuery, JSP, Oracle, AJAX, SVN. Java Developer AGNITY INDIA TECHNOLOGIES, India December 2010 to February 2012 AGNITY is a international technology and consulting services company with the deep information and proved expertise needed to assist businesses, network instrumentation makers and repair suppliers style, develop and deploy application solutions.  Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed the pre-built templates to build Customized Screens using JSP.  * Coded JDBC programs for connection to the Oracle Database.  * Involved in design, development and implementation of 3-tier technology like Presentation Layer, Business Logic Layer and Database Layer.  * Coded JDBC programs for connection to the Oracle Database.  * Experience in working with version control tools like SVN. Experience in Struts (MVC architecture), spring framework, J2EE Design Patterns, Spring IOC and Java.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, XML, CSS, Apache, HTML, DHTML, Javascript, UML, SQL, Access, Eclipse, Netbeans, Oracle and Windows OS, Git. Education Bachelor in Electronics and communication in Electronics and communication kurukshetra University Skills Django (6 years), HTML (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), Python (6 years), xml (5 years) Links https://github.com/Deepak-Saluja Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Software Methodology Agile, Waterfall, Scrum  Programming/Scripting Languages JavaScript, Python, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, UML, SQL, XML ,PL/SQL, JSON,AWS  Frameworks Django framework, FLASK, Django REST framework, PETL,Tornado  Web Servers Django, Mongodb  Version Controls SVN, GIT, Source Tree  Development/Application Tools PyCharm, Notepad++, SVN Eclipse, MS FrontPage, MS-Office, Sublime, Windows PowerShell, Sony Dadc, Magento, Slack, Redis.  Servers Unix,Linux,Win2k3,Win2k8,Mac Os X 7,8,9,10  DBMS MySQL, MS SQL, Sqlite3, Nosql, Postgresql, Sqlalchemy  Operating Systems Windows, Mac and Linux