Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Dell Computers Dallas, TX • 6 years of experience IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask project.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Dojo, HTML, XML, Angular.JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and Jquery.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in working with number of public and private cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Rackspace Cloud and Openstack  • Experience in infrastructure as service (IaaS), Platform as service (PaaS), Software as a service (SaaS) & end user computing.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Sound experience in working with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux and Open stack.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Having good exposure over working with deployment of Python and Java projects using cloud architecture  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, Jquery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku and Worked in Cloud based NMS application which monitors the CPU/Memory parameters of Virtual machines.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, Pyodbc, MySQL connector, Pymongo and SQLAlchemy)  • Good knowledge in working with Web/application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Tornado, Cherrypy, Chaussette, Rocket  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora)  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM. Have good knowledge on Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Experience in working with multiple Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic and Jboss.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks-PyJamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt PyWebkitGtk and Experienced with Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK)  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases, various version control systems like Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behaviour Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Experience in writing reusable and in test driven development using Unit Testing and Selenium.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Experienced in working on Celery Task queue and service broker using Rabbit Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Dell Computers - Dallas, TX May 2015 to Present Project Description: The project deals with working on building a user interface and developing a database using MySQL and python and Integrating python and Database using python pandas. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used  • Python/Django based web application, Post gresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript andAngular JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services ( REST and SOAP).  • Designed and developed System monitoring in Python and Redis to keep track health of Platform, Hbase, Storm, Kafka etc in the multi-node cluster environment  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Experienceto transition to using an automated testing framework for ATDD, ROBOT (keyword-driven testing approach and Selenium based)  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and PostgreSQL.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models. Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Anticipated potential parts of failure ( database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Charter Communication - St. Louis, MO June 2013 to April 2015 Project Description: Charter Communications is a cable telecommunications company, which offers their services to consumers and businesses under the branding of Charter Spectrum. Providing services to 25 million customers in 41 states, it is the Second-largest cable operator in the United States. Project involves build a test automation framework and then incorporate test cases to build tests in WITBE along with collaborating with the rest of our team.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging and Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Designed and managed build and release methodologies using Witbe Tool.  • Developed the front end of the web pages using HTML5, CSS3 JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and AJAX.  • Decent experience in UNIX in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Experienced with Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Installed Witbe, Python, Jira, test Rail as part of server setups and Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS  • Regular interaction with developers at different locations in resolving issues successfully.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous Integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application and Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability and reporting Issues using Excel to senior members in the team  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters and Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Integrated data from multiple applications using ETL tools like SSIS, Informatica.  • Found critical bugs in the firmware and helped other teams in making the software stable.  • Migration of Test Content to Automation Tool using Python and XML.  • Experience in UNIX environment in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked in developing the screens for delete, Edit, Enable, Disable and Impersonate Users in web application.  • Creating database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio and Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Managed code versioning with Github and deployment to staging and production servers.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, AWS, GIT. Python developer Hughes Network Systems - Gaithersburg, MD January 2011 to May 2013 Project Description: Hughes Network Systems (Hughes), an EchoStar Company, is the world's leading provider of satellite broadband for home and office, delivering innovative network technologies, managed services, and solutions for enterprises and governments globally. Hughes Net is the high-speed satellite Internet service in the marketplace, with offerings to suit every budget. To date, Hughes has shipped more than 4 million systems to customers in over 100 countries, representing approximately 50 percent market share.    Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python Django view controller and templating language to create a user friendly website interface.  • Used PyUnit, Python unit test framework for all the Python applications.  • Used Django framework to develop the application and used Python modules such as requests, urlib, and urlib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on building all the database mapping classes using Django models.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, Ajax, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery and Angular Js.  • Experience with JSON based web services and Amazon Web Services.  • Created user Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Editorial tool for automated request reporting.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and Worked with JSON based REST web services.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub and also worked on JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  Environment:  Python, Django MVC, PyUnit, JSON, REST, GitHub, JIRA, XML, DOM, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, Agile, SQLite, PostgreSQL. Skills Python 3.3/2.7 (6 years), Django 1.4/1.3 (6 years), Java, C++ (5 years), Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, (5 years), PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython (5 years), AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML (5 years), DHTML, XHTML, XML, DHTML, XHTML, XML (5 years), React, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js (5 years), MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g. (5 years), Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X. (5 years), Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid. (5 years), Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, (5 years), ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS, ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS (5 years), TOAD, Erwin, Rapid Sql, TOAD, Erwin, Rapid Sql (5 years), Heroku, Jenkins. (5 years), ubversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS, ubversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS (5 years), TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP (5 years), Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Azure Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages: Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython.  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, React, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js  Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  Methodologie: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.  JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS  Modelling tools: TOAD, Erwin, Rapid Sql  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins.  Versioning Tools: Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Cloud Computing Platforms & Configuration Management:  Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Azure Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront