Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Target Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Python Developer Target - Minneapolis, MN April 2018 to Present Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  ? Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  ? Load balancing of ETL processes, database performance tuning ETL processing tools.  ? Loaded the data from Teradata to HDFS using Teradata Hadoop connectors.  ? Working on python UNITTEST and PYTEST frameworks.  ? Hands on experience in Amazon Web Services AWS provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Red shift, Glacier, Bamboo, ELB (Load Balancers), RDS, SNS, SWF and EBS etc. and Azure.  ? Migrating a production infrastructure into an Amazon Web Services utilizing AWS Cloud Formation, Code Deploy, EBS and Opsworks.  ? Worked with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture  ? Involved in working with Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, and SQLAlchemy).  ? Implemented automations tools Chef, Puppet, Splunk and cloud services AWS.  ? Worked on Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  ? Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  ? Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  ? Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  ? Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  ? Used jQuery for all client-side JavaScript manipulation.  ? Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Worked on Django and RabbitMQ queues.  ? Managed Virtual servers (Ubuntu, Linux and Windows) on AWS EC2 using Open-Source Chef server.  ? Involved in the CI/CD pipeline management for managing the weekly releases.  ? Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  ? Developing test automation framework using python and See Test APIs.  ? Developing Requirement Traceability Tool using python.  ? Executing test scripts using Visual Studio, MTM and See Test tool.  ? Involved in Code reviews and Test Case reviews.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  ? Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds.  ? Used HTML, CSS for front-end applications.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Worked with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  ? Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with JAVA/ PYTHON.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Python Developer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX May 2016 to June 2017 Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  ? For the development of the user interface of the website used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Worked on developing views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Worked on developing consumer-based features and applications with Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Implemented Automated Application Deployment using Puppet.  ? Modify the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Have work knowledge on JIRA(Agile) for the bug tracking of the project.  ? Worked on deployment on AWS EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.  ? Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and deployment automation.  ? Used Django-celery with the help of RabbitMQ message broker for large processing.  ? Worked with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  ? Worked with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Worked with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  ? Worked on Amazon Web Services AWS provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Red shift, Glacier, Bamboo, ELB (Load Balancers), RDS, SNS, SWF and EBS etc. and Azure.  ? Worked with Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, Pytables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  ? Used Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython,  ? Worked on AWS Cloud Platform and its features which includes EC2, S3, EBS.  ? Worked on various python packages such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Pyside, SciPy, and PyTables.  ? Integrated Redis-Cache with Django Rest Framework for reading the data faster.  ? Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS)& configuration management using chef.  ? Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based scheme.  ? Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  ? Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  ? Worked with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organize.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Worked on writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Testing Restful web services with JSON payload using POSTMAN and automating them using python framework.  ? Used Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  ? Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Designed Interface using Bootstrap framework.  ? Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB.  ? Development of Application using Java and Python.  ? Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  ? Implemented business logic of the application utilizing Python on Django Framework.  ? Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  ? Wrote python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Used PyUnit, a python unit test framework for all Python applications.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  ? Used Bitbucket to do basic Git operations and controlling read and write access to the code. Python Developer ACCENTURE 2015 to April 2016 Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  ? Worked on software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, emacs.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Experienced in all facets of full CM process with tools such as SVN, GIT, PVCS, Clear Case, Clear Quest, Perforce, Cruise Control, Jenkins, Bamboo, Chef and Puppet.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and SciPy.  ? Worked with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Worked on Python Open stack API.  ? Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  ? Worked on several standard Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy, Pandas, Pytables etc.  ? Worked on several python packages like Matplotlib, cx_Freeze, Pillow, NumPy, sockets.  ? Worked on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  ? Worked on several python packages like Matplotlib, Pillow, NumPy, SQLAlchemy, and sockets.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  ? Worked with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  ? Have used Python libraries like NumPy/SciPy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  ? Contribute to major development initiatives with codebases utilizing Python, Django, R, MySQL, MongoDB, jQuery and React.  ? Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, and GIT.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Used python graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  ? Used Python libraries like beautiful soup, matplotlib, PyTest, Tweepy, urllib2.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  ? Implemented database access using Django ORM.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scraping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  ? Build back-end application with Python / Django, work with Docker, RabbitMQ, Celery, Jenkins.  ? Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Responsible for handling the integration of database system.  ? Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats. Python Developer TCS - IN August 2013 to December 2014 Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  ? Enhanced the application by using HTML and JavaScript for design and development.  ? Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Designed and developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services.  ? Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Involved in designing database Model, Views using python to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  ? Utilized Python libraries NumPy and matplotlib.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  ? Worked DevOps methodologies and cloud infrastructure automation tools like AWS, Chef by using Terraform.  ? Clean data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy and matplotlib.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, Jenkins for Automated Integration and deployment process and kubernetes for deploying pods. And maintaining each pod on kubernetes dashboard and load balancing.  ? Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Worked with Python Object Oriented concepts like creating classes, constructors, overloading and modules.  ? Familiar with NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  ? Advanced topics like iterators, generators, dynamic code execution, regular expressions in Python.  ? Working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Spyder, Jupyter Notebook, Anaconda and UBUNTU.  ? Wrote Lambda functions in python for AWS Lambda, Kinesis and Elastic Search which invokes python scripts to perform various transformations and analytics on large data sets in AMAZON EMR clusters.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Developed RESTful services using Django.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS.  ? Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on PostgreSQL database.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  ? Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Worked on MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP concepts.  ? Worked on Requests, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Worked on several python packages like Matplotlib, Pillow, NumPy, sockets.  ? Worked on integrating Python with Web development tools for developing Web Services in python using XML, JSON.  ? Worked with python libraries from Python Package Index (Py PI).  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Worked with using Web Services and API's in python.  ? Worked with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse and Sublime Text.    Skills  Ajax , C++, Databases, Dhtml, Django, Frameworks, Html, Java, JavaScript, jQuery, Json, Linux, Linux/Unix, Mongo dB, MySQL, Python, Sdlc, Sql, Unix., Xml, HTML5, Git, Shell Script, Flask, NumPy, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTable, PyQt, SQLAlchemy, Ajax, DHTML, XHTML, XML, Oracle, Agile, Waterfall, AngularJS, NodeJS, ExtJS, CSS. Education Master's