Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - GE Energy Pewaukee, WI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer GE Energy - Waukesha, WI August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Involved in testing RESTFull API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    ENVIRONMENT: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Restful, UNIX and Windows. Python Developer Ebay Enterprise - King of Prussia, PA December 2013 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.6.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.    ENVIRONMENT:  Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer PayPal - San Jose, CA March 2010 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Builded the foundation, with all top Drupal modules including the development modules to assist developers.  • Setting up Drupal environment from Scratch for the entire development team.  • Implemented SEO based Drupal modules optimizing the search function all over the site.  • Developed Custom module using Drupal form API as a multistep form for app creation workflow.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Involved in writing unit test cases for the functionalities using Nose Test.  • Wrote Automation Test cases using Robot Framework.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  • Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection Angular.JS 2.  • Involved in developing the Angular.JS Meteor framework for the Single Page Application development.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in assigning the tasks to the development team.  • Created Windows Service to Database Migration  • Develop Windows service for calling data object from salesforce  • Involved in handling the developing team and mentoring the junior developers.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API.  • Designed and developed Application Module with Windows Service and C#.  • Reorganized couple of windows service with WCF.  • Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.  • Used Python to integrate third party application on windows.  • Used embedded python to interface code like convert data values from C to Python; Perform a function call to a python interface routine using the converted values, and convert the data values from the call from python to C  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Expertise in configuration management automation tools such as Chef, Puppet and Salt,  • Good coding experience with scripting languages like Perl, Ruby and Bash  • Responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation.  • Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boto& fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Built a comprehensive PERL script, which would call the required ANT scripts and notify the build distribution team in case of Build errors or Completion of the builds.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.  • Using Linux/Unix, Shell scripts, SQL Server, Sybase 12.5, and CA/Autosys batch, ITIL, ITSM, Change and Release Management.    ENVIRONMENT: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Meteor Framework , Angular.JS 2, Java Script, Coffee Scripting, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, NoSql, MongoDB, PySpark, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, MYSQL, LAMP, PUPPET and CHEF. Education Bachelor's