Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Wellington Management Marlborough, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Wellington Management - Marlborough, MA July 2016 to Present Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. I was also involved in developing back-end components, connecting the application with the other third-party web services, and support the front-end developers by integrating their work with the Python application. My primary focus was to design & development of all server-side logic, ensuring high performance and responsiveness to requests from the front-end and deployment of Python Applications on Amazon web services.    Responsibilities:  • Developing Integrations between various Security Applications.  • Developing Cloud Formation Scripts and Installation Scripts to Support Information Security Applications.  • Support and Enhance Existing Node.js and Python Applications.  • Designing and Implementing Solutions that solve Wellington Information Security Needs.  • Building Automation to eliminate repetitive tasks.  • Partner with Cyber Defense, Risk, Vulnerability Management and Network & Security Operation Teams to build solutions that improve their process and workflow.  • Investigating New Technologies & Approaches and make recommendations for Improvements.  • Building Automation for Qualys Vulnerability Tools.  • Developing Integrations for Network & Security Applications at Wellington.  • Building Dashboards and Queries for the Security Applications using Splunk tool.  • Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Write Automation/test python scripts to test.  • Deployment of EC2 and Amazon AWS S3. Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon cloud.  • Used HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization  • Writing Unit, Functional, and Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS using Python with boto & boto3 libraries. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Engineering Harrisburg University of Science & Technology - Harrisburg, PA December 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Electrical & Electronics Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012