Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Hadoop Bloomfield, CT • Extensive experience of 6+ years as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++, Big Data/Hadoop technology.  • Experienced in Open-source ESB, BIG DATA, REST, APIs and cloud integrations in Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Big Data, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Expertise in HDFS, MapReduce, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, HBase, Flume, Zookeeper,Yarn, Impala, Flume and hadoop ecosystem.  • Proficient in working with NoSQL database like MongoDB and Hbase.  • Substantial experience writing MapReduce jobs in Java, PIG, Flume, Zookeeper and Hive and Storm.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experienced on major Hadoop ecosystem's projects such as Pig, Hive, HBase and monitoring them with Cloudera Manager & Hortonworks.  • Expertise in writing HIVE queries, Pig and MapReduce scripts and loading the huge data from local file system and HDFS to Hive.  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS, Azure and Google App Engine.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, backbone.js, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Have good knowledge on NoSQL databases like HBase, Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark, Kafka, Storm and No-SQL databases.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in working with web development technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Python.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, Spyder, PyStudio, PyScripter, and PyDev.  • Experienced in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/Github and issue tracking tools like Jira and BugZilla.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  • Experience in implementing with server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  • Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Extensive Knowledge on automation tools such as Puppet and Chef.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripts for business process and loading data from different interfaces to HDFS.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  • Good Knowledge in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Experienced in Application Development using Python, Hadoop, RDBMS and Linux shell scripting and performance tuning.  • Hands on experience working on NoSQL databases including Hbase, Cassandra and its integration with Hadoop cluster.  • Extensive knowledge in writing and executing CRUD operations using JDBC with MySQL.  • Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat. Work Experience Python Developer Hadoop - Bloomfield, CT September 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working as a Python/Hadoop Developer on Integration and Analytics based onHadoop, SOLR and web Methods technologies.  • Configure a number of node (Amazon EC2 spot Instance) Hadoop cluster to transfer the data from Amazon S3 to HDFS and HDFS to AmazonS3 and also to direct input and output to the Hadoop MapReduce framework.  • Developed a custom AVRO Framework capable of solving small files problem in Hadoop and also extended PIG and Hive tools to work with it.  • Working on data using Sqoop from HDFS to Relational Database Systems and vice-versa.  • Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  • Developed Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  • Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Enhance user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js and EXT.js.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Delivered Working Widget Software using EXTJS4, HTML5, RESTFUL Web services, JSON Store, Linux, Hadoop, ZOOKEEPER, NO SQL databases, JAVA, SPRING Security, JBOSS Application Server for Big Data analytics.  • Used Apache, MongoDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance to store and analyze data.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers and Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium environment.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Built main applications in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tasty pie, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Ember.js. Python Developer Kohl's - Menomonee Falls, WI January 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Continuous Integration & Continuous deployment process.  • Involved in Installing Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Involved in Developing a job server (REST API, Spring boot, ORACLE DB) and job shell for job submission, job profile storage, job data (HDFS) query/monitoring.  • Involved in Implementing solutions for ingesting data from various sources and processing the Data utilizing Big Data Technologies such as Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Hbase, Map reduce, etc.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Involved in Developing data pipeline using Flume, Sqoop, Pig and MapReduce to ingest data into HDFS for analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js OpenStack Command-line client.  • Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Wrote python module used for loading data into MongoDB database.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Responsible for development of entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed Application based on service oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used Python to develop website functionality.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework. Python Developer Genesis Healthcare - Lake Forest, CA July 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and Developed with Python and Django web frame work.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks as well as coded in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) environment.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Developed globally used GUI tools with Python, allowing warehouse managers to track product movement through the warehouse.  • Used Python, Flask and AngularJS for the design, development and deployment of the application  • Implemented algorithms in Python and used AngularJS for graphs and user interface.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Developed scripts using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript. Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax. Education BS in CS Skills HADOOP ecosystem Hadoop and MapReduce, Sqoop, Hive, PIG, HBASE, YARN, HDFS, Zookeeper, Oozie, Flume, Spark, Kafka,Elastic Search, IMPALA, Falcon, Ambari Programming Languages Python, Perl, Shell Scripting, SQL, CSS3, Nosql, Mysql,PostgreSql Data Interchange Formats XML, JSON Frameworks Django, jQuery, Flask, Bootstrap, Backbone, MVVM IDE IDLE, NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime Text Web Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic SDLC Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall Version Control Tools SVN, CVS, JIRA, GitHub, Zenhub Python Libraries NumPy, SciPy, Beautiful Soup, Pandas, WxPython, PyTables Techniques: Zenhub, Celery, Automation, Selenium, Elastic, Marionette,SqlAlchemy, Apache Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS X, Linux Databases Mongo DB, MySQL, SQLite (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  HADOOP ecosystem Hadoop and MapReduce, Sqoop, Hive, PIG, HBASE, YARN, HDFS, Zookeeper, Oozie, Flume, Spark, Kafka,Elastic Search, IMPALA, Falcon, Ambari  Programming Languages Python, Perl, Shell Scripting, SQL, CSS3, Nosql, Mysql,PostgreSql  Data Interchange Formats XML, JSON  Frameworks Django, jQuery, Flask, Bootstrap, Backbone, MVVM  IDE IDLE, NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime Text  Web Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic  SDLC Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall  Version Control Tools SVN, CVS, JIRA, GitHub, Zenhub  Python Libraries NumPy, SciPy, Beautiful Soup, Pandas, WxPython, PyTables  Techniques: Zenhub, Celery, Automation, Selenium, Elastic, Marionette,SqlAlchemy, Apache  Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS X, Linux  Databases Mongo DB, MySQL, SQLite