Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Equifax Charleston, SC • 7+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments and Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Emacs and Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python and Utilized Python Pandas framework to provide data analysis.  • Experience in full SDLC starting from collecting Business specifications, Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies. Involved in projects using agile and Extreme Programming methodologies.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experienced with batch processing of data sources using Apache Spark and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database and Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with creating scripts for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters and Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience in performing signal processing and machine learning algorithm development for a variety of programs.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts and Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Equifax - Charleston, SC October 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • All applications were developed with Python, Django, and PostgreSQL using JIRA (Agile) methodology.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Wrote several scripts that bug tracked day to day operations, a site to show all errors from every site as a dashboard, and maintained notifications to the other IT Department for any errors that occurred.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY, Jython and matPlotLib and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Versatile with Version control systems including Git and SVN and Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format  • Design and documentation of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data.  • Actively Worked on Comprehensive monitoring architecture for Lodging Operations support application.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain and Used Plotly to create python powered dashboard.  • Good experience in developing responsive website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and Development and maintenance of Lodging Operations support application.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of Data.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django Improved page load time by 60 times.  • Expertise in Python scripts to phase XML documents and load the data in database and +Evangelized the use of web services to implement application integrations.  • Wrote multiple programs in Python to monitor virtual machine usage data using VMWare API calls and Wrote a program to use REST API calls to interface with backup server, and parse output reports of an excel file in python to monitor customer backup usages.  • Built a Django web Django application to analyze custom twitter trends and Fixed bugs with HTML and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Built database structure and wrote Postgre SQL queries and Built Django and REDIS servers for data storing and Built web journal with framework and Jinja templates.    Environment  Python, Django, Agile, CSS3, HTML5, HTTP, JSON JavaScript, PostgreSQL, AWS, REST, Shell scripting, Sublime, PyCharm, Web Services, XHTML, XML. Python Developer Merck& Co., Inc - Kenilworth, NJ August 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:    • Developed web applications to implement the model view control architecture using Django Framework.  • Build database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra and Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  • Involved in developing Restful services using Python Flask framework and Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed complex database prediction models and pattern matching algorithms in C++ and Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations and Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives and Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and Loading claims into Facets using Kron Shell Scripting and Perl stored in Sybase database.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.    Environment: Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp2, perl, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Rest, Heroku, GIT, Kron, urllib, urllib2, OracleDB, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API Python Developer Chartis Insurance May 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript and Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python and Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development and Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code and Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis and Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python and Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code and BuildSQL, NOSQLqueries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development andResponsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.    • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands    Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server, NO SQL. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Primary Languages: Python, Java, C, C++, PHP, ROR  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, PyJamas, Pyspark, Pyramid, Hibernate  Database: Sqlite3, MySQL, Mongo DB, Hadoop, Oracle 11g IDE's Pycharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  Deployment tools: MS Azure, Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script  Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks: Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, JTest  Bug Tracking Tools: Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Version Controls: VSS, SVN, GitHub, Git