Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CompuTek Solutions South Plainfield, NJ ? 6 years of experience IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask project.  ? Experience in working with number of public and private cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Rackspace Cloud and Openstack  ? Experience in infrastructure as service (IaaS), Platform as service (PaaS), Software as a service (SaaS) & end user computing.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  ? Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  ? Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  ? Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Dojo, HTML, XML, Angular.JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and Jquery.  ? Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  ? Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Sound experience in working with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  ? Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  ? Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  ? Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux and Open stack.  ? Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  ? Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  ? Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  ? Having good exposure over working with deployment of Python and Java projects using cloud architecture  ? Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, Jquery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  ? Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  ? Worked in Cloud based NMS application which monitors the CPU/Memory parameters of Virtual machines.  ? Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  ? Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  ? Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront.  ? Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, Pyodbc, MySQL connector, Pymongo and SQLAlchemy)  ? Good knowledge in working with Web/application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Tornado, Cherrypy, Chaussette, Rocket  ? Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora)  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM. Have good knowledge on Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  ? Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN.  ? Experience in working with multiple Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic and Jboss.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  ? Experience in Test Driven Development and Behaviour Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Expertise in working with GUI frameworks-PyJamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt PyWebkitGtk.  ? Experienced with Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK)  ? Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases, various version control systems like Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS.  ? Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  ? Experience in writing reusable and in test driven development using Unit Testing and Selenium.  ? Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  ? Experienced in working on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CompuTek Solutions - South Plainfield, NJ March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Configuring and managing Openstack components such as keystone, nova, neutron, glance, swift, Heat.  ? Written Nova, Glance, Neutron, Cinder, Keystone, Hashborad, Swift, python client API to integrate with existing Application.  ? Create a strategic architectural design of the platform with networking (vlans, firewalls, load balancers), hypervisors (kvm and VMware), workflow and orchestration (OpenStack APIs, Smart Cloud Orchestrator), security (keystone, LDAP), Inventory and monitoring, licensing, backup/restore.  ? Understanding python files in openstack environment and make necessary changes if needed.  ? Using Cinder to enable persistent storage for applications like databases deployed in Openstack  ? Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  ? Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Estimation and testing of the assigned tasks in Openstack.  ? Implemented Rally openstack benchmarking tool on the entire cloud environment.  ? Experience in reviewing Python code for running the troubleshooting test-cases and bug issues.  ? Involved in Automated Openstack and AWS deployment using Cloud Formation, heat and Puppet.  ? Working on several python packages like NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, PyTables etc.  ? Involve in the developmentof the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  ? Maintained and managed Puppet modules responsible for deploying Openstack and other cloud tools.  ? Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM)  ? Creating Cloud watch alerts for instances and using them in auto scaling launch configurations  ? Develope Cloud infrastructure like compute, storage, and platform Restful services to implement OpenStack API  ? Create a custom dashboard using JSF replacing an existing Horizon dashboard using the RESTful API provided by Openstack  ? Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology  ? Involve in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  ? Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  ? Designed Cloud Infrastructure as a Service environment using open source technology OpenStack to enable portability of cloud services across hybrid cloud environments.  ? Experience with messaging solutions (e.g., ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, and ZeroMQ)  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  ? Implementingmulti-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Ansible/Puppet.  ? Use python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  ? Design front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  ? Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Build Back-end support for Application from ground up using Python, Shell scripts & Perl.  ? Use the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  ? Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  ? Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  ? Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and working with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the GO Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  ? Use Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs. Python Developer cSubs LLC - Montvale, NJ November 2012 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Designed the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Implemented AWS solutions using S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, and Auto scaling groups.  ? Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM)  ? Developed intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Python, Tornado and MongoDB  ? Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  ? Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  ? Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ? Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  ? Experienced in RSpec, Object-oriented programming, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and, Amazon Web Services, Knockout.  ? Used python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis  ? Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Had regular interactions with customers and gathered requirements in Big Data collation, summation, filtering and normalizing the data.  ? Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  ? Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity. Python Developer DPF Data Services Group Inc - Neptune City, NJ June 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  ? Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Involved in development of the enterprise social network application using Python, Twisted, and Cassandra.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using Django  ? Develope consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  ? orked closely with back-end developer to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology.  ? Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using JQuery, Ajax, Web Service and JSON.  ? Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX  ? Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  ? Created and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers in SQL Server.  ? Created and managed all of hosted or local repositories through Source Tree's simple interface of GIT client, collaborated with GIT command lines and Stash.  ? Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and performed simulations for web application page.  ? Created and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers in SQL Server. Education Bachelor degree in computer science in computer science Princeton University, Princeton Skills AJAX (6 years), CSS (6 years), Django (6 years), Git. (6 years), HTML (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Frameworks Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap, TurboGears, web2py, Openstack  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular.JS  Programming Languages Python, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JDBC and JMS.  Version Control Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  Cloud Computing Platforms:  Configuration Management: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Azure Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront  Linux Versions:  Hypervisors: Ubuntu, Red Hat, CentOS VM Ware, KVM, Hyper-V  PaaS: Cloud Foundry, AWS Beanstalk  Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Amazon S3, Google Cloud Platform    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA