Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Bluegrass Cellular, Inc Elizabethtown, KY • Around 7 years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask project.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Experience in developing web-based applications using .NET 4, Angular.js, VB, C#, XML, CSS, HTML, ASP, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, Jquery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS. Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  • Goods hands on user authentication and authorization between multiple systems, servers, and environments.  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications. using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Expertise in Installation, Configuration, Integration, Tuning, Backup, Crash recovery, Upgrades, Patching, Monitoring System Performance, System and Network Security and Troubleshooting of Linux/Unix Servers and Jinja 2, Mako.  • Hand on experience eon Linux Shell Scripting.  • In depth knowledge of Cassandra and hands on experience with installing, configuring and monitoring DataStax Enterprise cluster.  • Good knowledge on the complete Cassandra with in detail understanding of read, write and delete processes.  • Hands on Experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data present in the Cassandra.  • Good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA. Work Experience Python developer Bluegrass Cellular, Inc - Elizabethtown, KY November 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Used python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS, Adobe flash. Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed application using Amazon Web Service like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, S#, Cloud FronDeploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge)  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used Python andDjango to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh, ksh, and Bash for day-to-day administration.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP Python developer Choice Wireless - Wichita Falls, TX July 2011 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used AngularJSas the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • write Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Able to create scripts for system administration andAWSusing languages such as BASH and Python.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL toPostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Query UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created. Python developer Farmers Telephone Cooperative Inc - Kingstree, SC October 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used AngularJSas the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • write Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Able to create scripts for system administration andAWSusing languages such as BASH and Python.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh, ksh, and Bash for day-to-day administration  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts and backup the database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL toPostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Designed, developed and maintained PostgreSQL database architecture. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Platforms Windows, Unix/Linux  Programming Skills C++, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Design Patterns, XML, XSLT, JDBC, ASP.net  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J-Query and UI, Angular, PHP, DJango, Cassandra, Flask, JIRA.  Database Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/Plsql.  Servers Web sphere, Apache Tomcat, Nginx, wsgi.  Repository Tools Perforce  Other Skills Enterprise Product Catalog, Clarify CRM Framework.  Other Tools Used Eclipse, ANT Build, SQL Developer, Visual Studio.