Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - TD Ameritrade Fairfax, VA Python Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer TD Ameritrade - Omaha, NE September 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Worked on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  ? Extensively worked on various Python IDE's using PyCharm and Sublime Text.  ? Developed & designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Extensively used Python modules such as requests, Urllib, Urllib 2 for web crawling.  ? Developed GUI using Webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  ? Developed Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Implemented configuration changes for data models.  ? Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  ? Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  ? Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  ? Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Tested and validated the custom scripts.  ? Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  ? Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  ? Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira, Selenium Python Developer Charter Communications - Alpena, MI April 2016 to August 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and Highcharts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  ? Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs and Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database.  ? Worked on Python Open stack API's and used NoSQL as database and followed Python test-driven development techniques.  ? Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and implemented on premise MongoDB Monitoring Service (MMS) and created dashboards for monitoring the MongoDB environment.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Used Restful web service calls for the validation.  ? Involved in Using AWS Cloud Watch performed Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging.  ? Built Webservices using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and also facilitates for future applications.  ? Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Responsible for both back-end programming in PHP and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery libraries, and other technologies and developed GUI using PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap.  ? Design and development of UI screens using JSP.  ? Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model.  ? Worked with AJAX framework to get the asynchronous response for the user request and used JavaScript for the validation.  ? Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL Alchemy.  ? Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL on Oracle database.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RabbitMQ, Celery, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Redis, Shell Scripting Python Developer Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to December 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the design and development of different web-based applications based on clients requirements.  ? Developed applications using CherryPy, Flask ( Python frameworks)  ? Deployed web applications to Google App Engine.  ? Utilized Pandas - python library for analyzing data and data structures.  ? Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and SQLite  ? Designed email marketing campaigns and also created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python / Django Framework.  ? Developed Python scripts to read from Excel files, generate XML configuration files and also for generating IP access frequency lists in different data logs  ? Performed front-end development for web initiatives to ensure usability, using HTML and CSS.  ? Tested all completed work to ensure proper and error free functionality  ? Enhance quality, feel, and usability of consumer-facing website  ? Wrote Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams Sequence Diagrams, and State Diagrams.  ? Collaborated with a team of instructors and programmers to develop the curriculum and guidelines for workshops to teach the logic of programming.  ? Designed manuals, workbooks, and other printed media for reference purpose.  ? Created and ran custom SQL queries and stored procedures and also created an applications to stored client phone calls and emails that were routed to various developers  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Django 1.2, CherryPy, Flask, SQLite, Google App Engine, Jenkins, Pandas, HTML, CSS Education Master's Degree in Information Systems in Information Systems Wilmington University - New Castle, DE 2018 Bachelor's Degree in Electronics and Computer Engineering in Electronics and Computer Engineering JNT University 2015