Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Seattle, WA, WA ? Over 4+ of professional experience as a Python developer with broad range of expertise in web-based years applications.  ? Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Expertise in Web Technologies using Python, Django, Flask and REST API. Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  ? Expertise in developing web-based applications using Bash, Perl, Python, PHP, XML, DHTML, XHTML, Ajax, JOOMLA, CSS, HTML, JSON, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  ? Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  ? Experienced with Python frameworks like Pandas, Webapp2 and, Flask. Experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Expertise in full life cycle application development and good experience in Unit testing and Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior driven Development.  ? Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, GitHub, and GitLab.  ? Experience in scripting languages including Shell Scripting, PERL Scripting and build automation using ANT, MAVEN and other UNIX, Windows system level programming.  ? Strong experience in DevOps Environment by enhancing Continuous Delivery and infrastructure change by using Chef, Ansible, Kubernetes and Docker to deploy code with GIT, Jenkins.  ? Experienced in using Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Oozie, ZooKeeper, Kafka, HBase and Cloudera Spark, Ansible, Docker and Git.  ? Excellent hands on experience in developing web-based applications using Django and Flask which involves MVC Architecture.  ? Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB. Hands on experience in working with Python ORM libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  ? Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside, SciPy, and PyTables. Visualize, interpret, report findings, and develop strategic by python libraries (NumPy, Pandas, SciPy, and Scikit-Learn)  ? Hands-on experience in SOAP and RESTful web services. Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection.  ? Expertise with AWS services like S3, ELB, EBS, Auto-Scaling, Route53, Storefront, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS.  ? Expertise with most of the web scale services on Amazon Web Services (AWS) . Expertise in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  ? Experienced in Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work. Familiarity with developing for and deploying to cloud-based environments, specifically AWS and EC2.  ? Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, NumPy Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, QT, C++, XML, PHP, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Good Experience in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Bootstrap, JQUERY, JSON, and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  ? Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL database MongoDB.  ? Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN and GIT like GitHub.  ? Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Excellent ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Python Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA July 2018 to Present • Involved in development of entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Used the continuous integration (CID) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Installed, configured and managed the ELK (Elastic Search, Log Facilitated Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc. Stash and Kibana) for Log management within EC2/ Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for Elastic search and developed Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets.  • Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled load on the servers.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and Sqlalchemy and used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server-side changes.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file and involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support and maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  • Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Worked on different cross browsing capability issue for IE, Chrome, Firefox and Safari and also utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing & Used Git for the version control and developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Developed Kafka producer and consumers, HBase clients, Spark, shark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive. Python Developer JP Morgan Chase - India January 2015 to November 2017 • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django. Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Developed web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  • Designed and implemented open source AI frameworks - Pytorch, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, Apache Open Source (Kafka, Storm, Spark) for NLP and ML Algorithms.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS and Bootstrap for development of Web application. Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture. Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Used web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development. Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server. Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular. Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Used Golang scripts for uploading a file to S3 and deploying them and creating GO serverless application and deploying it to AWS lambda  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis. Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs. Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects and created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like NumPy, matPlotLib, SciPy, Pandas, PyTables etc.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, CloudFront distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like Angular.js.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers. Used jQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide status, thus implementing Agile (Scrum) Methodology with Test Driven Development. Python Developer IBM - India July 2013 to December 2014 • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications. Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Developed applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies. With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking. Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress. Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and wrote with object-oriented Python, AWS, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems. Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts. Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format. Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap. Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading. Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations. Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django. Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology. Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. Package.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application. Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions. Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Updated site with JavaScript, jQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.