Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CenterPoint Energy Houston, TX • Around 5 years of IT Experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, and spring web application frameworks.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Java, HTML, XML, KML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience.  • Good experience in working with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts in a Python based environment.  • Good exposure over Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications. Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experience in streamlining deployment process using Maven.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experience in using charting libraries like Pychart and Highcharts libraries to add interactive charts to web applications.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, and GitHub.  • Experience with configuration management and related tools like Puppet.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects. Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Good knowledge of J2EE Architecture (JSP, JDBC, Data Source, JNDI, JMS, Servlets, ).  • Strong development experience on Linux based operating systems (used flavors like Debian, CentOS, RedHat and Ubuntu).  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows [ ] UNIX, Linux, and MAC OS X.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python Developer CenterPoint Energy - Houston, TX June 2017 to Present Houston, TX Jun 2017 - Present  Center point Energy is a domestic energy delivery company that includes electric transmission & distribution, natural gas distribution and energy services operations. The company serves more than five million metered customers primarily in Arkansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Oklahoma, and Texas. CenterPoint Energy and its predecessor companies have been in business for more than 140 years.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for Automated Asset Department Reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of project.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, JIRA. Python Developer Algoanalytics Financial Services Pvt. Ltd April 2013 to December 2015 India Apr 2013 - Dec 2015  Algoanalytics designs, develops analytical tools and marketing services to organizations and consumers to help manage the risk and reward of commercial and financial decisions. Using our comprehensive understanding of individuals, markets and economies, we help organizations find, develop and manage customer relationships to make their businesses more profitable.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire front end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL and Oracle Database.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Debugging and testing of the applications    Environment: Python, Django, Java, J2EE, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle 9i, Unix Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, WebLogic Application Server. Python Developer Microscan Computers Pvt ltd July 2011 to March 2013 INDIA Jul 2011 - Mar 2013  Microscan Computers Pvt ltd is in the business of providing High Quality Network Solutions in particular, and all IT Infrastructure requirements in general, to organizations for running their mission-critical applications  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked on MVC architecture using PHP, Python as controller.  • Developed the whole application from front end to back end.  • Worked on MySQL, PostgreSQL for data management.  • Worked on Django for developing Web Applications.  • Developed a web server which can handle HTTP 1.0 requests and implemented that server for a small project. This server is designed to handle only particular requests for security concern.  • Also developed a web server which can handle HTTP 1.1 requests on a persistent connection. We have tested this server for the purpose of knowing how many users and how many requests can be handled at a time.  • Developed both the servers in Python.  • Worked on a project with an Institution for time table generation; implemented an efficient algorithm.  • Worked on packages like socket, REST API, Django.  • Worked on graphical passwords which are used for authentication purposes - used python as the controller in this project.  • Handled the client requests personally end to end.  • Used Git for version control.  • Delivered all the deliverables on time.    Environment: Python, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Git, Sublime, Django, Flask, socket, MySQL, PostgreSQL. Skills CSS (5 years), Django (5 years), HTML (5 years), Java (4 years), Python (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Python, Java, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, KML, AngularJS  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Spring and CSS Bootstrap  Version Control Git, GitHub, Mercurial, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Application servers Apache Tomcat, IIS, Nginix, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, and Sublime Text.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP  Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu, and FreeBSD  Issue Trackers Bugzilla, JIRA and Crucible