Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Boston, MA • 6+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming usingPython, Django, C++.  • Experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concept  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Design and develop required JavaScript / HTML components.  • Expertise in writing Automation test scripts using QTP 10.0 and VB script.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in automating deployment to a distributed architecture with tools such as Capistrano or Chef.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++,  XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery in Linux based OS.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, Jquery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Bedrock Data - Boston, MA June 2013 to Present Responsibilities  Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.   • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.   • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.   • Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience   • Cross-referenced Seat Geek and Spotify APIs to get album artwork and track previews for each artist   • Boston concert aggregate that provides a comprehensive list of shows in Boston with track previews, album artwork, tagging, up/down voting, and more to help users find the best show in town.   • Experienced in RSpec,Object-oriented programming, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and, Amazon Web Services, Knockout.   • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.   • Created and executed test plans using PyUnit.   • Translate Linear Algebra to MATLAB syntax.   • Performed data cleansing by analyzing and eliminating duplicate and inaccurate data using PROC FREQ, PROC COMP, PROC UNI VARIATE, PROC RANK, and macros in SAS.   • Demonstrate validation via MATLAB simulation for interpretation.   • Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.   • Having Strong Knowledge on Data Management Department. Coding with Rumba, Statics with Microsoft Excel, SAS,   • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.    Environment: Python, MySql, Git, RSpec, Linux, Selenium, Active Admin, Amazon, Web Services. Python Developer ZeOmega - Plano, TX April 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities  Python and Cloud development engineer working on multiple client projects:    VMWare/Open stack API project   Python app which accessed the Open Stack API to analyze performance of over 10000 servers hosted across multiple platforms: AWS, VMware, vCloud.   • Created single-point view access to general and detail server performances   • Allowed users to define areas of focus and analysis   • Ability to self define dashboards and reports using a simple CMS system from the data gathered.    Private Cloud Formation Project   Worked on a team of 8  developer and 7 DevOps to create a Private cloud for large cloud provider. Worked on changes to Open stack and AWS to accommodate large scale data center deployment.   • Enhanced installation process for new data centers   • Developed  Python Scripts to manage the application library   • Part designer of full virtualization of infrastructure   • Liaison between Develops and Infrastructure teams    Chef to Puppet Conversion   Conversion of 300+ Chef Recipes and Cookbooks to Puppet Manifests and Puppet modules.   • Automated the Conversion process   • Used Puppet R spec for testing   • Provided documentation for Develops and Network Engineering Teams    Amazon/AWS Cloud System Analysis   Python app which analyzed CI server activity and response times, code deployment and environment migrations done in Amazon AWS.   • Quick access to Amazon API   • Rendered Dashboard which provided important milestone Metrics   • Reduced the release cycle overhead by half    Multi-Site Financial System   Interview, Process Redesign and Re-engineering for a distributed financial capture and transaction system.  Python Developer Priceton Information - Jersey City, NJ November 2008 to March 2011 Responsibilities  Worked with the design team for project structure.   • Performed Design and Code reviews.   • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.   • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.   • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.   • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.   • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.   • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.   • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.   • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.   • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.     Created, using  Python, a log collection agent application for Windows and Linux servers for forwarding of logs to LogPoint. Developed a variety of related log collection applications.  Utilized  Python to create a generic framework for log collection applications, design and implement pluggable collection engine architecture customized for various network devices & protocols, develop a normalizer engine for extraction of information from the logs, and provide performance improvements and new features for the systems. Led an integration team of 5-6  developers, performed unit testing and coached other  developers in rewriting of older  Python normalizer engine code in C++.   •  Python, C++, JSON, Sqlite, GIT, Buildbot, Unfuddle, Sublime Text, Windows Server 2003, 2010 & 2012, Ubuntu, RedHat, Py2Exe, NSIS Installer, ZeroMQ.  Content Management System Transformation   A cooperative of advertising and marketing firms in Brazil and SA to manage translation of English-language videos and stream in multiple platforms. Ability to mix and match cost and bidding scenarios.   • Created new revenue model for the group   • Enhanced working relationship between member companies   • Increased library from 20k to over 300k videos  Training Video Repository   Dynamic portal for a large multinational with over 100,000 employees. The system was designed for managers and users to create, manage, edit and share video content across mobile and web platforms. Content included in-house created videos and external sources.   • Increased education participation   • Enhanced search process by over 50% for locating meaningful material   • Replaced legacy system which required large amounts of in-house servers  Real Estate Folio Search Web portal w/mongo DB   Developed Folio search portal using  Python, Django, MongoDB and Elastic search. Locate information about properties and valuation in public records.   • Quick turnaround of search result of images and text   • Created RestFul API feed from public data to application   • Removed redundancy in data for faster query downloads   • Allowed for Multiple Views of the data in grid, block, line formats    Ad Campaign Analysis Portal   Portal used to maintain history of keyword usage and Ad results in multiple PPC campaigns. Analysis of similar & competitor ads against benchmarks.   • Increased PPC response rate by 30%   • Increased conversion by 20%   • Reduce time to analyze campaigns   Revenue Matrix Dashboard System   Wrote process spec for an on-demand revenue analysis dashboard for management team. Dashboard worked as a web link and mobile application. Worked with IT team to create a large SQL back end of summary revenue tables:  Education Bachelor's in Computer Science IIT Kanpur,India - India 2004 to 2008