Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Comcast • Around 5+ years of Professional Python development experience using Python, Django and Flask framework.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Well versed in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) management models namely Waterfall and Agile (SCRUM) models.  • Built the web application by using Python, Flask. Experienced in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Applied HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Hands-on experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Experienced in following PEP8 coding standards across various projects. Experience in Apache, Tomcat.  • Installed and configured GIT and was responsible to work for commit, resolve conflict and merge, fetching code.  • Excellent skills in problem solving, analysis, communication and documentation. Work Experience Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed Systems Analysis and detail application design. Worked on development and enhancement of automated tools for testing, integration and global application development. This includes detail description of availability. Also enhanced the check out and registration process.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management. Managed full-life development cycles.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Development and enhancement of the features using Django framework.  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases  • Tracked any additions, deletions or change in scope on the published release plan including efficient tracking of defects.  • Automating analysis of large data sets. Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication  • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Flask framework. Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server  • Used Web Services to extract Supplier inventory for various high end items. Integrated the application with different internal system.  • Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Strong experience in developing entire application using Python, MySQL, Linux and Django framework, along with a rich user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved in Unit, integration and smoke testing.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Flask Framework.  • Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL. Rewrite existing Python/Flask modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Flask Database API's to access database objects. Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python. Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development. Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Flask, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Rockwell Collins - Chicago, IL September 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Designed front-end and back-end of the application using Python, NodeJS on Django Web Framework.  • Participated in Daily Stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress.  • Wrote Backend python code to interact with Active directory using LDAP Module for the Authentication.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Implemented code to create dynamic Excel reports for thousands of metadata using xlswriter.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data. Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Flask Framework.  • Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using Pymongo module.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML5, CSS3, Java Script and Bootstrap.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout. End to end testing of the applications.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications that were a main source of data for the customers.  • Build development environment with Rally.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation. Used Bitbucket for version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Flask, Xlswriter, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript. Python Developer Sonata Software - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirement gathering and analysis period of the project in recording the business requirements by leading workshops/gatherings with different business clients.  • Working cross-functionally to ensure proper functionality and delivery.  • Developed backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database. Maintain a solid understanding of MySQL database.  • Implemented Cross Site Scripting, CSRF and SQL injection for security and data protection.  • Develop scalable applications and to effectively manage technology -tradeoffs and risks.  • Design database structures and develop/tune data access utilizing SQL Server by creating Flask based ORM.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Flask Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  • Handled RESTful services with the help of python library URLLIBS.  • Closely analyzed the database tables using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  • Collaborate with key stakeholders and project managers to design, develop, integrate, test, document and implement the system.  • Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA. Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Flask, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JIRA, GIT.