Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Wells Fargo San Francisco, CA • Over 6 years of experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT) IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies. Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project)  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery) and familiar with JSON based also Used Django APIs for database access.  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge).  • Generated Python PostGre SQL Forms to record data of online users while written and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and worked on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ  • Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience in Cassandra Database Configurations and its C++ client libQtCassandra and good understanding of No SQL databases such as Mongo DB, Data tax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  • Good knowledge of .NET Framework features including Namespace, Inheritance, and Delegates. Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora) Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing SQL & PLSQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Designed RabbitMQ/MongoDB pipeline for routing/storing of email bounce handling records. Developed UI pages using HTML, DHTML, Java script, JQuery, JSP and tag libraries.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Rspec. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA December 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 3.3 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Worked on selenium testing framework.  • Performed different testing methods like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.  • For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MYSQL.  • To build and populate DB and to ensure the standards, the team of QA was also collaborated.  • Used AJAX for better interactivity for the end user and easier navigation and AJAX is compact.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project, deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.  • An application was developed in Linux environment and dealt with all of its commands.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Implemented automate scripts to back up the old records using MongoDB export command and transfer these backup files into backup machine using ftplib.  • Maintaining multiple copies of data in different database servers using MongoDB Replication concept.  • Experienced in Linux shell commands and command line utilities. Python Developer HYATT CORPORATION - Atlanta, GA August 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, DevCentre, DatastaxOpscenter.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, Node.JSand Mongo dB while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting. Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash and deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Angular.js, Javascriptand JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using pythonlibraries, built various graphs for business decision making using Pythonmatplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases. Python Developer UBS - Secaucus, NJ September 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management. Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users, used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Participate in high level team discussions in understanding of Networking Technologies like Load balancer (F5), Firewall, VIP, DNS.Used Jenkins plug-ins like Build pipeline, job DSL, templates etc.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience with using Gradle, a project automation tool with Apache Ant and Apache Maven for a Groovy-based specific DSL (Domain-Specific Language.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef. Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services ( REST and SOAP).  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud also Learnt to deploy projects using Jenkins. Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Develop Informatica mapping, SQL, concurrent workflows, and unix scripts to execute the DFL jobs. Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Java script for front end applications.  • Invd used GitHub for version control.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • olved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Optimized the runtime for the android stability test suite by 10% by automating the setup steps on the device using Robot framework.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL. Worked in an agile development environment and used GitHub for version control.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team. Additional Information Skills  Programming Languages Java, C, Python2.x/3.x, Perl.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX.  Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Struts, Swagger, Hibernate, RabbitMQ.  Application Servers A Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web Logic.  IDE's Development tools Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, Brackets, Eclipse and Vim  Operating Systems Windows Fedora 16/18, Ubuntu 14.04, UNIX, and Linux.  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets and JDP  Issue Trackers Bugzilla, JIRA, JUnit, gdb.  Version Controls CVS, SVN, GIT, GitHub  Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.  Analytical Tools SWOT, Google Analytics, Tableau.  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra, SQL server, MS Access, Sybase, MySQL 5.x, PostgreSQL  Protocols SOAP, TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, REST.