Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Maximus Baltimore, MD • Over 6 years of professional Software Development work Experience with efficient application development and designing knowledge of Python and Django ability in development of web based applications using Python.  • Experience in working with Agile Methodologies (Scrum) and Skillful experience in Python by developing software's using new tools, libraries used: libraries- BeautifulSoup, numpy, Scipy, PySide, python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to improvise software development process.  • Experience in working with Python, Java, C++, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, Angular.JS and Node.JS and Excellent in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile to make better Single Page Application SPA working on Node.JS Server.  • Mastering in implementing Model view control architecture using Django for web based applications and Proficient in Object Oriented Programming concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON and Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Experience in error detection and exception handling. Debugging using PDB, Eclipse and PyCharm and Have good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Sound Experience in using different version control systems like Git, CVS and GitHub and Good Knowledge in deployment of applications using Docker.  • Experience in working with application servers - Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing and experience in designing the automation frameworks.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython and Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, tables, views, triggers on various databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL and Have good knowledge in using POSTGRESql database.  • Extensive knowledge of J2EE (JSP, JDBC, Servlets,) and debugging tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX/LINUX and MAC OSX and Good knowledge on hosting Python applications using WSGI module.  • Active participation in various phases of SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects and Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications and Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and experience in debugging and fixing the bugs and also very good with support and maintenance.  • Expertise in understanding user requirements and translating business requirements into technical solutions with excellent problem solving and troubleshooting capabilities and Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms and Good at Analysis, Designing, Programming, Implementation and Testing techniques. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Maximus - Baltimore, MD July 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution and Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7,2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and Jquery and Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript and Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server side interaction and Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used spring, JDBC and JPA at persistence layer (DAO) and Used Adobe CQ for helping with reusing the components and templates for creating different web pages.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts and Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers and Collaborated with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Analyzed digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite and Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system and Worked in PostgreSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects and Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support and Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code and Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7,2.5, Java 1.7, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, and MAC OSX. Python Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT August 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes and Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef and Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address and Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation and Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Created RDDs, performed analysis and ran queries in Python and Apache Spark based on retrospective and reinsurance groups.  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Performed data analysis, feature selection, feature extraction using Apache Spark Machine Learning streaming libraries in Python.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed and Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multi-threading has been used  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular JS and Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box and Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL and Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Experience in performing signal processing and machine learning algorithm development for a variety of programs and Implemented RS232 and TCP/IP protocols using Python scripting language and Developed SOA Services for transferring data between different applications. And Analyze Format data using Machine Learning algorithm by Python Scikit-Learn.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, Mango DB, RISK management, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, GitHub. Python Developer Trustwave Holdings - Chicago, IL February 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling and Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python and Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.    Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, PyQt, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, AJAX, Shell scripting, GitHub, agile, Jira, SQL, T-SQL and Windows. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython.  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, React, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js  Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  Methodologie: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.  JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS