PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - CYMER INC San Diego, CA • Over 5 years of professional IT experience in Analysis, Design, Database development using python and Django.  • Experienced in web application development using python, Django and web technologies(HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, XML and Javascript) to create scalable and robust common components which can be used across the whole framework.  • Designed tools using python and web services like Flask.  • Familiar with JSON based web services.  • Experience in developing complex SQL queries, Stored procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and packages along with performing DDL and DML commands on database.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using python and Linux.  • Knowledge on Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience in automation deployment systems like Ansible.  • Well acquainted with Software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Experience Amazon web services such as EC2, Redshift.  • Writing and developing scripts for automation tasks such as Jenkins and Unix shell scripting.  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and Amazon web services.  • Exposure working with virtual machines and containers with Vagrant, Virtual Box and Docker.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test-driven Development (TDD) with PyUnit, PyTest modules.  • Experience in executing Field Test Plan for Full, Regression and Sanity test scenarios.  • Experience in Automation working on python scripting for Log Analysis Specific tools.  • Experience with Design, code and debug operations utilizing python.  • Exposure to wireless technologies like CDMA, LTE, VOLTE, SRLTE, CSFB on mobile devices.  • Exposure to Wireless and Telecommunication Protocols and testing tools like QXDM, APEX, LAF, KPI-ATS, QMI.  • SQL exposure with experience in DDL and DML commands.  • Experience in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev.  • Fixing code bugs and reverting the code changes in production, setup data load and scripts automated build process.  • Experience in configuration management using GIT, GitHub and Perforce for peer review.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER CYMER INC July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing scripts for python based automation tool that triggers a set of scripts based on user supplied analysis configuration file that automates end-to-end log analysis.  • Developed scenarios which are grouped as sub-systems for analysis and parsing of the mobile communication events and messages in an order to validate against the expected call flow to check for any failure.  • Developed a WRAPPER module which is a collection of python scripts that is triggered by user-defined keywords that represent separate test area and generates reports.  • Worked on LAF, a python based framework that automates end-to-end log analysis. Developed scenarios that parses a series of metrics to determine the call flow success or failure and print the causes and reasons in a. laf file format.  • Modified existing scenario codes to suit the changing industry standards for mobile communication metric.  • Worked on the SQLite DB which is the backend for the automation tool.  • Wrote python scripts to automate mundane jobs like renaming hundreds of logs after tester collects them, working with excel, xml sheets to copy the data in a specific order/format.  • Worked extensively on python's Pattern matching, regular expressions.  • Developed python scripts using plotly to create plots and graphs for consumer demonstration.  • Worked on modules like argparse, os, gc, multiprocessing, datetime.  • Worked on automation python scripts for parsing ISF files and Exposure to sql commands as part of extracting key performance indicators from the ISF logs.  • Developed a wrapper module which reads a config file, copies the files from server to local machine, unzips the logs and creates an analysis config based on JSON file and submit the processing jobs to the log parsing tool.  • Responsible for maintaining the crowd sourced scripts within a structure for Nightly Validations occurring before every official release.    Environment: Python, KPI-ATS, LAF, APEX, Perforce, SQLite, JSON PYTHON DEVELOPER CATERPILLAR INC - Peoria, IL January 2016 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Design and maintainence of databases using Python, Developed python based APIs(RESTful web services using Flask, PostgreSQL.  • Developed an autonomous continuous integration system by using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in python and bash.  • Wrote python scripts in order to parse and load data into database, from XML and JSON files and wrote programs for performance calculations by using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Deployed the project onto Jenkins server and organized the configurations and versions of code using SVN version control system.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up REST APIs and Django.  • Built an AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and interaction with business users during UAT/SIT.  • Designed, developed, implemented and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git and puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Worked with python libraries such as Pandas and matPlotLib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQUERY.  • Migrated Django database from SQLite to MYSQL and PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Merge jobs in python in order to extract and load data into MySQL database and used Test driven approach for developing applications.  • Implemented the unit testing by using python unit testing framework.    Environment: Python 3.2, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, Javascript, jquery, CSS, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell scripting, AWS, Docker, Jenkins. PYTHON DEVELOPER HEWLETT PACKARD, ALBANY February 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Inherited code and rewrote code using advanced features like python exceptions, generators.  • Developed python scripts to parse data using Pandas Data frame and load into JSON format.  • Wrote SQL queries to define data structures and extract data into python data frames.  • Implemented continuous monitoring via watchdog library for user file system and trigger the application in case of any event.  • Setting up email scripts using smtplib to indicate the development activity and for notifying on any assistance deprived behavior.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible for automated build and code coverage reports.  • Experienced with deploying the application image on Docker.  • Deployed Flask Application with nginx and gunicorn on AWS EC2 cloud VM.    Environment: C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux, AWS, Docker, Jenkins, Shell Scripting, Sybase, Perl Scripting, UML, Python 2.6/2.7. PYTHON DEVELOPER DEFENCE ELECTRONICS RESEARCH LABORATORY - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Used python modules for data analytics and computations with NumPy, SciPy.  • Used urllib2 and requests library to scrape data in JSON format and processing it using Pythonlibrary (json) for extracting the data.  • Worked on python requests module and HTTP requests, response, headers.  • Developed PyUnit test scripts for testing the code for increasing efficiency.  • Developed automation tasks using Python, Shell Scripting, XML to automate some of the tasks.    Environment: Python 2.7, Requests Library, MySQLdb, JSON, Linux. Education Bachelors of Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Manipal University Masters of Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering California State University Long beach Skills PYTHON (4 years), SQL (4 years), XML (3 years), LINUX (3 years), AWS (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages C, C++, Java Script, PL/SQL, Python  Frameworks Django, Flask  Version control Git, GitHub, SVN  IDE's/Development tools Pycharm, Eclipse  Web services AWS, Restful web services  Deployment tools Heroku, Jenkins  Testing Frameworks gtest/gmock, jUnit, Manual testing  Client Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, XML  Web Servers Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0  Application Servers JBoss, Weblogic, Websphere  Database Servers Oracle 10g/9i, MS Access  Build Tools Apache Ant, Maven  Database Tools Toad, PL/SQL 7.0/2005/2008/2012 Developer, RDBMS  Platforms Windows 98, 2000, 2003, XP, Vista, Windows, Unix, Linux  Misc. Tools Edit plus 3, Notepad, Notepad++