Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Walmart Bentonville, AR • Having 7+ years of diverse professional experience in planning, designing, developing, Architecting and implementation in Amazon Web Services Cloud, Python and IT industry.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, Reportlab, Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Dojo, HTML, XML, Angular.JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, MatPlotLib, BeautifulSoup, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Sound knowledge in spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans.  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  • Proficient in front and back-end development with experience in Python 3.6, Django, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular2, Angular JS, Node JS and Express JS.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Performed S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customizing the JSON template.  • Utilized Python specific tools including Django, Django Rest Framework, Django ORM, Flask, Requests, Pandas, Numpy, Jupyter, Celery, Gunicorn, and Pipenv.  • Experienced with Python programming and Python libraries for data science included in the Anaconda distribution including NumPy, pandas.  • Provided support to Application and database team, troubleshoot issues encountered while providing support, contact AWS Support whenever necessary.  • Configured and automated various AWS services like EC2 and S3 using Boto ( python sdk).  • Develop AWS Cloud Formation templates (in JSON) to automate infrastructure deployments.  • Experience in Building S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and used S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Deploying application in Docker Container for custom environment and hosting in Elastic Beanstalk.  • Importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Experience in designing and configuring secure VPC through private and public networks in AWS.  • Troubleshoot AWS EC2 Status check including System Status checks and Instance Status check alerts.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3 bucket.  • Build scripts on AWS cloud for scheduling EC2 auto scaling load balancer with python SDK.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Sound experience in working with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Python web application frameworks.  • Extensive experience in developing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Cursors, Collections (Nested tables and Varrays), Records, Object types and Database Triggers.  • Expertise in creating Restful API in NodeJS and communicate with Clojure server via protocol and use Backbone to generate template.  • Good knowledge on Cloud and Virtualization environments such as Azure, Aws, Google Cloud Engine.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Intellij, Spyder, Jupyter Notebook, Anaconda and UBUNTU.  • Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Flask, PHP, Django, XML, JSON, CSS, HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy, MatPlotLib, Beautiful soup, pickle, PySide, SciPy, PyTables.  • Expertise in continuous integration and continuous deployment using build tools like Git, Ant, Maven, and Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Nagios, and Docker.  • Expertise in AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, Subnets, and NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web Applications and database templates.  • Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data center environment to AWS.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR September 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designing and deploying scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS and developed programs using Python, Shell, JavaScript's and CI tools like Jenkins, Maven build tool and IAM roles, VPC subnets, NACL and SGs for EC2 instances and Restful API's developed for Node.JS applications.  • Used Django framework to develop the application and used Python modules such as requests, urlib, and urlib2 for web crawling.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Worked on AWS services running in an environment for sensitive workloads and storing sensitive data.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Performance tuning by analyzing and comparing the turnaround times between SQL and Cognos.  • Experienced in using advanced PostgreSQL/MYSQL features like table partitioning and diverse types of oracle indexing. Backup and Restore experience with PostgreSQL/ MYSQL database backups and point in time recovery.  • Written scripts in Python, Perl, Java to automate log rotation of multiple logs from web servers and for automation and monitoring of AWS services like VPC, ELB, RDS, Lambda, AWS OpsWorks, Cloud Front using Shell and Python scripts and Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy.  • Migrate on premise database to AWS Cloud and designed, built, and deployed a multitude application utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, SNS, and IAM), by focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture along with Django's ORM model.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework and created entire application using Python, Flask, MySQL and Windows.  • Implemented build stage- to build the Micro Service architecture and push the Docker container image to the private Docker registry and Images that are custom built are stored for future use.  • Used several Python libraries such as wxPython, Numpy and matplotlib for representation or plotting of Network Analysis.  • Creating RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Created scripts for system administration using languages such as BASH, Python and Python scripts to automate Cron jobs, system maintenance. Jenkins, Maven for automation.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask and PostgreSQL.  • Created outstanding 'MySQL failover' Linux OS bash scripts encapsulating logic of failover in the -execute-before option, performed masterpiece tuning of various SQL queries after analyzing join costs.  • Built SPA with loading multiple views using route services using Angular2 and NodeJS and involved in automating builds and deployment process using Shell scripting.  • Used jQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Build application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs as well as use RDS for Oracle DB.  • Experience to build CI/CD Pipeline to automate the code release process using Integration tools like Git/SVN, GitHub, Jenkins, Maven and artifacts repo.  • Set up and maintain continuous automated build system with Jenkins, ClearCase and Perl/ Python, Bash scripting and security for instances through VPC, Subnets along with SGs, ELB for critical instances.  • Configuring IAM roles for EC2 instances in ELB and assign them policies granting specific level access to S3 buckets by customizing JSON template designed Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch Infrastructure, Used Code Commit to host secure, scalable private Git repositories.  • Utilized Python, Django, jQuery etc. to design server applications and client interfaces.  • Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Provisioned Lambda for RDS instances for event-based calls to MySQL DB those configured with VPC. Python Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC February 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web-based application.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty Pie Web Framework using Git.  • Collect data that introspects the performance of query and update operations on a MongoDB instance.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  • Used regular expression for faster search results in combination with Angular2 built-in and custom pipes.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3).  • Build Cassandra queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and working with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and had implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  • Implemented token-based authentication (JWT) for all pages and modules using Angular2 Auth Service and Node JS.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX and Used jQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Involved in development of RESTful Web Services for getting and sending data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and created User Interface (UI) using JavaScript, bootstrap, Cassandra with MySQL and HTML/ CSS.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using datamining tools like Numpy, SciPy, Scikitlearn and SQL alchemy.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Utilized the front-end technologies including HTML, CSS, JavaScript to layout the front-end pages.  • Used MongoDB to stored data in JSON format and developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI) and SQL internal admin tools behave Behaviour-driven development (BDD).  • Developed PL-SQL store procedures to convert the data from Oracle to MongoDB and automate report generation in MongoDB using JavaScript, Shell Scripting.  • Created services using Angular JS factory method and used Angular JS $q and promise to handle asynchronous calls.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database and Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release. Python Developer Wells Fargo - Minneapolis, MN May 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed and performed unit testing using JUnit framework in a Test-Driven environment (TDD).  • Creating MongoDB data set backups using system-level file snapshot tool, such as LVM or native storage appliance tools.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view control architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages and Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing jQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented and administered Data center Cassandra Clusters based on the knowledge of architecture and data modeling for Cassandra applications.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  • Performed importing data from various sources to the Cassandra cluster using Python APIs.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Datacentre migration to Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure and provided initial support to Applications and Database teams.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture. Education Bachelor's Skills Python (7 years), Matplotlib (5 years), Django (7 years), NodeJS (7 years), AngularJS (7 years), JQuery (7 years), JSON (7 years), NumPy (7 years), SciPy (5 years), Urlib (6 years), Hibernate (7 years), AWS (7 years), Jenkins (7 years), MAVEN (7 years), Docker (7 years), MongoDB (7 years), Kafka (7 years), JUnit (7 years)