Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Walmart New York, NY, NY ? Over 5+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  ? Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  ? Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  ? Expert in Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python and Django.  ? Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django and Flask frameworks.  ? Proficient in Front end development experience using 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  ? Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  ? Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Pyth, Django, MVC3, Bootstrap, HTML and Angular.js.  ? Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in Amazon AWS Cloud platform and its features.  ? Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python programming language.  ? Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  ? Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  ? Experience in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Experience implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MYSQL.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Implemented configuration changes for data models.  ? Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  ? Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Python Developer Walmart - Potsdam, NY June 2018 to Present Responsibility:-  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration services.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  ? Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  ? Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  ? Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Used Flask framework for application development.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Java, PyUnit, Pandas, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Git, JIRA, Perl, SQL, Agile, windows and Linux. Python Developer Ally Financial - Detroit, MI November 2014 to December 2016 Responsibility: -  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Worked on Python Open stack API's.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  ? Supported user groups by handling target-related software issues/service requests, identifying/fixing bugs.  ? Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Open Stack API, Panda, ANT, Jenkins, Rake, JIRA, Agile, SQL, Windows. Python Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY July 2012 to June 2014 Responsibility: -  ? Built a GC analytic tool using Python, to help clients analyze data and profile risk against a wide spectrum of reinsurance options.  ? Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  ? Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Key performance index and filtering of displayed columns to help customers understanding the analytic data.  ? Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  ? Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  ? Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  ? Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked in an agile development environment.    Environment: Python, PyQT, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Ajax, AWS, JSON, agile, Web Services (SOAP), XML, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Python Education Master's Skills AJAX (4 years), CSS (4 years), HTML. (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), Python (4 years), Git, PHP, Android, ASP, MySQL Additional Information Technical Skills:  ? Languages Python, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL, PHP  ? Python Framework Flask/Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  ? Databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle  ? Web Technologies XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, AJAX  ? Web Services SOAP, REST  ? Methodologies Agile, Scrum  ? Operating Systems Window, UNIX, Linux