Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Comcast • Around 5 years of IT experience as a python developer web/application developer in Django.  • Experienced with full software development life - cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Built the web application by using Python.  • Experience from collecting Business specifications, Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies. Involved in projects using agile and Extreme Programming methodologies.  • Testing a program by running it across test cases to ensure Experience in creating unit test cases and mock objects to ensure validity and effectiveness of code.  • Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis, process flowcharting and documentation.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python.  • Experience in Python  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, Django, and Bootstrap and Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations and deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins  • Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience. Work Experience Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA June 2018 to Present Comcast built the nation's largest Gig-speed network to deliver unrelenting speeds to more businesses in more places. Going beyond with Gig-speed enabled solutions that enhance employee and customer experiences. Comcast Business offers Ethernet, Internet, WiFi, Voice, TV and Managed Enterprise Solutions to help organizations of all sizes transform their business. Powered by the nation's largest gig-speed network and backed by 24/7 customer support, Comcast Business provides companies with the solutions they need to make their business more productive.  Responsibities:  • Design and develop modular tool and micro-services which trigger different workflow which mine data from database.  • Rewrite existing Python modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Maintain all job report and heath of the job. Time by time generate email to all upper management team and associated project developer regarding job status.  • The application will interact numbers of server to get workflow and star mining job.  • If anything has been change in any workflow or any database queries it will detect and start a new job and make a log for it.  • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Actively worked as a team member with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.    Environment: Python 3.4, 2.7, Django1.7, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo DB, Kubernets, Ansible, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, AWS Mongo DB, Flask, Rest API, SDLC, Unix, Soap. Python Developer ECN Networks - GA January 2016 to July 2017 An electronic communication network (ECN) is a type of computerized forum or network that facilitates the trading of financial products outside traditional stock exchanges. An ECN is generally an electronic system that widely disseminates orders entered by market makers to third parties and permits the orders to be executed against in whole or in part.    Responsibities:  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high level design documents.  • Have used Python libraries like NumPy/SciPy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  • Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture (MVC)  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  • Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Part of the development team which is assigned to develop payment transaction and maintain financial reports for the department.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal finance team.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Host all codes in Github repositories.  • Maintain all job report and heath of the job. Time by time generate email to all upper management team and associated project developer regarding job status.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, MySQL, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, Windows, Linux, Apache, Soap. Python Developer Calibrage June 2013 to December 2015 Description:  Calibrage info systems Private Limited is an India based Professional IT Services Company. It is a pioneer in providing consulting, developing and supporting complex IT solutions.    Responsibities:  • Involved development of application's views, models.  • Created tool to generate excel file from reports.  • Involved in test driven development and load testing.  • Checked and validate finished application for testing team.  • Troubleshoot developed projects identify errors and develops solutions.  • Maintained ongoing projects.  • Maintained version control using git.  • Created Automated Test Scripts in Python for Reports and Data extraction jobs.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site  • Rewrite existing Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.    Environment: Python 2.7, NumPy, SciPy, Dockers, Pandas, C++, JSON, Oracle DB, MySQL, DB2, PL/SQL, Hadoop, Apache Hive, Redis, Service now, SIEM systems, Palo Alto, Linux, , Apache Web Server, Django 1.4 Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering University at Buffalo, The State University of New York Skills DJANGO (5 years), LINUX (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), ORACLE (2 years) Additional Information Key Skills    Languages Python 3.0/2.7/2.4  Python Framework Django 1.8.x/1.7.x  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, MAC OS, Ubuntu, Windows  Reporting Tools MS-Word, and MS-PowerPoint