Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cox Automotive New York, NY • Looking for a Python opportunity in the IT industry that will leverage my Technical Skills  ( Python Expertise) to support organizations in successfully leading their strategic initiatives.  • 8 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  • Experience in implementation of Python web frameworks like Django, Flask, Pylons, Web2py and Python Servlet Engine (PSE).  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm and Sublime Text.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction.  • Experience in developing applications using Amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, Cloud Front.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Python and java.  • Excellent experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, web2py web application frameworks.  • Experience in GIT, Jenkins, Continuous Development (CD)/Continuous Integration (CI), General understanding of networking concepts.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as Numpy, SQLAlchemy, matplotlib, Beautiful soup, pickle, Pyside, Scipy, and PyTables.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Extensive experience working in SaaS, IaaS, PaaS.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Good understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML.  • Experienced in using various Hadoop infrastructures such as Map Reduce, Hive, Sqoop, and Oozier.  • Experience with Virtual Machine/Development Environment tools such as Vagrant.  • Worked with various C and C++ tasks, integrated with them using Python.  • Knowledge in R language, Hadoop, big data analytics, ML packages and data mining.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS and Mac OS.  • Versatile with Version control systems including GIT, SVC, and CVS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Cox Automotive - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angularjs, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/sub queries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee, Linux, AWS Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer HCSC - St. Louis, MO December 2014 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala IDE's as per the business requirement.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and SciPy.  • Developed Python and Pyspark programs for data analysis on MapR, Cloudera, Hortonworks Hadoop clusters.  • Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, cx_Freeze, Pillow, Numpy, sockets.  • Apache Spark Data Frames/RDD's were used to apply business transformations and utilized Hive Context objects to perform read/write operations.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  • Working with Ruby gems such as ruby-pg for Oracle- PostGRE-SQL.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7,.NET, PyQuery, Angular, Node JS, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and Python libraries. Python developer Abbvie - Minneapolis, MN May 2011 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Providing daily reports to the development team and the manager, participate in both the design and development phase.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented Angular JS controllers to maintain each view data.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  • Involved in maintaining and editing Python scripts for application deployment automation.  • Working on various Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Anaconda Spyder.  • Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment. Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy.  • Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django have to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  • Designed Restful Web services using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTP Auth with HTTPS.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Creating Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  • Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Analyze the data using the Daily reports and work based on the requirement and targets, which discussed in the stand-up meetings.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, Restful web service, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, AWS (EC2, S3), PyUnit, Karma, Jenkins, Selenium. Education Bachelor's