Sr. PYTHON DEVELOPER Sr. <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Sr. PYTHON DEVELOPER - AbbVie Redwood City, CA • Over 6+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js.  • 3+ years of QA experience working in environment with different types of Software Development Life Cycle and Software Testing Methodology.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting's Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in developing service oriented architecture (SOA) and web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL and UDDI.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Expertise in writing cloud computing applications using ruby.  • Had knowledge on continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins, Docker.  • Experience working with network protocols SNMP, NetConf.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, Cloud Front.  • Used R Language among statisticians and data miners for developing statistical software and data analysis.  • Expertise in operating Symantec Altiris Remote Agent to remotely fix problems.  • Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles and Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services  • Experienced in understanding Service Virtualization needs/ Requirements & creating VSI's using WSDL, WADL, Recording, Request & Response pairs.  • Expertise in creating Restful API in NodeJS and communicate with Clojure server via protocol and use Backbone to generate template.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Strong hands-on on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring  • Experienced in understanding Service Virtualization needs/ Requirements & creating VSI's using WSDL, WADL, Recording, Request & Response pairs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. PYTHON DEVELOPER AbbVie - Redwood City, CA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty Pie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  • Designed a tool called NetConf (Network configuration) which automatically configures network switches by parsing XML files.  • Tested the functionality with BDD methodology through a Unit Testing (used RSpec & Capybara)  • Worked as primary liaison between Virtualization and EUC teams to deliver the highest quality experience for the user community.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  • Responsible design and development of user portal using Ruby on Rails framework.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3)  • Wrote and tested Python scripts to create new data files for Linux server configuration using a Python template tool.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database and Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Developing the dashboard using Bootstrap, CSS and Ruby  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Worked with Boto3 as interface for AWS API and TensorFlow to make numerical computations using data flow graphs.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser and Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications. PYTHON DEVELOPER TDBANK - Franklin, NC June 2014 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  • Used Test driven approach(TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Datacenter migration to Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure and provided initial support to Applications and Database teams.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawlings.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Designed front-end applications using Rails 4.0, CSS, AJAX and JQuery.  • Used RSpec to create test driven development. Experience with most of the GEMS and libraries for this version of the ruby/rails.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser and Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWSarchitecture.  • Involved in the implementation of analysis, optimization, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN networking systems.  • Configuring, Maintaining, and Monitoring Hadoop Cluster using Cloudera Manager (CDH5) distribution.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Developed and modified programs, primarily using Ruby on Rails, with JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, and JQuery enhanced with CRUD operations using MVC.  • Created SQL Scripts for data loads and Upgrades for data migrations and data validations.  • Develop entire backend and frontend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Created test cases during two week sprints using agile methodology. PYTHON DEVELOPER American Express - Phoenix, AZ August 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Utilized Agile software development methodologies including pair programming, continuous integration, and scrum events.  • Developed and performed unit testing using JUnit framework in a Test-Driven environment (TDD).  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Involved in server setup & code deployment on Linux platforms.  • Implemented and managed penetration testing, vulnerability assessment and Symantec Altiris Patch Management tools in a client server model.  • Developed most of the application part in Linux environment and very much familiar with all its commands.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages and Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing jQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked effectively with Postgres and its associate components pertaining to Ruby on Rails.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages and Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing jQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Using Rails and JQuery to develop and hosting on AWS.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX and Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Continuous monitoring and managing the Hadoop cluster using Cloudera Manager.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and Worked on configuring TCP/IP, network interface, assigning static routes and hostnames.  • Developed many features for dashboard using Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript (J2EE).  • Installed/Configured/Maintained Apache Hadoop clusters for application development and Hadooptools, including: Hive, Pig, HBase, Zookeeper and Sqoop.  • Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view control architecture.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed the project in Linux environment and involved in support for teams for projects across.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (5 years), Django (5 years), JavaScript. (5 years), jQuery (5 years), Linux (5 years), Python, Flask, Javascript, Java, C Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, Pyjamas, Jython, Iron Python, Cpython.  • Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, React, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js  • Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  • Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  • Methodologies: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.  • JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS