Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer New York, NY • Around 6 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Flask.  • Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Expert in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Java.  • Worked on several python packages like NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, PyTables etc.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, Spyder and Intellij.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications Flask.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Development and implementation of various standalone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Expertise in creating RESTful and SOAP web services.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Python, Bash Shell scripting.  • Good Knowledge over Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python.  • Front end development experience using HTML, CSS, Jquery and JSON.  • Experience in Agile development techniques.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX, LINUX Kernels, SVN, GIt, JIRA, and Bugzilla.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST, server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Worked in the team and faced challenges during the project development and production process.  • Excellent communication and time management skills. Work Experience Python Developer Royal Bank of Canada - New York, NY November 2014 to Present Project brief:  Working on web applications that provide efficient checkout process, with minimize wait times and increase productivity to reduce operational costs.    Responsibilities:  • Wrote and maintained sites for day to day use for the company including Word and Excel parser to save man hours for the operations of the company.  • Wrote several scripts that bug tracked day to day operations, a site to show all errors from every site as a dashboard, and maintained notifications to the other IT Department for any errors that occurred.  • All applications were developed with Python, Django, and PostgreSQL using JIRA(Agile) methodology.  • Added retry mechanism to API calls using jQuery deferred object and accumulative recursion.  • Design and documentation of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain.  • Actively Working on: Comprehensive monitoring architecture for Lodging Operations support application, Development and maintenance of Lodging Operations support application.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of Data.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django:  • Improved page load time by 60 times.  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format.  • Able to scrape data from external sources and put them into a central database.  • Expertise in Python scripts to phase XML documents and load the data in database.  • Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Web service integration: customized & integrated med-fusion secure practice portal's Secure Message Web.  • Integrated the user-facing elements developed by front-end developer with server side logic.  • Evangelized the use of web services as a way to implement application integrations.  • Designed and implemented web application server.  • Wrote Junit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git. Python Developer Dell Computers - Dallas, TX September 2012 to November 2014 Project Brief:  Dell has a large base of enterprise customers, mainly companies purchasing servers, storage and networking solutions. Our team was responsible for storing the clickstream data on Dell's enterprise product websites. We used Hadoop to store & process the data and run both predictive and descriptive analytics on the collected data.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Used python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS, Adobe flash.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed application using Amazon Web Service like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, S#, Cloud FronDeploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge).  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used Python andDjango to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh, ksh, and Bash for day-to-day administration.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP Python Developer Zebra Technologies - SanJose, CA, US June 2011 to September 2012 Project Brief:  Responsible for managing the interchange of data between the server and the users. My primary focus was to the development of all server-side logic, ensuring high performance and responsiveness to requests from the front-end.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Coding in Python (Linux, MySQL) environment.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7. Used the Django Framework to develop the application. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from CSV files.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Set up rules and policies with a Python back end.  • Worked with Openstack Command-line client.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce). Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows and Mac.  Web technologies: JSON, XML, HTML, CSS  Web Frameworks & Technologies: Django, REST  Languages: Python, J2EE, SQL, Shell Scripting, UML, JSP.  Database: SQLite3, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Jenkins.  Application Servers: Apache Tomcat servers, Coherence server.  Modeling Tools: MVC, Flask, Struts  Software Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio, MS Visio, IBM Big Fix, Perforce, Code Collaborator, Matlab.