Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - APPLE Inc Sunnyvale, CA • Over 8+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications and Hands on experience on python scripting, Django, flask, angular JS, javascript and Node.js.  • Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types and Web application development using Python 3.x/2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, WSGI, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, JSON, and template languages.  • Hands-on experience in Python STL, UI and web development and Proficient in web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • PHP, XML, DHTML, CSS, BOOTSTRAP, JSON, JQuery and JavaScript are used in development of various web application.  • Working knowledge of error and exception handling debugging using PDB, Eclipse, and Pycharm.  • Experience in using Eclipse, Pycharm, Pyscripter and Sublime Text while developing different application.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Understanding server Apache Tomcat, Nginx, Web logic, WebSphere etc and Worked with bug tracking tools like BUGZILLA, and JIRA.  • Excellent knowledge on numPy, sciPy and Ipython and Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Worked with different database servers like MySQL, MSSQL,Oracle etc and Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL database.  • Great knowledge on Version control tools like CVS, GITHUB, SVN and Having knowledge of Amazon AWSEC2,S3, SQS ,RDS, SNS etc.  • Worked with Agile and Waterfall methodologies and Analyzing functional requirement and implement the workflow of establishing a CDN service on various providers using Python.  • Proficient in building automated test scripts using Witbe tool using python and Experienced in automating test case design, development, test status and metrics reporting.  • Efficient in demonstrating all phases of software development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects along with the development of marketing material such as flyers, presentations, case studies.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer APPLE Inc - Sunnyvale, CA September 2015 to Present Descriptions: Working on web applications that provides end to end protocol at ExtraHop component, and generate the SSL certificate to particular hostnames. All the hostnames saved into SQL developer database.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on live application Caesar which is same as Jira for ticket generate and track all the records of the assigned work.  • Based on this application user can make new request and update request for particular task.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and Developed with Python 3.x and Django 1.9 web frame work.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and Used Apache2 web services for these Caesar application.  • Experience with working on Linux server and Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer clusters.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, Ajax, jQuery.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Imported SSL certs from other hosts to new host and properly configured Apache to use certs.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, shutil, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Python-gitlab.  • Used gitlab distributed version control tool to coordinate team development.    Environment:  Python 3.x, Django 1.9, Java script, Radar client, CSS, HTML, HTTP, jQuery, JSON, Oracle SQL developer, REST, Shell scripting, Apple web services, Apache2, Gitlab, Sublime, Pycharm, XML. Python Developer Dell - Austin, TX November 2013 to August 2015 Description: Integration of Dell Remote Access Controllers 7 (iDrac) FSDAF website, user can submit certification files, that will be review and validate by administrators, using Django and iDrac report website, users can launch tests and scripts from a website without the need to have libraries, software etc. in their computer with Django.    Responsibilities:  • Design, code, analyze and execute integration and test applications and Assist in the upgrade and perform build verification testing.  • Perform test designing, planning and execution and defect analysis and Perform automation testing, build verification testing.  • Used Py_Excel for creating nice reports with Graphs, colors, and styles.  • Develop scripts so for a given IP, establish remote connection and launch commands remotely. Useful for investigating client issues.  • Created few miscellaneous tools to convert csv to excel and automate daily base activities.  • Automated reports for all kind of activities and Prototype proposal for Issue Tracker website using Python/Django connecting MySQL as Database.  • Administration of Linux machine and configured Apache python mod to host the website and Jira Implementation (20,000 user) and Jira Customization, Issue Scheme, Workflow, Screen schemes  • Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database (Matching Fields) with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  • Help with "hosting" decision such Amazon web services, Rackspace, internal host, etc. and Creation of virtual machines and setting up Jira for testing purposes using Python scripts and Jira to Excel Reporting Tool  • Pull information from Jira using REST API and Python to populate excel files for management reports  • Designed the User Interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX for the website.  • Frontend and Backend modules were created using Python on Django framework.  • Used Redis cache for storing commonly used info and propagate the changes using RabbitMQ.  • Developed Python code for instantiating multi-threaded application and running with other applications and Designed and developed Database management using MYSQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdB package and Created Unit test framework for new codes.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scraping. Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system. Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting issues and Implemented Web Services using SOAP for sending and receiving data from external interface in XML format.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Maintaining the scripts using the SVN version Control and Maintaining customer database using MS EXCEL.    Environment: Python, C++, Java, Java Script, UML, JSON, XML, Tomcat, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Java Script, Eclipse, Unix, Linux. Python Developer Trustwave Holdings - Chicago, IL January 2011 to October 2013 Description: Regulatory and compliance issues gave rise to high volume of intercompany transactions. Aim of this project was to streamline of trade processing systems and reduce volume of intercompany transactions for US Equities, Foreign Exchange (FX) and Credit and Equity Derivative group and phase II of project was to support the finance organization for budget forecast and actual reporting using the Python-based web applications.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling and Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python and Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in Postgre SQL.    Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, PyQt, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, AJAX, Shell scripting, GitHub, agile, Jira, SQL, T-SQL and Windows. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: Python, c, c++, java, PL/SQL  Frameworks: Django, flask, celery, fabric  Database: MYSQL, SQL, celery, fabroic  Developer tools: Pyscripter, Pycharm, Eclipse, Sublime text  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Javascript, XML, AJAX, Jquery, Angular JS.  Verison control tools: GIT, SVN, CVS  Defect Tracking software: JIRA, PVCS, Quality Center  Test Management Software: Test Rail, Quality Center, ALM.  Document Repository: Sharepoint, Confluence  Servers: Apache, Websphere, weblogic, Tomcat  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows