Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fossil Group ? Over 5 years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, implementation and testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software using Python, Django in various domains.  ? Experienced in developing MVC based web applications using Django, Flask and Pyramid Frameworks.  ? Experienced in developing Applications using Python 3.5/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8/1.7, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and Node.js by following W3C standards.  ? Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, Beautiful Soup, ReportLab, Pandas dataframe, urllib2, etc.  ? Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Django and PySpark.  ? Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  ? Working experience on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services like EC2, S3, EBS, RDS, VPC, and IAM.  ? Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine  ? Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  ? Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities and Shell Scripting, Perl, SQL Server.  ? Experienced in Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  ? Experience with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  ? Leveraging queueing architectures with RabbitMQ, Celery, Kafka for scalability, performance and building. Have good knowledge on No-SQL databases like MongoDB.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Good experience in creating and designing data ingest pipelines using technologies such as Apache Storm- Kafka.  ? Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  ? Experienced in working on Python Testing frameworks like Zope, PyTest, Nose and Robot framework.  ? Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data center environment to AWS.  ? Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront.  ? Experience with most layers of AWS offerings and integration, and migration of existing solutions into virtualized hosting environments  ? Understanding of Python best practices (PEP-8). Quality of source code is improved by using Pylint.  ? Experience in working with application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere  ? Experienced in writing Junit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  ? Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and subversion SVN.  ? Expertise in using Application Deployments & Environment configuration using Chef. Hands on experience on Automation/Build such as Docker, Chef.  ? Having experience in Water Fall, Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and Sprints. experience in a Python based environment.  ? Experience with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, SQLite  ? Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  ? Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills, Efficient Time Management and Organization Skills, ability to handle Multiple-Tasks and work well in a Team-Environment.  ? Profound experience in cross platform application development and maintenance like Linux, Windows, and MAC.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  ? Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js and Projects UI Designing Team.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software test life cycle (STLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  ? Professional in designing, developing and enhancing automated test scripts for Selenium using Python.  ? Excellent working knowledge of designing & implementation of all QA test strategy plans manually and automated Test solutions for Client/server and Web applications with Selenium WebDriver.  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  ? Hands on UML compliant high-level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.    CORE TECH SKILLS  ? Python, Django, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, React.JS Backbone.js, D3.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, jQuery, Dojo, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Homebrew, C, C++. Work Experience Python Developer Fossil Group - Richardson, TX September 2017 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Responsible for development of infrastructure automation in AWS (EC2, DynamoDB, Lambda, EBS, RDS, Dynamo, ELB, EIP etc.) with AWS CloudFormation.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Developed front end using Angular 2.0, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JSON, Angular 2.0, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM and Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  ? Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery using Jenkins, GitHub and Docker.  ? Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular 2.0 and jQuery.  ? Used Spark-Streaming APIs to perform necessary transformations and actions on the fly for building the common learner data model which gets the data from Kafka in near real time and Persists into Cassandra.  ? Used Django-celery with the help of RabbitMQ message broker for large processing.  ? Worked on Big Data infrastructure for batch processing and real-time processing using Apache Spark. Built scalable distributed Hadoop cluster running Hortonworks Data Platform.  ? Responsible for design and development of Spark SQL Scripts based on Functional Specifications.  ? Build back-end application with Python / Django, work with Docker, RabbitMQ, Celery, Jenkins.  ? Used PySpark to transform Terabytes of Legal Data in a distributed manner using Data Cloud Instances.  ? Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  ? Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  ? Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js Angular 2.0 and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file. Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Configured deployed and maintained multi-node Dev and Test Kafka Clusters and implemented data ingestion and handling clusters in real time processing using Kafka.  ? Working with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  ? Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Config, Auto scaling, CloudFront, IAM and DynamoDB  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data. Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  ? Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  ? Implemented and worked on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  ? Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB and Django.  ? Used PostgreSQL as database deployed on remote node deployed as docker service.  ? Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  ? Used Vagrant tool to test chef cookbooks, puppet modules in different virtual environments like VMware or AWS. Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and WebLogic.  ? Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using Restful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  ? Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer. Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  ? Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to use Git for source control  ? Used GitHub repository for version control.  ? Used REST Webservices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  ? Extensively worked on Application servers like WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Oracle, PL/SQL, MS-SQL, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Homebrew, Windows XP, Linux Python Developer SunTrust - Atlanta, GA April 2016 to August 2017 Accountabilities:  ? Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Wrote Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resourcing. Built application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs also using RDS for Oracle DB.  ? Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python. Created data access modules in python.  ? Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, React.JS. Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/React.JS.  ? Spark Streaming collects data from Kafka in near-real-time and performs necessary transformations and aggregation to build the common learner data model and stores the data in NoSQL store (MongoDB).  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML5, CSS3, Angular, jQuery and REST Services  ? Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  ? Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST service hosted on AWS using API Gateway and used DynamoDB.  ? Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  ? Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  ? Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, REDIS as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  ? Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Importing and exporting tera bytes of data using Sqoop and real time data using Flume and Kafka.  ? Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  ? Developed Apache Spark applications by using spark for data processing from various streaming sources.  ? Designed and built a reporting module that uses Apache Spark SQL to fetch and generate reports.  ? Developed existing network mapping microservices using python map and deployed it on kubernetes  ? Responsible for developing an internal chat application using python web-sockets. Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  ? Build integration with many third parties, making heavy use of asynchronous processing with Celery and Rabbit MQ.  ? Designed and built automated infrastructure using open source tools like Dockers, Jenkins.  ? Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6 and PostgreSQL for the database.  ? Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  ? Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side. Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and jQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Implemented web based front-end using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, and AngularJS. Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and jQuery.  ? Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  ? Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  ? Developed Backend for Applications in Python, Docker, Django, REST, MongoDB, MySQL, Linux.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture. Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server-side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Rich UI development experience and well versed in client-side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI.  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Used BackboneJS, Node.js, Bootstrap and other JavaScript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  ? Used jQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Performed testing with RSpec, FactoryGirl, Capybara, and Selenium. Performed Continuous Integration with Jenkins.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, Homebrew, APT, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven. Python Developer Dell - Round Rock, TX May 2013 to March 2016 Accountabilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Worked closely with DevOps team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Maven and GIT.  ? Made the application responsive using Bootstrap.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and extensively used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data. Worked on containerizing OpenStack services in Docker using ansible.  ? Used Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  ? Used Celery/RabbitMQ (Asynchronous task queue based on distributed message passing and RabbitMQ works as a broker) to distribute the workload between machines in Django application.  ? To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  ? Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts. Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO. Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database. Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  ? Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython. Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping. Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like jQuery.  ? Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  ? Used Adobe Experience manager for building websites, mobile apps and forms.  ? Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface  ? Worked on various UI technologies like JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  ? Made the web pages Responsive using jQuery UI and bootstrap, which can be operated in both PC's and Mobiles.  ? Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  ? Gained good working experience on DevOps Environment by working on various technologies/applications like Ansible, Chef, GIT, SVN, Jenkins, Docker.  ? Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with Responsive Web Design (RWD) to support the web page in Mobile browser as well.  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate. Used Bootstrap along with CSS to design web-pages by HTML.  ? Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON. Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool for building archive files and snapshots for all applications.  ? Added analytics and tagging functionality for all the existing pages to track all the user actions using JavaScript.  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.  ? Created Test strategy, Test plan, execution plan and Identified test data requirements. Worked on major bug fixes, which included UI issues and functionality issues as well    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, NetBeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing. Education Bachelor's Skills DB2 (4 years), MYSQL (5 years), ORACLE (2 years), SQL (5 years), JBOSS (4 years), html, javascript Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  ? SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio, Windows, Linux, Unix