Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cisco Systems San Jose, CA, CA • Over 6+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python and R.  • Skilled and experienced in business analysis and development, software development and testing.  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, use case development, Prototyping, Business Process Modeling. Extensively used UML to develop various use cases, sequence diagrams, swim lane diagrams.  • Development, focused on requirements definition, design and delivery of Products using small teams. Strong analytical abilities and experience in troubleshooting business critical Environments.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Postgres) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Performed descriptive and multivariate statistical analysis of data using Matlab.  • Extensive development experience using different IDE's - Eclipse, sublime text, Toad.  • Experienced in working with different databases - Oracle, MySQL.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, , tables, views, triggers.  • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates usingCSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, jQuery.  • Experience with IDE like Eclipse, JBossDevStudio, WSAD, RAD, NetBeans and MySQLWorkbench.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Doubled campaign response rates with predictive models in R. Used random forest algorithm to help identify loyal customers and predict the likelihood of customers buying a recommended product.  • Created customized reports in Tableau for data visualization.  • Expert in developing marketing material such as flyers, presentations, case studies, presentations.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented  programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented. Work Experience Python Developer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA January 2017 to Present Description: APIs and web-service integration. Familiarity with version control systems (Git/GitHub or Subversion) . Familiarity with testing and debugging code. Ability to work autonomously; self-disciplined. Ability to communicate technical requirements to business teams and translate business requirements into technical requirements.  Responsibilities:    • Created a custom CMS built using Django, Restful APIs, with jQuery AJAX components, worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS.  • Maintenance of PHP/MySQL.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Using django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • AJAX with jQuery  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashovers stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from.  • Imported SSL certs from other hosts to new host and properly configured Apache to use certs.  • Used Apache .htaccess to provide authentication system for PHP/MySQL sites  • Experience using mod_rewrite to create SEO friendly links.  • Creating complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Deployed internal wiki (PHP dokowiki) and ticketing system (Zope - Python, IssueTrackerProduct) to help document and manage tasks.    Environment: Erwin, Python, JavaScript jQuery AJAX Python Developer Applied Micro - Sunnyvale, CA September 2014 to December 2016 Description:Using large data sets to find opportunities for product and process optimization and using models to test the effectiveness of different courses of action. Using a variety of data mining/data analysis methods, using a variety of data tools, building and implementing models, using/creating algorithms and creating/running simulations. Proven ability to drive business results with their data-based insights. Passion for discovering solutions hidden in large data sets and working with stakeholders to improve business outcomes.    Responsibilities:  • Work with stakeholders throughout the organization to identify opportunities for leveraging company data to drive business solutions.  • Mine and analyze data from company databases to drive optimization and improvement of product development, marketing techniques and business strategies.  • Assess the effectiveness and accuracy of new data sources and data gathering techniques.  • Develop custom data models and algorithms to apply to data sets.  • Use predictive modeling to increase and optimize customer experiences, revenue generation, ad targeting and other business outcomes.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, Backbone.js and Ajax.  • Developed a module using Spring-REST consumed by the IVR Service to obtain the claim registration details from LDAP. Implementation of front end JSP/JSF and backing beans.  • Installed Apache, JBoss, and MySQL databases for test and deployment environment.  • Written Dynamic Script creating Procedure which generates Trigger for Update and Delete Operations for Auditing Purpose for all the Database tables.  • Develop processes and tools to monitor and analyze model performance and data accuracy.  • Implemented discretization and binning, data wrangling: cleaning, transforming, merging and reshaping data frames.  • Determined optimal business logic implementations, applying best design patterns.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Python Developer McKesson Technology - Minneapolis, MN July 2013 to August 2014 Description: This project required to build a web application framework in the form of a set of Python libraries for simulating power systems behavior with emphasis on cost-benefit analysis of emerging technologies. The framework is highly flexible and can be customized to reflect user's feeder network, technological inputs, weather variations and other factors. Based on user selected inputs, various analysis results (for example changes in power flow for selected input) are displayed as self-explanatory graphs and charts. The project required to develop a back end with sql and oracle.    Responsibilities:  • Developed various functionalities for one of the major models of the system  • Developed understanding of Department of Energy's existing tool Gridlab-d in order to troubleshoot and fix some issues. Gridlab-d is USDE's powerful analysis tool that examines in detail the interplay of every part of a distribution system.  • Gathered and clarified requirements with business analyst to feed into high-level customization design, development and installation phases.  • Used various python libraries and JSON to extract right data simulated from gridlab-d for various feeder networks for further analysis  • Built various charts and graphs to demonstrate power systems behavior changes depending on user's input - used JavaScript high charts for visualization  • Worked on various JavaScript validation issues (used regular expressions)  • Worked on packaging and distribution for the application framework.  • Back-end development of enhancements and customizations to the database scripts, triggers, stored procedures.  • Responsible for the dealing with the problem, bug fixing and troubleshooting.  • Worked with Oracle for executing queries and stored procedures for testing data persistence. Assisted in production support; prepared daily batch monitoring report; dealt with clients for processing files.    Environment: Python, Gridlab, Github, CSS, HTML and Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), AJAX (4 years), jQuery (4 years), PHP, Javascript, MySQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Requirement Management Tools UML, IBM Rational Requisite Pro  Project management tools Microsoft Project 2010  Databases Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL, SQL  Testing Tools/QA HP quality center, JIRA  Business Modelling Tools Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose  Presentation Tools Microsoft PowerPoint, PPTPlex, Prezi, Microsoft word  Statistical analysis software Microsoft Excel (Super user), JMP PRO by SAS, Enterprise Miner, Tableau, UCINET, NodeXL, jupyter  Development Languages Java, C, C++, Python  Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, Java Script, Shell Scripting, Struts, Spring Core, Hibernate, JQuery  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, sublime text  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Github