Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Amazon Little Elm, TX • Experienced Python Developer with proficiency in Design & Development of Python 2.7, Django.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Good exposure in building CMS using tool Saas.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT)IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Hands on Experience in working in CSS, CMS, HTML.  • Extensive experience working in SaaS, IaaS, PaaS.  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Extensive experience in developing enterprise web applications using Python, PHP4 and PHP5, Flask, Jinja2, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA September 2015 to Present • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project).  • Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT)IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  • Performed web testing and automated testing using Selenium in the test environment and opened bugs in the bug tracking tool.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT)IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Knowledge of the Server, Network, and Hosting Environment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Experience with configuration management and related tools like Puppet.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Familiar with JSON based also Used Django APIs for database access  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge).  • Worked onpython based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools  • Experience in Cassandra Database Configurations and its C++ client libQtCassandra.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Used ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer Rockwell Automation - Cleveland, OH September 2013 to February 2014 • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Personal management, error/exception management etc.).  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++.  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design  • Designed, automated the process of installation and configuration of secure DataStax Enterprise Cassandra using chef.  • Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Junit, Maven, and Spring.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Subversion, Adobe Flash, Apache, Phusion Passenger, Windows XP (development), Linux (hosted RedHat/Ubuntu). Python Developer Vocera - San Jose, CA September 2012 to August 2013 • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Involved in UI refactoring that involves extensive use of Ajax  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Good exposure in building CMS using tool Saas.  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Django, UI and web development.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases..  • Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.JS.  • Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Django 1.5, HTML5/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, Pyramid, MySQL, MS SQL, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, Linux, Shell Scripting, SaaS, IaaS, PaaS. Python Developer Starbucks - Seattle, WA July 2011 to August 2012 • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production. Worked extensively on Multi-threading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT  • Deployment and testing of the applications.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Good exposure in building CMS using tool Saas.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++.  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Worked in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of rail docs and have them running in the design team for project structure.    • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Environment: MySql, Git, RSpec, Selenium, Inactive, Amazon Web Services, Python. Education Masters in Computer Science Steven's Intitute of Technology Btech in Information technology Meenakshi Sundararanjan Engg College