Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ellie May • Results oriented Software Engineer with 7+ years experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, and Implementation of various internet-based applications. Proficient in a variety of platforms, languages like Python, Java using various frameworks like Django, Flask, Spring, Hibernate.  • Experiencein Design, Development, Testing, Automation, Enhancement and Maintenance of Applications and Tools.  • Experienced in developing web-based application using Python, Django, FLASK, java, J2EE, spring  • Worked on several standard Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib, Pickle, Beautiful Soup, PyGtk Python-twitter, NetworkX, urllib2, MySQL dB etc.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Worked on several python packages like NumPy, Scipy, pytables etc.  • Having good experience in Hadoop Big Data processing. Expertise in developing the queries in Hive, Pig  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Perl and Shell scripting.  • Experience with Version Control, ideally SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Familiar with REST and AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of Storage and Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Oracle. Expertise in SQL stored queries.  • Experience working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experienced in Agile and Waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Expert in using Django Authentication system, Django templating system, creating models and forms.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Assisted in Developing testing plans and procedures for Unit testing/Test Driven Development.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django  • Experience with different IDE's like Sublime Text, Jet Brains PyCharm and Visual Studio.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, communications and Interpersonal Skills, ability to work under strict deadlines.  • Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and also to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g. Have good knowledge on No-Sql databases like Cassandra, Mongodb  • Setup hosting on Amazon webservices EC2 instance and used Amazon SES for email delivery. Work Experience Python Developer Ellie May - Pleasanton, CA January 2017 to Present Description - Ellie Mae, Inc. is a software company that processes 35% of U.S. mortgage applications. The services are based on a software as a service model (SaaS) that streamlines and automates the process of originating and funding new mortgage loans and facilitating regulatory compliance.    • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Expertise in Python and Django Framework to develop application.  • Creation of REST Webservices for the management of data using Apache CXF.  • Experience with working on Linux server & Used pyGtk, wxPython python libraries.  • Worked on Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Made use of advanced python packages like NumPy, Scipy for various sophisticated numerical and scientific calculations.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Experience with Apache Kafka JMS and Rabbit MQ as the message-oriented middleware.  • Designed and Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2 & Used NetBeans IDE to develop the application.  • Implemented Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision slaves to Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Knowledge or experience of agile development (e.g. XP, SCRUM, Kanban) and continuing integration.  • Strong understanding of Messaging Middleware concepts, usage and application Experience in TCP/IP networking  • Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Responsible design and development of user portal using Ruby on Rails framework.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts Framework & Experience in Python open stack API's.  • Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  • Used Pandas datamining library for statistics Analysis &NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Extensive Experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer clusters.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Built various graphs using Matplotlib package which helped in taking business decisions  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Hands-on experience in building web and enterprise applications in various domains like Health, Banking/Financial Services, Insurance, Public Sector, and Software Service verticals.  • Worked on automation using the Python scripting language, Git on Cygwin32 and XML.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Developed Dimensional logical and physical data models using Toad Data Modeler.  • Developed ETL code using Oracle10.2.1, PL/SQL stored procedures and functions to filter and migrate an entire operating companies Data Warehouse.  • Expertise in configuration management automation tools such as Chef, Puppet and Salt, HTML, SASS, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript used to create UI for the website.  • Experience in working with configuration management tools like PUPPET and ANSIBLE jQuery and AJAX call used for more interactive web pages. Ensured quality versioning with GIT.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and PySpark.  • Worked on monitoring tools like Nagios, Zabbix, AWS Cloud Watch to health check the various deployed resources and services.  • Created cloud service using AWS, managed Virtual machines and websites using AWS-EC2, ELB, Autoscaling, Lambda.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using JENKINS & Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles and Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and PySpark.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON and involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.    Buzzwords: Python, Django, Oracle, Linux, REST, PyChecker, PyCharm, Sublime, HTML, jinja2, SASS, Bootstrap, Java script, jQuery, JSON, Shell scripting, GIT. Python Developer American Express - New York, NY March 2015 to November 2016 Description - The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Three World Financial Center in New York City.    • Used Python, Django and Pyramid frameworks to develop applications and responsible for both back-end programming and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, Angular.JS, and other technologies.  • Built a new CI pipeline and performed testing and deployment automation with Docker, Jenkins, and Puppet.  • Redesigned and redeployed the Nagios implementation. Nodes automatically added/removed themselves via Puppet.  • Used AJAX for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Implemented business logic using Python 2.x and used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVT (Model View Template) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL and MySQL.  • Set up and maintain CI infrastructure to streamline build process, unit tests, functional tests, integration tests and artifacts deployments.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Ant and Maven as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HTTP Unit, Selenium IDE for testing  • Implemented SqlAlchamy (ORM) which is a python library for complete access over SQL as python objects.  • Enhanced Configuration Management using (PUPPET) to assist automated, repeatable configurations and application deployments.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Responsible for the building and deploying the artifacts into DEV, QA and PROD Environments  • Created GIT configuration record for builds using derived objects generated during build audit process.  • Used JIRA as Issue Tracking Tool & Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages and AngularJS for Single page application.  • Have good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Have good idea about development tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developing the dashboard using Bootstrap, CSS and Ruby  • Developed tools using python, Shell Scripting, XML to automate some of menial tasks.  • Designed, Installed and Implemented Ansible configuration management system and used Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users, Mount points and Packages.  • Extensively worked on Application servers like WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Used Ajax for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and Worked on configuring TCP/IP, network interface, assigning static routes and hostnames.  • Developed many features for dashboard using Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript (J2EE)  • Used SVC version control system for maintain version of code & Used agile methodology.  • Leading, guiding and helping the team members with the challenges faced during the project development process and problem solving.  • Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and also to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done.    Buzzwords: Python, Django, Jenkins, Apache, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, REST, CSS, SASS, AJAX, HTML, Shell scripting, Sublime, XHTML, SVC. Python Developer TCS - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2011 to October 2014 Description - Tata Consultancy Services Limited (TCS) is an Indian multinational information technology (IT) service, consulting company headquartered in Mumbai, Maharashtra. It is part of the Tata Group and operates in 46 countries. TCS is one of the largest Indian companies by market capitalization    • Involved in development of entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Embedded LINUX project requiring an experienced lead developer to build an embedded development platform for the company's new POS-07 product then implement the same across the entire development team and fix what was a list of outstanding bugs from a previous development effort.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked with HTML, CSS and JavaScript in developing web applications.  • Used the continuous integration(CID) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services(AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and Sqlalchemy.  • Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server-side changes.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated using Django Framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  • Created use-case scenarios and storyboards in MS Word and MS PowerPoint for better visualization of the application.  • Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Developed UI views using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Implement AJAX requests to dynamically load data.  • Used Eloquent ORM to query the MySQL database and display on the views.  • Worked on different cross browsing capability issue for IE, Chrome, Firefox and Safari.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing & Used SVN for the version control.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Debugging the failure issues by capturing the array and register dumps using Python scripts, traces and performing several experiments by interacting with the design team  • Development of several Python APIs and harassers that works both in Linux and windows and maintaining them using the revision control SVN.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Involved in Unit, integration and smoke Testing.  • Write Automation/test python scripts to test.  • Used HTML, CSS for front-end applications.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (6 years), Git (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), XML (6 years) Additional Information ? TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: Python, JavaScript, Java, C/C++, android.  • Frameworks: Django, pyramid, Flask, Spring, Hibernate, AngularJS.  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, Servlet, JSP, JSON, AJAX, SAAS  • Web Services: REST, SOAP, WSDL.  • Databases: MYSQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL, MongoDB, SQLite, Oracle  • Software/IDE: Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, Android Studio, NetBeans, MS Visio, Notepad++.  • Operating System: Mac OS, Windows, Linux.  • Software Management: GIT, SVN, Maven, Gradle, CVS.    AWS  • Compute: EC2, elastic beanstalk, LightSail and lambda.  • Security & compliance: IAM and KMS  • Storage Services: S3 and glacier and AWS Storage Gateway  • networking: VPC and Route 53.