Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - WPS Health Solutions Madison, WI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer WPS Health Solutions - Monona, WI May 2016 to Present Description: This project involves testing of WPS Health Solutions Mobile application on Android, and iOS devices.  WPS Health Solutions is medical apparatus and equipment for use in electronic acquisition, capture, processing, presentation, storage and transmission of patient's medical and physiological data for use in programming, monitoring and testing implanted cardiac devices.    Responsibilities:  • Defining the scope of testing within the context of each release / delivery  • To test Sirius Programmer Mobile Application on Android and iOS devices using See Test test automation tool  • Deploying and managing resources for testing  • Analyzing test requirements and developing test scripts  • Planning, deploying and managing the testing effort for any given engagement  • Developing test automation framework using python and See Test APIs  • Developing Requirement Traceability Tool using python  • Coordinating with the development team for any assistance in issue reproduction and testing  • Executing test scripts using Visual Studio, MTM and See Test tool  • Involved in Code reviews and Test Case reviews  • Prepare any risk mitigation plans if in case any delays are foreseen  • Training new joiners on test reporting, test automation, and test management.    Environment: Python, Pytest, Pylint, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Test Manager, See Test automation Tool, and TFS. Python Developer Par Pharmaceutical - Montebello, NY February 2013 to March 2016 Description: The Project is to development of drug development and treatment tracking system.  Also, there was worked on conversion of Sales/Back Office Integration system from PHP to Python/Django System.    Responsibilities:  • Involved understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Supported Apache Server on Linux Platfor  • Installation and setting up Python/Unix test bed  • Created use-case scenarios and storyboards in MS Word and MS PowerPoint for better visualization of the application  • Write Automation/test python scripts to test  • Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning  • Used HTML, CSS for front-end applications  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online user  • Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with JAVA/ PYTHON  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file format  • Provided technical and business knowledge to clients  • Analyzed data using Excel VBA scripts and Macro  • Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIR  • Automate the outbound/inbound EDI document to drop files in the client ftp serve  • Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.    Environment: MS Visio, JIRA, UML, Python 2.7, Sublime text2(IDE) Windows 7, SQL, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautiful soup, Django. Python Developer Walmart - San Bruno, CA June 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    ENVIRONMENT:  Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Education Bachelor's Skills PYTHON (7 years), APACHE (5 years), DJANGO (5 years), HTML (5 years), MYSQL (2 years) Additional Information Skills  APACHE (10+ years), DJANGO (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years)