Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Frontier Communications Dallas, TX Work Experience Python Developer Frontier Communications - Norwalk, CT February 2015 to Present • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management. . Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.  • Sound technical background and experience in virtualization software (VMware vSphere, Hyper-V) and networking technology (TCP/IP, VLAN, VXLAN, NAT, VPN, IPv4/IPv6, LAN/WAN, Layer 2 - Layer 4 protocols)  • Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project)  • Deployed the project into Heroku and also used Github version control system.  • Involved in building flexible UI, more user interactive and user-friendly web pages, reusable classes, functions using ASP.NET, C#, AJAX and JavaScript for client side validation.  • Develop features to integrate with technologies such as AWS, Azure, OpenStack, Puppet, and Chef  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Worked on Stack ZendPHP, Apache Web Server, SVN, Oracle, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Designed, automated the process of installation and configuration of secure DataStax Enterprise Cassandra using chef.  • Maintained code changes on SVN version control frequently.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionalities using Django, XML, PostgreSQL, SQL, Stored Procedures.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Manage deployment automation using Chef, MCollective, Custom Puppet modules.  • Checking ssh access, directory modes, Send mail settings, Puppet settings, /etc/ contents, etc..  • Create and deploy Puppet modules.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.JS  • Collaborated on an exploratory project for speech synthesis and recognition (relying on neural networks) using Linux machines and PERL scripting.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Require.js MVC frameworks in the development of web applications.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Django framework and also conducted code reviews.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Achieved modular (extensible) codebases through Angular.js based MVC architecture.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Using MYSQL, a system of data management was designed and developed and queries were optimized in order to improve the performance.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL. Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, GIT, Sublime Text, PIP, PEP8, Regex, RedisPerl, Bash, Node.js, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Hive, Spark, Linux, LAMP, , Django REST Framework, Agile, JSON, XML, AJAX Python Developer ELI LILLY - Indianapolis, IN April 2012 to January 2015 • Implemented the application's front-end pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Automated data movements using python scripts. Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Design and Setting up of environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production)  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Automated to manage tens of thousands of VMs across multiple cloud platforms using puppet.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries numpy and Scipy.  • Developed Django, Python, Apache, bash scripting.  • Involved in creating Puppet modules using manifests. Uploading desired classes for the nodes (clients)  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js  • Automated JIRA processes using python and bash scripts.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Updated pages using HTML, CSS in Angular.js framework.  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo DB, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Applied Struts features like Tiles and Validation framework. Designed front-end using JSP, AJAX.  • Information extraction was done by using RESTful API.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Various static/media files along with database were hosted into Amazon cloud and support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS was added.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.  • Python twitter library was used for fetching important keywords of twitter feeds.  • Was a part of troubleshooting, debugging the web application.  • Performance and consistency being the main factors of consideration, the code was tuned.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using python scripts.  • Written shell scripting for automation.  • Designed database schema design and defined relationships between tables.  • Used MVC framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  • Used Atlassian JIRA for tracking and updating the project issues.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git. Python Developer CIT Group - New York, NY September 2010 to March 2012 • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy)  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.