Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ally Financial • Overall 5 years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Experience on Django, Python web frameworks, Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts using python, Django.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Created a python, Django web-based application using python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Aware of test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum methodologies.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data.  • Experience in Developing Web services with Python Programming Language.  • Experience in Establishing of applications in web services with protocols SOAP, REST, AWS.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Design and Coding.  • Experience in MVC/MVT frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • We used Python, Perl, jQuery, JavaScript and Json at the Front End.  • Experience in using various version systems like GitHub enterprise.  • Experience in programming frame works such as Turtle graphics and CMD.  • Expertise with automated testing tool such as Selenium Testing. Work Experience Python Developer Ally Financial - Charlotte, NC June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using python, Django, Tornado and PHP.  • Created python and Bash tools to increase the efficiency of the call center application system and operations.  • Well versed with configuration management policies and practices with regards to SDLC along with automation by using scripting languages like Shell/ Python Scripting.  • Gathered all requirements for developing and analyzing requirements of projects.  • Worked on AWS Elastic load balancing for deploying applications in high availability and AWS Auto Scaling for providing high availability of applications and EC2 instances based on the load of applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in initiating the application in web services with Compact AWS.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Used PyQuery for selecting Particular DOM elements when reading HTML.  • Exported/imported data from different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed a fully automated Continuous Integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in python and Bash  • Written Complex SQL queries using Joins and corelated subqueries.  • Rewrite existing java application in python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub and deploying them.  • Added several options to the application to choose the algorithm for data and address generation.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python2.7, Python 3.5, Django 1.6, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, Oracle DB, LINUX, BASH, SQL, GITHUB, Oracle DB, Jenkins. Python Developer Cabinet for Health and Family Services - Frankfort, KY May 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed python-based App (Restful web service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django and Postgres.  • Solid in OOPS and Design patterns and Linux based development.  • Ability to troubleshoot the existing application and provide root cause analysis.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django Framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Expertise in data quality, data organization, meta data and data profiling.  • Working with AWS services like EC2, S3, IAM and REDSHIFT.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and Java Script.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and excel file formats with Perl, Python Scripts.  • Working on FRB reporting converting and making reports using python (Pandas, XLSX writer etc., Modules).  • Demonstrated to move data between production systems and across multiple platforms.  • Used python Libraries like SOAP, NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Ability to deliver highly technical information to an analyst team to support their own systems migration responsibilities.  • Created and integrated API's on NodeJS  • Developed ETL jobs in python to extract, transform and load data into MySQL database.  • Used MongoDB internal tools like Mongo Compass, Mongo Atlas Manager & Ops Manager and cloud manager etc.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, NodeJS, Underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS and Java Script.  • Experience in Mongo DB installation, Patching, troubleshooting, performance, tracking/tuning, back-up and recovery in dynamic environments.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layouts.  • Developed Views and templates with python and using Django's view Controller and template language, Website interface is created.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, NodeJS, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, SOAP, NumPy, Restful API. Python Developer The Blog Smart Technologies Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requires by conducting workshops and meetings with various business users.  • Used Django configuration to manage URL's and application parameters.  • Build all databases mapping classes using Django models.  • Worked on level two support groups, DBA's and frame works team to study the proficiency and capacity of system.  • Used PY Unit and python Unit Test Framework for all Python applications.  • Worked on Docker containerization.  • Implemented a continuation delivery pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to create another docker holder consequently.  • Worked on development of initial testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUL using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and another feature of python code using a web browser.  • Used JavaScript and Json to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, Improved code quality and conducted meetings among peer.  • Useful RESTFUL API's to gather network traffic data from servers.  • Involved in user acceptance testing and prepared UAT test script.  • Supported APACHE SPARK for larger disk and checked how it is different from APACHE HADOOP.  • Built database models, views and API's using python for interactive web-based solution.  Environment: Python, Django, Git, PY unit, Restful API, Apache, Docker. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Vignan University Skills DJANGO (5 years), Git (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PHP (4 years), PYTHON (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Skills Python, C, C++, core java.  Web Development Skills HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, XML and Bootstrap.Frameworks Django and Flask  Frameworks Django, Flask and Apache Spark, Angular JS, Node JS  IDE(s) PyCharm, Eclipse, Android Studio, Spyder and NetBeans.  Database Oracle, SQL, MySQL PL/SQL, PostgreSQL  Operating Systems LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS  Web Services REST, SOAP and AWS  Servers Apache Tomcat and Web Logic  Version Control Tools Git, GitHub and SVN  Development Process Waterfall, Agile and Scrum.