Sr. Python developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Python developer - AT&T - TX • 6+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, C++, DHTML, Java, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, Pytables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB. Work Experience Sr. Python developer AT&T - TX October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  • Developed Python application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting  • Worked on Python Open stack API's used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and SciPy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matplotlib, cx_Freeze, Pillow, NumPy, sockets.  • Worked on ETL Processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and mapping, Conversion and loading.  • Worked on design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading.  • Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers.  • Tested and evaluated results for inclusion into software product.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio  • Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met  • Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction.  • Worked on Python open stack API's  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like open stack.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team Python developer Verizon July 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and manipulated databases by using Django database API along with MySQL.  • Created a Python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML5, CSS and jQuery for data visualization.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular.JS and jQuery to make the pages dynamic.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Created multiple Python and UNIX shell Scripts for various application level tasks.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Python developer Alphabet - CA February 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy, Pandas, Pytables etc.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Design and documentation of REST APIs using Django Rest framework for collection and retrieval of high-volume data which is results of search query.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like Angular.js.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used jQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status, thus implementing Agile (Scrum) Methodology with Test Driven Development. Education Bachelor's