Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Chicago, IL • Experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Django, flask project.  • Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture and hands on Engineering.  • Design, develop and Implement Business Intelligence project ETL, reporting and Dataware house using Microsoft and IBM products  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using DJANGO.  • Worked with JQuery third party libraries in Django framework- feedback plugin, photo light, social-likes, jQuery tables, slick grid and google charts, etc.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux,RedHat Linux, Fedora)  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  • Created numerous Django apps and extensively used Django Session and authentication management.  • Skillful experience in Python by developing software's using new tools, libraries used: libraries- BeautifulSoup, numpy, Scipy, PySide, python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to improvise software development process.  • Mastering in implementing Model view control architecture using Django for web based applications.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Programming concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience in developing consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Experience in Python OpenSatck API'S  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Continuously manages multiple deadlines and competing priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources.  • Detailed oriented and resourceful in the completion of projects with an ability to multitask and meet strict deadlines.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Work Experience Python Developer UBS - Chicago, IL May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework/ Flask framework for application development.  • Used Python 3.3 application, to create a stand-alone Frontend GUI.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python  • Understands the complex processing needs of big data and has experience developing codes and modules.  • Cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python  • Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python  • Automated data extraction, Transformation and Loading(ETL) process using python.  • Data upload and download automation using python and SFTP.  • Write Python scripts for backend connectivity.  • Installation and setting up Python/Django/MySQL in AWS and EC2 cloud platform.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Worked on implementation of Continuous Delivery and DevOps end to end solutions in agile product development lifecycle.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • BuildSQL, NOSQLqueries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Developed flask Restful API endpoints for accessing through UI and uploading ETL data.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Building the web pages from scratch using Drupal7 & PHP.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in RedHat Linux.  • Wrote web pages in a combination of codes such as JQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Created the front end of the app using Angular JS  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Develop the GUI using JSP, spring web flow following spring web MVC pattern.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Create web UI tests using cucumber, capybara, gherkin, Selenium WebDriver.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Python Developer Citibank - Irving, TX September 2012 to April 2015 Responsibilities:    • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed RESTful web-services, for upstream and downstream web-applications using Django rest Framework.  • Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5 on a RHEL 4 server, this required recompiling mod python to use Python 2.5.  • Used integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans, Clear Case and VSS.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Design and documentation of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume data.  • Used Django template system for front end UI along with OpenStack dashboard.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Good knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release. Python Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC July 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB  • Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  • Assisted automated test design and various automation framework improvements  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services  • Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format.    • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Created and parsed stop files using Python for some boxes which have specific stop DDA requirements.  • Created script in Python for calling REST APIs.    • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Developed Python scripts which format and create daily transmission files. Additional Information Computer Skills:  • Primary Languages: Python, PHP, C  • Python Libraries: Pandas, Numpy, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  • Python Framework: Django, Zope, Pyramid, Flask, Scrapyd  • Source version Control: GITHUB, SVN, Emacs  • Database: Sqlite3, MongoDB, SQL, Cassandra, Oracle 8i  • Operating System: Unix, Microsoft Windows® 7, XP  • Continuous Integration/Deployment: Jenkins, Fabric.  • Text Editor/IDE: Sublime Text2, PyCharm  • Software Development Lifecycle: Agile Methodology, Scrum framework.