Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - GE Pleasanton, CA • 6 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Perl, C++.  • Experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concept  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, and database  • Design and develop required JavaScript components.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in automating deployment to a distributed architecture with tools such Chef.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python and JavaScript in Linux based OS.  Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer GE - San Ramon, CA May 2015 to Present General Electric (GE) is an American multinational conglomerate corporation headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. The company operates through the following segments: Power & Water, Oil and Gas, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation and Capital which cater to the needs of Financial services, Medical devices, Life Sciences, Pharmaceutical, Automotive, Software Development and Engineering industries.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for translating the customer requirements into design specifications and then into software solution.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Performed data manipulation and storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.    Environment: Python, Git, Amazon, UNIX, Object Oriented Programming Python Developer Hitachi Data Systems - Santa Clara, CA October 2013 to May 2015 Hitachi Data Systems (HDS) is a company that provides modular mid-range and high-end storage systems, software and services. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi Ltd. and part of the Hitachi Information Systems & Telecommunications Division.  Responsibilities:  • Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Javascript  • Simple web app for reviewing the packet tracing information in the virtual machine (router packet simulation)  • Utilized ActiveRecord eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience  • Cross-referenced SeatGeek and Spotify APIs to get album artwork and track previews for each artist  • Boston concert aggregator that provides a comprehensive list of shows in Boston with track previews, album artwork, tagging, up/down voting, and more to help users find the best show in town.  • Experienced in Git, Object-oriented programming, JavaScript, and, Amazon Web Services.  • Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective.  • Designed user friendly Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Installed and maintained web servers  Environment: Python, Git, Amazon, Linux, Object Oriented Programming, Web Services. Python Developer Behr Electronics India Pvt Ltd July 2010 to August 2013 Behr India designs and manufactures HVAC modules, engine cooling modules, heat exchangers including radiators, charge air coolers, condensers and Visco® fan drive systems for new generation cars.    Responsibilities:  ? Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Used python libraries like Beautiful Soap, NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  ? Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robot parser, itertools and pickle for development.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  ? Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  ? Developed the project in Linux environment  Environment: Python, Git, Amazon, Linux, Object Oriented Programming, Web Services. Education Bachelors Of Engineering in Electrical Engineering University of Pune Skills Python (6 years), Perl (5 years), Java (6 years), Pandas (6 years), Numpy (6 years), Unit test (6 years), JSON (6 years), CSV (6 years), XML (6 years), XLS (6 years), GitHub (6 years), SVN (6 years), VSS (6 years), Git (6 years), JIRA (6 years), Bugzilla (6 years), VersionOne (6 years), Sqlite3 (6 years), MongoDB (6 years), Cassandra (6 years), Unix (6 years), Linux (6 years), Windows (6 years), Oracle (6 years), SQL Server (6 years), MS Access (6 years), Db2 (6 years), Agile Methodology (6 years), Scrum Framework (6 years), Shell scripting (6 years), Amazon Web Services (6 years), HTML (6 years), CSS (6 years), spotify API (4 years), Bootstrap (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java, C++, Python, Perl  Python Libraries Pandas, Numpy, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Version Control Tools Git, GitHub, SVN, VSS  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, BugZilla, VersionOne  Database Sqlite3, MongoDB, Cassandra  Operating System Unix, Linux, Windows  RDBMS Oracle 11G/10G/9i, SQL Server, DB2, MS Access  Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum framework