Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Rockwell Collins Chicago, IL • 5+ years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask project.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications.UsingCore Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite,PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.    • Experience on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSONby following W3C standards.    • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront, Route 53.  • Good experience with Unix, Linux scripting/unit testing/Load testing, Performance stress/endurance testing and Integration Testing; tools and frameworks- Junit, PyUnit, HP VUGEN LoadRunner, Selenium Web driver, Controller, Dynatrace, Performance Center, QC, JIRA.  • Experience in Agile scrum development techniques, sprint releases and TDD.  • Knowledge in R language, Hadoop, big data analytics, ML packages and data mining.  • Querying web based databases for internal stakeholders to perform data analytics.  • Experience in Python OpenSatck API'S  • High-level experience in Base SAS, SAS/Macros, SAS/SQL, SAS/Stat, SAS/Connect, SAS/Access, SAS/Graph, SAS/ODS, SAS/EBI, SAS/Grid, SAS Visualizer, SAS/ETS and SPSS modeler.  • Write MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Created video publishing toolkit using WordPress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Continuously manages multiple deadlines and competing priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources.  • Detailed oriented and resourceful in the completion of projects with an ability to multitask and meet strict deadlines.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Rockwell Collins - Chicago, IL February 2015 to Present Rockwell Collins is a pioneer in the design, production and support of innovative solutions for our customers in aerospace and defence. Our expertise in flight-deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management and simulation and training is strengthened by our global service and support network spanning 150 countries. Working together, our global team of nearly 20,000 employees shares a vision to create the most trusted source of communication and aviation electronics solutions.    Responsibilities:  Performed Systems Analysis and detail application design  Worked on development and enhancement of automated tools for testing, integration and global application development. This includes detail description of availability. Also enhanced the check out and registration process.  Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  Managed full-life development cycles  Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases  Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases  Tracked any additions, deletions or change in scope on the published release plan including efficient tracking of defects.  Automating analysis of large data sets  Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication  Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS.  Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework.  Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server  Used Web Services to extract Supplier inventory for various high end items.  Integrated the application with different internal system.  Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  Involved in Unit, integration and smoke testing.  Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL.  Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Integra Software Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.    Environment: Python 2.7,2.5, Java 1.7, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, and MAC OSX. Jr Python Developer Indus Software Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB  • Development of Application using Java and Python  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services  • Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Testing in citrix protocol with scripts and scenario  • Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools  • Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, ControlM, PerfMon, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/7,8,Mac OS, UNIX and Linux CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu  Programming Languages Python, Java, C, C++, C#, PHP  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring, Hibernate  Webserver ApacheHTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  IDE Eclipse, web storm, Sublime Text, Brackets, Pycharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter.  Analytic Tools Google Analytics Fiddler  Cloud Computing AWS EC2, S3, RDS(MY SQL), SQS  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric  J2EE JDBC, JNDI, JSP and servlets  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL, Sqlite3, Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB  Testing Tools Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pyunit, JIRA and Junit  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP  Miscellaneous Git, SVN, CVS