Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - ActioNet , Vienna , Virginia Virginia, MN ? 8 years of experience in developing web based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS.  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPY, SciPY, MatPlotLib, Python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, MySQL DB for database connectivity) and IDE's Sublime Text, PyCharm, Emacs.  ? Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like django  ? Experience with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  ? Experience in Python API'S.  ? Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  ? Extensive experience in using HTML, JS, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases MongoDB.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Experienced in Agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as MYSQL and SQL Server by using SQL for data integrity.  ? Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  ? Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stack.  ? Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  ? Expertise in Object-Oriented Design and Coding.  ? Extensive experience in using python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  ? Hands on experience with deployment tools like Jenkins  ? Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  ? Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  ? Experience in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational Data Architecture.  ? Involved in the development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  ? Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications  ? Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer ActioNet , Vienna , Virginia - Vienna, VA January 2016 to Present Responsibilities  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC)  architecture.  • Used python and Django Framework to develop application.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer  clusters.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and  Business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection  criteria, Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured  complex Apache configuration files.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Writing Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to Automate installation of  Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also  Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Experience with working on Linux server.  • Used PyChecker for testing code.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • HTML, SASS, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript used to create UI for the website.  • JQuery and AJAX call used for more interactive web pages. Ensured quality versioning  data modeling and data import and export.  • Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.    Environment: Python 3, Django 1.6, HTML, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, AngularJS, SASS, AJAX, JQuery, JIRA, Oracle SQL Server, SQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Git, GitHub Python Developer JPMC, Whippany - New York, NY May 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with a team of developers on Python applications for cards management of the bank.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the website UI using HTML, CSS, XHTML, AJAX and  JavaScript.  • Involved in the development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly.  • Experienced Python on LINUX for execution.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by LINUX servers.  • Worked on the middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer  classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server  Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked PHP as a server side scripting language, for web pages.  • I have used the Pandas API to put the data in tabular format for each timestamp data  manipulation and retrieval.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle  Coherence Cache.  • Worked on scripts for setting up the discovery client with attribute data. Worked on scripts for setting up adapter attributes of Granite System.  • Developed automated unit and regression testing frameworks for a highly efficient  quality assurance system.  • Developed applications using MongoDB, Redis, and MySQL.  • Wrote bash scripts to deploy application using Shell Scripting.    Environment: Python 2.4, Django 1.6, HTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, C++, AngularJS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, Redis, SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS. Python Developer Magento Inc - Campbell, CA March 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web  framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and template  language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and  Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and Delete.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended  applications by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes  prioritize jobs for processing function.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user  experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python  libraries.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different  user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation of the application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, C++, AngularJS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, shell Scripting. Python Developer Abbott Laboratories - Abbott Park, IL January 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Experience in analysis, design, development and maintenance of the web applications.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7, Django and MySQL.  • Worked with good enough third-party Django apps like South, djcelery and Django  rest frameworks.  • Created Shell scripts for build automation and deployment onto various environments without any manual efforts.  • Used Tkinter to create Desktop applications to solve company's internal problems.  • Experience working with virtual environments like Vagrant.  • Developed GUI using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on Bootstrap, AngularJS and other Search modules API's.  • Used RESTful Web Services in the application development.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Developed and tested websites using MEAN (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js  stack.  • Have been using High charts and D3.js for creating charts of payment section.  • Applications framework based on AngularJS Utilized MEAN stack, REST design  pattern, MVC framework and Single Page.  • Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or  DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Used the Python's modules NumPY, MatPlotLib, etc. for generating complex graphical  data, creation of histograms etc.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal  customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Solved production issues at time of emergency.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, Linux, Shell Script, HTML, CSS, JQuery,  JavaScript, Openstack, MySQL, Apache, and SVN. UI Developer Quant systems - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh August 2008 to December 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used GIT Subversion version control tool to coordinate team development.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Generated Use case d in the design phase diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams in the design phase.    Environment: PL/SQL, Oracle, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, SVN, GIT Education Bachelor's in Computer Science JNTU 2008 Skills CSS (9 years), HTML (9 years), MYSQL (9 years), PYTHON (7 years), Git (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating systems: Mac, Windows, Unix, Linux  Language: Python, Perl, PHP, Java, OOPs Concepts ,C,C#, Shell Scripting  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, NumPY, SciPY, MatPlotLib, Pandas  Data Frame  Database: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB  J2EE Technologies: JSP, Java Servlets, JDBC  Web Services: AWS, Amazon S3  Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic, XAMPP  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script  SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear Quest  Version Control: VSS, SVN, GitHub, Git