Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CVS Health, TX Richardson, TX • Over 7 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone and client-server enterprise applications.  • Experienced of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC). architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Hbase, Hive, Pig, Scoop, Django, UI and web development.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Develop ETL packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and generate project reports using SSRS and SQL.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Pentaho (BI Tool).  • Excellent working knowledge of UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports.  • Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  • Good working knowledge of importing and exporting data from different databases, namely MYSQL into HDFS and HIVE using SQOOP.  • Have experience in Object-oriented programming, multi-threading, algorithms, data structures and system programming.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity, and Security and Database applications.  • Expert level skills in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript including familiarity with common libraries like jQuery, Foundation, Bootstrap and Backbone.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experience in working with different operating systems WINDOWS, LINUX, and iOS.  • Experience in continuous build and version control systems like Jenkins, Coverity, Jira, git, svn, OpenGrok.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Experience working in a Test-Driven Development environment and software development lifecycles such as Waterfall and Agile (Scrum).  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.    Languages Python, C++, C, Core Java. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CVS Health, TX August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed a Python, automated testing framework which can send, receive FIX Messages, test various interfaces, including SOAP XML.The Tool is primarily used to do integration testing as it can create an order, route it out, get fills and generate success or error reports and can send it over thru FTP or email.  • Prototyped web front-end to MDM.  • Design database using Erwin and Python/Django for DB scheme scripting.  • Design MDM integration facilities (SOA-style).  • Develop SOAP client for testing MDM to SAP R/3 interoperation.  • Develop scheme- and data-level database testing tool.  • Develop data cleansing, retrieval, migration tools (ETL).  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the GO Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  • Developed Micro services using Go language and worked on test cases.  • Migrated C and C++ tasks in Python. Generated SWIG interfaces for tasks that are good to be left in C++. Interacted with Python using SWIG interfaces.  • Analyzed clients' needs and developed software tools to assist dynamic site content creation ( Python, wxPython).  • Mainframe access profiles, using a series of algorithms created access profiles securing company mainframe system and allowing for auditing purposes and easier acclimation of new hires.  • SQL Workflow System, using Python created an adapter allowing communication between Sharepoint lists and SSIS packages. This system provides users the ability to create complex automation workflows  • Excel, Batch uploader, software that quickly uploads large batches of Excel Workbooks into our SQL Databases, while providing sanitizing and validation services  • Developed scripts to migrate data from a proprietary database to MySQL.  • SQL Naming Conventions Enforcement, Using Python; Stored Procedures created a server job that enforces naming conventions of all SQL objects. Creating a more constant SQL environment  • Client Search Engine, Using Python and XLWings package created an excel interface to search for client info through our database.  • Generated various compliance and user reports in Python, including FINRA OATS reports, user P&L reports, customized reports for users, user permissions and security information reports. Used Python MySQL connectors to pull data from databases.  • Integrated Opengrok into a development environment for making source code visible across the organization.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  Environment:-  Python, JavaScript, C++, SQL, ETL, Erwin, SOAP, FIX, TCP/IP programming, MySQL, Rabbit MQ, C, C++, cppCheck, Jenkins, Coverity, Agile. Python Developer Symantec - Herndon, VA June 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Used Github for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Have Experience on Ruby with chef Automation tools.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Ruby, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, Script, C++, Angular JS 2.0, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Script, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Intuit October 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Creating Python API's  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Designed and managed API system deployment.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  Environment:  Python, Django, PHP, C++, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, API, AJAX, XHTML, Bootstrap, AWS, JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows, Linux. Python Developer CMC Bangalore - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Used Rational Rose Enterprise to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, Data Modeling.  • Developed rich UI web application using javascript libraries like jQueryUI, datagrid, jscolor, highcharts.  • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation with Jython.  • Developed the frontend for interaction by using the Django framework.  • Worked with version controlling system CVS and SVN.  • Used MySQL as backend database and Mysqldb of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Implemented DAO database access objects.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Deployment of application on Web logic 8.1 for testing and development team.  • Validate test content in Emulation for SoC Display Controller.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Involved in preparing technical design document.  • Used Connect SOAP rule to fetch the Webservices.  • Used SOAP UI to test the external service.  • Used JIRA for project tacking.  • Involved in testing the application.  Environment:-  Java, Python 2.6, Django, CVS, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Unix Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, WebLogic Application Server. Software Developer NTT Data - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:-  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio. Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked PHP as a server side scripting language, for web pages.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production  • Implemented the validation, error handling and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Worked on scripts for setting up the discovery client with attribute data.  Environment: -  Python, Oracle, Eclipse, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's Skills MYSQL (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), SQL (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), DJANGO (5 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac OSX, Solaris.  Protocols HTTP/HTTPS, TCP/IP, SOAP, REST, SMTP.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Web2py, Pytest, Pyramid.  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, MongoDB, Redis.  Python Libraries ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pandas, PyPI, Pyspark, Pygit.  Web Servers Nginx, Apache Tomcat, SOAP, Apache Kafka, AWS, Amazon EC2.  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, Git and GitHub.  Web Design HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX, Bootstrap, Javascript.  Development Tools PyCharm, Atom, Sublime Text, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Python-IDLE Emacs.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:-