Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Citadel LLC Scottsdale, AZ • Over 7+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Enhancement and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Strong ability in development of web based applications using Python.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side applications Django, Flask, and Pyramid.  • Good Knowledge in implementation of Python best Practices (PEP-8).  • Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Scikit-Learn, Matplotlib.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Strong proficiency in version control systems: SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Good at writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels, Shell Scripting.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Experience with JSP Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  • Good Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Excellent in Business Analytics. Highly effective management and organizational skills with ability to prioritize. Work Experience Python Developer Citadel LLC - Exton, PA September 2015 to Present Citadel LLC offers a variety of banking products and financial solutions like hedge funds, small business, retail banking, equity loans, asset management, wealth management, corporate and investment banking and credit card services to its customers. Involved with the Insurance Department and provide development and maintenance and web support of the online portal handling the transactions.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • BuildSQL, NOSQLqueries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Used Pandas ( Python library) for Statistical Analysis.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library  • Using Subversion version control tool (GIT) to coordinate team-development and added the project to GitHub.  • Thoroughly used Unit Test Pythonlibrary for testing many Pythonprograms and block of codes.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GitHub, MYSQL, Jira, agile, Eclipse. Python Developer Fidelity Investments - Charlotte, NC March 2014 to August 2015 Regulatory and compliance issues gave rise to high volume of intercompany transactions. Aim of this project was to streamline of trade processing systems and reduce volume of intercompany transactions for US Equities, Foreign Exchange (FX) and Credit and Equity Derivative group and phase II of project was to support the finance organization for budget forecast and actual reporting using the Python-based web apps.    Responsibilities  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Designed and developed MySQL Stored Procedures and Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks. Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.    Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GitHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Jira, agile, Eclipse. Python Developer BCBS - Chattanooga, TN August 2012 to January 2014 Blue Cross Blue Shield is the largest health insurer for the state of Tennessee. BCBS uses, a managed health care package developed by GTE Health Care Systems, US, for majority of their health care related processing. This project aims at providing maintenance, enhancement and development for the BCBS TN system. Work requirements are basically segregated as issues (Maintenance) and enhancements tasks. Generally, Customer raises issues when problem is found in the system during normal working. These issues are generally batched up and sent to us for resolution. We look at the business perspective of the problem and provide estimates and solution through design, coding, testing and delivery.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in PostgreSQL.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments and global team remote collaboration.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer Discover Financial Services - Riverwoods, IL November 2011 to July 2012 Discover Financial Services is a leading credit lending firm providing wide range of credit products and services that include student loans and rental insurance. Involved in development of credit management data warehouse to assist credit analysis professionals to analyze and administer the credit card requests in an efficient manner. The operational data came from multiple sources and was then loaded into claim management data warehouse.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in developing.  • Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked through the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python, XML, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows. UI Developer The Bank of New York Mellon - New York, NY July 2009 to October 2011 Commercial Electronic Account General Ledger System, which is a web-deployed n-tier e-Commerce application that allows their corporate clients to access info online and with an efficient means of managing corporate credit cards transactions at minimal cost. Customer relation manager issues the credit cards to the companies. The program administrator of the company will administer the each card program. Administrator creates user profile, Account setup system, cost defaults and Authorization controls.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML (HTML, CSS and JavaScript).  • Responsible for developing various static and dynamic modules which are displayed in different web pages according to the specifications.  • Developed and designed XML Schemas to transport and store data. XML was used to simplify data and allow for Platform Changes, as well as making data more available across the applications distributed platforms. Extensively used XSLT to transform XML documents to HTML.  • Wrote custom jQuery plugins and developed javascript functions to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Extensively used jQuery plugins like jcarousellite and mousewheel for creating scrollable menus.  • Worked on jQuery Lightbox for creating image and video galleries.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JAVASCRIPT.  • Created Ajax calls to exchange (request / responses) information with database.  • Developed social network services for user interaction using Ajax, JavaScript, CSS and DHTML.  • Used Subversion (SVN) as a repository tool and as a version control.    Environment: XML, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNT University Skills HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), AJAX (6 years), XML (6 years), APACHE (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, GO, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework DJANGO, Pyramid and Flask, webapp2  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere.  IDE Visual studio, Vim, Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime Text, PyScripter  Databases MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL server, Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants