Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Align Technology San Jose, CA, CA • Having 6+ years of experience in systems analysis, design, development and implementation of web Application.  • Expertise in Backend Web Technologies using Python, Django, Hibernate and REST API.  • Experienced in using various programming languages like Python, C and C++.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django.  • Experience in building all phases of the software development life cycle including requirement analysis, application design development, maintenance, implementation and testing.  • Worked on control systems such as GIT and SVN.  • Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL database MongoDB.  • Good experience in shell scripting and shell commands.  • Experience in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud platform.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Deep understanding of HTTP methods, RESTful architecture.  • Thorough understanding of providing specification using waterfall, agile software methodology to modeling systems and business processes.  • Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics.  • Good Knowledge of Hadoop cluster and different Big Data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase, Apache ZooKeeper, SQOOP, Spark with Cloudera Distribution.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Pandas, Numpy, matPlotLib, Scipy etc.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Align Technology - San Jose, CA November 2016 to Present Project Description:  Align Technology, Inc. designs, manufactures, and markets a system of clear aligner therapy, intra-oral scanners, and computer-aided design digital services. We developed dynamic web application in which patient can select Doctor's appointment based on Zip code provided, payment system, and many more services.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Upload and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Developed backend of an application using Python, Django and PostgreSQL.  • Developed frontend modules using using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, AngularJS.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Utilized UnitTest, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used Django Database API to access database objects.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Built Python scripts to identify and correct erroneous data in PostgreSQL database using clustering, regression, and statistics.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Managed, collaborated and coordinated the work of an offshore development team.  • Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.    Environment: - Python, Django, Pycharm, PostgreSQL, Github, AWS, Agile, Linux, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap. Python Developer CDK Global - Seattle, WA September 2015 to October 2016 Project Description:  CDK Global, Inc. provides integrated information technology and digital marketing solutions to the automotive retail and other industries worldwide. It offers technology-based solutions, including automotive Website platforms. We created an application by which users can provision server via different cloud providers like AWS, VMWare. Users can fill up various information for desired vm and provision it. It can perform many operations using app like install software to vm, decommission, destroy, power off, extend lease etc.    Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Extensively implemented the python libraries like Pandas, Matplotlib, Numpy, to manipulate and visualize the data using interactive charts.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.  • Using Mongo DB-NoSQL database for storing the information.  • Used SVN repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  • Maintained technical documentation for resolved issues for future reference    Environment: - Python, Django, Java, Rest, HTML, Javascript, JIRA, CSS, Bootstrap, SVN, MongoDB. Python Developer Valence Surface Technologies - Wichita, KS January 2014 to August 2015 Project Description:  Valence Surface Technologies, Inc. develops and operates an aerospace and defense metal processing platform with a focus on high cost of failure flight critical parts. It offers metal processing and finishing services to commercial aerospace, defense, satellite and semiconductor markets. We developed interactive dashboard for keeping track of detailed information of all Parts.    Responsibilities:  • Excellent coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Responsible for create brand new Python-based solutions as well as debugging, isolation and resolving of issues.  • Plan, design, review and maintain Python based applications and solution.  • Participated in daily scrum to implement Agile scrum methodology helping the team maintain focus on the business objective with constant assessment and feedback.  • Manipulation and fetching of data using CRUD operations on MYSQL Database.  • Developing new functionalities and integrating them with other components.  • Unit test all develop module using pyunit, also develop custom scenario to test worst case scenario for the application.  • Worked in close co-operation to local project people, as well as remote stakeholders.    Environment: - Python, Pycharm, MYSQL, Sublime, Linux, Shell Scripting, Github, Bash/Shell script. Python Developer Nokia - Chicago, IL April 2013 to December 2013 Project Description:  Nokia Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, provides network infrastructure and related services worldwide. We get the Unstructure data and we have to convert it to structure and do SQL/HQL queries on top of that.    Responsibilities:  • Experienced in development using Cloudera distribution system.  • Worked in an agile technology with Scrum.  • Developed python scripts to perform Quering and created tables on the top of it using hive.  • Worked on importing data from HDFS to MYSQL database and vice-versa using SQOOP.  • Implemented Map Reduce jobs in HIVE by querying the available data.  • Developed Python Script for analyzing the data.  • Resolved client related queries and issues pertaining to data.  • Wrote SQL queries for Creating tables, inserting values, and data analysis.  • Assisted managers and business analysts in developing reports, presentations, and analysis.    Environment: - Python, Hive, SQOOP, SQL, CDH3, CDH4, Oracle, Java, Scala, Linux, HDFS, Pig Software Developer Tatvasoft - Ahmedabad, Gujarat October 2011 to March 2013 Project Description:  Tatvasoft is an information technology company in india. The company provides Software application development and maintenance in various business sectors. Worked on Various Web based application and System software.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed dynamic dashboard shows live configuration of electric water or gas meters like voltage, current and other datapoints using Java, Spring, Hibernate.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using Javascript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status.  • Used Git as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems.  • Integrated usage of CRUD operations, performed Inner/Outer joins, used store procedures, stored functions and cursors using MySQL.  • Played a vital role in team to ensure the time bound delivery.    Environment: - Java, Spring, MYSQL. HTML, Javascript, Git, Web Services, CSS, Bootstrap, Eclipse Education Bachelor of Engineering in Education Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, IN Skills DATABASE (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), MYSQL (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems UNIX, Red Hat Linux, MS Windows, Ubuntu and Mac OS.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Hybrid(Agile-Waterfall).  Web technologies JSON, XML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript.  Web Frameworks DJANGO, Spring  Languages Python, Java, C++, SQL, Shell Scripting, JSP.  Database Oracle, MYSQL Server, PostgreSQL, HBase, MongoDB.  Configuration Management GitHub, SVN, CVS, Maven.  Application Servers Apache Tomcat servers, Coherence server.  Testing Tools JIRA, Load Runner.