Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - FirstData Corporation Denver, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer FirstData Corporation - Denver, CO November 2016 to Present First Data Corporation is a global payment technology solutions company. First Data has a global footprint of 6 million merchants, the largest in the payments industry. The company handles 45% of all US credit and debit transactions, including handling prepaid gift card processing for many US brands    Description:  Working on Closed Loop Prepaid BackOffice Tool, which is a web application for First Data's Certification team to manage various configurations for Closed Loop merchant. This tool is also used by various teams in First Data to inquire and change the merchant configuration as and when requested. Prepaid BackOffice Tool has a module which is implemented to manage First Data's Prepaid Business Center's Groups and User Setup.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process to complete software design and implementation.  • Used Django/ Python web-framework to develop application.    • Used MVC framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  • Used Django and PostgreSQL for design and develop transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionality.  • Used python scripts for automated data movement.  • Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.    • Used Matplotlib for data visualization.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.    • Written shell scripting for automation.  • Designed database schema design and defined relationships between tables.    • Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery    • Applied unit test framework for testing code regressively.  • Used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Used Git for version control    Environment:  Python, Django, Amazon (AWS, EC2, S3), PostgreSQL, JIRA, Linux, Shell Scripting, GIT. Python Developer VMware - Mountain View, CA January 2016 to October 2016 VMware is a cloud infrastructure and business mobility solutions break the bonds that tie IT systems and end-user environments to physical hardware, providing both IT and the business greater efficiency, agility and control.    Description:  Worked on development of secure and collaborative development environment that connects financial department payment system. Establish a single source of the truth for product information and processes.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the SDLC phases to analyze the requirement design, development, testing and deployment.  • Used Django framework to develop web development.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Write ORMs query for search database from DB and for generate different reports.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Creating Unit Test framework for working/new code.  • Using version control tool to coordinate team-development using GIT.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment:  Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, pytest, Sublime, GIT. Python Developer Marriott - Bethesda, MD August 2014 to December 2015 Marriott International, Inc. is an American multinational diversified hospitality company that manages and franchises a broad portfolio of hotels and related lodging facilities.    Description:  This project is a hotel management system which is used for maintaining the information for each and every customer. Features include memberships, destination search, and payment system for travel agents' membership renewal, newsletters, promotion campaigns, shopping cart.    Responsibilities:  • Created APIs, database Model and Views in Python in order to build responsive web application.    • Implemented Application logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework.  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases    • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases    • Facilitated release planning meetings to construct efficient releases that reflect demand and capacity    • Tracked any additions, deletions or change in scope on the published release plan including efficient tracking of defects.    • Did Content Management through front end, live search and normal search features.    • Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication    • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS.    • Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server    • Used Web Services to extract Supplier inventory for various high end items.    • Integrated the application with different internal system.    • Used SVN for the version control.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).    • Involved in Unit, integration and smoke Testing.    Environment:  Python, Django, Twisted, MySQL, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, Web Services. Python Developer Safeway - Phoenix, AZ March 2013 to July 2014 Safeway is one of the largest grocery chains on the western and central United States, which is a subsidiary of Albertsons.    Description: Worked on development and enhancement of Supplier Management Portal including Supplier registration, PO processing, EDI integration and supplier evaluation system.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed supplier portal using Python and Django Framework.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Performed EDI integration using Python.  • Profiled Python code for optimization and memory management  • Used SOAP and RESTful API for information.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.    • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Created unit test and regression test framework for working new code.    • Using subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.    • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    • Maintaining strict version control using Git, with an understanding of what tasks require branching and which can be done in dev.  • Used Python plotting library - Plotly for data visualization.  • Actively Worked on Comprehensive monitoring architecture for Lodging Operations support application.    • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of Data.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django improved page load time.  • Maintained technical documentation for resolved issues for future reference.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML, AJAX, CSS, XML, JavaScript, MySQL, SOAP, WATERFALL, Plotly Software Developer Fusion Informatics - Ahmedabad, Gujarat September 2011 to February 2013 Responsibility:  • Worked with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Developed and designed XML Schemas to transport and store data. XML was used to simplify data and allow for Platform Changes, as well as making data more available across the applications distributed platforms.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JavaScript  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  • Worked with View State to maintain data between the pages of the application.    Environment:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, DOM, XML Education Bachelor in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Rajasthan Rajasthan Technical University Skills AJAX (4 years), CSS (6 years), database (4 years), HTML (6 years), JavaScript (6 years) Additional Information Skills:    Programming/Scripting Languages Python, Java, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, C++, JavaScript, SQL.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, JSON, XML, Bootstrap, REST, AWS.  Framework Django, Flask, Spring MVC.  Database Technologies MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQLite, MongoDB.  Simulators/IDE/Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, JIRA, PyDev, Maven, Junit, pyLint, pyChecker.  Version Control GIT, SVN, Source Tree, CVS.    Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, OS X, Ubuntu Linux, Debian Linux, Windows Server