Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Humana • Over 6 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Experience with v-model designing, involved in the Integration, Test, Verification stage Proficient in all cycles of test life cycle from test planning to defect tracking and managing defect lifecycle.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Good experience in Python,Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures and design patterns. Experienced with Python frameworks likeWebapp2 and, Flask.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development(TDD) and Load Testing.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD. Strong proficiency in version control systems like SVN, Git.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Well versed in writing unit test cases and selenium test cases.  • Demonstrated ability to work well with a wide variety of people at various levels, foster cooperation and collaboration among individuals in the work unit, help team resolve conflicts constructively and ability and willingness to communicate when help is needed.  • Received Mozilla badge- 'International Certified Embedded Systems with ARM Cortex M3 Engineer' in affiliation with Robotics and Computer Applications Institute, Caltech, USA and IIT, Bombay  • Experience with JSP Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  • Highly motivated, result oriented professional with a short learning curve and strong communication skills.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Dynamics of Embedded Systems experience from Firmware Programming to HW Architecture  • Strong Analytical and Communication Skills, and troubleshooting capabilities / Problem Solving Skills as well. Worked well as a part of team and independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Humana - Louisville, KY July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Created Data tables utilizing MySQL utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Strong knowledge of all phases of SDLC and Strong working knowledge of Software testing (Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Load Testing).  • Experienced in designing Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Web based applications  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN).  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Performed testing with RSpec, FactoryGirl, Capybara, and Selenium. Performed Continuous  • Integration with Jenkins.  Environment: Python, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, JQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Pandas, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Jinja, Flask, MongoDB, SQL Workbench. Python Developer American Family - Madison, WI January 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Bash script and Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey and Java Script  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Involved in Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized PyUnit the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Identified, documented and reported bugs, errors, interoperability flaws and other issues within proprietary software applications developed for Amf Company's global user base.  • Built Continuous Integration environment (Jenkins, Nexus) and Continuous delivery environment (puppet).  • Achieved 100% coverage of of user slice Ruby codebase by writing unit tests with RSpec and Capybara.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Implemented Automated Application Deployment using Puppet.  • Used Quick Test Pro extensively to automate testing the functionalities of the application and used the scripts for Regression Testing.  • Working closely with Web Administrators to understand, participate, and experience the technical architect for web sites such as Apache, Web Sphere; and deploying J2EE Applications to these environments.  • Recommended build management, defect management development process flow. Administrator of SVN.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT/MAVEN files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.5, Selenium IDE, MySQL, Zope, Angular.JS, Pandas, Flash, PyUnit, Open Stack, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Jira, Linux, Git, Cassandra, Windows, Linux. Python Developer Sears Holdings - Chicago, IL January 2011 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript(JQuery).  • Built application logic using Python, used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Description Bluetooth enabled camcorder Embedded in a headset to enable hands-free audio and video recording with optical zoom capability.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Created Data tables to display customer information and add, delete, update customer records using Python, MySQL and XHTML.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in HQL and Native SQL and criteria API.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view utilizing Python based GUI components.  • Implemented marshalling and UN marshalling XML to HTML and HTML to XML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.  • Worked on RUP development environment and used Rational ClearCase for versioning.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle 9i SQL, PL/SQL.  • Developed test cases using Python unit test, pylint and nose.    Environment: Python, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, PyQT, PyUnit, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Python Developer Ann Taylor - New York, NY June 2010 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python and MSQL.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Contributed patches back to Django.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Software Developer Union Bank - San Diego, CA September 2009 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to testing many automated process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  • Thoroughly used Unit Test Python library for testing many python programs and block of codes.  • Also have rich experience on testing REST Full API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux, UNIX. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science JNT University - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Skills DJANGO (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4/1.5  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Siebel  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, CVS  IDE Eclipse, My Eclipse, PyCharm, RAD  Web servers Apache, IIS  Debugging tools Selenium, IDE  NO SQL MongoDB, Cassandra  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Mac OSX  Cloud Technologies AWS, OpenStack