Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer - OnBlick Dallas, TX • Over 5+ years of IT Experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server based enterprise applications with clients from health, finance, retail and manufacturing sectors.  • Hands on experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Django, Flask web application frameworks.  • Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Developed web applications, RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django; good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2/3, Django 1.4/1.3, Angular JS, JAVA, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery, AJAX.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Proficient in PostgreSQL, SQLite, MySQL databases with Python.  • Understanding of Python Best Practices (PEP-8).  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Good knowledge on hosting Python applications using WSGI modules.  • Worked in Waterfall and AGILE methodologies and various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Good Experience in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Very strong experience writing API's and Web Services in Python.  • Experience in working with different operating systems WINDOWS, LINUX, and Android.  • Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner, organized, and self-motivated.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making. Work Experience Senior Developer OnBlick - Dallas, TX June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS and JQuery.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django and PostgreSQL.  • Efficiently performed all backend tasks from OPS up to the REST API interface/Portal frontend.  • Wrote unit tests and did code reviews.  • Worked with search business and search team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using Force.com APIs.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Worked under Agile/Scrum environment and handled production rollouts and issues.  • Extensively used XLSX reader and writer modules to read, write and analyze data and project the results as per the client request.  • Used GIT for continuous integration and deployment.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and PostgreSQL.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2, hashlib for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQLAlchemy.  Environment: Python, Django, PostgreSQL, Django REST framework, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, PyUnit, JSON, GitHub, SOAP/RESTful, Agile. Python Developer Lockheed Martin - Bethesda, MD May 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript in developing web applications.  • Used web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and, JQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services(AWS).  • Writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL databases.  • Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Involved in Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python.  • Worked with python Unit test library which was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Used AJAX for Better interactivity for the end user and easier navigation and AJAX is compact.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  Environment: Python, Django, JSON, AJAX, JSON, RESTful, SQL, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, AWS, XML, Open stack API, JavaScript, GIT, SOAP, PyCharm, HTML, CSS. Python Developer Innovative Solutions - IN March 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of the company.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML and CSS.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Improved user experience by creating and designing new web components and features.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  • Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Chrome) on both Windows.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality and plugins using JQUERY.  Environment: Python, Django, SQL, AJAX, REST, JavaScript, UNIX, Linux, HTML, Sublime Text. Python Developer PNB Bank - IN August 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Flask, MYSQL and Linux.  • Involved in working with Python OpenStack APIs.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of UNIX commands.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. Worked with UNIX like OS on regular basis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the SVN version Control.  • Proactivity worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timelines.  Environment: Python, Flask, SQL, AJAX, REST, JavaScript, Open stack APIs, UNIX, Linux, XML, Sublime Text. Python developer Onward technologies Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front-end to pages like Login, Signup, Search, Contact and About, using web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Implemented the entire front end using AJAX calls.  • Implemented MVC design patterns to make calls to the backend explicitly and rendering the data into web view asynchronously.  • Designed responsive webpages from the provided photoshop design mockups, using CSS.  • Developed and implemented a custom grid system to support the responsive web design.  • Made sure all the data moving to and from the front end to be more secured.  • Made sure the page loads are quick and provided cross browser compatibility which also includes mobile browsers.  • Worked on Chrome/Firefox Developer tools to verify network speeds using Network Throttling, making sure all the elements are rendering correctly irrespective of the Screen size, Resolution, orientation, etc.  • Ran Unit Tests on every single module (div) to make sure everything works as expected before submitting the code for final deployment.  • Worked very close to the backend team to get real-time updates on how the data endpoint works and how to call some endpoints.  • Managed the whole work environment using SVN Version Control Management System.  Environment: Linux, Windows XP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SVN, AJAX. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science University of North Texas 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering JNT University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh 2011 Skills JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), AJAX (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), DEPLOYMENT (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, Core Java, C/C++  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJs, ReactJs, KnockoutJs, AJAX.  Frameworks Flask, Django  IDE's/Development Tools PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, Sublime Text.  Databases SQLite, PostgresQL, MySQL, MonogoDB  Version Control Git, SVN, GitHub    Operating Systems Windows, MacOS, Ubuntu  Software Methodologies Waterfall, Agile.  Deployment Tools Google Cloud Platform, Heroku, Amazon EC2.