Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - FuGenx Technology Private Limited Bangalore, Karnataka • Having 1.4 years of experience in RestAPI development and implementation of various e-commerce applications, Database and Client-Server Architecture using Python,Flask,MongoDB,JSON,RestAPI.  • Experience in building scalable products and features using Python and Flask.  • Excellent debugging, Problem Solving and testing skills.  • Good Knowledge Object Oriented Concepts, Data structures and Design Patterns.  • Web development using Python and Flask.  • Code and Performance optimization in python. Work Experience Python Developer FuGenx Technology Private Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2018 to Present • Team Size: 4  • Technologies used: Python, Flask, MongoDB, RESTAPI, JSON  • Tools used: Pycharm, Robo3T, Postman  • Description: Aug.2018 toDec.2018    Descriptions:  This Project is based on Recruitment basis like Naukri, Indeed, Monsters. Recuiter can download resume for best Ranked Candidate using NLP.  And also find the better candidate according to your recruitment easily. Also according to skills or experience you find better candidate and that candidate work on that technology.    2: Dukaan REST API Development REST API May 2019 to August 2019 • Team Size: 4  • Technologies used: Python, Flask, Mongo DB, JSON, RESTAPI  • Tools used: Pycharm, Robo3T, Postman  • Durations: May 2019 to August 2019    Descriptions:  Fitz Cube is a Combination of both HealthCare and Social Media Project. REST API Development REST API January 2019 to May 2019 • Team Size: 5  • Technologies used: Python, Flask, MongoDB, RESTAPI, JSON  • Tools used: Pycharm, Robo3T, Postman  • Durations: Jan2019 to May 2019    Descriptions:  Dukaan is e-commerce product. He sells its own product like lays, Oreo biscuits etc. And compare with other same market products. He always sells products with less amount and give good quality product. This product also sells for home delivery and stores for only quality products.    3: Fitz Cube Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University 2017 School Certificate in Examination Central Board of Secondary Education - Bihar Sharif, Bihar 2012 to 2013 Skills Python, Flask, Numpy, Pandas, Data structure, Database, Linux, MySQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rahulsingh7899 Additional Information Technical Skills  • Programming Language - Python  • NumPy, PANDAS, RESTAPI, Data Structure  • Framework - Flask  • Tools and Software - PyCharmIDE, Postman, Anaconda, JupyterNotebook, ROBO 3T  • Database - Mongo DB  • Operating Systems - Windows, Linux