Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - World Bank Group Washington, DC • Qualified Python Developer with 7 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python.  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask and Spring web application frameworks.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap and jQuery  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Good knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in working in many Unix platforms.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Understanding of Python Best Practices (PEP-8).  • Expertise on working with the Networking protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS.  • Implemented various Networking Concepts, Router Architectures, and HTTP & FTP Services.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services(AWS)  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PL SQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on time.  • Involved in Unit testing, Test driven Development(TDD), Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns. Work Experience Python Developer World Bank Group - Washington, DC March 2016 to Present Responsibilities  • Part of Core team implementing API design and Development in integrating different components  • Developed libraries implementing business logic related to client/patient profile data and search features  • Extensively used regular expressions and core features in Python using lambda, map, reduce etc and effectively implemented logging feature using python logging library and profiling using cProfile  • Developed RESTful API implementations in Django and integrated with AngularJS UI components  • Developed unit test cases using Python and automated tests in Linux using internal tools.  • Developed UI screens and modules on patient search feature in Angular JS using components such as Service and Provider.  • Worked on Angular JS to create single page applications (SPA) using components like routers, Controllers, Services, Directives.  • Provided production support for issues related to backend services as well as UI related issues  • Experience with bug-tracking through JIRA, source code management and team collaboration software such as GIT, SVN etc  • Responsible for system debugging in UAT, performance improvement for customer issues and field trials. Solved numerous customer issues.  • Collaborated with development, program management, Scrum and testing teams to develop product features and sprint releases - automated tests.  • Used python pip to install modules and PEP8 code styling practices  • Working in agile environment. Daily scrum meetings with the Agile team on updates and improvements.  • Extensively experienced with server debugging activities for any issues during UAT and Prod fixes using Linux commands such as egrep, find, piping, ls, vi features etc  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions  • Experience with multiple software development tools for source control, code review, code quality, bug tracking and functional testing.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts for batch jobs as well as testing the application.  • Worked on Continuous Integration of Centralized equipment system, which is primarily responsible for design components for using Python.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.    Environment: Python 2.7, Angular JS 1.4, pyUnit, pytest, JIRA, SVN, UNIX, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, Selenium, JSON, Open stack etc Python Developer Total Wine & More, MD February 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Opscenter.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, Node.JS and Oracle dB while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, J Query and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated Rabbit MQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)..  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Angular.js, Java script and J Query to optimize the user experience.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python mat plot lib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Cassandra, Rabbit MQ, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, HTML5, CSS, , MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, SQL server, JavaScript, Eclipse, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Visual basic. Python Developer SPARC Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to December 2014 Hyderabad    Responsibilities  • Part of Core team implementing API design and Development in integrating different components  • Developed libraries implementing business logic related to client/patient profile data and search features  • Extensively used regular expressions and core features in Python using lambda, map, reduce etc and effectively implemented logging feature using python logging library and profiling using cProfile  • Developed RESTful API implementations in Django and integrated with AngularJS UI components  • Developed unit test cases using Python and automated tests in Linux using internal tools.  • Developed UI screens and modules on patient search feature in Angular JS using components such as Service and Provider.  • Worked on Angular JS to create single page applications (SPA) using components like routers, Controllers, Services, Directives.  • Provided production support for issues related to backend services as well as UI related issues  • Experience with bug-tracking through JIRA, source code management and team collaboration software such as GIT, SVN etc  • Responsible for system debugging in UAT, performance improvement for customer issues and field trials. Solved numerous customer issues.  • Collaborated with development, program management, Scrum and testing teams to develop product features and sprint releases - automated tests.  • Used python pip to install modules and PEP8 code styling practices  • Working in agile environment. Daily scrum meetings with the Agile team on updates and improvements.  • Extensively experienced with server debugging activities for any issues during UAT and Prod fixes using Linux commands such as egrep, find, piping, ls, vi features etc  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions  • Experience with multiple software development tools for source control, code review, code quality, bug tracking and functional testing.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts for batch jobs as well as testing the application.  • Worked on Continuous Integration of Centralized equipment system, which is primarily responsible for design components for using Python.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.    Environment: Python 2.7, Angular JS 1.4, pyUnit, pytest, JIRA, SVN, UNIX, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, Selenium, JSON, Open stack etc Python Developer Tera Software - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to April 2013 Hyderabad    Responsibilities:  ? Worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS, complex Flash integration.  ? Consolidated many previous websites onto one dedicated RHEL hosts.  ? Maintenances PHP/MySQL (primarily Joomla), Classic ASP/MSSQL. Communicating and interfacing with previous developers on a regular basis.  ? Created and helped deploy advertisements with Advert Serve.  ? Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  ? Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python  ? Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5 on a RHEL 4 server, this required recompiling mod python to use Python 2.5. This upgrade was necessary because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors. Submitted a ticket to the Django project documenting this incompatibility with Python 2.3.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  ? Created solutions for publishing and conferencing toolkit using WordPress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video.  ? Performed modifications to Django models while retaining all data, using Django and manual SQL modifications, while site was in production mode.  ? Developed webpages for displaying the data using AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel  ? Have some knowledge on sockets and networking.    Environment: XML Schemas, XML, JSF, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Angular JS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Python 2.6, Java Script, jQuery, JSON, XML, MySQL Ju. Developer Continental Hospitals - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities  • Created Data extract jobs using Python/SQL.  • Thorough use of third-party packages, such as Fabric.  • Coordinated with product owners and technical team members for preparation and review of solution based documentation.  • Developed scalable infrastructure solutions and related components in collaboration with technical leads.  • Worked with the stakeholders to gather requirements.  • Designed User Interface for data selection using Python.  • Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  • Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.  • Created UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.    Environment: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Linux, Java Script Education Master of Science in Information Technology University of North America Skills LINUX (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), SQL (7 years), JSON (5 years), ORACLE (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating systems Windows, Linux Ubuntu  Languages C, C++, Python, Java  Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java Script, jQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, open stock, RESTful web services  Databases Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL/SQL  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Github  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, PPTPlex