Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - PayPal • 7 years of IT experience with 5 years of Python development experience using Python, Django framework.  • Involved in the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Well versed in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) management models namely Agile (SCRUM) and Waterfall models.  • Experience in developing Web Applications and implementing Model View Control architecture using various Web Frameworks like Django and Spring  • Experienced in using various programming languages like Python, Java, C and C++.  • Familiar with several ORM libraries in Python such as Django's ORM.  • Exceptionally solid background in composing API's along with Web Services over Python.  • Familiarity with deploying applications to the Amazon Web Services or similar services.  • Build Django forms for recording of data for online users and writing test cases using PyTest.  • Worked on several python packages like Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, PyPDF2, ReportLab, PDFKit, etc  • Experienced in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts.  • Proficient in working with databases such as MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MYSQL and Oracle  • Proficient in managing large and complicated database systems. Proficient in database design and management using MS SQL Server  • Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web application using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery and JSP.  • Experience working on Integrated Development Environments (IDE) like PyCharm, Sublime Text and Eclipse  • Experience using version control system such as GIT and SVN, with Jenkins  • Able to work with different operating systems like MacOS, Windows, Linux and UNIX.  • Wrote and executed test cases based on written design, as well as based on product knowledge which improved software performance.  • Thorough understanding of providing specifications for modelling systems and business processes using various Software development methodologies like Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Experience in web development with Java, Hibernate and Spring MVC Framework  • Involved in the entire Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Experienced in following PEP8 coding standards across various projects  • Known as a highly organized, self-motivated team player able to strategize and prioritize multiple tasks effectively.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, ability to work on multiple tasks in a fast-paced environment independently and in a team. Work Experience Python Developer PayPal - San Jose, CA September 2016 to Present Description:  PayPal is an Internet payment company operating a worldwide online payments system that supports online money transfers. It serves as a payment processor for online vendors, auction sites and other commercial users, for which it charges a fee. The project deals with accepting web and mobile payments. This system allows the client to choose the type of PayPal payment method such as vault or checkout. It focuses on making the payment process easier and more secure.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC, Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and Improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Involved in installing and configuring pyBuilder for application builds and deployment  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unittest, resolved bugs and other defects using Firebug, Firebug Lite ensured with browser compatibility.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Used Subversion control tool Git to coordinate team development.  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, pyBuilder, unittest, Firebug, Web Services, Jenkins. Python Developer LCI - Burlingame, CA June 2015 to August 2016 Description:  LCI delivers industry's finest bankruptcy data, bankruptcy process automation software, expert services and research to automate expensive process in the bankrupt lifecycle. The scope of the project is to build and support authentication and identity management applications to facilitate secure access to LCI's customer facing systems.    Responsibilities:  • Analysed the Business Requirement Documents and created the technical specification documents.  • Responsible for complete SDLC including coordinating proposals, project meetings, code-reviews etc  • Fully participate in a scrum-based, agile development team.  • Built application logic using Python, Django and PostgreSQL.  • Designed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create an easily accessible interface for users.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used transactions data and code in Python (Pandas, NumPy) to understand how users have changed their usage behaviour with respect to the sale and various promotional offers.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Used AWS SDK to connect with Amazon SQS for bulk email processing. Closely analysed the database tables using sequel pro tool of PostgreSQL to resolve integrity issues.  • Design and Development of presentation layer using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap to manage and organise the html page layout.  • Created database using PostgreSQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Used and promoted standard python coding conventions (PEP8)  • Participate in code reviews, automated and functional testing, and other aspects of our quality assurance process.  • Resolved ongoing problems and documented progress of the project.  • Collaborated with teams to convert user feedbacks into improved solutions  • Understand web protocols, standards, and technologies (HTML, CSS, JS)  • Used Git for version control  Environment: Python, Django framework, PostgreSQL, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, HTML, CSS, SVN, PyCharm, AWS EC2. Python Developer First Data - Omaha, NE June 2014 to May 2015 Description:  First Data provides Credit card processing and payment solutions for merchants. The scope of the project is to develop an application for the sales team that generates reports of the underlying Clover Station Sales. Built a dashboard to provide stats of customers and sales progress which also helped to analyse the areas of improvement.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirement gathering and analysis process of the project.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database  • Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Develop scalable applications and to effectively manage technology -trade-offs and risks.  • Design database structures and develop/tune data access utilizing SQL Server by creating Django based ORM.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  • Worked on NoSQL database i.e. MongoDB for storing product-based information.  • Created collections in MongoDB and written queries to store the documents containing product information.  • Performed aggregations on the data using MongoDB's aggregation framework to compute complex calculations.  • Design and implement sharding and indexing strategies for huge data sets.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  • Coordinate and assist with the design, development implementation and support of software for business use in production environment.  • Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA.  • Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Jira, Git. Python Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Durham, NC April 2013 to May 2014 Description:  Blue Cross Blue Shield Association is a federation of health insurance organizations and companies, providing health, Dental, Vision insurance in United States. The scope of the project is to develop a Human Resource Planning application for HR department to keep track on employee's records, allowances and benefits and generate various kind of reports.    Responsibilities:  • Analysed the business requirements and created technical specification documents.  • Used Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques  • Involved in the complete software life cycle to develop the web application  • Responsible for creating Business logic to display records dynamically on template  • Built Model, Views and API's with Python on Django Web Framework with MVC architecture  • Designed and developed Forms, templates and mapped URLs using Django guidelines  • Worked on Pandas, numpy, matplotlib, etc for working on huge datasets, generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc  • Developed the user interface of the system using HTML, CSS, AJAX and Java Script  • Designed database model for the entire application creating tables, views and stored procedures.  • Created database scheme for the MySQL database and involved in designing ER diagrams  • Used Django database API's to access database objects  • Used bootstrap to manage and organise the HTML page layouts  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application on JIRA using Agile methodology  • Used Git for version control  • Designed and configured database, back end applications and programs.  • Environment: Python, Django, Agile Methodology, HTML 5, CSS3, MySQL, JIRA, bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery Java Developer InfoSystems January 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle. Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Java, Spring MVC Web Framework  • Developed model classes and DAO to access the database  • Performed unit and system testing. Created test plan and test cases  • Used Junit to test the code and fixing the bugs from there on • Used agile methodology for the software development  • Developed Servlets to handle and process the requests and transfer the response to corresponding JSP pages  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and Javascript  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Used Git for version control  Environment: Java, Spring MVC, JSP, Servlet, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JDBC, PostgreSQL, Git, Apache Tomcat