Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CVS Caremark Phoenix, AZ • 7+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.X, Django 1.8/Flask  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and No-SQL databases like MongoDB, Pymongo.  • SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables)  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and LINUX Kernels.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, and Bugzilla.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Proven ability to implement Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment processes.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Performed numerous server migrations on both Linux and Windows servers. Migrations include moving all clients and their data, configuration settings, testing and verifying.  • Extensive knowledge on automated batch programs by UNIX shell Scripts (file validations, file downloads, workflow executions)  • Can handle, writing technical and functional documents defined by the business requirements.  • Outstanding communication, analysis, and out-of-the-box/creative problem solving.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX, Linux, and OS X. Work Experience Python Developer CVS Caremark - Phoenix, AZ June 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy, which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Used Apache. htaccess to provide authentication system for Django/MySQL sites  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using Django and GIT version control system.  • Designed and Developed Restful web-services for both consumer and producer using Django, Swagger, Gunicorn.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, Swagger, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL and Linux. Python Developer ABC Insurance - Bloomington, IL January 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Worked on Front-end UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Jquery for event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python/Django, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python to place data into JSON for Django Webapp.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Used Beautiful Soup for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used Apache, MongoDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance to store and analyze data.  ? Restructuring data for faster distributed queries to aid caching.  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Implemented jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with MongoDB database.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with Rest APIs, Web Services using JSON.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Identified several hidden bugs caused by complicated multithreading issues such as race conditions caused by asynchronous events and resolved them.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, JSON, REST, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Heroku, SOAP, Git, MongoDB, UNIX. Python Developer US Cellular - Chicago, IL September 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement.  ? Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  ? Used Python and Django creating for XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  ? Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Writing Unit, Functional, and Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS using Python with boto library.  ? Held meetings with client and worked all alone for entire internal project with limited help from the client.  ? Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  ? Provided technical and business knowledge to clients.  ? Connected Flex from Backend Controller using different API services.  ? Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  ? Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  ? Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, and Linux. Python Developer Progressive Insurance November 2011 to August 2012 Location: Cleaveland, OH  Responsibilities:  ? Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  ? Written Servlet and deployed them on IBM WebSphere Application server.  ? Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  ? Developed widgets for GUI using Gtk modules of Python.  ? Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to testing many automated process.  ? Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  ? Integrated the GDR application with the upstream/downstream applications through JMS, WebSphere MQ, SOAP based Web services, and XML.  ? Troubleshooting and coded corrections for production issues discovered in the application.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Used Test Driven Development approach, and wrote many unit and integration test cases.  ? Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.  ? Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, MySQL and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, Bash, Perl, MySQL DB, JavaScript, SSH protocol. JAVA Developer HILTI - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2009 to September 2011 Location: Hyderabad, India  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Designed and developed components using Java/J2EE.  ? Created UI using HTML CSS and JavaScript's.  ? Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  ? Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  ? Worked on Socket communication layers and multithreading on Linux.  ? Worked on SNMP interfaces.  Environment: J2EE, HTML, CSS, JDBC, Servlets, SNMP, JavaScript, Oracle, Apache Web Server and Linux. Education Bachelors in Computer JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Skills Python on Django Web (7 years), Pycharm, Eclipse, Sublimetext, Atom, Komodo (7 years), Nginx, Apache, WebSphere, WebLogic, Gunicorn (7 years), Amazon EC2/S3, Heroku, Google App Engine. (7 years), SQL SERVER, MySQL, Oracle, Sqlite3, MongoDB (7 years), HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, XML (7 years), SVN, GIT, CVS, TFS Agile Methodology, Scum (7 years), Python 2.7, Django 1.8, Swagger, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL and Linux. (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting  Web Technologies HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, XML  Development Tools (IDEs) Pycharm, Eclipse, Sublimetext, Atom, Komodo  Web/Application Servers Nginx, Apache, WebSphere, WebLogic, Gunicorn  Python Framework Django, Flask, Web2py, Bottle  Database SQL SERVER, MySQL, Oracle, Sqlite3, MongoDB  Cloud Computing Amazon EC2/S3, Heroku, Google App Engine.  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla  Platforms Windows, UNIX, LINUX, Mac  Version Control SVN, GIT, CVS, TFS    Methodologies Agile Methodology, Scum