Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Capital One Bank Richmond, VA Work Experience Python Developer Capital One Bank - Richmond, VA July 2014 to Present Project: Developed a web based application using Python to automate the ATM cash management process.    Responsibilities:  • Worked alone on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project)  • Resolved several hidden bugs caused by complicated multithreading issues such as race  conditions caused by asynchronous events.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL. Python Developer Motorola Mobility - Sunnyvale, CA November 2012 to June 2014 Project- Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.    Responsibilities:  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Used HTML, CSS 5, RabbitMQ, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Worked wResponsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have  them running ith the design team for project structure.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Python developer Princeton Information - Jersey City, NJ November 2011 to October 2012 Project: Development and Enhancement of Travelzoo, the premier travel reservation site.    Travelers can find their dream destinations and post their requirements and inquiries. Travel agents can post their promotions and can respond to the inquiries and interests of travelers. Features include memberships, destination search, payment system for travel agents membership renewal, newsletters, promotion campaigns, shopping cart.    Lead Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Built application logic using Python2.7.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various  modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona  management, error/exception management etc.)  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E- commerce)  • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling. Python Developer Cloud Parity - San Jose, CA September 2009 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.    Environment: C++, XML, Java, RabbitMQ, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows. Education Btech in computer science Additional Information Technical Skills  • Operating Systems: Windows 95, 98, NT, 2000, Xp, Vista, Windows 7, 8 Linux, Unix, Microsoft  Server 2003, Mac Os, Android, Windows Mobile, Mac Osx  • Knowledge in HTML 4.02, HTML5, CSS, JS, XML, XHTML, Javascript, RabbitMQ, Java, Ruby, AS-  400, Mainframe, Phyton  • Bugs Tracker Apps: Bugzilla, Firebug, Jira, HP QC, Testlodge, TFS  • Basic Knowledge in Automation Tools: Selenium, Watir, Sikulli  • CMS: Kentico, Websphere, Teamsite, Stellent, Joomla  • Knowledge in Datawarehouse tools such: Sybase, Informatica Power Center, DVO, SAS  • Data Bases Knowledge: Oracle, PostgresSQL, MySQL