Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Coca-Cola Normal, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Coca-Cola - Denver, CO January 2018 to Present • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD, Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Expertise in working with Perl and Shell scripting for designing automation framework and expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database9i, 10g, 11g. Architecture and worked on JavaScript implementation of Tetris game, using ES6 and HTML5 Canvas.  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers and used R Language among statisticians and data miners for developing statistical software and data analysis.  • Worked with Flask and pandas to monitor, migrate and develop table database and work with large data set files  • Have clever idea about tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft and Design the front end of company website with CSS, Sass, and Bootstrap and implemented Web Services based on SOA architecture with Restful.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Have knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery, React.js and Node.js. Flask and Pyramid, well versed in Django ORM and Alchemy and Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • Experience with AWS instances spanning across Dev, Test and Pre-Production and Cloud Automation through Open Source DevOps tools like Ansible, Jenkins & Docker.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Cloud Formation, AWS Cloud Front and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Recording, Request & Response pairs and experience in Selenium Automation using Selenium Web Driver, Java and Unit Test Framework.  • Created and updated views with python and Django view controller and template language to create new functionalities to the website.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  • Write unit test cases individually and in suits with Py test and Py Unit on SOAP messages stored by creating SOAP services.  • Hands on Experience in creating MongoDB replica sets, Clusters for growing highly scalable datasets in combining sharing databases.  • Developed Test Cases and Test Scripts in selenium web driver with Java using Cucumber framework with build management tool Maven.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extract.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit, Maven, and Spring. Python Developer Accenture - Pune, Maharashtra November 2015 to November 2017 • Used Django Database API's to access database objects and used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and was involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web Based solution.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from Google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Designed and developed Django application for REST services to serve user, account information.  • Python NumPy, Matplotlib, SciPy, and Pandas packages created a web scraping application in Flask to perform dataset manipulation. for data wrangling.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access and added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design and created Data tables.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Develop and maintain a real-time streaming pipeline in the Microsoft Azure platform to schedule, Monitor and manage copy and transform activities via Azure portal.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation and worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts and developed multi-threaded standalone app in python and PHP to view performance as well as used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Queried MySQL database queries from Python using MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Configured Azure SQL database with Azure storage Explorer and with SQL server.  • Creating ADL, Azure Storage, ADB and resource groups in Azure portal.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Created Data driven test framework for end to end Functional testing of web application using Selenium Web driver and Py test.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework and developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis and worked on real time in memory distributed systems.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Designed and developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services.  • Involved in the Kafka based event driven messaging system to consume the high volume of data from upstream applications.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed Shell Scripts based on the requirement and implemented Code (Perl/Unix Shell scripts) and writing unit test cases for the same.  • Wrote Python Scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul and used Python IDE PyCharm for developing the code and performing unit test. Python Developer Walmart - Punjab, IN September 2014 to October 2015 • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the J Query UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used C# to integrate and standardize .net framework class libraries and implied for memory manipulation in codes.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Experience in deploying conceptual data from the ERD and hence further implying it on the codes.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications Django and Flask.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Launching AWS EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPC).  • Extensive working experience in Manual Testing, HP QTP/UFT, Selenium with C# and HP ALM 11.0.  • Developed dynamic web pages, monitoring and notification tools using Python, Django, pyramid Frameworks and Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell Scripting and XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, Postgre SQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Designed and developed a Web App using Clojure, Datomic, and Bootstrap to create new entry in Postgres Database table and save updates to that entry based on time meaning that entry was not overwritten.  • Enhance user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js and EXT.js.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and WebLogic.  • Created new database objects like Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch for performing Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging and successfully completed the task in using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and J Query and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records. Jr. Python Developer Amazon - Pune, Maharashtra August 2013 to August 2014 • Developed Python Open Stack APIs by using NumPy for Numerical analysis also Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Performs the transformation using Py YAML to parse the data file(s) and Jinja2 to fill the data into templates.  • Experience on Clojure, Clojure Script, JSON, Javascript, PHP and AngularJS technologies.  • Built Amazon Web Services for data storing and Web journal with Flask framework and Jinja templates.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  • Utilized Py Unit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  Developed server-based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  • Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis. Education Master's Skills Git, HTML 5, CSS, Jquery, PHP, MYSQL, Javascript