Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - First Republic Bank Fremont, CA • Over 6 years of experience in development of all phases of SDLC including design, development, testing, implementation and support using Python technologies.  • Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains. Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/3.xx, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, VB, C, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Expertise in developing the presentation layer components using JSPs, JavaScript, Node.js, XML, CSS and HTML.  • Worked on several standard python packages like NumPy, Panda, Pickle, Unit Test, Scipy, Matplotlib, Requests etc.  • Experience on complete software development life cycle (SDLC) with software development models like JIRA, Agile Scrum Model, Prototype model & RUP, Waterfall model  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Good experience in deploying application on Amazon webservices EC2 instance and use S3 bucket for storages.  • Expertise in working with different databases like MongoDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Jenkins.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and subversion SVN. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer First Republic Bank - San Francisco, CA April 2016 to Present Worked on financial operation automation platform tool for development of Loan processing application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of UI component, using frameworks HTML5, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Used Python and Django for implementing business logic and creating automation scripts.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used RESTful APIs using Python/Django/Django Rest Framework to access Account and investment status for customers.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as jenkins.  • Used XML parsing, JSON to send request to secured web service.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like SQLAlchemy.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, SQLAlchemy, Amazon EC2, S3, Github, Linux, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap, POSTMAN, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, pycharm. Python Developer Broadcom - San Jose, CA January 2015 to April 2016 Worked on development of test automation scripts and Network monitoring application.    Responsibilities:  • Performed Systems analysis and high-level design.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB and Django.  • Developed responsive UI using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Handled RESTful services with the help of python library URLLIBS.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MongoDB.  • Ported parts of application on cloud using AWS.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 and S3 to upload and retrieve project history.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MongoDB, Amazon EC2, S3, Windows, Linux, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer TCS - IN August 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS.  • Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams, using UML to model the detail design of the application.  • Used Django/ Python web-framework to develop application, Used MVC framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  • Created database tables and implemented SQL Stored Procedures, triggers, and complex queries in MYSQL. Preparing test cases and strategies for unit testing and integration testing.  • Involved Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Developed automation scripts to create test data and test environment.  • Write Automation/test python scripts to test, Used HTML, CSS for front-end applications.  • Perform the duties as a Build Rep by reviewing and creating code patches for peers    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML5/CSS3, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Bayer Pharmaceuticals August 2011 to August 2012 Description: Worked on development of Customer Order Processing and defect tracking system for Bayer.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Developed Application using Java, SQL and UNIX.  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running quickly with online features.  • Engineered stable, isolated environments per game team  • Used HTML, CSS, JSON for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  • Used Python, Php, CGI, jQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users    Environment: Java, HTML, UML, Rational Rose, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, ODBC, Pro*C, PVCS, Oracle 9i, Linux and Windows NT. Skills DATABASE (7 years), DJANGO (7 years), LINUX (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), APACHE (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Languages: Python 2/3, C, C++, SQL  • Framework: Django, Flask  • Database: MySQL, SQL Server 2008, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Amazon Cloud EC2, Amazon S3,  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS/CSS3, bootstrap, Rest API, JSON, XML  • Versioning Tools: GitHub  • Appl/Web servers: Apache,  • Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS, window