Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Forgeahead Solutions Mountain View, CA • Around 5+ Years of professional experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client-server applications in Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Have excellent knowledge on Python Collections, data structures and frameworks.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments.  • Good experience of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Good at using libraries for technical development like Beautiful Soup, Jasy, Pickle, Joblib, requests, Boto3, Pymongo, SQLAlchemy, Pandas dataframe, and MySQL for database connectivity to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle. Solid understanding of MVC design patterns.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django and Flask web application frameworks.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Package Software: Expertise in Informatica ETL and reporting tools. Deep understanding of the Data Warehousing SDLC and architecture of ETL, reporting and BI tools.  • Experience in integration of various data sources including MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MS access and noSQL sources like flat files, MongoDB, Dynamodb into staging area.  • Designed and managed public/private cloud infrastructures using Amazon Web Services (AWS) which include EC2, S3, Cloud Front, Elastic File System, Dynamo dB, RDS, VPC, Direct Connect, Route53, and Lambda.  • Experience on Key AWS services: EC2, S3, DynamoDB(NoSQL) and Lambda.  • Good at designing Graphical User Interface (GUI) modules using AngularJS, Javascript, Jquery and HTML, CSS.  • Good experience in using different kind of data bases like MySQL, Oracle and DynamoDB.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  • Experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, and implementation on different databases.  • Proven ability in working with Shell scripting for designing automation framework.  • Maintained Continuous Delivery of containerized Microservices using Jenkins Pipeline.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins, TFS for continuous integration and for End-to-End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing and Functional testing.  • Strong knowledge in creating Jenkins CI/CD pipelines and good experience in automating deployment pipelines.  • Experienced working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX and Linux.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in writing Python, Bash, Perl and shell scripts for compilation and deployment process.  • Extensively used ETL to transform and load data from Oracle database, XML files, Flat files to Oracle.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.  • Committed to tasks and provide good results, team player and Good communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Forgeahead Solutions - Mountain View, CA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the web application.  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Worked on data processing with MongoDB as a source and target database.  • Performed deduplication of data based on multiple scenarios of business logic.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Cloudera Enterprise, Teradata, and Teradata Aster Discovery Platform - enables clients to orchestrate workloads in such a way as to realize the right set of capabilities and economics for the right job.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Developed backend of the application using the flask framework.  • Hands on experience in Amazon Web Services AWS provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Glacier, Bamboo, ELB (Load Balancers), RDS, SNS, SWF and EBS etc.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used Jenkins for the continuous integration process, automation and assisted in the code coverage and analysis by generating reports.  • Integrated Git, Maven and Tomcat with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Deployment process.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environments using Docker.  • Developed bash shell scripts to automate routine activities.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh, ksh, and bash for day-to-day administration.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection and open stack to provision new machines for clients.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • DevOps, supporting agile engineering process with Github, AWS, and JIRA.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases.    Environment: Python, XML, AWS, Flask, MongoDB, MySQL, Shell Scripting, Jenkins, Python Scripts, JIRA, Oracle, SOAP, JQuery, UAT, HTML, CSS, Linux/Unix, JavaScript. Python Developer Los Angeles, CA June 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solution.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Worked with ETL teams to create Views  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in creating tables, views, stored procedures in MySQL.  • Hands on experience in CI (Continuous Integration), CD (Continuous Delivery) pipelines, strong background in Build and Release Management and Cloud Implementation all within that suites the needs of an environment under DevOps Culture.  • Installed, Configured and automated the Jenkins Build jobs for Continuous Integration and AWS Deployment pipelines using various plugins like Jenkins EC2 plugin and Jenkins Cloud Formation plugin.  • Worked in an agile development team to deliver Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery product in an open source environment using tools like Ansible and Jenkins.  • Handled multiple AWS accounts with different VPC's for Prod and Non Prod where key objective included automation, build out, integration and cost control.  • Good knowledge on data migration from relational database to NoSQL.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the MongoDB instances.  • Involved in development of the enterprise social network application using Python, Twisted, and Cassandra.  • Extensively worked with various scripting languages like Bash, Shell and Python. Developed Python and shell scripts for automation of the build and release process.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application.  • Experience in using containers like Docker.    Environment: Python 2.7,3.3, Django 1.4, HTML, AWS, CSS, AJAX, Jenkins, DevOps, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Flask, Twisted, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, Oracle, MYSQL, Linux, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer CSC technologies - Indore, Madhya Pradesh July 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Extensively implemented the python libraries like Pandas, Matplotlib, Numpy, to manipulate and visualize the data using interactive charts.  • Installed, configured, maintained and upgraded Oracle 10g and 11gR2 RDBMS databases on LINUX and Windows using OUI, DBUA and scripts.  • Worked in NoSQL and MySQL database on queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Developed micro services API'S for an individual module and exposed the results in JSON format using Bottle framework.  • We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark.  • Application of patches from one version to another according to the Oracle Critical Patch alerts.  • Created Jenkins jobs for csontinuously building the projects. Scheduled jobs to build upon every check in into subversion. Wrote Groovy script in Jenkins jobs to do pre-and post-build operations.  • Designing and implementing CI (Continuous Integration) system configuring Jenkins servers, Jenkins nodes, creating required scripts (Perl & Python), and creating/configuring VMs (Windows/Linux).  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python and Ruby on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.  • Using Mongo DB-NoSQL database for storing the information.  • Used SVN repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  • Maintained technical documentation for resolved issues for future reference  Environment: - Python, Jenkins, Django, Devops, Java, Rest, HTML, JavaScript, JIRA, CSS, Bootstrap, SVN, MongoDB Python Developer Silicon Care - Indore, Madhya Pradesh May 2012 to June 2014 MP    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing methods to create, Read, Update and Delete (CURD) in Active Record.  • Developed and handled business logic through backend Python code for achieving optimal results.  • Involved in Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the merchant, admin and consumer websites.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML, CSS and Used Java Script to perform validations at Client's side.  • Worked on developing screens for delete, edit, enable and disable users in web application.  • Designed and Developed web services using XML and JQuery.  • Written Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Bootstrap to manage and organize HTML page layouts.  • Used Pandas as API to put data as time series and tabular format for manipulation of data.  • Supported web project by implementing JSON.  • Used Python Scripts to update content in database and manipulate files.  • Used libraries such as Scipy, NumPy and Matplotlib.  • Created a Django dashboard with custom UI for end user after careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup functionality.  • Strong Expertise in MySQL, Postgres and NO-SQL databases like Mongo DB and Couch DB.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting web application and created unit test framework on new code.  • Worked with team of developers on Python application for risk management.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JSON, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, Mongo DB, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, GIT, XML. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Engineering California State University - Los Angeles, CA May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Gujarat Technological University May 2012 Skills HTML (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), XML (4 years), MYSQL (5 years), jQuery (4 years), Django, Java, Flask, C, Javascript, AWS, Linux, Restful, Rest, Numpy Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Languages: Python, Java, DotNet, and PL/SQL, PHP, SQL.  • Python Libraries: requests, SQLAlchemy, MySQLDB, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Celery, Celery beat, BOTO3, Google cloud SDK, Pymongo, Pillow, IPython, Jupyter Notebook etc.  • Markup Languages: HTML, JSON, XML.  • Cloud Technologies AWS: EC2, S3, VPC, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, RDS, Dynamo DB, SQS, IAM, SNS, and SES.  • ETL Business Objects Data Stage, Data Quality, Informatica.  • Scripting: JQuery, Java Script, AJAX, Shell scripting, Ruby, Bash.  • Frameworks: Django, Flask, Twisted, Bottle, Angular JS.  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, REST.  • Continuous Integration Tools: Jenkins, Bamboo, Hudson  • Programming Methodologies: Waterfall and Agile.  • Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu).  • Databases: Oracle, MySQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Servers: Nginx, HTTP Server, uWSGI  • Bug Reporting Tools: JIRA, Gitlab and Bugzilla  • MS Office Tools: MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel