Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Malaysia Airlines Currently working as a Python Developer at Tata Consultancy Service, Bangalore with a work  experience of 2 Years [January 2017 to till Date]. One year experience in Python frame works like Django and  basic knowledge in handling MySQL. Work Experience Python Developer Malaysia Airlines January 2017 to Present Description: The project was based on passenger's information management which information applied to travel and customer satisfactions. It was acquiring, analysing information to provide quality  passengers satisfactions. With the widespread computerization of records, company provided quality  services and responsibilities.    Responsibility:  • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for developing application.  • Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data  Patterns and fixing them.  • Generated various report using Python Report lab and sent to Business users to improve their decision  making.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project. Education B.E SJB Institute of Technology Additional Information SPECIALTIES    Around 2 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using  Python, Django. To serve the organization with the best of my technical skills and abilities by utilizing my  educational and professional knowledge and competencies acquired by me in my academic career and  professional experience.    PROFILE    • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object oriented programming and database  design.  • Experienced in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm and  Atom.  • Have basic knowledge on Data exchange format (JSON).  • Have knowledge on OSI(Open System Interconnection)  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for  developing application.  • Strong with Data Structures and Operating System concepts.  • Have basic knowledge in SQL databases MYSQL and MangoDB.  • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views,  Templates.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, test plans, design and maintaining  documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.  • Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.  • Built Web application using Python, Django language.  • Ability to successfully multi-task and prioritize work.  • Experience in writing the Shell scripts to automate the deployment process for multiple environments  to any manual processes.  • Able to adapt to company working methods and coding conventions.  • Close cooperation with other team members, leads and projects managers.  • Positive attitude towards work.    SKILL SET    Programming Language: Python, Django, C, C++  Scripting Languages: Shell Scripting  Operating Systems: UNIX, LINUX