Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer San Francisco Bay Area, CA • 6 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django, Java, C++, HTML, Oracle.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Hands on experience in python for working with Hadoop Streaming.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Effectively involved in handling releases, managing merges and deployments.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Texas Capital Bancshares - Dallas, TX August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Involved in multiple phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design,  development, implementation and testing.  • Creating Python API's  • Analyze the software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constrains.  • Working with Dataiku for creating forecasting models required for Data Analysis.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Twitter Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Created entity models for data consuming and manage communications between DAL and database.  • Actively involved in designing the database and tables including stored procedures and triggers in SQL Server following the Database first approach.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Django, PYQt, Bootstrap, XML, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, Rest, Git Hub, MySQL, Dataiku, Python, SQL Server, HTML5, JavaScript, MongoDB. Python Developer GameStop - Dallas, TX August 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked on design and implemented a MongoDB based database and related web services for storing unstructured data.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Worked with no schema databases like MongoDB.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, PYQT, Java, XML, JQuery, DOM, MongoDB, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, SVN, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Atric Solutions July 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Built a GC analytic tool using Python, to help clients analyze data and profile risk against a wide spectrum of reinsurance options.  • Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Key performance index and filtering of displayed columns to help customers understand the analytics data that is provided by GC.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  Environment: Python, PyQT, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Ajax, agile, Web Services (SOAP), XML, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Python Developer OD Interface - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  • Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands.  • Undergone training on C/ C++ / Linux.  • Worked on Socket communication layers and multithreading on Linux.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.  Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Skills HTML (5 years), JavaScript. (4 years), MySQL (5 years), Python (5 years), SQL (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008 , Oracle 10g, Siebel, MongoDB  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Mac OSX