Sr. python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. python Developer - Ebay • Experience of 6 years as a python Developer with proficiency in Design & Development of Python 2.7, Django, flask project.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Hands on Experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data present in the Cassandra.  • Experience with configuration management and related tools like Puppet.  • Excellent knowledge and Learning Experience on Tableau Business Intelligence / Business Analytics  • Experience in Firmware QA Automation.  • Developed/supported application on LAMP stack (using PHP, MYSQL and Apache).  • Experienced in JSP, JSF, Struts, as well have high experienced with XML/JSON.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Extensive experience in developing enterprise web applications using Python, PHP4 and PHP5,Flask, Jinja2, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, MySQL.  • Experienced on Tableau Admin activities, Multidimensional database and writing SQL queries.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment  • Excellent communication skills including experience speaking to a technical and business audiences Work Experience Sr. python Developer Ebay - San Jose, CA August 2015 to Present Responsibilities    • Worked on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  • Experience worked on full stack components.  • Strong experience leveraging technologies such as Java/J2EE, JavaScript, HTML5, jQuery and related tools and web frameworks.  • 3 years of professional experience working with backbone.js or similar JavaScript frameworks.  • Developed SaaS applications  • Experienced in JSP, JSF, Struts.  • Experienced with XML/JSON and developing REST services.  • Good understanding of SQL/relational database (preferably SQL Server)  • Experienced in Agile software development and Scrum lifecycle practices.  • Continuous monitoring for the Heroku codes  • Complete pushing and pulling code for github and Heroku (cloud application)  • analytical tracking for E-commerce websites  • Supported PHP/LAMP application.  • Integration of social pages with E-commerce websites  • Addition of custom pages using HTML AND CSS to websites  • Creation of PHONEGAP screens for mobile application in E-commerce website  • Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  • Performed web testing and automated testing using Selenium in the test environment and opened bugs in the bug tracking tool.  • Created various kinds of reports using Tableau.  • Experience with configuration management and related tools like Puppet.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Familiar with JSON based also Used Django APIs for database access  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge).  • Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Worked onpython based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools  • Knowledge on Virtualization  • Implemented Chef/Puppet scripts for running and deploying applications on to the Cloud Foundry (PaaS).  • Experience in Cassandra Database Configurations and its C++ client libQtCassandra.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Used ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project).  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.    • Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Linux, Windows, AIX, Solaris and VMWare, Apache web server. Python Developer Office Depot - Boca Raton, FL September 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities    • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Personal management, error/exception management etc.).  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Analyzed the existing reports in pro-c and depicted those using Tableau charts.  • Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS5 and Angular.js.  • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design  • Designed, automated the process of installation and configuration of secure DataStax Enterprise Cassandra using chef.  • Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Junit, Maven, and Spring.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.    • Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Subversion, Adobe Flash, Apache, Phusion Passenger, Windows XP (development), Linux (hosted RedHat/Ubuntu). Python Developer Vertical Ops - Orem, UT December 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy)  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongo db with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production)  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose  • Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Extracting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Used Puppet Rspec for testing  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control. Python Developer Kohl's, Wisconsin July 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities    • Worked extensively on Multi-threading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Started working on Node JS as beginner level.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT  • Deployment and testing of the applications.  • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Created innovative web applications over the full web development stack in LAMP  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Chef to Puppet Conversion  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Analyzed the existing reports in pro-c and depicted those using Tableau charts.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of rail docs and have them running in the design team for project structure.  • Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users    • Environment: MySql, Git, RSpec, Selenium, Inactive, Linux, Windows, AIX, Solaris and VMWare, Amazon Web Services, Python. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Python, JavaScript, Java, JSON, XML, JQuery, Bash Script, HTML, Big Data (Map Reduce), CSS, Hadoop, C, C++    Operating System: Ubuntu Linux, Windows, Macintosh.    Database: Cassandra, MySQL, SQLite3, MongoDB, Microsoft SQL server.    Web technologies: Django framework, Flask, KAFKA, STIX, TAXII, Piston API, AWS, CSS, Bootstrap, SOAP, REST, Apache Tomcat, Ansible, Docker container, vagrant.    IDE: PyCharm, Atom, NetBeans, Heidi SQL, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Xcode, sublime    Automation Tools: Django-celery, Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, OpenStack    Tools: Postman Rest client, vagrant (Virtual box), JIRA management tool.